04-04-2020||---||Badnore lauds medical staff as 4 recover from coronavirus in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, April 4UT Administrator V P Singh Badnore has congratulated the doctors and all health workers for their contribution in recovery of four individuals, who were earlier affected with COVID19. At the daily war room meeting, presided over by Badnore, Adviser Manoj Parida said curfew is being strictly implemented. “The issue of electronic curfew passes has been streamlined.  Necessary arrangements have been made in Faida village.  Moreover, special focus is being given to senior citizens, orphans and old-age homes,” he said.Principal Secretary (Health) Arun Kumar Gupta mentioned that adequate quantity of PPEs, masks and medicines are available in all the hospitals. Finance Secretary AK Sinha mentioned that all arrangements for payment of salary and release of wages to the people have been made.  The mobile ATMs are also getting popular among the residents. Commissioner, Municipal Corporation,  K K Yadav stated that necessary tie-up has been made with the PGIMER for cremation of dead bodies in a scientific manner and as per protocol by the Government of India. Red Cross vans are being utilised for transporting bodies from hospitals to the cremation ground.  He also stated that the new odd-even system in Sector 26 Mandi is working smoothly.  He also stated that special arrangements are being made to sanitize Sector 26 Mandi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/badnore-lauds-medical-staff-as-4-recover-from-coronavirus-in-chandigarh-65579
04-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab cops’ wives prepare 800 masks, 33,000 ration packets to donate amid coronavirus lockdown||When their husbands are in the field to fight coronavirus, the better halves are ensuring free food distribution to cater to the poor in Punjab's Ropar district.Also, the wives of policemen are making masks at home to handle the pandemic.Over 33,000 meals of dry ration along with 800 masks have been prepared by family members of police officials in last one week at their homes and community centres, said Senior Superintendent of Police of Ropar, Swapan Sharma.The ration packets have been distributed in slum areas, while the masks at every check point by mobile patrolling teams, he said."Together we stand stronger is the message that families of the Ropar policemen are out to convey," Sharma said, adding each family has contributed Rs 500 towards the fight against deadly virus.Women and children have taken upon themselves to make masks and pack ration packets.With policemen on duty for 14-16 hours a day since the lockdown that came into effect on March 23, their families are showing all their support.Out of 100 families that stay in police quarters, about 30 of them have come forward to help. By stitching masks at home, they are doing their bit to ensure safety and health.Spouses, children and even parents are enthusiastically participating to ease the burden on the policemen by making packs out of ration donated by the NGOs and the public, he said."We couldn't think of anything better than making masks to keep our men in khaki safe in these tough times," said Sukhwinder Kaur, 48, wife of Assistant Sub-Inspector (ASI) Jagtar Singh.Shruti, 16, daughter of ASI Chandermohan with the help of her elder and younger sisters is making use of her sewing skills in making masks.ASI Vinod Kumar's wife Praveen Kaur has enlisted the help of her three children to make ration packs for the less fortunate."Lending a helping hand even if little means huge in this time of uncertainty. Also, our children imbibe value of standing with everyone in difficult times with doing as much as they can," she said.Lovepreet Kaur, daughter of ASI Jagir Singh, added: "Making ration packs may not mean much in ordinary times but at moments like these when policemen are overworked each little help counts. I am glad that we are taking off a little of the burden off the shoulders of forces by making use of the time." — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-cops-wives-prepare-800-masks-33-000-ration-packets-to-donate-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-65518
04-04-2020||Mohali||Cop suspended||The Baltana police post in-charge, ASI Jagpal Singh, was suspended by the Mohali SSP, Kuldeep Singh Chahal, today as he allegedly let off a Mahindra Scorpio after taking graft. According to sources, the police had recovered poppy husk from the vehicle, but the ASI allegedly allowed the car owner to go.The ASI said he intercepted the vehicle near Baltana police post following a tip-off that some drug was being supplied in it. Nothing was found in the vehicle, the ASI added.“I am ready to face inquiry as the allegations are false,” the ASI said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cop-suspended-65478
04-04-2020||Dera Bassi||30-year-old man commits suicide in Dera Bassi||A 30-year-old man committed suicide by hanging himself from a ceiling fan at a farmhouse in Dera Bassi on Thursday night. The deceased has been identified as Bablu, a resident of Uttar Pradesh. The police said the incident came to light on Friday morning when Bablu’s wife saw him hanging from a ceiling in his room.The police said Sushila, wife of the deceased, stated that Bablu went to buy a liquor bottle from nearby shop. When Bablu returned, he was already under the influence of liquor, she added. He straightway went to his room and bolted the door from inside, she said.On Friday morning, he did not respond to repeated knocks at the door, she added. Later, the family saw him hanging from the ceiling fan, she said. No suicide note was recovered from the spot, the police said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/30-year-old-man-commits-suicide-in-dera-bassi-65460
04-04-2020||---||Drone used to enforce curfew, identify violators||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib, April 3The district police has introduced drone surveillance in the district to identify the curfew violators.SSP Amneet Kondal said the police have been receiving complaints of curfew violations at several places in the district. She said whenever the police patrol party visited the streets and bazaars the people rushed back to their homes and again came out when the police left. To curb these incidents, the district police have introduced drone surveillance in the district and the violators will now be identified and taken to task immediately, said SSP.She urged the people to follow the instructions of the government and maintain social distancing by remaining at home. She said police personnel are working round-the-clock for the safety and security of public, so they should also co-operate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/drone-used-to-enforce-curfew-identify-violators-65459
04-04-2020||Chandigarh||Anganwadi workers give ration to 22K beneficiaries  in Chandigarh||The Department of Social Welfare, UT, with the help of anganwadi workers, helpers, supervisors and other field functionaries today distributed “take home ration” in the form of nutritious weaning food and ‘besan panjiri’ for 15 days on the doorstep of nearly 22,000 beneficiaries of all 450 anganwadi centres.Beneficiaries include children, pregnant women, nursing mothers and adolescent girls. Eggs, bananas and milk were also distributed among the beneficiaries of 12 villages covering 53 anganwadi centres like Mouli village, Daria, Kishangarh, Sarangpur, Dhanas, Khuda Lahora, Khuda Jassu, Khuda Alisher, Kaimbwala, Behlana, Makhanmajra, Raipur Khurd and Raipur Kalan. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/anganwadi-workers-give-ration-to-22k-beneficiaries-in-chandigarh-65436
04-04-2020||---||Three arrested with 215 gm of heroin||Tribune News ServiceMohali, April 3The Special Task Force (STF) unit of Mohali arrested three persons for possessing 215-gm heroin from Dhakoli in separate cases yesterday.The suspects have been identified as Ajay Kumar (47), Vicky Kumar (28) and Tushar Kumar (24), all residents of Dhakoli, Mohali.The police said they got a tip-off following which they laid a naka on the Dhakoli-Mubarakpur road near Green Valley tower.Ajay and Vicky were coming on Maruti WagonR when intercepted by the police. On checking the vehicle, the police recovered 160-gram heroin following which both were arrested.In another case, the police stopped Tushar on suspicion, who was walking towards Dhakoli. On frisking, 55-gm heroin was recovered from his possession.STF Station House Officer Inspector Surinder Singh said Ajay used to work as vegetable seller, whereas Vicky and Tushar worked as car drivers. He said the trio was into drug peddling.Two cases under Sections 21-61-85 of the NDPS Act have been registered against the suspects at the STF police station, Phase 4, Mohali.The suspects were produced in the local court today, which has sent them to judicial custody in Ropar jail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-arrested-with-215-gm-of-heroin-65428
04-04-2020||---||Residents Welfare Association provides help to Covid patients in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, April 3Members of the Residents Welfare Association (RWA), Sector 19, are proving their mettle by helping Covid patients admitted to hospitals.AK Dadhwal, president of the association, has been instrumental in helping the Covid survivor who was discharged from th PGI on Thursday night after being tested negative twice as per the protocol.He provided mental support and essential items to the family quarantined at home.The Sector 19 resident was infected with Covid after coming in contact with her patient whom she was treating in the United Kingdom. She was all praise forthe RWA and the UT Administration and the Chandigarh Police.“It wouldn’t have been possible to conquer these testing times without their support,” she said.Dadhwal said, “I urge people to take Covid seriously as I have observed you will not get chance to see your family for 14 days.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/residents-welfare-association-provides-help-to-covid-patients-in-chandigarh-65426
04-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Sector 19 shopkeepers seek financial aid||In view of the curfew being imposed in the city, shopkeepers of Sadar Bazar, Sector 19-C, Chandigarh, have sought financial help from the UT Administration.Narinder Singh, president, Sadar Bazar, Sector 19-C, ChandigarhWe are contributing to fight against this war by staying at home from March 20. But now, we don’t have much money to survive for many days. Many labourers and workers are dependent on us and this is the employer’s duty to keep them safe and healthy.In a letter to the UT Adviser, Narinder Singh, president, Sadar Bazar, Sector 19-C, Chandigarh, appreciated and congratulated all administrative staff working as an invincible team in every field to make the city isolated and working smoothly.“We are contributing to fight against this war by staying at home from March 20. But now, we don’t have much money to survive for many days. Many labourers and workers are dependent on us and this is the employer’s duty to keep them safe and healthy,” he said.“We have around 470 shopkeepers and 800 workers working in this market. So, kindly help us with some financial support so that we can survive this curfew and take care of our family and workers working with us. As we are the only working hand in the family and around five people on an average depend on us,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sector-19-shopkeepers-seek-financial-aid-65415
04-04-2020||---||Mohali: Now, visit banks from 10 am-2 pm||Mohali, April 3The district administration today allowed public dealing in all banks of the district from 10 am till 2 pm on working days, but with restrictions.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said only cash transactions, clearance, remittances and government transactions should be performed by the banks. He said all branches, including treasury/currency chests, would remain open with minimum staff. He further said pensions would be disbursed through business correspondents.Dayalan further emphasised that people should follow social distancing guidelines and avoid crowding, failing which there should be penal action. He said only one member of the family/household should be allowed to step out to go directly to the bank, that too, on foot along with bank passbook. Immediately after finishing the work, the person should return to his home. He said branch manager might report any violations to the local police station.He said a person need not visit his home branch, but might visit the nearest branch of the same bank. However, all ATMs would remain open 24x7, he added.Dayalan further said the use of vehicles to go to the bank should not be allowed. If anyone required the use of a vehicle to visit the bank, for any reason, he or she should first apply for a short-duration curfew pass online (epasscovid19.pais.net.in/) and visit the bank only after it was granted, he added.The DC said bank employees should only be allowed to go to work and return/or on official bank duty on production of bank ID. Any violation of the curfew by bank employees by use of ID for any other work should render them liable for penal action, he added.Mobile ATM route plan for SaturdayATM van, Andhra BankLocation to start: Andhra Bank, Sector 17-B, ChandigarhCoordinator: Satvinder GurnamContact No. 8146903533Proposed route: Sarangpur & Milk Colony Dhanas, Chandigarh (10.30am -4.30 pm)Time to start: 10.30 amATM van, Canara BankLocation to start: Canara Bank, Plot no. 1, Sector 34-A, ChandigarhCoordinator: Satvpreet SinghContact No. 8728800158Proposed route: BBMB Colony, Power House, Ind.Area, Phase -1, Chandigarh (10.30am–1.00pm), Bapu Dham Colony (1.30pm – 4.30pm) ChandigarhTime to start: 10.30 amATM van, SBILocation to start: LHO, SBI, 17-B, ChandigarhCoordinator: Deepak ChechiContact No. 9478535876Proposed route: Faida village (10.30am–1.30pm), Sector 50, BSNL Colony (1.30pm – 4.30pm), ChandigarhTime to start: 10.30 am||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-now-visit-banks-from-10-am-2-pm-65411
04-04-2020||Chandigarh||Alumni donate Rs 10 lakh||SD School donates Rs 11 lakhChandigarh: SD Public School (being run by the GGDSD College Society), Sector 32-C, has contributed Rs 11 lakh to the PM’s Covid Relief fund. A sum of Rs 5 lakh has also been contributed by PMLSD Public School, Sector 19-C, which is being run by the PMLSD Educational Society. TNSEssentials given to daily wagersKharar: The NSS team of the Chandigarh Group of Colleges, Jhanjeri, Mohali, extended a helping hand to a number of daily wagers. Adhering to the prescribed precautions, a number of essential items, including water bottles, packed food and bathing soaps, were distributed by the staff of the CGC among the needy. Rashpal Singh Dhaliwal, CGC president, said they were doing everything in their capacity to serve and help those in need. We sought permission from the administration to carry out this activity and were mindful of the cautions prescribed. OCMaulvi booked for holding assemblyAmbala: A maulvi was among 10 persons, who were booked by the police, for holding congregation at a local mosque in violation of the lockdown order, officials said on Friday. According to the police, an FIR under Sections 7, 13 and 14-B, Foreigners Act, and Sections 188, 269, 270 and 271, IPC, was registered at the Mahesh Nagar police station. The suspects held a congregation of persons from their community, including foreign returnees, at the local mosque in violation of the District Magistrate’s prohibitory order, officials said. TNS1 held for selling illicit liquorAmbala: The police have arrested Prem Chand of Saha, near here, for selling illicit liquor during the ongoing lockdown period. The police claimed to have recovered 118 bottles of illicit liquor from his possession, officials said on Friday. According to the police, the suspect was selling illicit liquor in the area in violation of the District Magistrate’s prohibitory order. TNSTwo booked for spreading rumoursAmbala: The police have booked two persons identified as Mohit of Naraingarh and Satwinder Singh of Mullana for spreading rumours and fake news related to the Covid-19 virus, officials said on Friday. According to the police, both the suspects were spreading rumours and false news on social media to create panic and fear among residents following which separate FIRs were lodged against them, officials added. TNSCovid suspect tests negativeKharar: A suspected Covid-19 patient, who was admitted to the Civil Hospital, Kurali, and was kept at the isolation ward of the hospital, was discharged on Friday after his sample sample results were found to be negative. Dr Bhupinder Singh, SMO, Civil Hospital, Kurali, said the suspect was in contact with Om Parkash, a resident of Naya Gaon village, who died due to Covid couple of days back. TNSMan arrested for violating lockdownAmbala: The district police have arrested Gaurav Kumar of Ambala City for venturing out in the lockdown, officials said on Friday. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/alumni-donate-rs-10-lakh-65169
04-04-2020||---||Sanitisers for traffic cops in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, April 3As part of its contribution to combat Covid-19, the Snow Avalanche Study Establishment (SASE) here handed over 100 bottles of hand sanitiser to the Chandigarh traffic police today.A DRDO laboratory, SASE, also distributed 200 face masks to protect the police personnel while on duty. Director Naresh Kumar said the DRDO was working on a war footing to help the armed forces, paramilitary and civilian population. He said the Snow Avalanche Study Establishment would also provide the needy with food in the days to come.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sanitisers-for-traffic-cops-in-chandigarh-65166
04-04-2020||A Correspondent||Walmart undertakes safety measures||Mohali, April 3All Best Price stores in the country, including the on the Chandigarh-Ambala road, are marked with yellow stripes and boxes to designate space for each member to maintain distance from another.Additionally, in store, the organisation is ensuring entry of only one person per membership card. Also, they have brought down the number of associates working in the store as per the directives from the local authorities.As far as measures for sanitation are concerned, Walmart India has already deployed hand-wash stations at the entry of stores as well as multiple hand sanitiser stations across each store. The stores are also equipped with contactless thermometers for conducting temperature checks. Entry is barred for those detected with fever and high-touch surfaces of stores are being regularly cleaned with disinfectant.“Walmart India has a critical role to play in the community at this point and we are striving relentlessly to make sure that we continue to provide our members with essential items. Walmart India’s two main priorities are to ensure safety of our associates and members who purchase from our Best Price cash-and-carry stores,” said the spokesperson for Walmart India.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/walmart-undertakes-safety-measures-65171
04-04-2020||Chandigarh||237 violate curfew, rounded up in Chandigarh||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/237-violate-curfew-rounded-up-in-chandigarh-65170
04-04-2020||---||State Legal Services Authority sets up 11 legal aid clinics||Chandigarh, April 3The State Legal Services Authority (SLSA), UT, has launched a special campaign in the city from April 1 to 15 in view of the Covid pandemic as directed by Justice Jaswant Singh from the Punjab and Haryana High Court, who is also the Executive Chairman of the SLSA.Justice Jaswant Singh has observed that those living in the periphery areas of the UT are facing great amount of difficulty and hardships due to the lockdown.Under the drive, 11 legal aid clinics have been set up in various areas of the city. Clinics are functioning from 11 am to 1 pm. Two paralegal volunteers and coordinators/mentors concerned manage the affairs of the clinic. The clinic acts as a one-stop centre for any emergency need of the residents of the area.All clinics were requested to identify individuals or families in their areas who are in requirement of any services and link them to the concerned administrative department/administrative Nodal Officer. The paralegal volunteers were involved in educating persons in their areas about social distancing. Live demonstrations were given to the persons and demonstration about social distancing in front of shops.The SLSA van was deputed in the Kaimbwala area and was used for spreading messages about Covid-19 and also about social distancing.The volunteers also coordinated with local NGOs and other authorities and they were assisted with distribution and other activities. The volunteers also distributed masks among safai karamcharis and sweepers.On Thursday, a feedback was received from the Dhanas area that some people were left out while the distribution of food the previous day. The van made rounds of the area announcing when and where the food would be distributed and the SLSA team assisted the police and other officials in distributing food and dry ration among the needy.The SLSA is also coordinating with the authorities concerned such as Labour Department, Municipal Corporation, Health Department to take effective steps for identifying persons covered under the scheme, so that they get assistance as per entitlement.The helplines — 70871-12348 and 1516 — of the SLSA will be functional from April 1to 15 for coordinating with the authorities in case of any emergency.Awareness generation of the activities be carried out by use of various electronic modes such as WhatsApp and Facebook. Legal Services staff are responsible for daily uploading of activities under the Campaign.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/state-legal-services-authority-sets-up-11-legal-aid-clinics-65168
04-04-2020||---||Mani Majra residents shower petals on cops||Chandigarh, April 3In a bid to express gratitude, residents of Indira Colony, Mani Majra, showered flower petals on the police personnel here today.The policemen, including Inspector Lakhvir Singh, SHO IT Park police station, visited the area to address people regarding the spread of Covid-19 and urged them to stay indoors.Lakhvir Singh, SHO, IT ParkResidents appreciated the concern shown by the police and showered petals on us to make us feel special.The police were addressing residents when petals were showered on them. “The residents appreciated the concern shown by the police and showered petals to make us feel special,” the SHO added.The SHO said the purpose of visit was to seek coordination from residents in making the lockdown a success.Police officials said they were addressing people in various parts of the city. Two days ago, they had visited Shastri Nagar, Mani Majra.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mani-majra-residents-shower-petals-on-cops-65167
04-04-2020||---||Chandigarh directs schools to start online teaching||Chandigarh, April 3For effective management of time, directions have been given to all government and private schools to start online classes for students who are stranded at home due to the curfew.VP Singh Badnore, Administrator, UT, directed the officials concerned to implement the same in letter and spirit.The Administrator issued the directions during a daily review meeting with Adviser Manoj Parida and other senior officials held at the UT Secretariat.The Adviser informed the Administrator that the facility of medical consultation over video call and telemedicine would be started from tomorrow in both GMSH-16 and GMCH-32. The details of the names of doctors, their disciplines and timings will be given to the public through media.Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar said 53,047 cooked food packets have been distributed among the destitute in various parts of the city. The Administrator thanked nearly 50 NGOs, charitable organisations, gurdwara committees and temples that have contributed in serving cooked food packets.KK Yadav, Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, said the distribution of vegetables and fruits in various sectors has been going on smoothly. In addition to the rates for vegetables being displayed, the range of rates for fruits will also be indicated on the CTU buses from tomorrow. He said all carriers of home delivery have been provided with necessary passes to deliver groceries and vegetables on the doorsteps.He mentioned that gaushalas, both run by MC, and otherwise are being provided adequate fodders for the cattle. Similarly, the dedicated work volunteers have been nominated for feeding the stray dogs at the designated points.The Administrator appreciated the efforts of KK Yadav for streamlining the processes in wholesale market in Sector 26 by introducing odd/even number rotation and maintaining social distancing.Finance Secretary AK Sinha said all arrangements for residents to withdraw money and salary from various branches had been tied up. Similarly, mobile ATMs are being deployed regularly and its route chart is being informed to the public every day. He said residents can avail of the facility of post offices to withdraw money from accounts in any bank.Manoj Parida, Adviser, said initially, there were problems in cremation of Covid infected. Subsequently, the matter has been sorted out and manpower arranged and trained for cremation in a scientific manner, as per the protocol laid down by the Central Government.The Adviser also thanked Mayor Raj Bala Malik for having consented and providing sanitary napkins to be distributed among the residents in periphery villages and colonies. He told Badnore that all complaints are being attended on a priority. A professional counsellor has been deputed to counsel the stranded migrant labourer in Maloya, so that they do not suffer from stress or anxiety.VP Singh Badnore appealed to the people to cooperate with the Administration in successfully implementing the curfew and to stay indoors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-directs-schools-to-start-online-teaching-65165
04-04-2020||Chandigarh||Woman’s gold chain snatched in Mani Majra||An Activa-borne miscreant snatched a gold chain from a woman in Mani Majra here on Thursday despite the curfew and huge police presence in the city.According to the police, the Activa rider targeted the victim near the Samadhi gate and snatched her chain.Sources said the miscreant was riding a white Activa. However, the victim failed to note down the registration number of the scooter.The police rushed to the spot after getting information. The police said the footage of CCTV cameras installed in the area was being scrutinised to identify the suspect.Meanwhile, a case under Sections 379-A and 356 of the IPC has been registered against the suspect. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/womans-gold-chain-snatched-in-mani-majra-65162
04-04-2020||Saurabh Malik||Two decades on, wife beats murder rap||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 3Nearly two decades after a woman was accused of setting her husband ablaze after pouring kerosene on him while he was asleep, the Kharar woman will walk free with the Punjab and Haryana High Court setting aside her conviction and life sentence ordered 15 years ago.“The prosecution has failed to prove its case against the appellant beyond reasonable doubt,” the Bench of Justice Rajiv Sharma and Justice Harinder Singh Sidhu asserted, while allowing her appeal and setting aside the impugned judgment and order rendered by the trial court in March 2005.The delay in the matter may sound exceptional, but is not extraordinary. National Judicial Data Grid figures reveal that the High Court, as of now, has more than 5.6 lakh pending cases. It is suspected that many of the petitioners are no more there to pursue their grievances. When some of these cases are suddenly listed, counsels are often at a loss in the absence of complete records or instructions.Even though the High Court has been making concerted efforts to bring down the pendency, the number of old pending cases has been piling up progressively. With the Covid lockdown and shortage of Judges, piles are unlikely to shrink easily. The High Court, as of now, has 55 Judges against the sanctioned strength of 85.The case has its genesis in a “dying declaration” made by victim CTU driver Nazar Singh allegedly stating that he was sleeping in his house on the intervening night of October 14 and 15, 2000, when some miscreant sprinkled kerosene on him. He woke up and saw his wife Harjit Kaur setting him ablaze with a matchstick.The prosecution had claimed she had earlier threatened to kill him. The wife was “religious”, while he was “simpleton”. He had temperamental differences with his wife resulting in domestic quarrels. Denying the allegations, the woman on the other hand had claimed that her husband was suffering from epilepsy and had committed suicide by setting himself ablaze.Deciding the case in two hearings, the Bench questioned why would a religious woman set her husband on fire? Two prosecution witnesses had portrayed that the accused had relationship with a person. But Nazar Singh had not stated so in his statement. He had simply stated that his wife was of religious type and he was simpleton.Speaking for the Bench, Justice Sharma asserted the police had recovered the cot, the matchstick and an empty bottle, but these were not sent for forensic examination. Two prosecution witnesses had deposed that they had taken their brother Nazar Singh to a hospital. But a police official in his cross-examination had admitted that only Nazar Singh’s son was present at the PGI.Prosecution fails to prove case“The prosecution has failed to prove its case against the appellant beyond reasonable doubt,” the Bench of Justice Rajiv Sharma and Justice Harinder Singh Sidhu asserted, while allowing her appeal and setting aside the impugned judgment and order rendered by the trial court in March 2005.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-decades-on-wife-beats-murder-rap-65161
04-04-2020||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh seeks 20K PPE kits from Central Govt||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 3All three major hospitals of the city — PGIMER, GMCH-32 and GMSH-16 — have only 1,336 personal protective equipment (PPE) kits in stock for doctors and medical staff treating Covid patients.UT Health Secretary Arun Gupta said, “The usage of PPE will depend on the number of cases. Shifting of all Covid patients to the PGI is also a step towards reducing a number of health workers requiring PPE. We have already placed an order of more than 20,000 PPE with the Central Government. It may come after a week or so.”As far as Covid preparations in the city are concerned, there are 26,900 N95 masks, 295 isolation beds, 24 ventilators and 46 ICU beds. The PGI had also ordered over 10,000 PPE from government-authorised suppliers, but due to the acute shortage of stock in the country, the delivery has not been made possible yet. The UT Administration has yesterday sent 200 PPE kits to the PGI.So far, the Central Government has sent 1,000 PPE, 5,000 masks and 1,000,00 hydroxychloroquine for use in medical institutions.8 patients shifted to PGIEven as doctors at the PGIMER opposed the Administration’s step to shift all positive patients in the city to the Nehru Extension Block (now Covid hospital), seven positive patients from the GMCH-32 and one positive patient from the GMSH-16 were shifted to the PGI today.PGI Director Dr Jagat Ram said neighbouring states should not send suspected cases without first locally testing them, lest the facility in Chandigarh got overcrowded. The UT Administrator today said all doctors should work together and testing should be done simultaneously in both centres (GMCH-32 and GMSH-16).Ex-Ragi’s 12 more contacts traced, quarantinedTwelve more contacts of Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa, a former Hazoori Ragi of Golden Temple, were traced and home-quarantined. Now, there are 98 contacts of Ragi. Besides, a total of 123 who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event at different places in the country have been home-quarantined.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-seeks-20k-ppe-kits-from-central-govt-65164
04-04-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Grocery stores in Chandigarh run short of branded stock||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 3Local grocery store owners are facing a tough time in placing orders for company-made products as a majority of the companies and their distributors are yet to take permission to deliver the goods.As per the practice, companies supply goods to local grocery shops through distributors. However, since the lockdown, a majority of the companies have failed to compile orders. In several cases, distributors are asking store owners to pick consignments on their own.“Earlier, company representatives or distributors would approach us to take orders and get these delivered on our doorstep. Since the lockdown, several companies have not been able to follow the practice,” said a Sector 22-based shop owner.“There are a few companies, which are supplying their products, but their distributors are not able to make deliveries. They are asking us to pick the consignments. How can we leave shops to pick the products?,” the shop owner said.A majority of the warehouses are based in Mohali or Panchkula, which is another major hurdle in delivering products to local vendors.“Distributors of multinational companies have their warehouses in Mohali or Panchkula. Since there are restrictions on vehicular movement, they ask us to pick the consignment,” said a store owner of Sector 46.He said: “Though there is no dearth of supply of essential items, company-made food and drinks are among the worst hit. Some also allege that companies are not able to streamline production due to less manpower in their units. However, when it comes to supply of wheat flour and pulses, both local and company-made supply is normal. There will be delays most of the time, but the supply continues to pour in”.He said: “Packed food, frozen food, dry fruits, ice-creams, ready-to-eat material and snacks, including instant noodles, branded biscuits and namkeen, are not getting delivered frequently to local vendors.”He further said: “Some big players are to be blamed for the hindrance in the distribution process as they are holding back a majority of the stock to get better profit margin.”Nestle seeks railway helpReports suggest that Nestle, world’s premier food and milk processing company, is likely to send a huge stock of milk powder, instant noodles and sauce through the Railways to Assam. It’s for the first time that the company has requested the Railways to transport food items in the wake of the national lockdown and halt of trucks across the country.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/grocery-stores-in-chandigarh-run-short-of-branded-stock-65163
04-04-2020||Panchkula||Counsellors roped in for migrants at shelters||The Health Department has roped in counsellors for migrant labourers quarantined at temporary shelter homes, said an official.Dr Saroj Agarwal, Deputy Civil Surgeon, said: “We have all arrangements in place for migrant labourers quarantined in temporary shelter homes. Even TVs have been installed so that they can spend quality time. Apart from this, we have asked our trained counsellors to counsel them as they have psychological trauma.” The Supreme Court had told the Central Government to send trained counsellors to every shelter home.7 samples collectedSeven more samples were collected on Friday and sent to the PGI for Covid-19 testing, taking the total number of tests to 93 so far. According to officials, results of 29 samples are awaited. As many as 294 people are under home quarantine. A total of 122 persons have completed their quarantine period. While there are around 50 people at a quarantine facility in Mouli, 79 people have been quarantined at Nada Sahib. — TNS2 Markaz attendees in isolation wardTwo persons, who attended a religious congregation in Nizamuddin, have been admitted to an isolation ward in the Civil Hospital, Sector 6, Panchkula. Their samples have been sent for Covid-19 testing. Besides, over 120 Jamaatis have also been quarantined.Contact of former Ragi isolatedA Sector 12 resident, who came in contact with Padma Shri recipient and former Hazoori Ragi of the Golden Temple Nirmal Singh Khalsa, who passed away on Thursday, has also been kept in an isolation ward in the Civil Hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/counsellors-roped-in-for-migrants-at-shelters-65160
04-04-2020||Deepankar Sharda||19-year-old budding golfer converts backyard into range||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 3Golf is an expensive sport, but this countrywide lockdown has taught city’s 19-year-old budding golfer Aadil Bedi how to make it look like any other sport.Bedi, who virtually cannot live without golf even for a single day, is practising his swing at the backyard of his accommodation —- using mattresses, chairs and a few towels.Aadil BediIt’s better to stay insideI don’t move an inch outside my house. It’s better to stay inside; so I have found some innovative ways to practise golf. It’s not as comfortable as playing on the actual greens, but it’s better than sitting all day on a couch.And for improving his putt placement, he is using a senser-plates track, which he has placed right in the middle of his drawing room.“I don’t move an inch outside my house. It’s better to stay inside; so I have found some innovative ways to practise golf. It’s not as comfortable as playing on the actual greens, but it’s better than sitting all day on a couch,” says Bedi.He has placed a few old mattresses on the wall with the support of a table and a few chairs. The mattresses have been tied with towels. And Bedi stands behind the set-up to launch his swing. The moment the ball hits the mattress, the budding golfer gets an analysis of his shot, including its flight, drop and force of swing.“I have upgraded my lab with equipment from the USA. I have a Trackman, KVest and sensor-level plates and some computer software for analysing the force and direction of the swing. So, I just put the desired equipment at the spot to practise for nearly five hours these days. Afterwards, I analyse my day’s performance with the help of the digital equipment,” says Bedi.Last month, he hogged the limelight by winning his maiden PGTI title in Kolkata. He triumphed with a chip-in birdie on the sixth playoff hole. A die-hard fan of Jeev Milkha Singh, Bedi took up golf at the age of four and went on to represent the nation in the 2018 Asian Games.On taking care of his fitness, Bedi says he uses a treadmill. For weight training, he uses the equipment that is available. “The front yard of the house is now my gym. A temporary exercise bar, a set of old bricks and swings installed outside (which are used by children) are among my fitness equipment during this quarantine period. Though it’s tough to manage, but with no other option, I have to adjust with whatever I have,” he says.As an amateur, he has played 275 championships and has won 175. He made his pro debut in the 2018 Panasonic Open in Bengaluru. He also attends online classes by famous golf coach Bob Byman, who is settled in the USA. “I have enrolled with a USA-based university. I have to attend the classes online. Also, I am working on my golf lessons with Byman. These are taken care of in the evening. Since I stay at home, I get ample time to revise lessons, both theoretical and practical. I was scheduled to play back-to-back championships before playing some tourneys in the USA in May. However, now that the PGTI tour stands postponed, I have to wait for the right time to go on the greens,” adds Bedi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/19-year-old-budding-golfer-converts-backyard-into-range-65159
04-04-2020||---||Two Jamaatis test +ve in Mohali, district count 12||Mohali, April 3Two of the three attendees of the Tablighi Jammat in New Delhi tested positive for Covid-19 in the district today, taking the total number of those affected by the virus to 12.While one of them belongs to Kumbhra near Sector 68, the other is from Mauli Baidwan village, which has been sealed.Both patients have been admitted to Gian Sagar Hospital and both areas are being sanitised and full quarantine protocol is being followed.Contacts of other positive cases test negativeThe Deputy Commissioner said 48 samples of the contacts of the Jagatpura positive case had been found negative while the results of three samples were awaited. Besides, 14 samples of contacts of other positive cases had also been found negative, while the results of five more were awaited, he said.Mauli Baidwan, Alamgir villages sealedDeputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said apart from Mauli Baidwan village, Alamgir village near Lalru had also been sealed as a precautionary measure since approximately 15 people from the Ambala Cantt area attended the congregation at Alamgir village. One of them was found Covid-19 positive on Thursday at the PGI. He said families of these people had been home-quarantined.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-jamaatis-test-ve-in-mohali-district-count-12-65158
