06-04-2020||Chandigarh||Two Chandigarh coronavirus patients test negative, released from hospital||Two people who tested positive for coronavirus last month were released from a local hospital after they tested negative on Sunday, officials said.The two were undergoing treatment at the Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32.One of the two was the city’s first coronavirus patient, a 23-year-old woman who tested positive after she came back from London.The woman tested positive for virus thrice before her results came back negative on Monday.  Doctors said she showed no symptoms for the last 10 days.Her mother and brother who also positive were recently released from the hospital.Chandigarh has so far recorded 18 coronavirus cases. India’s coronavirus tally currently stands over 4,000, with over 100 deaths.Some 12 people who came in direct contact with her and some 130 secondary contacts were tracked down and quarantined.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-chandigarh-coronavirus-patients-test-negative-released-from-hospital-66483
06-04-2020||---||Fire breaks out at IELTS institute in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, April 6A major fire broke out in an IELTS preparation institute in Sector 17, here on Monday afternoon.According to fire officials, 'Touchstone' institute  is situated on the third floor. The classroom and office items kept inside gutted in the fire.The fire also travelled to adjacent showroom, where projector screens were kept. About six vehicles of the fire and emergency department were pressed into service. Short circuit is the prima facie cause of the incident."The fire has now been controlled. Due to curfew, the institute was closed, otherwise it would have caused more damage. We used to see such fires due to short circuit in night hours, but since everything is closed, such incidents are being reported in the day too," said a fire official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fire-breaks-out-at-ielts-institute-in-chandigarh-66450
06-04-2020||Mohali||Coronavirus: 81-year-old, suffering from diabetes and hypertension, recovers in Mohali||An 81-year-old woman recovered from COVID-19 and was released from Max hospital in Mohali on Monday.The woman suffered from diabetes and hypertension. She also had five stents, mostly used to keep coronary arteries open, placed in her. A resident of Phase 5, she had tested positive in March and had initially been kept in an isolation ward of Civil Hospital, Kharar. The woman was the landlady of a 27-year-old woman who tested positive.The 27-year-old woman is the friend of the 23-year-old woman who was the first to be declared positive in Chandigarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/coronavirus-81-year-old-suffering-from-diabetes-and-hypertension-recovers-in-mohali-66434
06-04-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Four more cases take Mohali's count to 19||Four more people tested positive for coronavirus in Mohali district on Monday, officials said. A 30-year-old man--whose father had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in New Delhi--   tested positive for coronavirus in Mohali on Monday.Also read: Mohali reports two coronavirus cases in connection with Nizamuddin eventThe man is a resident of Sector 68."He is the son of a 60-year-old man who had tested positive earlier. Two Tablighi Jamaatis are positive, out of 15 traced and now one primary contact has also tested positive," said DC Girish Dayalan.The 60-year-old man had tested positive on April 3 and is admitted to the Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.Mohali Civil Surgeon, Dr Manjit Singh, said: "We have taken samples of all his family members and only the son tested positive, while the reports of the rest of the family members are negative. We will be shifting him to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur."As per sources, his father had reached Mohali on March 17 and the father-son duo socialised after that.Three other people tested positive, all from the immediate family of a person who was already diagnosed as being infected. Authorities have sealed off the area where they live in Jawaharpur, Derabassi, and have taken swabs of 26 of their contacts. Five people have been cured, authorities said. The total number of infections now stand in Mohali now stand at 19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/coronavirus-four-more-cases-take-mohalis-count-to-19-66406
06-04-2020||---||Youths vandalise car, house in Hallo Majra||Chandigarh, April 5High drama was witnessed at Hallo Majra when a group of youths threw stones at a house and vandalised a car parked outside on Saturday night despite the lockdown in the city.Sources said the suspects had an argument with a person, Rohit, who was staying on rent at Hallo Majra, outside the house.They allegedly thrashed him and then called their accomplices to the spot.They then threw stones at the house, breaking windowpanes.An Indica car owned by the house owner, Vijaykishan Jha, was also vandalised by the suspects.Several families residing there were left terrified after the incident. A woman, who opened her door when stones were being hurled at the house, also received a minor injury on her hand.The police were informed, who visited the spot.Jha said the suspects were also residents of Hallo Majra. There were over 25 persons, residents said.The sources said a few suspects were rounded up and an investigation initiated at the Sector 31 police station.The police said the footage of CCTV cameras installed in the area would be scrutinised to identify the suspects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youths-vandalise-car-house-in-hallo-majra-66264
06-04-2020||Amit Sharma||Khaki rendering yeoman service to senior citizens||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 5From providing medicines and ration to getting their wheelchairs fixed and taking them for a health check-up, the UT police have come to the service of senior citizens in all possible ways during the lockdown.Understanding the need for keeping in touch with the elderly, especially when there are restrictions in the city, police personnel started making calls through the control room on March 31 and till April 5, 4,480 senior citizens were called up of whom 2,328 attended their calls. The police said 105 of them sought police assistance.UT SSP Nilambari Jagdale said senior citizens had sought help for delivering medicines, ration, vegetables and fruits. "A Sector 21 resident also asked to get her wheelchair repaired," the SSP said.She said the SHOs concerned were being apprised of the need and they were doing the needful on priority.The police said a few senior citizens were also taken for a check-up to the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, besides banks and ATMs to withdraw money. "We will continue providing assistance to them in future as well," the SSP said."We are taking special care of senior citizens who are staying alone," the police official said.The police are also making calls to pregnant women to ensure their well-being. "Those in need can call the emergency number 112 for assistance and we will send our team for help," said a police official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/khaki-rendering-yeoman-service-to-senior-citizens-66259
06-04-2020||The judiciary needs to use the lockdown period for opening new doors to old cases. Its unique initiative to accord virtual hearing to urgent and fresh matters during the lockdown phase has displayed its resilience and extraordinary capabilities to adapt it to adverse circumstances. It now needs to carry forward the experiment for hearing||Judiciary needs to use lockdown period for hearing old cases||The High Court is currently experiencing judicial slowdown and is working in a restricted mode in view of the Covid threat. It had on March 24 declared that the hearing of “extremely urgent cases” only would be carried out through video-conferencing or video-calling facility.As the threat of Corona outbreak is turning into a sordid reality and the virus is showing confirmed signs of further tightening its grip in the coming days, any assumption regarding the early opening of Courts will only result in a loss of contact with the actuality.Months may pass before the lawyers succeed in making a tectonic shift from virtual to actual hearing. Already, indications are that the lockdown may eventually merge into the summer vacations, which would mean continuation of little-work period well into July.The cascading effects Covid-19 pandemic will create ripples that will take at least a year to settle down. The number of hearings per case has already come down drastically. Some matters are at times on an average heard just thrice in a year. It may, under the circumstances, take years, even decades, before a matter is decided.A Bench hearing criminal appeals, headed by Justice Rajiv Sharma, in just about a year managed to decide matters pending since 2001 and is now hearing pleas filed in 2010. But the alacrity with which it was functioning is likely to suffer a setback because of the judicial slowdown brought about by the virus.National Judicial Data Grid figures reveal that the High Court, as of now, has more than 5.6 lakh pending cases. It is suspected that many of the petitioners are no more there to pursue their grievances. When some of these cases are suddenly listed, the counsels are often at a loss in the absence of complete records or instructions.Even though the High Court has been making concerted efforts to bring down the pendency, the number of old pending cases has been piling up progressively; and with the Covid lockdown and shortage of Judges, the piles are unlikely to shrink easily. The High Court, as of now, has 55 Judges against the sanctioned strength of 85.Behind every case is a set of individuals, which is in no small measure. For them and their families, the problem of pendency travels beyond numbers. It is a matter of justice, a right not enforced, freedom arrested in the shackles of prejudice or due not given. He could be a man behind bars waiting for the Courts to decide his fate or a retired employee seeking his dues to build up a house. For him, the quest for justice is almost like a wild goose chase where the goose refuses to budge. It’s a hope against hope hopen.In March alone, no less than 1,07,079 cases were filed. The disposal was only 77,450 cases, indicating an addition in arrears. The situation will only worsen in the coming months with few cases being listed and fewer being decided with the Covid bug afflicting the system. Post lockdown period will see an obvious surge in filing and a corresponding reduction in disposal due to amplified pressure on the justice delivery mechanism.The Courts, under the circumstances, cannot be seen waiting for the times to change. Justice cannot be kept in a state of suspended animation. Not only must Justice be done, it must be done expeditiously. It has the ability to transform itself into a mere judgment, if delivered at a time when it loses its meaning.Meaningless justice can, in fact, be worse than injustice because it takes away from the litigant the hope for fair dealing. Justice Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud of the Supreme Court is believed to have said that the need of the hour, to mitigate the pendency problem, is to think out of the box.Justice Chandrachud’s assertion reportedly came in context of recruiting judges to decrease the pendency of cases. The concept now needs to be applied in a different sense so that the reality of lockdown does not remain as worrisome as it appears to be.The Judges could, with the consent of the advocates, hear and decided the legacy cases during the lockdown. It does not require special equipment. A Bench of Justice Jitendra Chauhan and Justice Archana Puri switched over to WhatsApp calling due to some disruption in audio during the hearing of a case through videoconferencing, displaying how cases can be heard and decided even during adverse phases.In any case, the High Court has been relying on technology. Justice Hemant Gupta of the Supreme Court only recently disclosed that 10 crore pages of the Punjab and Haryana High Court record stood scanned during the journey of the judicial system from ‘Courts to e-Courts’.The Judges could hear pending cases on a day-to-day basis through videoconferencing and carryon with the process of virtual hearing on Saturdays and during the June break. Judiciary is what judiciary does and it needs to maintain its image of a mechanism that delivers.BENCH MARKLaw, and the orderOne-year imprisonment not must for parole applicationby Saurabh Malik||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/judiciary-needs-to-use-lockdown-period-for-hearing-old-cases-66258
06-04-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Beware tipplers! Fraudsters eyeing your money||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 5Online fraudsters are targeting local Bacchus lovers in lieu of delivering the desired liquor brand on the doorstep amid the ongoing countrywide lockdown.Since the lockdown was announced on March 23, the UT Administration has only allowed doorstep deliveries of essentials. However, online scammers are now vigorously eyeing the pocket of tipplers in the city by offering free delivery only after paying advance money on various social media platforms.Making it look novel, these scammers have used photographs of various local wine shops to create Facebook pages and other websites. Several mobile numbers have been displayed on all these pages. Scammers take orders on these numbers. After confirming the availability of the brand, they ask people to pay through Paytm, Google Pay or through card in advance. Once done, the given mobile number becomes unavailable.“There is no such proposal of delivering liquor in Chandigarh. No one is allowed to deliver any kind of liquor. Persons promising the same are fraudsters,” said Ramesh Kumar Chaudhary, Assistant Excise & Taxation Commissioner, UT.He said: “We have been tracing these scammers and strict action will be taken against them. I also request people not to fall prey to such fake vendors. Anyone who is facing problem should approach us at the earliest.”One of the owners, whose wine shop’s picture was used by these scammers, has already submitted a complaint with the Cyber Cell of the UT police.“The scammers are using photographs of various wine shops in Chandigarh. After they displayed the pictures of our shop, we came to know about it and approached the police. A complaint has been registered. No one in the city is allowed to deliver liquor. This is something very disturbing that our name has been misused by these scammers,” said the owner on condition of anonymity.“I personally made a few calls on these numbers. They confirmed to deliver a minimum order of Rs 2,000 (in advance) anywhere in Chandigarh or Mohali. The only major fault was that they don’t ask for any delivery address. They simply ask the customer to transfer money. They were not able to tell the exact location of their wine shop and kept on insisting that they will get it delivered straight from the warehouse. Truecaller traced these numbers to Odisha, Andhra Pradesh or somewhere in Uttar Pradesh,” said a youngster, who tried to purchase some liquor.“As per the policy of the Government of India, abided by the Chandigarh Administration, liquor delivery is not allowed. Our operations cell is already on the case and blocking these fake numbers,” said Rashmi Sharma Yadav, DSP, Cyber Cell, UT police.“We have received online complaints. Those found guilty will face the music. City residents should also come forward to report such scams. If any person or shop owner is found delivering liquor in Chandigarh, strict action will be initiated against the guilty,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/beware-tipplers-fraudsters-eyeing-your-money-66257
06-04-2020||---||Two more discharged in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, April 5Two more Covid-19 patients were discharged from the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, here today. Both patients are the contacts of the first Covid-19 case of the city. They are a 25-year-old resident of Sector 21 (brother) and a 23-year-old male resident of Sector 19 (friend).The Sector 21 resident tested positive on March 20 after coming in contact with his sister who returned from the UK on March 15 and tested positive on March 18. The Sector 19 resident is the son of a senior official of Chandigarh Smart City Limited. He had tested positive on March 22.The city’s first Covid-19 case, a UK-returned 23-year-old woman from Sector 21, has recovered. However, she is yet to be discharged from the hospital. She came in contact with 13 close contacts, of which seven had tested positive.Among her positive contacts, three have been discharged and four more are undergoing treatment at the hospital. These include 21-year-old male resident of Sector 38, a male cook, a masseuse from Panchkula and a female friend from Mohali.A Dubai-returned Sector 30 resident was discharged from the GMCH-32 on Saturday. However, his mother and two male friends from Sector 29 are still admitted to the hospital.Till now, five Covid-19 patients have been discharged from the hospital after being tested negative. At present, there are 13 active cases of Covid-19 in the city. No fresh case has been reported from the city in the past two days.*‘Don’t be scared’A Sector 19 resident, who was discharged from the hospital on Sunday, had symptoms similar to common flu during the illness. “I didn’t feel depressed as my morale was mostly high. I was confident that I will recover sooner or later. I talked to my family members and friends, which kept me going,” he said.He said: “None of us should take it for granted as no one of us is immune to it. You should not be scared and lose hope as the disease will be cured. I had high fever for two days, followed by cough and body aches.”“We were not allowed to move out of our isolation room. However, I remained in touch with my family and friends admitted to the hospital. I would like to thank all doctors for taking good care of us,” he said.206 rounded up for curfew violationsChandigarh: The UT police on Sunday rounded up a total of 206 persons for violating curfew orders. Meanwhile, the police said 74 vehicles were detained and 145 vehicles were impounded in various parts of the city. Since March 23, a total of 8,438 persons have been rounded up, 4,614 vehicles have been detained and 1,478 vehicles have been impounded. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-more-discharged-in-chandigarh-66251
06-04-2020||What more should be done to stop the spread of covid-19?||Stay home, cooperate with administration & follow guidelines||Strengthen your immunityDue to hard work and exposure to extreme climatic conditions majority of Indians are stronger physically than inhabitants of other countries where several persons are becoming victims of the Covid-19 pandemic almost every day. But at no point of time we should be complacent. Amidst lockdown apart from following advisories strictly by not crossing the ‘Laxman rekha’ we the residents of tricity must exercise daily in courtyards, backyards or rooftops to strengthen our immunity to fight against the dreaded disease.Capt Jagdish Verma (Retd), ChandigarhSteps not enough to control diseaseThe tricity has not taken enough steps to control the novel corona virus. All malls, gyms and other public places are closed, but many shops are opening illegally. More isolation wards should be set up. Suspected patients should not be given a chance to escape. Home quarantined should be checked by the police. No one should be allowed to visit self-quarantined people. All public gatherings should be stopped for a month. At the individual level, Individuals, who have returned from abroad should declare their travel history at airports.Saikrit Gulati, ChandigarhMaintain personal hygiene at all costTo prevent the spread of Covid-19 people should stay at home, maintain personal hygiene, use sanitisers, wash hands frequently and practise social distancing. In case of an emergency, a person confronting high temperature, sore throat and breathing problems should immediately knock at the door of a nearest hospital. If doctors and nurses of any hospital refuse to attend any patient, then he/she can dial 112 for immediate help.Harish Kapur, ChandigarhA stitch in time saves nineThe whole world is in the grip of Covid-19 .The situation has reached such a pass because of China’s non-transparency as it failed to nip it in time. Now, instead of blaming one another, we all have to tame it by religiously adopting austerity measures like social distancing and personal hygiene. In this war, we all have to stand united to defeat the virus. Any crisis hits the poor the hardest. So, be kind and humane to them. This is the best service to humanityVeena Mahajan, ChandigarhEnforce lockdown with iron fistCovid-19 has engulfed more than 200 nations. As of now, there is no medicine or vaccine to combat this menace. Since it is highly contagious, the only solution to contain it is social distancing by completely avoiding social/religious congregations. We must realise that this virus does not spread, but it’s the people who pass it on from one person to another. Therefore, the government has imposed nationwide lockdown so that people stay at homes and do not venture out. There are elements in society, who deliberately violate government orders. The police have to enforce lockdown with iron fist. Public must cooperate, bear responsibility and comply with state orders. Under no circumstances any medication prescribed by quacks in social media be tried. In case of any signs of discomfort duet to fever, flu and cough, immediately contact the medical authorities rather hiding symptoms.SS Arora, MohaliFollowing guidelines is importantInitially, most Covid positive cases were foreign returned. People keep hiding travel history fearing police at their doorsteps. Neighbours, presidents and sarpaches must help the authorities to trace them. Those who came into contact with foreign returned and positive cases must report voluntarily to the authorities and disclose symptoms. Public support is important and so is following guidelines. In this hour of crisis, shopkeepers notified for home delivery should serve senior citizens living alone.Col Balbir Singh Mathauda (retd), ChandigarhReduce lockdown relaxationsThere has been a considerable rise in coronavirus cases across the country making the newspaper headlines every single day. Back home, in tricity, the situation seems to be no different given the spurt in corona-related cases. Touted to be the country’s highly educated population of Chandigarh, city residents, unlike their countryside poor cousins, jump the lockdown provisions with the dispensation acting as mere a lame duck.However, the saddest part of the discourse is that amid all these advisories and alerts, like maintaining adequate social distancing, washing hands frequently, using sanitisers, wearing safety masks, besides observing other precautions, the public cared a little for the essential dos and don’ts, unfazed by disastrous outcome of our carelessness. Now, with the dispensation officially announcing long hours’ relaxation during the national lockdown, the whole exercise would prove counter-productive thereby defeating the very purpose of it to fight the deadly virus.Ramesh K Dhiman, ChandigarhDespite awareness, people disobey normsThe Covid-19 is spreading because of foreign returned travellers. Despite Centre Government sending beforehand alerts, the state governments and the UT did not give specific instructions to quarantine NRIs so that the Covid virus could be nipped there and then. On other hand foreign returned did not quarantine themselves for specific time and rather spread virus. Despite so much awareness, people are disobeying norms and now we all are paying for their stupidity. On religious gatherings point of view we can pray at home during this hour of crisis. It is our moral duty to protect ourselves and others. Opinder Kaur Sekhon, ChandigarhSelf-quarantine need of the hourThe authorities in the tricity are doing enough to tackle Covid-19, including sanitatisation of places, buses and trains, creating awareness, complete shutdown of busy places and ban on public gathering. People must realise their responsibility. Many people coming back from abroad are socialising and partying. Self-quarantine is important as in many cases Covid-19 is detected after few days. Ignorance may risk other lives too. Need of the hour is introduction of stringent laws for those resisting virus test and socialising.Charu Malhotra, MohaliCan check virus if everyone unitesIt is fact it is never too late to mend. The number of Covid cases have risen in the tricity due to lack self-quarantine. The authorities could become more vigilant and strict in the implementation of home-quarantine. Public should support and cooperate with the authorities. They should give information of people with foreign travel history. The authorities can strict action against all defying government guidelines. Give more power to cops to maintain discipline. Health employees and the police should be praised for their services. Door-to-door supply of essentials should be made compulsory during relaxation time. Curfew is for the betterment of the people. The virus can be finished if everyone fights against it.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliStrict implementation of laws only optionUnder the present circumstances if laws are not implemented strictly, we will not win battle against Covid-19. Religious gathering must be banned. Persons coming from foreign countries must be checked at airports before allowing them to enter cities. I think we are late in enforcing laws. Anyhow its better late than never. Relaxation in curfew in city is welcome. Residents can purchase necessities during such hours. More vendors should be allowed to sell essentials in streets.Tarlok Singh, Mani MajraHome-quarantine partially successfulImplementation of the home-quarantine has been only partially successful. The authorities should have been more vigilant and strict in enforcing the movement-restricting order. Those with foreign travel history should undergo strict check-ups, segregation, and other necessary steps recommended by doctors taken in earnest. In this respect, we citizens are equally to blame for the ridiculous fiasco that home-quarantine and curfew imposition has created in certain sectors. The authorities should introduce regular and vigilant police patrolling of all sectors and streets, especially in the evenings. Defaulters regardless of their social status must be immediately hauled up and given retributive punishment under the law.DR SS Bhatti, ChandigarhPeople defying guidelinesTricity has seen rise in number of Covid-19 cases. Some people are defying guidelines issued by the authorities. Given that large number of foreign-returned landed in the tricity recently, the region is no better than a ticking time bomb. We are living in a panic-stricken world. It’s time to come together and fight the common enemy. The government is doing its best and now it is turn to do our bit. Patience and social distancing is the only way to fight Covid-19. The authorities should act strictly against those who do not follow guidelines.Vidya Sagar Garg, Panchkula.Onus lies on one and allCovid-19 is in stage 2. Onus lies on each one of us to create a situation that no longer requires any necessity to continue with lockdown/curfew. Strict self-regulation is the best way to protect self and others. Lockdown aims at stay-at-home. A three-week period is good enough to turn the tide with 100 per cent (not even 99 per cent as the spread is exponential) restraint on propagation of the virus by practising PM’s repeated appeals in letter and spirit. Awareness is the key to tide over this global health emergency and pandemic.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaPeople give a damn to govt guidelinesAgreed that people give a damn to government guidelines as far as those suffering from coronavirus are concerned. On the other hand, the government is doing what it is supposed to do to contain the virus from spreading. It is on us to strictly follow directions to help ourselves stay healthy. Using masks and sanitisers will keep the deadly virus away from us and society. So, we should not ignore government instructions on Covid-19 as far as possible. Let’s obey and fight the war to keep the deadly virus away.RK Kapoor, ChandigarhWe are suffering for no fault of oursThe Central Government decided to ban operations of all international commercial flights in a bid to control the spread of deadly coronavirus. Unfortunately by that time the total number of confirmed Covid-positive cases in India stood at 236, including some foreign nationals and four deaths. Had our government taken this decision of discontinuing international flights earlier there would have been no corona case in our country. As far as home-quarantine is concerned, how can a family member be locked in a room for such a long time? Wrong decisions or late implementation of correct decisions taken by our government is responsible for the present scenario for which we citizens are paying the price for no fault of ours.Gurpreet S Malhotra, MohaliDon’t waste lockdown periodYes, for sure this lockdown period is an opportunity for all of us to introspect and be with oneself instead of gluing to TV screens for depressing news on Covid-19 or staying busy with smartphones and believing in all rumors spread on social networking sites. We all should make this time fruitful. A serious introspection is also the need of the hour as humans rarely get such a chance in today’s hectic life. This lockdown is a blessing in disguise as it will not only help us keep Covid-19 at bay, but also enable us to know ourselves. Besides introspection, we can also rejuvenate our old hobbies and talents, which might have got suppressed due to professional and family obligations.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, ChandigarhKeep check on suspected casesCovid cases are increasing in the tricity. Some people are not taking the disease, especially those coming back from another country seriously. To control the situation the administration should deploy officials to check shops and quarantined persons, especially with foreign travel history. The government should start one common kitchen for a particular area so that safe food is available for the needy.Avinash Goyal, ChandigarhLockdown, quarantine come at a costTo beat Covid-19 pandemic, lockdown/quarantine has been imposed, which is unprecedented. As technologies keep people virtually connected, home quarantines are no longer the dreary confinement. To ensure its success, we need to be faithfully and honestly quarantined or under a lockdown. On the flipside, the social and economic costs of lockdowns and quarantines can be devastating. They hurt livelihood, push towards poverty and can have lasting psychological impacts. The young will still do better on this front. This can also leave governments under massive piles of debt. Overall, there is a strong evidence to show that quarantine works to stop the spread of communicable diseases, but joint families are still at risk.Rajiv Boolchand Jain, ZirakpurNo relaxation during lockdown periodThere should be no relaxation during national lockdown. The authorities should be more vigilant and strict in the implementation of home quarantine. Vegetables and fruits should be delivered door-to-door on alternate days.Dr GS Kochhar, ChandigarhAll should behave responsiblySocial distancing is the only key to restricting the spread of deadly disease. Unfortunately, the public isn’t taking full care and roaming here and there despite restrictions imposed by the government. Relaxation in curfew or lockdown will lead to assembly of public at shops. The authorities must ensure delivery of essential commodities like milk, vegetables, grocery and medicines at doorsteps. At this critical juncture, the public has to behave responsibly and remain indoors. The time demands equal public-administration participation to ensure the success of curfew/lockdown.Vandana, ChandigarhUT should take legal action against those, who have come from abroad, hiding in the country and not getting themselves registered in the quarantined list of the Administration. They should be given a warning to surrender within 24 hours. If they fail to comply and are caught later, then they should be booked. —Hari Om Kumar, President, Sangee SabhaInstead of looking towards the police and the Administration to quarantine, citizens should consider it as their responsibility. They should take care of themselves and society by staying at home. Though UT is doing its part, officials should be strict to stop movement of people during curfew.—Apneet Brar, sector 15, ChandigarhI believe the government is doing enough to ensure that things remain in control. This will make it easier for officials to keep track of the people and help in taking action to keep the alarming situation under control. Being a responsible women I am keeping my surroundings neat and clean. I pray to God that all patients recover soon.—Aanchal Arora, Sector 71, MohaliThere are some loose ends in the system due to which cases rose. Instead of requesting people coming from foreign countries the administration should put them in quaritine. The disease spread only after people came into contact with foreign travellers. One should report to the authorities about those who travelled abroad.—Rakesh Agarwal, PanchkulaCoronavirus cases has risen in the tricity. Most affected persons have opted to stay indoors. But some don’t care about the rules and still roam in streets. Earlier, the government remained lenient, hence number of Covid patients increased. Now, the Administration is dealing with deafaulters strictly.—SK Nayar, PanchkulaQUESTIONWith relatively less number of Covid cases, the tricity has fared well in keeping the spread of the disease under check. Do you think the lockdown/curfew should be extended in the tricity to prevent the spread of Covid-19 cases?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/stay-home-cooperate-with-administration-follow-guidelines-66250
06-04-2020||Mona||Stuck at home, architect-author finds solace in books, poetry||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 5Both by temperament and training, architect-author Dr SS Bhatti is an introvert, which he believes is an essential trait for creative souls. “You need designated space and time to indulge this divine endowment. I have been following my instincts concerning this rule ever since my schooldays,” he opens up when asked about life during the lockdown.He deems the current lockdown not as an imposition on his work ethic and lifestyle, but as a golden opportunity for those who are so restless that they love to spend more time away from home. “People should try to reflect, not merely mediate in popular parlance, to figure out what they have been doing and ought to have done,” he says.During the lockdown, the very first thought that occurred to him was that of thanksgiving. “I am goaded from within to pray for our teeming millions for whom Covid-19 is a snatcher of daily wherewithal while keeping them exposed round-the-clock to the lethal infection. I wish I had the resources to reach out to them with a helping hand in these death-inviting circumstances. I have decided that we will not deduct the salary of our domestic helps. This is the least we can do as a gesture of goodwill to our fellow humans,” he says.Most of his time is devoted to listening to Shabad Kirtan on YouTube, writing poetry and books, regular participation in Chandigarh Tribune’s Open House question and the like. He regularly posts on Facebook and Twitter on the unfortunate prevalent situation and some of his ideas concerning how to utilise the precious time in self-quarantine. Adding to his routine of Gurbani recitation, he composes and sings ghazals, besides learning Hindustani sangeet.“My wife Rita Bhatti inherited from her illustrious eye surgeon father Dr Man Singh of Batala her passion for plants, which are her constant companions. Expending love and care on them is her way of prayer, which she now extends to include beseeching Lord God for the welfare of the teeming millions,” he speaks of his partner.Their eldest daughter Navita and her daughter Sahiba, who had come here for a holiday from Bengaluru, are stuck with them for the time being. “Their presence has livened up the domestic ambience. Sahiba engages and educates us by vocabulary-building games. We also receive regular long calls from our daughters Anvita in Canada and Kavita in the US and using Skype or Google Hangout to see each other to share our anxiety caused by the deadly pandemic,” he says. His schoolgoing grandsons Gurtej and Prabhtej’s short soul-uplifting concert on violin and flute is the recent highlight of their cross-continental calls.“In this fast-paced life, people seldom know what they are running after. If a staggered lockdown through the country becomes a regular feature, it would give them much-needed time to sit and ponder.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/stuck-at-home-architect-author-finds-solace-in-books-poetry-66249
06-04-2020||Harshabab Sidhu||Only 8 guests in this 42-minute wedding at Mohali village||Mohali, April 5Amid lockdown, another wedding took place at the Daun village of the district in the presence of just eight guests.Gagandeep Kaur (23) married Rajdeep Singh (24) of Khanna, Ludhiana.According to the family members, the wedding was fixed on March 29, but due to the lockdown, it was cancelled.Finally, after getting the required permissions from the administration, families of the couple decided to hold the wedding ceremony today at a gurdwara in Daun village.Four members from each side attended the wedding ceremony which lasted for not more than 42 minutes.Satnam Singh, a guest, said the villagers allowed the guest after sanitising their hands. No celebration was performed there."It was a good initiative by the families. I think every wedding should take organised in such a simple manner. The middleclass families usually spends maximum on the weddings," said Satnam Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/only-8-guests-in-this-42-minute-wedding-at-mohali-village-66248
06-04-2020||Vijay Mohan||TBRL develops face shields, safety enclosures for PGI docs||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 5From evaluating the technical parameters of missiles and explosives, the Terminal Ballistics Research Laboratory (TBRL) here has switched its expertise and in-house innovation to develop personal protective gear for the medical fraternity in the nationwide fight against Covid-19.As many as 10,000 full face protective shields and 15 acrylic enclosures for examining infected persons are being produced by the TBRL for the PGI here.“The face shields are single-use as well as multiple-use type while the intubation protective enclosure can be used multiple times,” Dr Manjit Singh, Director, TBRL, said. “We are making about a 100 face shields and three-four enclosures each day,” he added.An important Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) establishment based in Chandigarh, the TBRL is involved in development, production, processing and characterisation of different high explosive compositions, fragmentation studies of warheads, captive flight testing of bombs, missiles and airborne systems and ballistics evaluation of protective system like body armour, vehicle armour and helmets.The face shields are light weight and can be worn full day with comfort. Commonly available A-4 size transparency sheets used in overhead projectors are being used as visors while the holding frame is manufactured through Fused Deposition Modeling (FDM), commonly known as 3-D printing. Polylactic Acid filament, a biodegradable thermoplastic derived from renewable resources such as corn starch or sugarcane, was used for 3-D printing.The enclosures were requested by the PGI’s Department of Anaesthesia and Intensive Care to act as first level of protection for doctors and medical staff during the intubation of Covid-19 patients. This is a process in which a tube is inserted into the patient’s mouth to keep the airway open so that the patient can be placed on a ventilator.Made of perspex sheets, the transparent enclosure is a cuboid that covers the patient’s face and upper chest, with two holes on one side through which a doctor can insert his arms to work. Medical professionals are at elevated levels of risk of infection as virus particles can become aerosolised during intubation.Mass production of the products is planned using theh injection moulding technique to expedite the process. Industrial partners are also being developed to meet the possible demands from neighbouring states. Being a research laboratory, in-house production in the TBRL is limited.Dr Manjit said the TBRL was also making hand sanitisers for the Chandigarh Police using base compositions developed by the DRDO. The requirement is for 6,000 bottles of 500 ml and 1,200 bottles had already been supplied. The TBRL was to get the sanitisers bottled from a commercial plant in Baddi in Himachal Pradesh, but the area has been sealed off due to the death of an infected person. Alternative measures are being explored.In addition, the TBRL is also acting as a facilitator for the procurement of bio-suits developed by another DRDO lab for use by health care service providers. A walk-through disinfection tunnel, which is placed at the entrance to a building or complex, is also being evaluated at the TBRL. Developed by Research Center Imarat, Hyderabad, the tunnel is equipped with sensors to assess body parameters, air showers and disinfectant sprays. It has the potential of being deployed at any public place or office complex.15 Acrylic enclosures||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tbrl-develops-face-shields-safety-enclosures-for-pgi-docs-66247
06-04-2020||Chandigarh||Lighting up the atmosphere||In solidarity Panchkula: Diyas and candles were lit up at almost every house late on Sunday evening. Some even took the opportunity to burst crackers. Whistles and PCR sirens were also heard. Panchkula residents, including those living in group housing societies in Sector 20, showed full support to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s appeal to switch off the lights for 9 minutes and light candles, earthen lamps and flashlights to show that the country is united in fight against Covid-19. So far, there are just two positive cases in the district. TNSLangar outside police stationChandigarh: A langar was organised for the poor and needy outside the Industrial Area police station. Station House Officer Jasbir Singh said langar was being organised outside the police station from the past few days. People from Colony no 4 and Sanjay Colony, Industrial Area, come to the spot for food. “We will hold the langar till the city is under lockdown,” said the SHO.TNSSnatcher held with gold chainChandigarh: Two days after an Activa-borne miscreant snatched a gold chain from a woman in Mani Majra, the UT police nabbed him and recovered the chain. The miscreant has been identified as Sagar Kumar (23), a resident of Bank Colony in Mani Majra. Victim Poonam Kumari (48) was purchasing vegetables near her house when the miscreant snatched her chain on April 2. A case in this regard was registered at Mani Majra. During the course of the investigation, a naka was laid near the railway underbridge and the suspect was nabbed while riding an Activa, which was stolen from Rajiv Colony, Panchkula. The suspect disclosed that he had also committed a snatching in the Mani Majra area and a vehicle theft following which another Activa was recovered from the parking of Shivalik Garden, Mani Majra. tnsWater supply to be affected todayChandigarh: Water supply will be affected in the city on Monday. MC officials said due to urgent repair of the Phase 1 pipeline from Kajauli to Chandigarh, there will be no pumping of raw water in the Phase 1 line on Monday. Due to less receipt of raw water from Kajauli, there will be normal supply in the morning. There will be no supply in the afternoon. The supply will be at full pressure from 6 pm to 9 pm. TNSEntrance rescheduledChandigarh: Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Panjab University has rescheduled the date of entrance test for PU-CET (UG) to May 16 instead of April 26 for admission to BPharmacy and BSc (Hons), said Prof Parvinder Singh, Controller of Examinations. He said the last date for submission of information on the website to generate the bank challan has also been extended from April 10 to May 4. Candidates can pay their fee through net banking/debit card/credit card. Detailed revised schedule is available on cetug.puchd.ac.in. TNSHealth centre extends timingsChandigarh: The working hours of the Bhai Ghanaiya Ji Health Centre, Panjab University, have been extended from 9 am to 1 pm on all working days and 10 am to 12 noon on Saturdays and holidays, said Prof Karamjeet Singh, Registrar. Medicines available will be dispensed on holidays also. This would be followed till April 14, he said. TNSHelping hand for villagersChandigarh: The staff of Delhi Public School has lent support for distributing dry ration and soaps among 300 families in Faidan village, which was sealed by the administration after a Covid-positive case surfaced. Principal Reema Dewan said they would arrange more packets in the near future. “Around 300 bottles of sanitisers were also given to health workers. We are planning to donate stationery and colouring materials for slum children to keep them busy and involved,” Dewan said. TNSTeacher arrested with 18-gm heroinMohali: The police arrested a government school teacher with 18-gram heroin from Kharar on Saturday. The accused has been identified as Jaskirat Singh (35), a resident of Samrala, Ludhiana. He was currently putting up at the Old Sunny Enclave, Sector 125, Kharar. According to the police, Jaskirat was a lab attendant at a government school in Dalla village, Chamkaur Sahib. Inspector Sukhveer Singh, SHO, Kharar Sadar police station, said they received a tip-off that a person coming towards Jal Vayu Towers was carrying drugs. He said after getting the information, a special naka was laid at the Jandpur village T-point. “The accused was walking on foot and on seeing the cops, he threw a packet away. We nabbed him immediately and on checking the packet, 18-gm heroin was found. The matter is still under investigation,” said Inspector Sukhveer Singh. A case has been registered against him under relevant sections of NDPS Act at the Sadar Kharar police station. The accused was produced in a local court on Sunday which sent him to two-day police custody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lighting-up-the-atmosphere-66245
06-04-2020||Our Correspondent---||Efforts afoot to trace Dera Bassi patient’s contacts||Dera Bassi, April 5 A day after a Covid positive case was reported from Jawaharpur village in Dera Bassi, officials of the district administration and the Health Department were on their toes to trace the contacts of the patient. A 43-year-old panch of Jawaharpur village was tested positive for Covid-19 yesterday, following which he was admitted to an isolation ward of the GMCH, Sector 32. He was shifted to the PGI today, where his condition is said to be stable. Various teams of the District Health Department collected throat and swab samples of 24 persons, including the family members, who had been in contact with the patient. So far, his family members are asymptomatic and have been home-quarantined. The health teams, led by Dr HS Cheema, Dr Girish Dogra and Dr Vikrant, visited the village to collect samples, which have been sent to the PGI, Chandigarh, for testing. Meanwhile, officials are also trying to find out his contact history as from where he got the infection. Dr Sangeeta Jain, Senior Medical officer, Civil Hospital, Dera Bassi, said all 24 samples were taken in an open space as a precautionary measure. She said the door-to-door survey had begun in the village during which health teams would visit all houses and examine the villagers. She said the survey work would be completed very soon. Sources said the panch had been showing symptoms of mild fiver and cough for the past several days. On March 31, he went to a lab in Dera Bassi, where his samples were taken. Seeing no improvement in his health, he went to Jeevan Jyoti Hospital at Mubarikpur for treatment. On April 2, he was shifted to the GMCH, Sector 32, Chandigarh.  District Epidemiologist Dr Harmandeep Kaur said, “We have already started carrying out contact tracing of the patient. She said as of now, 24 of them, who were in direct contact with the patient, had been quarantined and the rest had been put under home quarantine as a precautionary measure. Their swab samples had been sent for testing, the reports of which were awaited, she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/efforts-afoot-to-trace-dera-bassi-patients-contacts-66243
06-04-2020|| ---||Close shave for cop as SUV hits electricity pole||Chandigarh, April 5 Inspector Ranjit Singh had a narrow escape after his SUV rammed into a electricity pole on the road separating Industrial Area Phase-I and Sector 28. Singh was driving his Toyota Fortuner when it went out of control. All airbags of the SUV got inflated after it rammed into the pole. A DDR regarding the matter was lodged at the Industrial Area police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/close-shave-for-cop-as-suv-hits-electricity-pole-66242
06-04-2020||ibune News Service---||Two booked for violating curfew||Mohali, April 5 Amid lockdown, another wedding took place at the Daun village of the district in the presence of just eight guests. Gagandeep Kaur (23) married Rajdeep Singh (24) of Khanna, Ludhiana. According to the family members, the wedding was fixed on March 29, but due to the lockdown, it was cancelled. Finally, after getting the required permissions from the administration, families of the couple decided to hold the wedding ceremony today at a gurdwara in Daun village. Four members from each side attended the wedding ceremony which lasted for not more than 42 minutes. Satnam Singh, a guest, said the villagers allowed the guest after sanitising their hands. No celebration was performed there. "It was a good initiative by the families. I think every wedding should take organised in such a simple manner. Usually, the middleclass families spends maximum on the weddings," he said .||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-booked-for-violating-curfew-66241
06-04-2020||Mohali||Senior citizens’ body to donate 120 PPE kits||In the fight against the Covid-19, the Senior Citizens’ Welfare Association (SCWA), Mohali, have decided to donate 120 personal protection equipment (PPE) kits to the health staff.  SCWA president Swarn Singh said they had collected Rs 1.10 lakh and have ordered 120 kits from a Patiala-based company which would be arriving in a day or two. He said each kit would cost about Rs 800 per unit. He said these kits are essential for the doctors, nurses, ward boys and ambulance drivers, who are taking care of the Covid-19 suspects as well as positive patients in the hospital. Swarn Singh said they had contacted Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh in this regard and apprised him about their decision. He said the kits would be donated to the health authorities at the Civil Hospital.  He said as per their social responsibility they had been deputing nine to 10 persons daily at the hospital for helping the poor people.  — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/senior-citizens-body-to-donate-120-ppe-kits-66240
06-04-2020||Harshabab Sidhu||PM’s ‘diya jalao’ call turns boon for this trader||Mohali, April 5After Prime Minister Narendra Modi urged people to light candles or earthen lamps on Sunday evening to express solidarity with the nation’s fight against Covid-19, high demand for candles and diyas was witnessed in Mohali.Paramjit Singh Randhawa, who runs a small-scale candle making unit in Nanu Majra village here, today sold more than 1,000 boxes of candles weighing around 1.5 quintals on a van. He said he had been receiving many orders since the Prime Minister’s ‘Diya Jalao’ call.Along with candles, Randhawa sold diyas made of aluminum sheets to residents of Sector 70, Sector 86, Sohana, Mataur and Nanu Majra villages and various shops in the city.Residents were seen coming out of their houses to buy candles from the van.“The demand was even more than during Diwali, but due to the lockdown in place, I couldn’t sell more. I could sell my stuff only in a few areas as I didn’t get permission to sale it in different areas. However, respecting the Prime Minister and for the welfare of everyone, I sold candles and diyas at half the market price as it was for a noble cause. I distributed these items free of cost among poor. Our country is unitedly fighting with the pandemic and I also wanted to play a role in this fight. My agenda is ‘Mombatti jagao corona nu duur bhajao’ (light candle and get rid of Coronavirus),” said Paramjit.He said he was running his small-scale factory for the past 20 years and he was the sole breadwinner of the family. He said, “I have two sons. I was able to educate them through this business only. Today, my both sons are engineers.”His business was also hit due to the curfew, but Modi’s appeal proved to be a boon for him, he added.Seema Jindal, a customer, said, “I purchased four candles for my family today. We must shine light on the ones who are the most-affected by the coronavirus pandemic. It is a scientific reason too that by lighting most of the virus get killed.” Srishti Singla, a 11-year-old girl, who had come with her father to buy candles, said, “I am so excited to light candles and diyas with my family.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pms-diya-jalao-call-turns-boon-for-this-trader-66239
06-04-2020||---||Mohali police launch Covid Control App||Mohali, April 5In the wake of Covid-19 threat and to better align the systemic response to the newer and bigger challenges to public health and safety, the district police led by SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal, nodal officer, DSP Amroz Singh and IT Consultant Avinash Sharma have launched Covid Control App (Android) using the technological and latest cutting edge innovations.Senior Superintendent of Police Kuldeep Singh Chahal, Nodal Officer Amroz Singh and IT consultant Avinash Sharma launched the app.SSP Chahal said the mobile application has been developed to identify and mark quarantined areas and people by using geo-fencing technology. He said it would be mandatory for the people under quarantine to download the app on their mobile phones which will make easier for the health and police department to track the quarantined users through their mobile phone number location with the help of telecom service providers and geo-fencing them for strict enforcement of quarantine. Any lapse or unauthorised movement will be immediately alerted via a message to both the administration control room as well as the person concerned, he added.Chahal said every quarantined user will be fenced within 500-metre radius of his place of quarantine and the quarantined user would have to upload a selfie every hour and system will update their location when they upload the selfie. The system will match their quarantined location and the location from where they uploaded the selfie, he said.The SSP warned that if any quarantined user breaches the geo-fence, he/she will get a warning message and the administration will get a alert in the control room that user has jumped the geo-fence.He further said the police control room will be alerted even in case phone is turned off and penal action will be taken against the user.He said the general public soon can login to this application and they will be able to see all “Red zones” and quarantined or infected areas live on the app. He said the people will also get the notification, if they enter such infected area and alert will be sent in their notification area.A 24x7 control room has been set up near the Phase 8 police station with a dedicated team to monitor the quarantined persons and bring the violations to the notice of the concerned police station, he added.He further said that WhatsApp groups have been formed at police station level for immediate redressal of issues incorporating local Saanjh team, police team and representatives of society to raise genuine queries and troubleshoot at the local level. He said any issue which is beyond the scope of group will be redressed at the district level.Police helpline numbers (8872090029, 01722920074, 01722270091) have been set up to resolve issues related to the lockdown through direct intervention.Uses geo-fencing technology||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-police-launch-covid-control-app-66238
06-04-2020||Chandigarh||PGI online portal for Covid-19 awareness||To connect better to the general public and healthcare workers, the Director, PGIMER, has constituted a Corona Prevention & Information, Education and Communication Committee. This committee is headed by Prof JS Thakur, Department of Community Medicine and School of Public Health, PGI. The committee has developed a portal on Covid-19 which is now active on website pgimer.edu.in. The portal includes an information booklet on Covid-19 for general public, FAQs in Hindi and English, public awareness posters in Hindi language; various information/guidelines for healthcare workers developed by the PGIMER such as infection control guidelines and drug therapy; and links of various other sources of information regarding Covid-19. Exhaustive list of frequently-asked questions have also been added. Dr Arpit Gupta, Convener of the committee, said the portal would host various guidelines pertinent to diagnosis and management of patients, therefore, it might help in capacity-building of healthcare workers at various peripheral institutions.  Helpline operational  A PGI Coronavirus helpline (0172-2755444 from 9 am to 5 pm) for the general public is already functional with a focus on prevention, mental health issues, follow-up visits to the PGI, chemoprophylaxis information and donations. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-online-portal-for-covid-19-awareness-66232
06-04-2020||---||Rotary Club gives PPEs, masks||Mohali, April 5To assist the district administration, the Rotary Club Mohali, led by president Harjeet Singh, handed over 50 personal prevention equipment kits (PPEs), along with 5,000 three-layered masks and examination gloves, to the officials concerned here yesterday.The club has also donated 100 pair of shoes to garbage collectors for helping them maintain hygiene.Responding swiftly to a request of officials to donate medical help, the Rotary Club also distributed dry ration packets among more than 70 families to cross targeted 550 in the next week.We have the experience and manpower to assist in these circumstances, said Harjeet adding that the invisible enemy that was wreaking havoc across the globe could only be fought if people come together.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rotary-club-gives-ppes-masks-66231
06-04-2020||Chandigarh||Sector 26 mandi to be closed on Mondays||The grain market in Sector 26 will now be closed every Monday starting from tomorrow. The authorities will undertake sanitisation of the whole market. Thus, there will be no distribution of vegetables and fruits by the administration buses. The authorities said in future, they could consider odd-even plan for opening the mandi. Manoj Parida, UT Adviser, tweeted: “Retail vegetable shops will continue to be open. Private venders, online orders and cart-wallahs will be available.”  Handwash station  The Municipal Corporation has installed a pedal-operated hand-washing station at the grain market. It has been designed by Ordnance Factory, Chandigarh. It has been designed in a way that people need not use hands to open tap or take liquid handwash. By pressing a right pedal with foot, the tap opens. By pressing the left pedal with another foot, handwash liquid comes out. “It has been placed near our camp office. Daily, our buses take vegetables and fruits from here. Also, a number of vendors and customers visit the area. Thus, they can use the machine with more safety now,” said an MC official. “The machine will make sure that people do not have to touch hands and it will help in stopping the virus to spread,” said the official. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-26-mandi-to-be-closed-on-mondays-66230
06-04-2020||Amit Bathla||Family, not food, is sole concern of daily wagers||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, April 5Quarantined with around 60 daily wagers at the Sector 20 Government Primary School here, Mohammed Burhan didn’t have any idea that he would lose his mother while on his journey on foot from Una in Himachal Pradesh to his native place in eastern Uttar Pradesh.He was held back at the temporary shelter despite beseeching authorities to let him go to Shahpur village in Saharanpur to attend his “ammi’s” funeral.“She was worried about our safety. I told her I was fine but she had anxiety issues. I couldn’t even see her face for the last time,” he wails.He is sharing a classroom-turned-resting place with his uncle Rizwan since March 29. Rizwan, who has six daughters and two sons, was hit hard by the ongoing lockdown. The lockdown led to the cancellation of marriage of his two elder daughters.“We had no other option but to postpone the wedding. It’s not easy for us. My only concern is being with my family,” he says.“We couldn’t do anything for our families that are living kilometers apart. We have a little agricultural land and this is the peak of harvesting season. Our produce will rot in the fields. We get around Rs 300-400 for 12-hour duty each day. Deplorable living conditions add to our misery,” he addsThe uncle-nephew duo were on their way to their native place when they were picked up by the police on the Panchkula-Yamunanagar highway, following directions from Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar for stopping the movement of migrant labourers.Adjusting to the facilitiesEven though Susheel Kumar (52), who has also been quarantined here since March 29, has a habit of eating early in the morning, he gets his first proper meal of the day here around 12 pm.He says he has no problem adjusting to the changes. “I don’t mind eating whatever they give us or whenever they do. We don’t miss anything except for our family or home,” he says.Another, lying on a mattress beside him, shares the same feelings. He says: “We don’t know for how many more days we will be confined to this place. Still, we have no complaints. The only thing we pray for day and night is the well-being of our families.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/family-not-food-is-sole-concern-of-daily-wagers-66229
