07-04-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Wearing masks at public places made mandatory in Chandigarh||The Chandigarh Administration on Tuesday made it mandatory for people to wear masks in public places to check the spread of the novel coronavirus.“We have made it mandatory for people in Chandigarh to wear masks or cloth on their face from Wednesday,” the Union Territory of Chandigarh Adviser Manoj Parida said here.He said anybody flouting the order will be warned by the police. However, the decision regarding levying penalty on violators is yet to be taken, Parida said.He said Chandigarh will be the first Union Territory (UT) that has made wearing masks mandatory.The UT of Chandigarh has reported 18 coronavirus cases so far and of them, seven have been cured, Parida said.Besides, the administration has also decided that the payment of water and electricity charges and payment of house rent, including for rehabilitation colonies, will be deferred, he said.Chandigarh administrator VP Singh Badnore on Tuesday held a meeting to view the situation here.Parida informed Badnore that the number of positive cases had come down in Chandigarh to 11 because of curfew measures and observation of social distancing by residents. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/coronavirus-wearing-masks-at-public-places-made-mandatory-in-chandigarh-66969
07-04-2020|| ||UT Adviser rules out opening of liquor vends amid curfew in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, April 7UT Adviser Manoj Parida on Tuesday ruled out the opening of liquor vends in Chandigarh amid the curfew restrictions, a few hours after he sought suggestions from the public on his Twitter handle in this regard.Parida had tweeted on Tuesday morning that a doctor had recommended to open liquor vends for two hours.“One doctor has suggested allowing 2 hour opening of liquor shops lest the addicts go for drugs, or depression..Your views group,” he tweeted.Responding to it, though a few people welcomed the suggestion, many urged Parida against it, asserting that it would lead to crowding.In a reply to the adviser, one Sandeep Kumar said the move will result in an increase in the movement of people. He said people from nearby areas will come to Chandigarh, increasing chances of the coronavirus spread.“If you allow liquor shops to open, addicts may ask for opening of tobacco cigarettes, pan tapris as well.. keep that in mind,” tweeted a woman.Among those who favoured the suggestion, a person termed it a “sound advice”.“Prohibition has never proved to be success in the world. The prime objective here is the lockdown, which is being effectively enforce,” the person said, adding that it would result in revenue generation.Responding to the suggestions, Parida later in the day tweeted that after consulting government doctors, it has been decided not to open liquor shops during the curfew. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ut-adviser-rules-out-opening-of-liquor-vends-amid-curfew%C2%A0in-chandigarh-66946
07-04-2020||---||With seven new cases, Mohali has highest coronavirus positive cases in Punjab||Chandigarh, April 7Seven more people tested positive for coronavirus in Mohali district on Tuesday, officials said. The total number of positive cases in the district now stands at 26.The cases have surfaced in Jawaharpur village of the Dera Bassi block. Deputy Commissioner, Girish Dayalan, said that a total of 7 people from the two families—including the present panch, who was tested positive, and the present sarpanch of Jawaharpur village—have tested positive.All the people are between 12 and 50 years of age, he added.Deputy Commissioner, along with the civil surgeon, has rushed to the village. The authorities are likely to put the village under a state of emergency.The affected members of the families were involved in distributing community food to the poor, needy and the labourers.Mohali saw four new coronavirus cases in one day.  Meanwhile, two days after 42-year-old panch of Jawaharpur village was tested positive for COVID-19, his 67-year-old father, his 38-year-old brother, and his 43-year-old wife also tested positive. All of them have been admitted at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.According to sources, the present panch of the village came in contact with a Muslim foreman, who had travelled from Delhi to meet him on March 31.  He said that he had attended the Tabligh-e-Jamaat congregation. The foreman stayed in the village for a couple of days, before heading back to Delhi. The panch owns a tent-house where five to six Muslim labourers work.Presently, Mohali has the highest COVID-19 positive cases in Punjab.Earlier, it was Nawanshahar with 19 cases. Till now, Mohali has reported one death and four have been cured.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/with-seven-new-cases-mohali-has-highest-coronavirus-positive-cases-in-punjab-66914
07-04-2020||Our Correspondent||Hospital staff home-quarantined in Kurali||Kharar, April 6Five staff members, including doctors working at a private hospital in Kurali have been home-quarantined by the administration today.The hospital staff had come in contact of a resident of Chatamli village near Morinda, who tested Covid-19 positive.Kharar Civil Hospital SMO Dr Tarsem Singh said samples of five staff members have been taken and sent for testing. According to information, Covid-19 positive patient had visited the hospital before being admitted at a hospital in Chandigarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hospital-staff-home-quarantined-in-kurali-66653
07-04-2020||Chandigarh||Police detain 225 curfew violators||Sector 46 residents felicitate copsChandigarh: Residents of Sector 46 here on Monday offered garlands and showered petals on the SHO of the Sector 34 police station, Inspector Baldev Singh, and his team to laud their efforts in implementing lockdown amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Residents also raised slogans to appreciate the efforts made by the police department by providing food to poor and needy people. TNSMobile phone snatchedChandigarh: Two motorcycle-borne miscreants escaped after snatching a mobile phone from a man at Kajheri, Sector 52. According to the police, the complainant, Pardeep Sharma of Model Jail Complex, Sector 51, reported that the miscreants targeted him near the Electricity Colony in Sector 52 on Sunday. On getting information, cops rushed to the spot and initiated an investigation. A case has been registered at the Sector 36 police station. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/police-detain-225-curfew-violators-66649
07-04-2020||---||55 people violate lockdown, booked||Panchkula, April 6The police have booked 55 people for violating lockdown order under Sections 188, 269, 34 of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Epidemic Act today.On Sunday, 10 cases were registered against violaters and subsequently 30 people were arrested.Around 107 vehicles have been seized and 1,173 persons challaned till date. Over Rs 43 lakh has been collected as penalty from the violators.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/55-people-violate-lockdown-booked-66648
07-04-2020||Chandigarh||RWA contributes Rs 2l in covid fight||PU entrance tests put offChandigarh: The common entrance test (PU-CET) for postgraduate courses offered by Panjab University (PU) and the migration engineering test (PUMEET) have been postponed, keeping in view the Covid-19 lockdown across the country. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rwa-contributes-rs-2l-in-covid-fight-66642
07-04-2020||Panchkula||Student bags scholarship||Ishmita Jindal, a student of Class X of Saupin's School, Panchkula, won a scholarship worth Rs 2,00,000/-  in a ‘Live Olympiad – VOLT-20’ organised by Vedantu. She scored 51 points and was ranked 225 with a percentile of 78.2. Principal Jayeta Auddy congratulated Ishmita for her splendid achievement.RWA contributes Rs 2 lakhChandigarh: Members of the Resident Welfare Association (RWA), Modern Housing Complex, Sector 13, have contributed Rs 2 lakh to fight the rapidly-spreading Covid-19 pandemic.In response to an appeal for contributions to Red Cross Society from the Adviser, the RWA today handed over a cheque to a government official."This has been done in response to your appeal for contributions to the Red Cross, headed by UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore for fighting the pandemic. We are ready to assist the UT Administartion in any manner it thinks fit," Colonel Gursewak Singh (retd), president, RWA, wrote to the Adviser.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/student-bags-scholarship-66641
07-04-2020||Kharar||L&T provides ration to 250 workers||Larsen & Toubro (L&T), which is constructing Kharar flyover is providing its workers ration, masks, hand sanitisers and regularly sanitising labour camp in the wake of the Covid-19.  According to information, 250 workers are residing at L&T labour camp near Padiala village. The firm is also monitoring health of workers. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lt-provides-ration-to-250-workers-66640
07-04-2020||Mohali||Liquor shop owner held||A flying squad team of the Punjab Vigilance Bureau today arrested owner of a liquor shop at Dhakoli for violating curfew norms. The suspect has been identified as Praveen Kumar, a resident of Himachal Pradesh. Praveen runs a liquor shop at Panchkula Modern Complex, Dhakoli.  The suspect was selling liquor to customers illegally through a small window . A case was registered against the suspect under Section 188 of the IPC. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/liquor-shop-owner-held-66639
07-04-2020||Our Correspondent---||‘Seal entry, exit points of villages’, Fatehgarh Sahib Deputy Commissioner||Fatehgarh Sahib, April 6 In order to combat Covid-19 outbreak, Fatehgarh Sahib Deputy Commissioner Amrit Kaur Gill has ordered to seal all the entry and exit points of villages in the district. The Deputy Commissioner has exercised her powers under Section 3(1) of the Punjab Village and Small Town Patrol Act 1918. These orders will remain in force till May 2. She said panchyats will set up ‘Threekri Pehras’ with help of youths. She has exempted senior citizens and physically challenged persons from duty.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/seal-entry-exit-points-of-villages-fatehgarh-sahib-deputy-commissioner-66638
07-04-2020||---||Administration to set up additional grain markets in Mohali district||Mohali, April 6 The Mohali administration is taking extra measures to safeguard farmers and labourers from Covid-19 outbreak as harvesting of Rabi crops will commence soon. The administration is planning to increasing number of grain markets to more than double to ensure social distancing and combat spread of Covid-19. An official spokesman said that farmers will be issued special passes indicating the date on which they will be entitled to carry their produce to grain markets. He said social distancing will be practised in grain markets. He said steps are being taken to provide masks, sanitisers and soaps in grain markets. The spokesman said an elaborate security system is being put in place to ensure that farmers come to grain markets on given dates only.  He said combine harvesters will be allowed to operate from 6 am to 7 pm and payment will be made to farmers through arhtiyas within 48 hours of procurement of crop. The government will regularly spray disinfectants in grain markets, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/administration-to-set-up-additional-grain-markets-in-mohali-district-66637
07-04-2020||Amit Bathla||Panchkula villagers bar entry of outsiders||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, April 6Standing vigilant at the entry of his Chowki village, Jeewan Singh (26) won’t let any outsider sneak in, except for emergency reasons, to ensure Covid doesn’t infect the villagers.Panchkula Covid-19 reportTotal samples collected so far: 166Results awaited: 48Samples taken on Monday: NilPositive till date: 2Those at isolation ward at Civil Hospital, Sector 6: 66Quarantined at Mouli: 46Quarantined at Gujjar Bhawan: 27Under home quarantine: 281There are several others like him who have volunteered to guard the village instead of sitting idle at home. Most of them work in the private sector.The village, which is located near the Deputy Commissioner’s office in Sector 1, has closed its doors for outsiders since the past one week.“We have been guarding the village to ensure the Covid-19 pandemic doesn’t affect the residents. We work in four shifts – 6 am to 11 am, 11 am to 2 am, 2 pm to 5 pm and 5 pm to 9 pm and there are five volunteers in each shift. Villagers can only step out of the village between 8 am and 11 am to purchase essential items. We try to make people understand how deadly the virus is and ask them to stay indoors,” Jeewan said.Their work is not just confined to standing vigilant. These youths also ensure nobody in the village has shortage of food or ration during the lockdown.“Recently, we had contributed around Rs 25,000 and distributed dry ration among the needy in the village,” he said.Going high-tech for better coordinationAll their communication and coordination is done through a WhatsApp group, ‘Bhagat Singh Group’, which has around 73 members.“We have made this group to reach out to people who are in dire need of help. The group members have been asked to identity such people around their homes and subsequently share inputs in the group,” Jeewan, who is also the group admin, said.Residents of Chowki village are, however, fearful of nearby slum-dwellers. These ‘jhuggis’ are located on the outskirts of the village and have around 250 migrant labourers from Jodhpur in Rajasthan living in poor sanitation conditions. “We have to remain extra vigilant due to the proximity of slum colonies to our village,” he said.Devise long-term strategy“Things don’t seem to be improving very soon. We have to devise a long-term strategy. Those who have stored ration will also run out of items,” Jeewan said when asked about how long they would remain on duty.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-villagers-bar-entry-of-outsiders-66633
07-04-2020||---||Chandigarh Administration to implement containment policy, if required||Chandigarh, April 6 The UT Administration will implement the containment policy prepared by the Government of India (GOI) for high load district if any particular area in the city witnesses unusual increase in Covid-19 positive cases. “Necessary steps will be taken for the implementation of the policy as and when such restrictions become necessary,” said Manoj Parida, UT Adviser. As per the policy, in case of a localised increase in coronavirus cases within a defined area like colony or a sector, the Administration will create a containment zone, which will be surrounded by a buffer zone. Surveillance in containment zone, including contact listing, tracking and follow ups, will be carried out.  The surveillance programme will gauge if there is any possibility of an increase in the spread of the disease based on the estimates of primary and secondary contacts. No unchecked outward movement of people will be permitted from the containment zone except for maintaining essential services (including medical emergencies) and government business continuity.  All roads connecting the containment zone will be guarded by the police. For people and vehicles requiring regular movement, a pass/identity card will be issued. Meanwhile, VP Singh Badnore, UT Administrator, advised Parida to take up with the GOI a proposal for compensating doctors, policemen and other staff concerned, who are working as frontline soldiers in fight against corona.  AK Sinha, Finance Secretary, Labour Department, contacted industrialists and factory owners for payment of wages to labourers. Around 10,000 labourers have already received their salaries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-to-implement-containment-policy-if-required-66630
07-04-2020||Chandigarh||Waive minimum charges on electricity: Bansal||Former Union Minister Pawan Kumar Bansal has demanded that since every person has been adversely affected due to the lockdown, the government should immediately come out with an effective financial assistance package for all sections of society.  He said extra time given for repayment of bank loans was not an adequate relief. He demanded that interest on loans should be waived for three months and no account should be declared a non-performing asset (NPA). Bansal said, “With no income during this period and weak business sentiment that would prevail for some time after the lockdown is lifted, owners of all industrial and commercial enterprises will continue to pay salaries to their staff. To mitigate their own hardships, it is imperative that all recoveries should be postponed by three months.” He said such a package should include waiver of minimum charges on electricity and house tax for a period of two months. Bansal emphasised that daily-wage earners and self-employed daily earners had been hit the hardest. They needed to be compensated with a one-time assistance equivalent to one month’s wages. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/waive-minimum-charges-on-electricity-bansal-66629
07-04-2020||Amit Sharma||Karm hi pooja hai, says traffic cop Sarwan||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 6At a time when everyone is staying indoors to ensure their safety, there are people from various professions who are risking their lives to ensure everyone stays safe.Police force is among those who are spending long hours out on roads to enforce the curfew orders in the city.Sub-Inspector (SI) Sarwan Kumar (56), who is posted in the traffic wing, says “karm hi pooja hai”.“There has to be someone at the forefront to ensure the safety of residents and to enforce the curfew orders in the city,” Sarwan said.Sarwan leaves home by 8.30 am and spends his entire day at nakas to check the vehicles plying on the road in violation of the curfew orders.For him, lunch is also at the naka only.“I bring my lunch from home and eat it on the roadside, which is fine with me as duty comes first,” Sarwan said.He said checking vehicles and taking impounded vehicles to the impound yard involves risk of getting infected of Covid-19. However, they are provided with masks, gloves and sanitisers by the Police Department to ensure their safety.“I sanitise my hands after driving impounded vehicles,” he said.Sarwan has three children and a wife. So he takes all precautions on returning home.“Their safety is also my responsibility. I always leave my belongings, including challan book, in my car,” he said.On reaching home, he washes his uniform and takes bath. “I maintain distance from my family and sleep separately to keep them safe,” Sarwan said.Sarwan says no matter how serious the situation turns out to be, his duty will always be his priority.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/karm-hi-pooja-hai-says-traffic-cop-sarwan-66628
07-04-2020||---||Ban on chewing gum, pan masala for 3 months in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, April 6Daily review meetingDuring the daily review meeting, which was presided over by UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore, Adviser Manoj Parida stated that an amount of Rs 5 crore had been received from the Central Government towards Disaster Response Funds.Manoj Parida also stated that the Union Government had allocated 1,376 MTs of wheat per month for distribution among the beneficiaries.The UT Administration has imposed a ban on the sale of chewing gum, bubble gum, pan masala and other allied products in the city to prevent the spread of Covid-19 through spitting.Arun Kumar Gupta, Principal Secretary, Health, said the ban had been imposed for a period of three months and officials had been directed to implement it strictly. Several other states had already banned the sale of chewing gum, bubble gum and other pan masala.During the daily review meeting, which was presided over by UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore, Adviser Manoj Parida stated that an amount of Rs 5 crore had been received from the Central Government towards Disaster Response Funds.He also stated that the Union Government had allocated 1,376 MTs of wheat per month for distribution among the beneficiaries.Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar informed that 55,630 cooked food packets were distributed among the destitute in various parts of the city yesterday.Finance Secretary AK Sinha stated that necessary arrangements for payment of wages to labour and salary to government employees had been made. Mobile ATM vans were serving people in various sectors.Director General of Police Sanjay Beniwal stated that a larger number of vehicles had been seized that were violating the curfew guidelines. The Administrator directed him to take more action on fake news on social media.The Administrator expressed happiness regarding the arrangements being made and requested the officials to be on alert. He thanked the doctors for continuous recovery of affected patients.The Administrator also interacted with the Deputy Commissioners of Mohali and Panchkula, Director, PGI, Director, Health Services, and Director Principal, GMCH-32, through videoconferencing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ban-on-chewing-gum-pan-masala-for-3-months-in-chandigarh-66627
07-04-2020||---||Promote social distancing among workers & residents: DC to parties||Chandigarh, April 6Deputy Commissioner (DC) Mandip Singh Brar today presided over a meeting with representatives of all major political parties here.The DC informed all present about various decisions taken by the Administration in the present situation.Further, he informed that contact tracing of the primary and secondary contacts was being done aggressively.“More than 1,000 people have been home-quarantined in the city. A 24x7 working feedback number (112) for residents for any kind of grievance is working effectively. All grievances are being addressed timely by the nodal officers concerned,” he said.He also informed that e-pass system was also functioning to facilitate the process of issue of passes for individuals or organisations involved in the supply chain of essentials items.With respect to food distribution, he stated that Tejdeep Saini had been appointed as the nodal officer for food distribution to the needy in the city. Various individuals or social organisations had come forward and helping the Administration in preparation of food. However, the distribution of food among the needy was being ensured in various areas through respective SDMs only. Saurabh Arora had been deputed for coordination with all NGOs and voluntary organisations who want to help.He stated that a sum of Rs 3,000 had been credited into the accounts of beneficiaries of construction registered labour.“Instructions have already been given to all employers, be it in the industry or in shops and commercial establishments that they should make payment of wages to their workers, at their work places, on the due date, without any deduction, for the period their establishments are under closure during the lockdown,” he said.“Moreover, wherever workers, including the migrants, are living in rented accommodations, landlords of those properties should not demand rent for a period of one month. In case any landlord is forcing labourers and students to vacate their premises, they will be liable for strict action as per law,” the DC warned.The DC appealed to all political party representatives to promote the message of “social distancing” among all political workers and also all residents of the city.All political parties gave feedback regarding different initiatives taken by the Administration. They all spoke in one voice that Covid-19 was a threat to entire humanity and they would be fighting it together along with the Administration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/promote-social-distancing-among-workers-residents-dc-to-parties-66626
07-04-2020||---||Ex-employee makes ransom call, booked||Chandigarh, April 6Threatens tokidnap childAccording to the police, the complainant, Anmol, a resident of Sector 34, reported that a threatening call was received on WhatsApp number on April 3. An unknown person had threatened to kidnap his four-year-old son and demanded a ransom of Rs 20 lakh.A former employee of a boutique has been booked by the UT police for threatening to kidnap the boutique owner’s minor son and demanding a ransom of Rs 20 lakh.According to the police, the complainant, Anmol, a resident of Sector 34, reported that a threatening call was received on WhatsApp number on April 3. An unknown person had threatened to kidnap his four-year-old son and demanded a ransom of Rs 20 lakh.Sources said the complainant’s wife, who owns the boutique, had also received a threatening call on WhatsApp on February 23.The police said during preliminary investigations, the suspect had been identified as Nafees Ahmed, who earlier worked at the boutique on a trial basis.The police investigated and found that the mobile number was obtained at an address of Sector 56, Chandigarh. However, it was found that the owner of the house has gone to Bijnor, Uttar Pradesh.The police checked the tower location of the suspect who made the call, which was also found to be of Bijnor.“As per the verification, the tower location of the mobile phone used and the suspect’s location have been found to be same,” said a police official.A case under Section 384 (punishment for extortion) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered against the suspect at the Sector 34 police station. An investigation has been initiated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ex-employee-makes-ransom-call-booked-66625
07-04-2020||ATM van||ATM route plan for today||Location to start: Andhra Bank, Sector 17-B, ChandigarhCoordinator: Satvinder GurnamContact No. 8146903533Proposed route: Makhan Majra village (10.30 am -1.30 pm) and Faidan village (2 pm to 4.30 pm)Time to start: 10.30 AMATM van, Canara BankLocation to start: Canara Bank, Plot No. 1, Sector 34-A, ChandigarhCoordinator: Ripin SukhijaContact No. 9466779525Proposed route: Dhanas village, Small Flats and Milk Colony (10.30 pm – 4.30 pm)Time to start: 10.30 amATM van, SBILocation to start: LHO, SBI, 17-B, ChandigarhCoordinator: Deepak ChechiContact No. 9478535876Proposed route: Sector 28 colonies (10.30 am–1.30 pm), Sector 29 colonies (1.30 pm – 4.30 pm) ChandigarhTime to start: 10.30 am||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/atm-route-plan-for-today-66624
07-04-2020||---||7,565 LPG cylinders delivered in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, April 6Place order telephonicallyResidents can only place order telephonically for delivery of LPG cylinder on their doorstep. In case anyone is found violating the provision, then strict legal action will be taken against both individual and the shop owner as per the law.The Administration has taken several steps to ensure smooth supply of LPG cylinders to residents or households in the present situation.A total of 7,565 LPG cylinders were delivered by gas agencies, wherein 4,870 were supplied by IOCL, 1,650 by HPCL and 1,045 by BPCL.The Administration assures all residents that the supply of LPG cylinders in the city will be maintained and there is no need to panic.However, it is clarified that no individual is allowed to visit any gas agency for buying/refilling LPG cylinder. Residents can only place order telephonically for delivery of LPG cylinder on their doorstep. In case anyone is found violating the provision, then strict legal action will be taken against both individual and the shop owner as per the law.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/7-565-lpg-cylinders-delivered-in-chandigarh-66623
07-04-2020||---||100-bed facility earmarked at Sector 48 Civil Hospital||Chandigarh, April 6A 100-bed facility at the Civil Hospital, Sector 48, has been earmarked for isolation and treatment of people affected by Covid-19 if all 250 beds at the dedicated Covid facility at the PGI are occupied, said UT Health Secretary Arun Gupta.Psychiatry patients shiftedThe psychiatry patients at the hospital have been shifted to the Mental Health Institute of Chandigarh and surgery patients to the Government Medical College Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32.The 250-bed facility at the Nehru Hospital Extension (NHE) block of the PGI became fully functional on Friday. As many as 12 positive patients are already undergoing treatment at the block.The quarantine facility for the PGI healthcare workers has also been arranged. They will be accommodated in various private wards/guest houses of the institute and facilities provided by the UT Administration.Patient undergoes hemodialysis at PGIOne of the Covid-positive patients, who is on ventilator, was admitted to the ICU of the Nehru Hospital Extension block yesterday after he suffered renal shutdown. He then underwent hemodialysis and his condition is stated to be stable.Covid is a disease caused by a novel corona virus (SARS CoV-2), is currently a pandemic, which produces high morbidity in the elderly and in patients with associated comorbidities. Chronic kidney disease stage-5 (CKD-5) patients on dialysis [maintenance hemodialysis (MHD) or continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD)] are also vulnerable group because of their existing comorbidities. These patients are, therefore, not only more prone to acquire infection, but also develop severe diseases as compared with general population.There will be three situations of patients who require dialysis; patients already on maintenance dialysis, patients requiring dialysis due to acute kidney injury (AKI) and patients critically-ill requiring continuous renal replacement therapy (CRRT).Docs donate one-day salaryKeeping in view the COVID-19 pandemic, the PGI has decided to contribute one-day salary (Rs2.15 crore) of all categories of PGI employees towards the Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund (PM CARES).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/100-bed-facility-earmarked-at-sector-48-civil-hospital-66622
07-04-2020||---||500 N95 masks donated to PGI||Chandigarh, April 6Members of the Property Consultants Association, Chandigarh, today donated 500 N95 masks to the PGIMER, Chandigarh.Kamaljit Singh Panchhi, Chairman of the association, said as per instruction of the Adviser to the UT Administrator, they had decided to provide medical support to the Administration, instead of providing food to the needy people, as authorities are taking care regarding distribution of food items.Kamal Gupta, president of the association, said that they would also donate surgical masks to the PGI. He also said that the association was trying to arrange more N95 masks for distribution to GMCH-32, GMSH-16 and hospitals in Mohali and Panchkula.Prof Jagat Ram, Director, PGIMER, appreciated the contribution of members of the association, including Kamaljit Singh Panchhi, Kamal Gupta, JK Bedi, Manpreet Singh and Jatinder Singh, and suggested that other associations of Chandigarh should also come forward during this crises period.Agro firm donates PPE kits worth Rs18 lakhFrontier Agrotech Private Limited, a local agrochemical distribution company, donated personal protective equipment (PPE) kits worth Rs 18 lakh to the PGIMER, Chandigarh, to mitigate the impact of Covid-19 outbreak.Shailendra Verma, managing director of the company, said it’s our moral duty that we all come together and support the community in this time of national crisis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/500-n95-masks-donated-to-pgi-66621
07-04-2020||---||Sanitisation drive conducted at Sector 26 mandi||Chandigarh, April 6 To prevent and control the spread of the Covid-19 at the Sector 26 vegetable market, the Municipal Corporation (MC), Chandigarh, today sanitised the whole market using 10 mechanical sprayers. The sanitisation drive was carried out under the direct supervision of KK Yadav, Commissioner, MC. Vegetables, fruits and grocery items are being supplied to the citizens on a daily basis from the market, he said. A total of 62 CTU buses and 20 vehicles of the MC have been roped in for this purpose, he added.  To curb the spread of the virus, it has been decided to close the market every Monday to sanitise it, Yadav said. The market was properly disinfected using sprayers, besides routine manual sweeping, he said. A fleet of 10 different vehicles with mechanical sprayer facility fitted on them have put into service to sanitise the market, including water cannon mechanical sprayer from the Chandigarh police, two tractors fitted with mechanical sprayers donated by farmers from Punjab and Fire Fighting Vehicles of the MC. He said in the early morning the routine sweeping was done through mechanical sweepers and manually by the sanitation staff of the MC and after that every nook and corner has been cleaned with Fire Fighting vehicles besides spraying chlorine spray with the mechanical sprayers. In addition to that the buses and vehicles deployed to supply vegetables and fruits to the citizens on daily basis have been cleaned with the water and chlorine spray.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sanitisation-drive-conducted-at-sector-26-mandi-66620
07-04-2020||Harshabab Sidhu||Bank employees fear Covid exposure||Mohali, April 6‘Customer can be a covid patient’Many times we don’t have any details of the person walking in the branch. Our duty is such that we can neither investigate nor restrain from providing services to customers, who might be infected with the Covid-19. The bank staff are really worried.A large number of panic-stricken people are approaching banks for cash instead of opting for digital payment, triggering fear of Covid-19 exposure among the bank staff.Bank officials said they were highly prone to the virus as they were not aware about the health of customers visiting the banks. Also, the currency notes and documents they dealt with were easy carrier of communicable disease.An employee of IndusInd Bank, Mohali, said due to the present situation, their health was in danger as they had no idea from where the customers were arriving in the bank.An employee of HDFC Bank, Saneta village branch, said their families were worried as they spend maximum hours in banks these days. “All my family members are home-quarantined. I am the only member who is going out for work every day,” he said and demanded that the government should provide medical insurance cover to bank employees like it had done for the health workers.Some bank employees said they were wearing masks, gloves and were also using sanitiser, but still these were not enough to make them 100 per cent safe. They said, “Money changes hands very frequently and can transmit the virus very easily.”A Yes Bank employee said, “Every day, a number of customers, especially senior citizens, visit our branch. They give us excuses that they visit bank as they have no work to do at home.”A senior employee of rural SBI branch in the district said the chances of Covid spreading were higher in rural branches due to their congested size and more customers. He said villagers visited bank even for small work and they hardly maintained social distancing. “Business correspondents are at high risk as they have to visit villages during duty,” he added.Meanwhile, Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said it was up to the Reserve Bank of India to issue instructions to them. “We have already asked the residents to visit bank on foot only if there is something urgent,” the Deputy Commissioner said.He said residents should follow social distancing guidelines and avoid crowding, failing which there should be a penal action. Branch managers can report any violation to the local police station.Mohali SDM Jagdeep Saigal said, “Bank managers have been sensitised to take necessary precautions.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bank-employees-fear-covid-exposure-66619
07-04-2020||---||3-D printing technology may help overcome shortage of ventilators||Chandigarh, April 6 At the University Centre for Research and Development (UCRD) of Chandigarh University (CU), Prof Ranvijay Kumar and students of the Mechatronics Department have designed a two-way, three-way and four-way ventilator splitters which can help in quadrupling the ventilator capacity of hospitals in the quickest possible time. The device has been designed using 3D printing technology and will help in fighting ventilator shortage in the country. According to a WHO report, India has only 48,000 ventilators and as cases tick up, their availability is the biggest concern.  “We have used polylactic acid also known as polylactide (PLA) to manufacture the two-way, three-way and four-way ventilator splitters which is one of the biodegradable and biocompatible thermoplastics derived from renewable sources such as corn starch, tapioca roots and sugarcane” said Prof Ranvijay. The university had constituted a core research group on the call made by Department of Science and Technology (DST), which invited proposals from companies, universities and research institutions to derive technologically driven innovative solutions such as low-cost masks, cost-effective scanning devices, technologies for sanitisation of large areas as well as for contactless entry, rapid diagnostic kits and oxygenators, and ventilators. “We have submitted our designs to DST for further testing and the university is ready to start mass production of splitters once we get a nod from medical nodal agencies,’’ Prof Kumar said.   Satnam Singh Sandhu, Chancellor, CU, said, “We have allocated a budget of Rs 5 crore for the UCRD which will exclusively work on to find solutions to address the problem caused by the Covid-19 pandemic”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-d-printing-technology-may-help-overcome-shortage-of-ventilators-66618
07-04-2020||Naina Mishra---||Online classes send parents in a tizzy||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, April 6 City parents have flagged concerns over online classes being started by private schools for Montessori. A parent wrote a letter to the Director, School Education, UT, stating, “The entire world is fighting Covid-19 and survival of human beings is at stake. The school authorities want to further overburden us by their impractical experiment of online classes without framing of any policy or guidelines.” “Teachers have started intimidating students that if they miss online classes, the syllabus covered will not be repeated and their absence will be taken seriously,” the letter read. Concerns have been raised over the reserved slot of online classes for children between 9 am and 12 pm, as they feel the ‘screen time’ is too much for children. School teachers have started forming class-wise WhatsApp groups and have been sending chapter-wise PDFs to parents of junior classes. Shipra, a parent, said, “It’s quite tricky to teach junior class children as basic things have to be taught with technique. Sometimes we as parents become hyper and lose patience while teaching. This is getting more miserable than any healp to us.” Preeti, another parent, said, “This is giving us too much stress. I wonder what’s the need to start online classes for younger ones. It is so difficult to teach them at home without proper methodology.” “On April 3, it was announced that the UT Education Department has chalked out a plan to start online classes for government school students. The draft plan will be submitted to the higher authorities, said Director, School Education, Rubinderjit Brar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/online-classes-send-parents-in-a-tizzy-66617
07-04-2020||---||Cops distribute ration among sanitation workers||Mohali, April 6The Mohali police today distributed food to over 150 sanitation workers, including women, in cooperation with a team of volunteers of Quarkcity, Industrial Area Phase 8-B here.The police had conducted surveys of different areas of the city and prepared lists after coordinating with the contractors.Inspector Manphul Singh, Sub-Inspector Baljinder Singh Mand and ASP (City 1) Ashwini Gotiyal were present along with CEO (Chief Executive Officer) of Quarkcity, Rajesh Kumar Sharma.Inspector Manphul said workers were called by the police near Community Centre, Phase 1, here. He said Quarkcity team has purchased several dry ration packets for the workers.“Flour, sugar, salt, tea, turmeric and mustard oil were distributed today. We laid special emphasis on social distancing during the distribution of food,” said Inspector Manphul Singh.“Today workers from Phases I to VI were called as per the list. Tomorrow we will be distributing the food packets to the sanitation workers of Phases 7 to 11. These workers are among the front line warriors in the current situation,” said Baljinder Singh Mand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cops-distribute-ration-among-sanitation-workers-66616
07-04-2020||Naina Mishra||Tricity’s 1st case among 2 discharged||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 6The first Covid patient of the tricity, a 23-year-old woman from Sector 21, was discharged from the GMCH late this evening. She tested negative for the virus on the 19th day.Along with her, a 21-year-old youth, a resident of Sector 38, was discharged from the hospital today. He had come in contact with the brother of the UK-returned woman. He was admitted to the GMCH on March 23.She had returned from the UK on March 15. A day later, she developed symptoms like fever and body ache. She was tested on March 18 at the GMCH and found positive for Covid.Around 12 persons, who had come in her direct contact, were identified through contact tracing carried out by the UT Health Department.A total of 130 persons were traced, who were secondary contacts of the first case. The 14-day home-quarantine period of these contacts is over and none of them showed any symptoms.The Sector 21 woman had tested positive for virus thrice before her reports came negative today. She showed no symptoms for the past 10 days.Her mother and brother, who were also positive, were discharged from the hospital recently. Three of her close contacts — a male cook, a masseuse from Panchkula and a female friend from Mohali — are yet to overcome the disease and are still hospitalised.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tricitys-1st-case-among-2-discharged-66615
07-04-2020||---||Four fresh cases in Mohali, count 19||Mohali, April 66 jamaatis from city test negativeChandigarh: Six members of Tablighi Jamaat, who were identified after their return to the city from Delhi, were tested negative for Covid-19 on Monday. They were quarantined at the PGI Infosys serai. UT officials had identified as many as 123 contacts of these six persons and home-quarantined them at Mani Majra, Mauli Jagran, Bapu Dham and Daria. TNSFour new cases of Covid-19 have surfaced in the district, taking the total count to 19.A 30-year-old son of a man, who had attended the Tabligh Jamaat at Nizamuddin in Delhi recently, has tested positive while the other three fresh cases are of immediate family members of a 43-year-old man from Jawaharpur village in Dera Bassi, who had already tested positive.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said the new case from Mohali town was that of a resident of Sector 68, whose father had tested positive on April 3. He is admitted to Gian Sagar Hospital at Banur. He said 26 samples of contacts of the Covid-19 patients had been sent for testing. A total of five Covid patients had been cured, he added.The other three cases are from Jawaharpur village, where a panch had earlier tested positive. Now, his father (aged 67), wife (43) and brother (38) have tested positive.Four return homeDeputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said four more persons had returned to their homes on Monday after their samples tested negative for the virus.While one of them is a male resident of Sector 69, the other two are sisters belonging to Phase 3-A and aged 69 and 74.The fourth patient to go home is an 80-year-old woman.The DC said four more persons had returned to their homes today after their samples tested negative for the virus. One is a male resident of Sector 69 while the other two are sisters belonging to Phase 3A, aged 69 and 74. The fourth patient to go home is an 80-year-old woman.Dayalan said a total of 1,458 persons were placed under home quarantine. Of these, 1,157 had completed the quarantine period, he added.He said the containment protocol was being strictly followed and the district administration was ensuring that sanitisation was done at regular intervals.Civil Surgeon Manjit Singh said the three Covid-19 positive cases from Dera Bassi had been admitted to the Banur hospital. The condition of the trio was stable. “We are taking samples from their areas. Their contacts are being traced. The work is on to identify others as per the lists being provided to us,” he said.Of the 24 samples collected so far from the close contacts of the patient, three were found positive for Covid-19 while 13 tested negative. The reports of eight were awaited.He stated that after the cases were confirmed, the local administration cordoned off the village and containment plan was being set in place.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-fresh-cases-in-mohali-count-19-66614
07-04-2020||---||Fire at 2 Sector 17 showrooms, controlled within 90 minutes||Chandigarh, April 6‘Quick action averted major tragedy’The way the Fire and the Police departments handled the incident was commendable. Many fire vehicles reached the site quickly. Brave firemen took risk and doused the flames. For their quick action, a major tragedy was averted, said Neeraj Bajaj, president, Business Promotion Council.A major fire broke out at two showrooms in Sector 17 here this afternoon.The fire first broke out on the third floor of Touchstone, an IELTS preparation institute, destroying the classroom and office items. The fire than spread to the adjacent electronics shop where projector screens were kept.A dozen vehicles of the fire and emergency department were pressed into service to control the fire. Prima facie, short circuit appeared to be the cause of the incident.The fire department got a call about the mishap at 3.28 pm. The fire was brought under control in an hour and a half.“Due to the curfew, the institute was closed. The damage would have been more otherwise. We used to see such fires due to short circuit during night hours. Since every establishment is shut, such incidents are being reported during the daytime too,” said a fire official.“The way the fire and the police departments handled the incident is commendable. Many fire vehicles reached the site very quickly. Brave firemen took a lot of risk and doused the flames. For their quick action, a major tragedy was averted,” said Neeraj Bajaj, president, Business Promotion Council.Fire officials said a major tragedy was averted as the flames were prevented from spreading to the adjacent showroom of ‘Poshak’. “Had the fire spread to the apparel showroom, the problem would have been aggravated. Clothes could have acted as fuel to fire. Besides, there would have been a major loss too,” said a fire official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fire-at-2-sector-17-showrooms-controlled-within-90-minutes-66613
07-04-2020||Deepankar Sharda||For Flying Sikh, self-discipline is the key to fitness||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 6The 90-year-old former sprinter Milkha Singh has not restricted his quarantine period just to reading books or performing regular prayers. Instead, he was quick to make a schedule for spending this 21-day lockdown period in the most efficient way — as he always likes — high on energy.“Fitness is the most important shield for one’s body. The ongoing Covid-19 pandemic has destroyed many, but it has also taught us the importance of living a healthy and simple life. I urge everyone to include regular exercise in their daily schedule,” said Milkha.He starts his day by attending a gym session with his 48-year-old son Jeev Milkha Singh, a noted international golfer, at his Sector 8 residence. The father-son duo spends good time sweating it out on the treadmill before stretching, skipping and weight training exercises.“I always want to stay fit and this can only be possible through sheer hard work. I am doing as much I can at this age,” said the Flying Sikh.He said, “Earlier, I used to play golf or jog daily. But now with this lockdown in place, I spend most of my mornings exercising at home. After gym, my family performs jumping exercises and mild yoga.”If the gym session is not enough, the veteran athlete plays basketball with his 10-year-old grandson Harjai Milkha Singh — which he believes is the toughest part of the day. “There’s no competition with him... he is the best without any doubt,” laughed Milkha.“Half of the day, I am busy doing physical activities. Eating less is also one of my secrets to remain fit. It’s been 30 years now that I am following a strict diet. Eat good and live light is the only mantra that keeps my digestive system healthy. I advise all to also follow the same,” said Milkha.In the afternoon, the family plays card games. “We usually play rummy after lunch. Jeev and I talk about sports and Harjai gives us a patient hearing. It’s good to remember old days,” he said.He also gives a piece of advice to the parents... “This is the perfect time to teach your kids about the rich history of Indian sportspersons.Children should watch some inspirational movies to know the importance and struggle of a sportsperson. Good things start in a nick of time and for many parents this is the right moment.”He spends most of his evenings beholding paintings made by his daughter-in-law Kudrat, taking knitting lessons from his wife Nirmal Milkha Singh and talking to his friends over the phone.His wife and former Indian volleyball team captain Nirmal also takes inspiration from Milkha when it comes to fitness. “We have tried to change our schedule and so far, it’s good to remain safe at home. Not only they (Milkha and Jeev), but I also exercise regularly. I perform yoga and my routine includes knitting, talking to friends and reading books,” said the 85-year-old, who remained the UT Director, Sports, from 1984 to 1993.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/for-flying-sikh-self-discipline-is-the-key-to-fitness-66612
07-04-2020||---||Curfew violators to be kept at Mohali stadium||Mohali, April 6The district administration has converted the hockey stadium in Phase IX into a temporary jail to keep those violating the curfew imposed due to the Covid-19 outbreak.Disclosing this here today, Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said the stadium would be a temporary jail till the prohibitory orders remained in force. He said the main reason behind the move was to ensure that the Covid-19 did not spread.In Mohali subdivision, nakas were put up near Franco Hotel, Amrit Confectionary light point, Sohana chowk and Phase 8/9 light point.Dayalan said since March 23, a total of 289 FIRs were registered in the district while 391 persons were arrested and 410 vehicles impounded. He exhorted people to stay indoors in the larger interests of the society. He added that the violators of curfew would be strictly dealt with.SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal said the temporary jail was an open jail. He said the curfew violators would be kept there for the whole day and released in the evening to avoid any overcrowding.Social distancing would be ensured at the temporary jail complex, SSP Dayalan added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/curfew-violators-to-be-kept-at-mohali-stadium-66611
07-04-2020||Naina Mishra||In Chandigarh, 50% Covid patients are young adults||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 6Of the total 18 Covid-positive patients in Chandigarh, nine belonged to the age group of 21-30 years, implying the prevalence of the virus mostly in young adults in the city.Over 50 per cent of the patients from the city belonged to the age group of 20-30 years while 27 per cent are between 31 and 40-year-old. Prof PVM Lakshmi, an epidemiologist at the Community Medicine and School of Public Health, PGIMER, said, “It is the youngsters who meet maximum people, hence the chances of transmission are higher in this age group.”The first patient in the city, a 23-year-old woman from Sector 21, had come in contact with her brother, who further came in contact with a 21-year-old youth from Sector 38 and a 23-year-old from Sector 19.Patients above 30 years were found to be infected with the virus after coming in contact with their family members. The 48-year-old mother of the first patient and their 30-year-old cook had got infected from her daughter.Another example is that of a 22-year-old youth from Sector 30, who had returned from Dubai on March 11. He had come in contact with his two 23-year-old friends, who also tested positive for the virus.His 40-year-old mother had also tested positive after coming in contact with him.The youngest patient in the city is a nine-month-old child of an NRI couple and the oldest patient is the grandmother of the baby. Both are currently undergoing treatment at the PGIMER.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-chandigarh-50-covid-patients-are-young-adults-66610
