10-04-2020||Chandigarh||Amid lockdown 267 liquor boxes stolen from liquor vend in Mauli Jagran||Amid the lockdown in the city, thieves broke into a liquor vend at Mauli Jagran and made off with 267 liquor boxes, besides other goods.Later this evening, three suspects were held, while two more are at large.Complainant Pardeep Kumar, a resident of Gurdaspur district, was informed about the theft at his shop in Mauli Complex on Thursday following which he rushed to Chandigarh.He reported that 267 boxes of liquor, an LCD, a car battery and a DVR and camera were stolen from his shop.The thieves entered the liquor vend after breaking the rear wall. The shop was closed since the lockdown in the city. A case was registered at the Mauli Jagran police station.The police said on a tip-off, three suspects—Pintu (19) and Gazab Singh (19), both residents of Rajiv Colony, Sector 17, Panchkula, and Dadan (19) of Vikas Nagar, Mauli Jagran—were arrested from near Nirankari Bhawan in Mauli Jagran.The police said 41 liquor and beer boxes and 24 bottles of different liquor brands were recovered from the suspects.“Two more suspects are at large, who will be nabbed soon,” said a police official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/amid-lockdown-267-liquor-boxes-stolen-from-liquor-vend-in-mauli-jagran-69295
10-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports another coronavirus case, total stands at 19||A 40-year-old man in Chandigarh tested positive for coronavirus on Friday.The man resides in Sector 37.The city reported its first case on March 18, followed by four more cases on the next day (March 19).The sixth case was reported on March 21 and the seventh case came on March 22.The eighth case was reported on March 26. Seven more cases were reported on March 30, followed by one case on April 1 and one on April 2.There are 19 confirmed cases in Chandigarh, of which 7 have recovered and 12 are still active in hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-another-coronavirus-case-total-stands-at-19-69288
10-04-2020||Chandigarh||Week on, no new Covid case in city||1,500 PPE kits donated to PGIChandigarh: Vishav Manav Ruhani Kendra, Nawan Nagar, Panchkula, a charitable society, has donated 1,500 PPE kits, two ventilators and 300 kg of skimmed milk power to the PGI to deal with the Covid-19. The contribution of the society will help the ailing humanity, including health care workers. It will also boost the morale of the frontline health workers deputed in the Covid ward and ICUs. tnsQuarantine over? remove postersChandigarh: City residents do not need permission from the UT Administration to remove quarantine posters pasted on their residences after the period ends. An official said the start and end dates of the quarantine period was mentioned on the posters. After completion of the home quarantine period, residents could remove these without permission from the UT Administration. Those completing the home-quarantine period are, however, advised to stay home for additional 14 days. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/week-on-no-new-covid-case-in-city-69032
10-04-2020||Our Correspondent ---||10 suspected patients in home quarantine at Kharar subdivision||Kharar, April 9 As many as 10 persons in four different villages of Kharar subdivision have been home quarantined by the administration in connection with the Covid pandemic. Dr Dilwag Singh, SMO, Boothgarh, said six residents of Kizrabad village were home quarantined on Thursday. These persons were in contact with a resident of Jawaharpur, who tested positive for Covid-19. Dr Kuljeet Kaur, SMO, Ghauran, said two persons were home quarantined in three villages. She said they were two panches, one from Nadha village and another from Seonk village. All these four persons were in contact with the same patient from Jawaharpur, who tested positive for the disease.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/10-suspected-patients-in-home-quarantine-at-kharar-subdivision-69019
10-04-2020||Our Correspondent ---||Six arrested for violation of curfew orders||Kharar, April 9 The city police have arrested six persons on the charge of violation of curfew orders and registered cases under Section 188, IPC, against them. While giving information, the city police station SHO said Dharminder Singh, Satnam Singh, Gurinder Singh, Varinder Singh, Shandeep Singh and Akasdeep Singh were arrested when they did not stop their vehicles when signalled by a police party.  Till today, 47 persons have been arrested for violating curfew orders in the city. Besides, the police have impounded 49 two-wheelers and 21 four-wheelers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/six-arrested-for-violation-of-curfew-orders-69014
10-04-2020||Our Correspondent||Shortage of blood at Civil Hospital in Fatehgarh Sahib||Fatehgarh Sahib, April 9Amid Covid-19 threat, the Civil Hospital is facing acute shortage of blood. The health authorities have appealed to donors and NGOs to come forward to donate blood so that serious patients could be treated. The hospital needs 25 units of blood for cancer and other patients.The hospital authorities brought blood shortage to the notice of Amloh MLA, who assured that volunteers of Gurdarshan Singh Nabha Foundation, an NGO, would donate blood. Till now, volunteers have donated approximately 50 units of blood at the hospital. Dr Kuldeep Singh, SMO, said blood bank was facing shortage of blood.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shortage-of-blood-at-civil-hospital-in-fatehgarh-sahib-69013
10-04-2020||Amit Bathla||21% dip in registration of FIRs in Panchkula||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, April 9The number of criminal cases registered in the city dwindled by almost 21 per cent in the first two weeks of the lockdown (March 25 to April 7) when compared with the corresponding period during last year.As many as 82 FIRs were registered during this phase in 2019. The number of FIRs registered this year stands at 65, a reduction of 17 points, when city remained under lockdown to stem the spread of Covid-19, which has infected two people in the city so far. Also, a majority of cases registered during the said period are related to violation of the lockdown rules.According to an official at the office of the Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) 50 such FIRs had been registered so far. As many as 86 suspects were arrested for numerous offences.Crime declines in PinjoreThe Pinjore police station has witnessed steepest slump in the number of cases registered amongst all police stations in Panchkula district. Compared to the corresponding period last year, the number of cases under various laws has come down from 22 to five, a decline of over 77 per cent.Deputy Commissioner of Police (Panchkula) Mohit Handa said, “I think it is a uniform trend throughout places wherever lockdown has been imposed.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/21-dip-in-registration-of-firs-in-panchkula-69011
10-04-2020||Sandeep Rana||With faith in heart, this official goes on||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 9For MC’s Enforcement Wing Inspector Sunil Dutt, work start as early as 5 am. He has been tasked with taking care of issues related to vendors supplying vegetables and fruits.As clock ticks 4.30 am, Dutt wakes up following an alarm bell. He has to report at 5 am at the Sector 26 mandi. “In the normal days, our duty started at 11 am at the MC Office. I never had to wake up early, but now, sometimes I am up even before the alarm rings,” says the inspector.At a time when people have been advised to stay at home and adopt social distancing if they have to move out, the Enforcement Wing official has the responsibility of screening the vendors at the mandi. Permission passes of all vendors are checked at the entrance and then it is ensured that all of them are following the safety guidelines. The wing makes sure that every vendor has masks, gloves and sanitiser. Dutt looks after proper supply of vegetables and fruits in 59 CTU buses to different places across the city.His job involves interacting with various people. So, Dutt, a brave heart, has faith in God for his own safety.“We ensure 1-metre distance from people. However, some vendors come very near to us when we are explaining things to them. I wear mask and gloves, but if something still goes wrong, I will accept it as God’s will. Due to the guidance of my seniors, I am able to carry out my duties. We realise these are tough times and we should help people as much as possible,” he adds.Members of his family were initially worried about him, but have now made peace with his work. “Since my wife Surabhi is a doctor, I get support from her and she makes sure that I eat right to boost immunity and stay safe. She gives me fruits, carrot juice, amla and ‘chyawanprash’ for boosting my immunity,” he said.After Dutt comes back to his house in Sector 46 at 10 am, the first thing he does is taking bath and changing clothes. After having breakfast, he leaves for his office in Sector 17. “After inspecting a few files and doing other routine work, I call it a day at 5 pm,” the inspector signs off.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/with-faith-in-heart-this-official-goes-on-69010
10-04-2020||Chandigarh||Council requests Christians to pray at home on Good Friday||The All-Churches Council has requested the entire Christian community to pray at their home on this Good Friday in view of the complete lockdown in the country due to Covid-19. Sharing the importance of the day, All-Churches Council president Anil Masih said Good Friday is held in honour and remembrance of Jesus crucifixion. It is held after Maundy Thursday, which recalls the last supper. In Christianity, Jesus crucifixion is one of the most important segments of the Holy Bible. Christians believe Jesus took on all sins of the world and thus it is only through his sacrifice that they are redeemed and allowed to enter into heaven. “On this Good Friday, we will pray for the healing of the sufferers affected by this deadly virus. We will also pray for all doctors, nurses and paramedical staff taking care of all patients in the hospitals. We will also remember our police, administration and our entire nation in our prayers,” said Anil Masih. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/council-requests-christians-to-pray-at-home-on-good-friday-69009
10-04-2020|| ---||Police continue to provide assistance to senior citizens||Chandigarh, April 9 Continuing their initiative to provide assistance to senior citizens, the UT police today made 610 calls to know their well-being. Of this, 142 calls were received by the elderly. Police officials said only seven persons sought police assistance. The Chandigarh Police Control Room also contacted pregnant women through phone calls and enquired them if they need any kind of help or medical assistance during the lockdown. In the past few days, a majority of the senior citizens have sought assistance to get medicines, vegetable and groceries and to visit banks. SHOs of the area concerned personally visited the senior citizens who sought assistance and resolved their problems.  Calls are being made every day on phone numbers collected through senior citizens associations, resident welfare associations and police beat staff.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/police-continue-to-provide-assistance-to-senior-citizens-69008
10-04-2020||Our Correspondent||Jawaharpur residents allege lack of facilities at quarantine centre||Dera Bassi, April 9As the country scrambles to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic, fear and anxiety prevail among several persons from Jawaharpur village who have been quarantined at Nirankari Bhawan in Dera Bassi.The fear of getting infected with the virus is now traumatising them.This comes after the report of one of three persons staying among them at a quarantine facility tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. The patients have been shifted to an isolation facility at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur for further examination.A group of people, who are at present quarantined at Nirankari Bhawan, have complained of poor facilities. They alleged that they are sharing a single washroom among them. This defeats the point of isolation and quarantine as people who were not affected earlier might get infected now.Due to inadequate arrangements, quarantined people are facing hardships. They have apprehensions that in view of poor facilities and inadequate sanitation, they might be exposed to some kind of infection.Atinder Singh, who is at the quarantine centre at Nirankari Bahwan, Dera Bassi, said: “I found myself to be more vulnerable than before. There are around 16 people at the centre. All of them have to use the same bathroom”. He complained that there were no proper arrangements at the centre for the quarantined persons.“I am in panic since morning as I shared the washroom and the water camper with the person who tested positive on Thursday. Fear of infection haunts me now,” he said.Another person at the quarantined centre alleged: “We use the single bathroom, which puts all of us at risk as the disease is highly contagious. We would have been better at home,” he alleged.Alleging poor facilities at the centre, Gurwinder Singh lamented that food served here is not satisfactory. He demanded that they should be provided with separate mineral water bottles instead of a single water camper. He requested the administration to look into the matter ensuring full cooperation during the quarantine period.Some other quarantined persons said: “There is no fun of quarantining people at a place where there are no proper facilities. This way, we will be exposed to more risk of getting infected”.Meanwhile, district administration officials stated that they had asked the department concerned to properly sanitise the centre and provide mineral water bottles to persons staying there.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/jawaharpur-residents-allege-lack-of-facilities-at-quarantine-centre-69007
10-04-2020||---||Residents misuse curfew passes||Chandigarh, April 9City residents have been found misusing curfew passes to drive around in the city. The police claimed that people have been found either using curfew passes issued for a two-wheeler to drive a car or using it on multiple vehicles.The police said the passes issued for essential services were also being misused. Traffic cops stopped a Duster car for checking at a naka on the road dividing Sector 40/41 here today. The car driver furnished a pass, which was issued to ride an Activa scooter. However, the car was driven on the same pass. The police impounded the vehicle and issued a challan.The police said people make lame excuses after getting caught for misusing curfew passes.Sub-Inspector (SI) Sarwan Singh, who was at the naka, stated that the boy, who was driving the car, said the Activa scooter for which the curfew pass was issued broke down following which he drove a car.“When we impounded the car, the boy called his father on the spot. His father reached there on the same Activa to which the pass was issued,” the SI said.Similarly, an Activa scooter bearing a Mohali number was also impounded for a similar offence.“The curfew pass was issued to another Activa scooter and it was illegally used to driver another scooter,” said a police official.The police said a large number of incidents of curfew passes being misused were reported at nakas laid across the city.It has been found that people have photocopied the pass to use it for different vehicles.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/residents-misuse-curfew-passes-69006
10-04-2020||---||Not wearing mask at public places in city to invite action||Chandigarh, April 9Now, not wearing face mask at public places will invite action. To reduce the spread of Covid-19 and protect residents from infected persons, the UT Administration has made it mandatory to wear face masks at public places.In a detailed order, the Administration made it compulsorily to wear mask by all persons moving for whatsoever purpose and under whatever reason in public places such as street, hospital, office and markets. Section 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant)If such disobedience causes or trends to cause danger to human life, health or safety, or causes or tends to cause a riot or affray, offenders shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to six months, or with fine that may extend to Rs1,000, or with both).Any person moving around in his personal and official vehicles must also wear masks. No person or official will attend any meeting or gathering without wearing these masks.It will be the responsibility of the employer to ensure that his or her employees wear mask without fail.Any violators of these instructions will be punishable under Section 188 of the IPC and the police authorities are empowered to immediately arrest the violators.To prevent the spread of Covid-19, the UT Administration has made it mandatory for residents to use mask/cloth on face or mouth in public places.UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore took the decision during the daily review meeting held in the war room of the Secretariat. The meeting was attended by Adviser Manoj Parida, Principal Secretary (Home) Arun Gupta, Finance Secretary AK Sinha, Director General of Police (DGP) Sanjay Beniwal, Municipal Corporation Commissioner KK Yadav and Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar. The Administrator also interacted with the Deputy Commissioners of Mohali and Panchkula, Director, PGI, Director, Health Services, and Director Principal, GMCH, through video conferencing.In other major decisions, the Administrator deferred the payment of water and electricity charges and house rent for houses and rehabilitation colonies.During the meeting, Manoj Parida informed the Administrator that the number of positive cases of Covid-19 has come down in Chandigarh to 11, which is an index of success of curfew measures and observation of social distancing by the residents. The Administrator congratulated the doctors and health workers for such miraculous results.The Administrator was informed that there was no shortage of medicines and safety gears. Additional PPEs and masks were also being procured. The Administrator directed the Principal Secretary, Health, to prepare a city Covid Management Plan on the basis of guidelines issued by the Government of India.Yadav informed that special cleanliness drive was launched in Faidan village today.The DC stated that 55,150 cooked food packets had been distributed among the destitute in various parts of the city. He also stated that necessary arrangements had been made for use of Red Cross Ambulance for carrying bodies to the cremation ground. He further informed that families in Faidan village had been given ration packets so that residents do not come out and all prescribed norms were maintained.Rubinderjit Singh Brar, Director, Higher Education (DHE), stated that online classes were being held for students of Class IX and XI through Google classes. The Administrator directed the DHE to explore the possibility of providing the same from Classes I to VIII.Sachin Rana, Director, Technical Education, stated that online teaching was being provided through Zoom application to ITI, polytechnic, engineering and architectural classes. He also stated that 1,434 students under the Prime Minister Kaushal Vikas Yojana were also receiving skill training online through digital platforms.The DGP stated that the local Muslim community in Chandigarh had agreed to observe Shab-e-barat at their homes only. The Adviser stated that a detailed Covid-19 Management Plan covering all departments was under preparation and would be send to Government of India as best practice.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/not-wearing-mask-at-public-places-in-city-to-invite-action-69005
10-04-2020||---||Chandigarh cops to act against morning, evening walkers||Chandigarh, April 9The Chandigarh Police are going to take action against morning and evening walkers in the city.The police said they would now scrupulously check morning and evening walkers and action would be taken against them for not following the norms and curfew guidelines.In figuresSince March 23, a total of 10,441 persons have been rounded up, 5,428 vehicles have been detained and 2,844 vehicles have been impounded. Moreover, a total of 165 persons have been booked under Section 188 and other sections of the IPC.A total of 346 persons were rounded up by the UT police for violating curfew orders on Thursday.Police officials said even after providing all sorts of assistance, especially to senior citizens, and repeatedly spreading awareness and warnings, some people were still found violating curfew orders. They were venturing out of their houses for morning and evening walk and chat with neighbours.“All citizens are hereby requested to adhere to the curfew guidelines and delay their routine walks till the curfew orders are withdrawn,” said a police official.Since March 23, a total of 10,441 persons have been rounded up, 5,428 vehicles have been detained and 2,844 vehicles have been impounded. Moreover, a total of 165 persons have been booked under Section 188 and other sections of the IPC.A total of 346 persons were today rounded up by the UT police for violating curfew orders.The police said 136 vehicles were detained and 325 vehicles were impounded in different parts of the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-cops-to-act-against-morning-evening-walkers-69004
10-04-2020||---||81-year-old woman beats Covid-19 with willpower||Mohali, April 9  “Keep your willpower strong. Have courage and pray,” said Kulwant Kaur, an 81-year-old resident of Phase 5 Mohali. She has recently combated Covid-19 In her video message, Kulwant Kaur said: “Doctors took care of me. Never be afraid of the disease. Follow whatever the government and the doctors are telling you to do.” Kulwant Kaur today urged people to stay indoors to protect themselves from the infection. Kaur is among the five Covid-positive patients who have recovered from the disease. She was discharged from Max Hospital on April 6. She had been a diabetes and heart patient. Her will to fight overshadowed everything. A resident of Phase 5, she tested positive in March and had initially been kept in an isolation ward of the Civil Hospital, Kharar. The woman was the landlady of a 27-year-old woman who also tested positive. The 27-year-old woman is the friend of the 23-year-old woman who was the first to be declared positive in Chandigarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/81-year-old-woman-beats-covid-19-with-willpower-69003
10-04-2020||A Correspondent---||Youth held for killing wife||Mohali, April 9 Two days after a woman was found dead at her home under mysterious circumstances, the Sohana police arrested her husband in the case.  The accused has been identified as Rajkumar (23). The police recovered the body of Anju Kumari (20), a migrant from Bihar, from her house in Manauli village on Tuesday. Earlier, the accused told the police that his wife committed suicide by hanging herself from a ceiling fan at their rented house. The police suspect that the accused concocted a false story and had strangulated his wife. A case has been registered on the statement of victim’s father, Shankar Ram. The complainant alleged that his daughter was killed by Rajkumar. She said his daughter had been a victim of domestic violence since she got married. A case has been registered under Section 302 of the IPC against the accused, who will be produced in a local court tomorrow. The post-mortem of the victim was conducted and the body was handed over to her family.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-held-for-killing-wife-69002
10-04-2020||Chandigarh||GMCH-32 asks 3 depts to conduct non-Covid tests||With private labs closed due to the curfew, GMCH-32 Director today directed three departments to start carrying out various tests, including HIV, malaria, thyroid, biopsy, bone marrow, lipid profile, special hemotology, iron profile and others. Patients were stuck as neither could they get these tests done at the GMCH nor at private labs.   It has also been directed that those patients, who are admitted in the hospital and are facing hardships due to the curfew, should be treated poor free and diet free. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gmch-32-asks-3-depts-to-conduct-non-covid-tests-69001
10-04-2020||Harshabab Sidhu||House meet via video-conferencing today||Mohali, April 9The House meeting of the Mohali Municipal Corporation (MC) will be held through video-conferencing today. The decision was taken in view of the curfew imposed in the district.The prime discussion will be on passing the resolution of Rs 3 crore for the state government relief fund.It will be the first meeting through video-conferencing under the leadership of Mayor Kulwant Singh. All councillors have been asked to download the special application based on video-conferencing and take part in the meeting directly from their houses by conducting healthy debate and discussion.The MC will pass the resolution of Rs 3 crore for the Chief Minister Relief Fund.The tenure of all the councillors is ending on April 26. After that the House will be dismissed and a senior official will be elected as the Administrator to conduct all official work of the corporation.The House will discuss the setting up of a new water supply pipeline in the city costing Rs 15 crore. Also, councillors will debate on the issue of replacing four-year-old sewerage line with the newer one at a cost of Rs 22 crore. Also, a resolution to tackle water shortage in the city will also be passed.According to information, strict measures will be taken by the MC to control water wastage from April 15 to June 30. A fine of Rs 1,000 will be imposed on the first-time violators while second and third-time violators will be fined Rs 2,000 and Rs 5,000, respectively, and water connection of the house will be cancelled. Meanwhile, councillor Kuljeet Singh Bedi said the MC should spend Rs 3 crore on the development of Mohali instead of giving it to the CM relief fund. He said special arrangements should be made to properly sanitise the city .Mohali MC to pass Rs3-crore resolution||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/house-meet-via-video-conferencing-today-69000
10-04-2020||---||Cremation, burial of Covid victims safe: Civil Surgeon||Mohali, April 9There is no chance of Covid transmission in crematorium or burial area, the district health department has said in an advisory to the public.Also read: Punjab ministers dispel fear, attend funeral of Covid-19 victimWhile clearing people’s doubts over cremation of victims, Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said the main driver of transmission was through droplets. There is no risk of Covid-19 infection from a dead body to health workers, family members or in the locality who follow standard precautions while handling body. What the advisory saysTemperature generated during burning of bodies is 800-1,000 degrees Celsius in which the deadly virus can no longer remain viableMohali Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said if the protocol prescribed for transportation and disposal of dead bodies of Covid-19 positive persons is followed, there is no risk of any virus infectionHe appealed to the public to not panic as cremation of Covid-19 positive patient's body does not pose any additional threat“Temperature generated during burning of bodies is 800-1,000 degrees Celsius in which the deadly virus can no longer remain viable,” said the advisory. The advisory quoted from the World Health Organization guidance and the Union Health Ministry guidelines to underline that there was no evidence of people becoming infected from exposure to bodies of persons, who die of Covid-19.Dr Manjit said if the protocol prescribed for transportation and disposal of dead bodies of Covid-19 positive persons was followed, there was no risk of any virus infection.He appealed to the public to not panic as cremation of Covid-19 positive patient’s body did not pose any additional threat and even the ash did not pose any risk and could even be collected to perform the last rites. He said as per the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (GoI), the crematorium and burial ground staff needed to ensure hand hygiene, use of masks and gloves.Besides, the viewing of the dead body by unzipping the face end of the body bag (by the staff using standard precautions) may be allowed, for the relatives to see the body for one last time and religious rituals such as reading from religious scripts, sprinkling holy water and any other last rites that does not require touching of the body are allowed. But, the bathing, kissing, hugging of the dead body is not allowed and the funeral/burial staff and family members should perform hand hygiene after cremation/ burial. Apart from this, large gathering at the crematorium/ burial ground should be avoided as a social distancing measure.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cremation-burial-of-covid-victims-safe-civil-surgeon-68999
10-04-2020||Chandigarh||Bhavan Vidyalaya donates Rs 7 lakh to PM relief fund||Bhavan Vidyalaya, Sector 27-B, a private non-profit educational institution, has contributed Rs 7 lakh towards the Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM-CARES) Fund in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. While all teachers and clerical staff of the school contributed their 1.5 days’ salary to the fund, the management contributed an equal amount taking the tally to the said sum.DPS donates Rs11 lakhChandigarh: Delhi Public School, Chandigarh, presented a cheque for Rs 11 lakh to the UT Administration as contribution from the management and staff of the school towards the Indian Red Cross Society to help the marginalised sections of society and health workers at the frontline. The school staff have also sent dry ration and soaps for 300 families at Faidan village and 300 sanitiser bottles for health workers through the office of the Deputy Commissioner, Mandeep Brar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bhavan-vidyalaya-donates-rs-7-lakh-to-pm-relief-fund-68998
10-04-2020||---||Mohali makes contingency plan for potential patients||Mohali, April 9In view of the increase of Covid cases at Jawaharpur village in Dera Bassi block of the district, the district administration has prepared a contingency plan to quarantine potential patients in case of geometric increase in subsequent stages of pandemic.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said this after presiding over a meeting with representatives of various higher educational institutions in the district.Soliciting their support in the hour of crisis, Dayalan said as of now, the administration had ample quarantine facilities, but an acute spike might require segregation of Covid-positive patients. Patients from densely populated areas or slums could not be home-quarantined, so to check the spread of contagion, it was necessary to earmark places where they could be made to stay, he said.The Deputy Commissioner said the district administration had already tied up with Chandigarh University, which had provided a dedicated 1,000-bed isolation facility and similarly, in the hour of need to minimise the response time, the administration had sought support from higher educational institutions to reserve their vacant hostels for quarantine purposes. The symptomatic cases would be quarantined in various hospitals, while the asymptomatic cases needed to be quarantined away from home so as to ensure that the community spread did not take place, he said.Dayalan exhorted the educational institutions to share information about vacant hostel rooms with the district administration, conceding to which they furnished the approximate number of rooms/halls/classrooms that could be used as a quarantine facility on the spot. Apart from this, at the behest of the district administration, they assured continuation of kitchen/mess and laundry services to the inmates, he said.Appreciating the district administration’s initiative to plan well in time, Dr Anshu Kataria, spokesperson, Joint Action Committee (JAC), and president, Punjab Unaided Colleges Association (PUCA), said all 1,600 unaided colleges of Punjab were with the government in this pandemic and JAC would give around 3,000-3,500 beds in Mohali district for isolation facilities, as and when required, in the nearby colleges.Charanjit Singh Walia, director, JAC, and president, Nursing Colleges Association, said all nursing colleges, management staff and students were with the government and whenever required, nursing students could work as health workers after receiving proper training for the same.Representatives from SVIET, Doaba, Rayat Bahra, Dolphin, Indo Global, Universal, PGC, Lalru, SUS, Tangori, Quest College, Swami Parmanand Group, along with other educational institutions, were also present during the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-makes-contingency-plan-for-potential-patients-68997
10-04-2020||---||Dry ration distributed among Faidan villagers||Chandigarh, April 9 Rotary Club, Chandigarh, has volunteered to provide 1,000 bags of dry ration after every five days to residents of Faidan village, which was recently sealed after Covid cases were reported from there. Surinder Pal Kaur, president of the club, along with former presidents Anil Khanna, Baldev Aggarwal and Pankaj Khanna, handed over supplies to the UT Administration today. Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar commended the Rotarians for their continuous support to the Administration in these challenging times. Former world president of Rotary International Rajendra K Saboo said Faidan village, which was located adjacent to Sector 48, was inhabited by nearly 3,700 families (19,000 residents) who needed ration supplies and Rotary Club would provide 3,000 dry ration bags over a period of three weeks i.e. 1,000 bags every week. Each bag contains one-week supply of 5-kg flour, 2-kg rice, 2-kg dal, 1-kg sugar, 1-litre oil, 1/2-kg salt, 200-gm turmeric, red chilli powder, jeera, etc, costing Rs 590.  The club is supplying 500 cooked meals each for lunch and dinner for junior doctors and nurses of the PGIMER and 400 meals each in the afternoon and evening for daily wage earners and migrant labourers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dry-ration-distributed-among-faidan-villagers-68996
10-04-2020||---||Community feeds 2,500 daily||Chandigarh, April 9Akhil Bhartiya Aggarwal Sammelan (ABAS), Chandigarh, is getting food prepared for 2,500 needy people in a hygienic manner at Sanatan Dharma temple, Sector 32, daily.Anand Singla, president, ABAS, Chandigarh, said it was the first organisation to start a food campaign for the needy on a daily basis. On the first day, which was March 25, food for as many as 1,100 people was prepared.Pradeep Bansal, general secretary of the organisation, said they had sent 1,000 packets to the administration and the remaining 1,500 packets were sent to Khuda Alisher, Dhanas, Burail, Kajheri, Badheri, Ramdarbar, Hallomajra, Kaimbwala and places around railway stations and even to the rickshaw-pullers in some sectors.He said they had been organising ‘bhandaras’ in front of the PGI and the GMCH-32 since 2015. Approximately 550 needy people were fed in these ‘bhandaras’ daily. They also conducted awareness campaigns for society from time to time in Chandigarh.“Meals are prepared and packed by the volunteers of Aggarwal community. Sachin Garg cooks and distribution is done by the president of the mahila sammelan Sheenu aggarwal,Subhash Gupta, Mukesh Garg, Vijay Bansal, Pawan Bansal, Sushil Agarwal, Sunil Gupta, Aadish Jindal and other Agarwal brothers,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/community-feeds-2-500-daily-68995
10-04-2020||---||Two more found infected in  Panchkula, district tally four||Panchkula, April 9Two persons — an 18-year-old boy from Banoi Khuda Baksh village in Pinjore and a 80-year-old man from Bakshiwala — have been found positive for Covid-19, taking the district tally to four. They had attended a religious congregation in Sikar in Rajasthan.Confirming the development, Dr Rajiv Narwal, nodal officer for Covid in the district, said, “They were picked by health officials from Banoi Khuda Baksh and quarantined at Nada Sahib Gurdwara on April 1.”They were subsequently admitted to an isolation ward at the Sector 6 Civil Hospital and their samples were sent to the PGI in Chandigarh for Covid testing. With their reports confirming that they have caught the virus, the Health Department has now begun the contact tracing exercise. They had travelled in a group to Sikar and returned with the same group.Civil Surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur said, “We would isolate and test those who had travelled and stayed with them. We had already disinfected and sanitised Banoi Khuda Baksh in Pinjore block as per the cluster containment plan.”Earlier, a 40-year-old woman from Kharag Mangoli and a staff nurse were found positive for Covid in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-more-found-infected-in-panchkula-district-tally-four-69025
10-04-2020||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh Admn to screen entire population for Covid signs||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 9Leaving no stone unturned in the fight against Covid-19, the UT Administration has decided to screen the entire population of the city for symptoms of the virus.“Firstly, house-to-house screening is being done in areas from where positive cases were reported. Over a period of time, the entire city population will be covered,” said Arun Kumar Gupta, Principal Secretary, Health, UT.During a daily meeting, which was presided over by UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore, to review arrangements for Covid-19 prevention, Gupta stated that 55 teams visited 31,131 houses in Sector 35, 38, Dadu Majra and other areas and checked 54,354 persons for Covid symptoms.Badnore directed Dr G Dewan, Director, Health Services, to intensify the effort so that the entire population is covered in a short time.So far, 18 positive cases have been reported from the city, out of which seven have already been discharged from the hospital.The UT Administrator stated that a draft plan would be prepared for steps to be taken in the post-curfew period. He ordered that infection from neighbouring areas should be prevented by strict screening at border points and providing necessary sanitisation facilities in all public places.DGP Sanjay Baniwal stated that border points had been sealed and over 2,000 vehicles were seized for violation of curfew orders.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said as per the Centre’s instructions, all donations to the PM-CARES Fund should be made directly in the designated account. He stated that some donors sent cheques to the Deputy Commissioner, the Adviser and the Punjab Raj Bhawan directly, which should be avoided. Badnore directed the UT Adviser to make donors and people aware of this.Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar stated that 54,422 cooked food packets were distributed to the destitutes and the needy people in the city.MC Commissioner KK Yadav said efforts were being made to utilise the space available in Sector 39 grain market for shifting a few wholesalers from the Sector 26 vegetable and fruit market.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-admn-to-screen-entire-population-for-covid-signs-68994
10-04-2020||Saurabh Malik||Prison or hospital? Which is safer for mother & newborn, asks High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 9In an exceptional case, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today asked the Patiala Central Jail Superintendent to specify whether a hospital or the prison would be safer in view of the Covid outbreak in case of a woman, who delivered a child during her custody in a drugs case.Jail Supdt asked to consult civil surgeonThe Patiala jail superintendent has been asked to consult the Civil Surgeon, the SMO concerned or the jail doctor before apprising the court of whether the hospital where the woman and her newborn child were admitted to, or the prison where she was confined, was more suitable and safe for them in the prevailing Covid circumstances.The jail superintendent has been asked to consult the Civil Surgeon, senior medical officer concerned or the jail doctor before apprising the court of whether the hospital where she and her newborn child were currently admitted to, or the prison where she was confined, was more suitable and safe for both of them in the prevailing circumstances.Justice Manjari Nehru Kaul also asked the state counsel to apprise this court about the conditions prevailing in her native village after the Covid-19 eruption after making necessary enquiries from the district administration.Sonia had moved the High Court against the state of Punjab for three-month interim regular bail in a case registered in July last year under the provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act at the Sadar police station in Rajpura.Her counsel told the Bench that the petitioner was pregnant at the time of her arrest in July 2019 and delivered the child during her custody at Government Rajendra Hospital in Patiala on April 2. He added it would not be safe and conducive for her to take care of the newborn while in custody due to the conditions prevailing in the country in view of the pandemic.Justice Kaul asserted a high-powered committee headed by a High Court Judge had laid down the criteria for release of convicts and undertrials in the state of Punjab in pursuance to the directives issued by the apexcourt.It was clearly stipulated that undertrials involved in NDPS cases would be considered for release on interim bail only where the recovery of contraband fell within the definition of small quantity.The court could not turn a blind eye and was, rather, conscious of the fact that the applicant-petitioner had been booked in the present case under the provisions of the NDPS Act involving a huge recovery of contraband, which admittedly fell within the definition of the commercial quantity. As such, she was ineligible for being released on interim regular bail in accordance with the criteria laid down by the committee.“This court, however, cannot at the same time be oblivious to the fact that thenewborn child of the applicant-petitioner needs to be protected from the deadly Covid-19. As such, it would be most appropriate to seek an  opinion/report from the Superintendent, Central Jail, Patiala....,” JusticeKaul added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/prison-or-hospital-which-is-safer-for-mother-newborn-asks-high-court-68993
10-04-2020||---||Covid count jumps to 37 in Mohali district||Mohali, April 9With the surfacing of one more Covid positive case at Jawaharpur village in the Dera Bassi block of Mohali district today, the count of patients rose to 22 in the village and 37 in the district.The 64-year-old father of a panch of the village has tested positive and admitted to an isolation ward at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.The village reported its first case on April 4 when a 42-year-old panch had tested positive for the virus. Since then, 21 more persons, 15 from of his extended family, have tested positive.The health authorities had collected 118 samples from the village to check the community spread, and 10 tested positive yesterday. Four of them are from the panch’s family. As many as 80 samples were negative and the result of 69 is awaited.Meanwhile, the health department took 42 fresh samples from the village today.After the village became the new disease hotspot, the district administration sealed Jawaharpur along with other villages, including Devigarh and Mehmudpur, deploying 75 cops with three PCR vehicles to ensure no movement of people there.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said none of the 22 patients had travel history. He said most of them were asymptomatic and detected only though testing. The DC added that some Tablighi Jamaat members had stayed in the village, but left before anyone could get information about them.Dayalan said the panch came in contact with his factory workers, who had met the Tablighi Jamaat members, which led to the spread of the virus.He said so far, they had traced 142 contacts of the 37 positive patients in Mohali district, which would help in containing the spread of the virus. All 22 patients are admitted to isolation ward of the Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-count-jumps-to-37-in-mohali-district-68992
10-04-2020||---||4 held for molesting Panchkula  ASHA workers||Panchkula, April 9The police have arrested four youths from Indira Colony for molesting, assaulting and threatening a team of ASHA and anganwadi workers while they were conducting a survey in the colony on Wednesday to reach out to the poor and elderly whose life has been affected due to the lockdown.The youths have been identified as Javed, Nadeem, Isaq and Azad. They were produced in a local court, which sent them to 14 days in police custody.Meanwhile, efforts were on to nab their accomplices.Sector 14 police station incharge Joginder Singh said, “The team had visited the colony for door-to-door survey to ensure everybody receives benefits announced by the government amid lockdown for needy people. Suddenly, a group of nine youths started misbehaving with social health workers.”“Subsequently, a police team, led by Sector 16 police post incharge Jadgeesh reached the spot for protection, as requested by health workers. But these youths were still shouting and then an attempt was made to drag a lady policeman inside a house. She sustained injuries,” the police officer said.A case under Section 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (unlawful assembly), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 354 (assault or criminal force on a woman with an intent to outrage her modesty), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignantly doing any act known to be likely to spread infection) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation), IPC, has been registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-held-for-molesting-panchkula-asha-workers-68991
10-04-2020||Naina Mishra||Elderly complaining  of anxiety on helpline||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 9Around 260 calls have been received on the Covid helpline started at the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, on March 24. Over three-fourths of the callers have complained of psychological issues like anxiety, sleeplessness and gloominess due to isolation, while the remaining had general enquiries, including Covid-related information.HelplineIt is 24x7 helpline for mental health issuesDr Ajit Sidana of the GMCH said, “A majority of the callers reporting psychological issues are the elderly, who are complaining of problems such as anxiety and sleep disturbances due to isolation from society. Some callers complained of non-availability of medicines owing to which they are developing new clinical complications.”Drug addicts are also calling the helpline and complaining of withdrawal symptoms. “Because of non-availability of drugs, many addicts are facing withdrawal symptoms. If the symptoms get worse, we ask them to come to the Emergency,” said Dr Sidana.“We were expecting more calls from drug addicts as we apprehended they would be facing withdrawal symptoms, but not many such persons have contacted us. However, there is one doctor deputed in the Emergency to take care of such patients,” said Dr Preeti Arun.She said, “Many people are seeking information about Covid-19. Some callers are also reporting behavioural issues as everybody is locked up at home and even small issues end up in quarrels.”Dr Alisha of the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, said, “Many callers fear they have cold and fever, and they attribute it to Covid. Mostly such kind of calls are received. We suggest screening of these callers after asking for any travel history and other symptoms.”You can call for any of the followingUnusual stress, feeling low and sad for couple of days, feeling of extreme low and high, excessive fear and worries, disturbed sleep, difficulty in concentrating on routine things, repeated thoughts and acts which you are unable to control, social withdrawal from friends and activities, extreme tiredness without any medical cause, guilt and suicidal thoughts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/elderly-complaining-of-anxiety-on-helpline-68990
10-04-2020||Sandeep Rana||35 residents put under home quarantine in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 9As many as 35 persons, who had come in a contact with a Dera Bassi resident found positive for Covid yesterday, were home-quarantined in the city today.The Dera Bassi resident was working as a tubewell operator at the PGI in Sector 12. About five other tubewell operators, who used to work with him, and their families, along with a few other persons whom he had met, have been put under home quarantine. Quarantine posters have been pasted outside their houses.One of the operators, the Dera Bassi resident’s first contact, was even tested for Covid-19 today. The sample report will be out tomorrow. “We are tracing more persons who were associated with this patient,” said an official. The MC operator, who tested positive yesterday, is a resident of Jawaharpur. He used to daily travel to Sector 12 to perform his duty.902 complete quarantine periodOfficials said 1,508 persons had been home-quarantined in the UT. Of them, 902 have completed their quarantine period. “We have uploaded the details of the persons who have completed their quarantine period on the Administration’s website. They can check the website and remove the quarantine posters pasted outside their houses,” said a senior officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/35-residents-put-under-home-quarantine-in-chandigarh-68989
10-04-2020||Gurnaaz Kaur||Nature has a plan, there’s a hidden message in everything: Sartaaj||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 9Creating new songs, ‘riyaz’, distance recording and supporting the needy are some of the tasks keeping Sufi singer-lyricist Satinder Sartaaj busy during the lockdown.There is nothing new or unusual in staying at home for the poet. In fact, the question about challenges of being homebound is surprising for him. “If I am not travelling for shows, I am always at home with my family. As I don’t go out much, I can’t feel the difference,” he smiles.Satinder agrees that roads are deserted but he still believes in painting a positive picture of it all. “I know it’s a difficult time but look how clear the sky is, how better the air quality is, how beautifully the wildlife is reclaiming its space,” he says.For someone who has found his muse in nature and all things serene, the time is worth it. “I have a studio at home that is called ‘Nazam Gaah’. It is a cosy corner for creativity and my entire day is spent there. I am composing many songs these days. We are trying to distance-record since my music producer is in the UK.” And whenever he is not in the studio, he is with his family.“All discussions in my family are carried over a cup of tea. It is a daily ritual of sorts,” he says. Pained at the suffering of people, Sartaaj has been active on ground zero through his foundation. “It’s the hardest time for the planet. When I saw how the poor are struggling for food and basic necessities, I decided to do something to help them. We are in touch with the UT Administration and supplying whatever is needed.”A sensitive man as he calls himself, he wants people to have faith in God and count their blessings. “Nature has a plan. There is a hidden message in everything. It isn’t the first time that mankind is going through such a disastrous pandemic. We have survived before and we can do it again.”He says the positive side to the current hardship is “that we have a roof over our head, food on our plates, water supply and clean air. Thankfully, we have advanced equipment and sincere doctors who are giving their 100 per cent to save lives. I bow in gratitude to them. We must value them and we must follow the Administration oders.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nature-has-a-plan-theres-a-hidden-message-in-everything-sartaaj-68988
