12-04-2020||Mohali||Dera Bassi’s Jawaharpur village reports two more positive cases; Mohali tally stands at 53||Two more people tested positive for coronavirus in Dera Bassi’s Jawaharpur village on Sunday, taking Mohali district’s tally to 53.Of that number, 36 have been reported from that village alone.Two women aged 55 and 80 whose family had already tested positive were diagnosed with the infection on Sunday.They have been admitted in the isolation ward at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.Mohali Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh Civil said that helath teams were now taking swabs of all those people they were in touch with, including other family members.None of the 36 patients have any travel history. Most of them were asymptomatic, and were diagnosed with the infection only after testing.Reports said some members of Tablighi Jamaat---a sect that held a religious congregation last month and that has since led authorities to diagnose hundreds of coronavirus cases among its members---had stayed in the village, but have now left.Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said that the district administration was undertaking extensive contact tracing and sampling.Authorities are treating the village as a coronavirus cluster----t he district administration has already sealed Jawaharpur, along with other villages such as Devigarh and Mehmudpur villages, as part of its cluster containment strategy. Punjab police have sent 75 cops with three PCR vehicles to the area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dera-bassis-jawaharpur-village-reports-two-more-positive-cases-mohali-tally-stands-at-53-70174
12-04-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Watch: Ambala residents shower sanitation workers with flowers for their fight against coronavirus||The localities in Ambala showered flowers on the sanitations workers and applauded them for their effort to fight the deadly disease coronavirus. On Thursday evening, the residents of ‘Nadi Mohalla’ area—from their terraces—showered flowers, while people on the lane clapped for the workers. Meanwhile, to prevent the spread of COVID-19, Gurugram district administration on Thursday declared nine areas in the city as containment zones.In India, over 7,000 people have been tested positive for the COVID-19 disease. The death toll has crossed over 200.In Haryana, a total of 177 people have been infected with the contagious virus, and two people have succumbed to the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/watch-ambala-residents-shower-sanitation-workers-with-flowers-for-their-fight-against-coronavirus-70171
12-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports two more coronavirus positive cases; tally stands at 21||Two more people tested positive in Chandigarh on Sunday, taking the number of cases in the city to 21, officials said.The mother-in-law and 8-year-old daughter of a man who recently tested positive were diagnosed with the infection, officials said.His other daughter, a 21-day-old infant tested negative.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-two-more-coronavirus-positive-cases-tally-stands-at-21-70170
12-04-2020||Mohali||786 arrested for violating curfew||Medical camp for cops, scribesChandigarh: A medical check-up camp for police personnel, staff of the tehsil complex and journalists was organised here today. Kharar SDM Himanshu Jain and Kharar DSP Pal Singh were present on the occasion. A team of doctors from Mayo Hospital, Mohali, checked the participants during the health camp. The SDM said cops and members of the media are the frontline warriors in the fight against Covid-19. Apart from general public, their health is also of paramount importance, he said. TNSTraffic advisoryChandigarh: The Challan Branch, Traffic Lines, Sector 29, Chandigarh, and Impound Section of the UT traffic police will be sanitised for the safety of public on Sunday. Therefore, public dealing will not be undertaken on Sunday. The police appeal to public to follow traffic rules and maintain social distancing. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/786-arrested-for-violating-curfew-70136
12-04-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula: First 2 Covid patients discharged||The first two persons who were infected with Covid-19 were discharged from the Civil Hospital on Saturday. The two consecutive reports of the 40-year-old woman from Kharag Mangoli and the staff nurse at Civil Hospital came negative. They, however, will remain under home quarantine for 14 days.Hospital staff gave them a warm send off and greeted them by clapping.The staff nurse had caught infection while treating the 40-year-old from Kharag Mangoli, who had got infected after after she gave a massage to the first Covid positive patient of Chandigarh.The total active cases in the district have now been reduced to three. — TNSPANCHKULA COVID REPORT||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-first-2-covid-patients-discharged-70135
12-04-2020||Kharar||Astha Enclave 1 still out of bounds||Astha Enclave 1 under the Kharar Municipal Council , which was sealed by the police on Friday after Asha Kumari, a colony resident, died at the Kharar Civil Hospital on April 7. She tested positive for Covid. No one is allowed to enter or leave colony.  Notably, samples of six members of the deceased, including her husband, two sons, daughter-in-law and two grandchildren, were taken by the Health Department and sent for testing to the PGI, Chandigarh. All family members of the deceased were home quarantined. The results of their samples are still awaited.  According to information, four members of the family have tested negative. Dr Tarsem Singh, SMO, Civil Hospital, Kharar, said they had not received the report officially so far. Nothing could be said about it till the report was received, he added. The Kharar SHO, said, “The area is still sealed. Police has been deployed at colony” — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/astha-enclave-1-still-out-of-bounds-70024
12-04-2020||Kharar||Kharar sabzi mandi closed for two days||The SDM, Kharar, Himanshu Jain, has ordered the closure of sabzi mandi on Monday and Tuesday. The SDM warned that if any trader was caught selling vegetable at the mandi or at his store, action would be taken against him. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kharar-sabzi-mandi-closed-for-two-days-70021
12-04-2020||Kharar||2 held with drugs||The Sadar police have arrested two suspects following the recovery of drugs from their possession. A case under the NDPS Act has been registered against the suspects. ASI Balbir Singh said Sachin, a resident of Kharar, was arrested with 12 gm of heroin. Similarly, Paramjeet Pamma was arrested with 10 gm of intoxicant powder. Both were produced in a local court on Friday, which remanded them in judicial custody. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-held-with-drugs-70020
12-04-2020||---||Phone seized in jail, one booked||Patiala, April 11 The police have registered a case against an inmate at the Central Jail, Patiala, who was found in possession of a mobile phone and SIM card. Police officials said the accused, identified as Parminder Singh of Badali Wala Singh village, Fatehgarh Sahib, was found in possession of a mobile phone after he got involved in a scuffle with other inmates. Gurdeep Singh, Assistant Superintendent, Central Jail, Patiala, said the inmate was frisked after the scuffle after which a mobile phone along with a SIM card was recovered from him. The police have registered a case against the accused under Section 52-A, Prison Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/phone-seized-in-jail-one-booked-70019
12-04-2020||Kharar||Deceased labourer tests negative for Covid-19||A 27-year-old migrant labourer identified as Rasguli Yadav, who died at his house in Papu Colony, near Bhagoomajra village, tested negative for Covid-19. Notably, the deceased came to the Civil Hospital on April 4 for treatment while complaining of cough. Later, he died at his house on Friday. As a precaution, the police sealed Papu Colony. Samples of the deceased were taken before his body was sent for electric cremation in Mohali.  Dr Tarsem Singh, SMO, Civil Hospital, Kharar, said the result of Yadav’s samples arrived on Saturday and he tested negative for Covid-19. The Kharar city SHO saidthe police opened the area, sealed on Friday.” — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/deceased-labourer-tests-negative-for-covid-19-70018
12-04-2020||Our Correspondent---||32-year-old man ends life at Balongi||Mohali, April 11 A 32-year-old man committed suicide today by hanging himself from a ceiling fan this evening at Balongi.The deceased has been identified as Gurmukh, alias Ravi, a resident of Pawala village in Fatehgarh Sahib district. According to the police, Ravi was living in a rented room with his friends behind the Balongi police station. Due to lockdown, all his friends went back to their homes and he was living alone in his room for the last few days. When Ravi’s neighbours didn’t see him for several hours, they went to his room at around 6 pm and on peeping through the window, they found him hanging from the fan ceiling. On receiving information a police party reached the spot and brought down the body of the deceased after breaking the door. “No suicide note was recovered. We are investigating the cause behind extreme step. The body has been kept at the mortuary of the Civil Hospital, Kharar. His family members have been called. The post- mortem will be conducted tomorrow,” said Sub-Inspector Harpreet Singh. The Balongi police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174, CrPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/32-year-old-man-ends-life-at-balongi-70017
12-04-2020||Panchkula||Kaithal man held for threatening to kill Cong leader||The Panchkula police have arrested a man from Kaithal, identified as Agrim, for allegedly threatening to kill Congress leader Randeep Surjewala and his brother Sudeep. He was produced in a local court, which granted him bail.  According to the police, the suspect reportedly lives near Surjewala brother’s house in Kaithal. Inspector Karambir Singh, in-charge, Sector 19 crime branch, said, “We picked the suspect from Kaithal and produced him in a local court that granted him bail.” The police official also ruled out any major enmity between the suspect and the complainant. Surjewala in an online complaint to the police claimed that a man who identified himself as a member of the gang headed by Mukhtar Ansari, Raja Bhaiya and Papu Yadav, threatened to shoot him and his cousin Sudeep. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kaithal-man-held-for-threatening-to-kill-cong-leader-70015
12-04-2020||Harshabab Sidhu||26-yr-old milk vendor goes all out to help the needy||Mohali, April 11“I am working these days to make sure that no one, especially migrant workers, remains deprived of milk during this crucial time,” said Vibhuti Mishra (26), who has set up a makeshift roadside stall to sell dairy products at Mataur village, Sector 70, here.He brings buffalo milk from a dairy shop at Saneta village in the district around 3 am daily and sells items to residents of Sectors 70 and 71 from 6 am to 9 am.He has already taken permission from the district administration for providing dairy items on the doorstep of residents amid the curfew. However, he said majority of his customers were migrants, who were unable to place orders through mobile. So, he decided to sell them milk through his stall.Helping hand“Poor people can’t afford to buy milk from market daily as the minimum cost of any milk packet is Rs 20. So, I decided to provide them milk at cheaper rates of Rs 5 and Rs 10,” he said.Mishra said he and his four workers took special precautions while selling dairy items. “Everyone wears masks and gloves. Sanitisation is also done every day. During home delivery also, we pour milk directly into the vessels to minimise the spread of infection,” he said.Family support“My family is supporting me in this noble cause. Initially, I was tensed as the fear of infection was in my mind. But now, I am working hard to serve the residents so that they can get essential items daily. After reaching home, I change my clothes and take a bath. Only after that, I contact with my family members. At home also, we are maintaining social distancing,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/26-yr-old-milk-vendor-goes-all-out-to-help-the-needy-70014
12-04-2020||---||DC reviews arrangements||Chandigarh, April 11 Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar today reviewed the arrangements made by all duty magistrates or incident commanders in their respective areas and also took feedback from them to streamline various processes. Brar directed them to maintain coordination with all authorities concerned, including police, health, contact tracing team, food distribution teams, SRTs, etc. He directed them to strictly enforce the curfew norms and maintain social distancing in their respective jurisdictions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dc-reviews-arrangements-70008
12-04-2020||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh projects 3,600 active patients on peak day||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 11The Chandigarh Administration has split the healthcare facilities into three categories – Covid Care Centres (CCC), Dedicated Covid Health Centre (DCHC) and Dedicated Covid Hospitals (DCH). Depending on the severity of the infection, patients will be classified under these categories and treated accordingly.As many carriers of Covid do not show any symptoms, there is a possibility that such persons may not be tested at all as per the protocol because they have no travel history to abroad, no history of being in contact with a positive case and do not show any symptoms.The UT has estimated that in the worst case scenario, about 1 per cent population (12,000) may be tested positive. It is expected that most of such confirmed cases will get cured in the due course of time and peak-day hospitalisation of active cases may be around 30 per cent (3,600) of the total positive cases.Keeping in view that about 75 per cent of the confirmed cases may either be asymptomatic or with mild symptoms, the UT has estimated around 2,700 positive patients for Covid Care Centres on a peak day out of the total 3,600 positive. Every care centre will have a dedicated ambulance for safe transport to higher facility, if the symptoms progress from mild to moderate or severe.Each care centre will have at least one Ayush doctor and an allopathic doctor 24X7 in three shifts.Over 25 per cent of the confirmed cases will have moderate or worse symptoms and actually need hospitalisation. Out of this 25 per cent, at least 15 per cent, may be managed at moderate symptoms.Over 540 such positive patients with moderate but not severe symptoms can be there on a peak day. The facility of 500 beds in the order of priority would be earmarked as the Dedicated Health Centre – GMCH-32 (250 beds), GMSH-16 (150 beds) and PGIMER (100 beds).Clinical criteria of Pneumonia with no signs of severe disease (respiratory rate 15 to 30/minute, SpO2 90%-94%) would be followed for admission to such facilities. These hospitals would have beds with assured oxygen support.The Dedicated Covid Hospital will be required for the remaining 10 per cent patients (360 patients) developing severe symptoms that may need specialised care such as ICU or ventilator support. The facility of 300 beds has been earmarked at the PGIMER, including Nehru Hospital Extension Building (200 beds and 30 ventilators) and the Sector 48 Civil Hosipital (100 beds and 10 ventilators).Initially, Nehru Hospital Extension Covid Hospital of PGIMER alone would be operated and the confirmed positive patients would be admitted to the Sector 48 hospital after the 90 per cent capacity of the extension building is exhauted.These dedicated Covid hospitals are supposed to be exclusively used for admitting only severe confirmed Covid patients for comprehensive care.Covid Care Hospitals: no. of BedsDedicated CentresDedicated Covid Hospitals||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-projects-3-600-active-patients-on-peak-day-70013
12-04-2020||Mohali||Mohali admn to book those making fake claims about  ration unavailability||Amid several rumours about the unavailability of ration or food, the district administration today decided to book all those for making such false claims under the Disaster Management Act. Girish Dayalan, Deputy Commissioner, said they had been receiving false complaints of ration/food not being available in the district. He said anyone who would do that would be booked under the Act. “There is no time for fake alarms and petty politics in a crisis,” said he.  The Disaster Management Act entails that anyone who knowingly makes a false claim for obtaining any relief, assistance, repair, reconstruction or other benefits consequent to disaster from any officer of the Central Government, the state government, a national authority, state authority or the district authority, shall, on conviction be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years, along with fine. Besides, whoever makes or circulates a false alarm or warning as to a disaster or its severity or magnitude, leading to panic, shall on conviction, be punishable with imprisonment which may extend to one year. Dayalan said all complaints regarding the non-supply of food material would be verified by the Sector Food Team concerned which in turn, would check and make a video for evidence. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-admn-to-book-those-making-fake-claims-about-ration-unavailability-70012
12-04-2020||---||Consumer council writes to FM over automatic deduction of instalments||Chandigarh, April 11 The Consumer Protection Council, UT, has sought attention of Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman over automatic deduction of instalments, which defeated the RBI guidelines regarding deferment of instalments. In a letter to the minister, Ajay Jagga, member of the Consumer Protection Council, stated that the relief provided by the RBI regarding deferring of instalments was not working properly and resulting into exploitation of consumers at the behest of technology.  He said the consumer told the lender bank/NBFC/loaner or financier about the guidelines of the RBI and gave their option for deferring the instalments. The lender bank/NBFC/loaner or financier agreed to the consumer and instalments deferred, but the bank of the consumer, as per existing standing instructions debited the account (through ECS) and paid instalment to the lender bank/NBFC/loaner or financier, he said and added that the consumers’ account was being debited as everyone could not be expected to be so aware of the system, especially during the lockdown period. He said advisories should be issued to the banks to suspend ECS payments and seek from customers their option regarding payment of instalments, so that those, who wanted to pay, only their accounts would be debited. Also, issue advisory at national level that the customers/consumers should withdraw their instructions from their own banks if they wish and all ECS payments made, despite opting deferments, must be reversed back to the account of consumer with the amount of instalments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/consumer-council-writes-to-fm-over-automatic-deduction-of-instalments-70011
12-04-2020||Satinder Pal Singh ---||Now, drones monitor people’s movement at Jawaharpur village||Dera Bassi, April 11  As the increasing number of Covid-19 cases has triggered panic in Jawaharpur village, Dera Bassi, and most of the residents have been quarantined, the police have started using drones to warn people against stepping out of their homes. The drones are being used to ensure effective enforcement of quarantine and restrain the movement of people. Through the drones, the police are able to keep a watch on the narrow lanes inside the city while they alerted people to stay indoors through announcements. The police said with the help of drones, they wanted to give a message to the defiant that they were watching them and they would be prosecuted for violating the curfew and quarantine protocol. Harmandeep Hans, Superintendent of Police (Investigation), Mohali, said, “The drones are being used to monitor and urge people to adhere to quarantine norms.” “We have put barricades on and the entry and exit points of Jawaharpur village. Besides, we are keeping a watch on any person strolling around his or her house. No social gathering is allowed at this crucial point of time,” the Superintendent of Police said.  He further said drones would be used in other parts of the city also and violators would not be spared. “Whatever we are doing, we are doing for the safely and health of residents and they should understand this,” he said. The first case in the village was reported on April 4 with the 42-year-old ‘panch, who runs a tent house, testing positive. The village saw two more Covid cases today, taking the total cases to 34 in less than a week. Most of the patients are asymptomatic and are detected only though tests.  Jawaharpur, along with three neighbouring villages, is now a containment zone with a complete ban on the movement of people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-drones-monitor-peoples-movement-at-jawaharpur-village-70010
12-04-2020||---||Deadline for filing Chandigarh staff annual appraisal extended||Chandigarh, April 11 The last date to file appraisal by UT employees has been extended by three months due to the curfew being imposed in the city. The UT Administration has also decided to revise the timelines for writing the annual performance appraisal report (APAR) online of Group A, B and C officers/officials for 2019-2020, as one-time measure. The cadre controlling authority will generate APAR form for the reporting officer by June 1 online and officer/official concerned after filling the form will submit it to the reporting officer online by June 30. The reporting authority will write the APAR online and the same will be submitted to the higher authorities by July 31 and the reviewing authority after recording its remarks before August 31 will submit it to the next higher authority online by August 31. The accepting authority will record its remarks by September 30 and send it online to the cadre controlling authority within the prescribed time schedule by September 30.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/deadline-for-filing-chandigarh-staff-annual-appraisal-extended-70009
12-04-2020||---||Now, leopard scare in Sec 25||Chandigarh, April 11 Nearly a week after a leopard was seen in the southern sectors of the city, officials of the Forest Department were again on toes today when they were informed about the sighting of a leopard in Sector 25.   On receiving the information, officials of the department rushed to the spot, but could not the feline. A senior officer of the department said the entire area was searched but nothing was found.We will look for indirect evidence in the morning, the officer said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-leopard-scare-in-sec-25-70007
12-04-2020||Chandigarh||8 booked for not wearing mask||The UT police on Saturday booked eight persons for not wearing masks. The UT Administration had made it compulsorily for residents to wear mask in public places. Any violators of these instructions are punishable under Section 188 of the IPC. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/8-booked-for-not-wearing-mask-70006
12-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chitkara varsity contributes to PM CARES Fund||Members of the Chitkara University’s administration, faculty and support staff have donated their one day’s salary to PM Cares Fund, Punjab Chief Minister Relief Fund and Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Relief Fund.  Ashok Chitkara, Chancellor, Chitkara University, said, “We need to stand united and work hard towards restoring things to normal.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chitkara-varsity-contributes-to-pm-cares-fund-70005
12-04-2020||Deepankar Sharda||‘Domestic helps, relatives continue to enter PU’||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 11Panjab University’s security personnel are on toes to stop outsiders from entering the campus amid the Covid-19 pandemic, but things are not working in their favour as the campus residents are allegedly sneaking-in domestic helps.Handful of Panjab University (PU) residents— which includes majority of faculty members and non-teaching staff— have been calling their domestic helps from nearby areas of Sector 25, Dhanas and Khuda Lahora. Confirming it, the PU’s Chief Security Officer said that they have received some complaints. “Yes, we have received some complaints. Our team has been working day and night for maintaining strict orders, but if the residents keep on doing this how can we stop them? It’s a collective effort and we cannot argue with the campus residents everytime they bring in someone from outside to the campus,” said Ashwini Kaul, chief security officer.Kaul though said majority of the residents are obeying social distancing rules. “I can understand about problems, but everyone has to cope up considering the ongoing situation. Our campus at Sector 25 (South Campus) is the most affected as people prefer to commute through vehicles for purchasing essentials. We have requested them many a times, but to not avail. The entry of domestic help is other major problem. Now, if one household take maid’s helps, the other objects. The ongoing situation is very critical and I am requesting the residents to not to bring any outsider here. We have been keeping up well and for the betterment we should contribute positively in this effort,” said Kaul. There are different categories of houses in both Sector 14 and Sector 25 campus. “We have issued passes to some people who are into essential services. But on different occasions, we have caught people misusing those passes. I just wanted to request the residents to stay at home and don’t allow your household workers or relatives come inside the campus,” added Kaul.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/domestic-helps-relatives-continue-to-enter-pu-70004
12-04-2020||---||War veteran, prolific writer dies at 93||Chandigarh, April 11 A former Indian Army officer, war veteran and a prolific writer on defence issues, Col Pritam Bhullar passed away at the age of 93 yesterday. He was closely associated with The Tribune as a columnist and contributor on military matters.   Son of a Punjab Civil Services officer in the British Government, Col Bhullar was born in 1926 at Lyallpur, now in Pakistan. He was commissioned into the Indian Army in 1949 and served with the Brigade of The Guards, an elite infantry regiment that was raised by independent India’s first Commander-in-Chief, Field Marshal KM Carriappa.   During his stint with the olive green, he participated in the 1962 Sino-Indian conflict as well as the 1965 and 1971 wars, besides being associated with other operations. He was even grievously wounded during a counter insurgency operation in Mizo Hills during 1968. He took to writing after hanging up his boots and did a course in journalism from the British Institute in Bombay, now Mumbai, the passion which he continued till the last days of his days. He had once told The Tribune that his tryst with the newspaper began in 1934 during his childhood days and the paper was a much loved publication for it played a crucial role in shaping public opinion before, during and after Independence.  For some time in the late 1990s, his column “Fauji Beat”, containing snippets on contemporary military matters appeared regularly in The Tribune. He was also highly active on the social front and took keen interest in regimental affairs and ex-servicemen’s issues.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/war-veteran-prolific-writer-dies-at-93-70003
12-04-2020||Sandeep Rana||Docs among 45 quarantined; PU prof’s wife, infant tested||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 11As many as 45 persons, including doctors, nurses, milkman, garbage collector and washerman, who came in a contact with the Panjab University assistant professor, who was tested positive for Covid-19, were home quarantined today. They have been quarantined along with their family members.According to officials, the Sector 37 resident, had no travel history and authorities are looking at it with an angle of community spread. Used to visit chemist shop in sector 38 According to officials, the Sector 37 resident, had no travel history and authorities are looking at it with an angle of community spread.His four family members, including 20-day-old infant, another child, wife and mother, were tested today. Samples of milkman, a resident of Sangatpura, Mohali, have also been taken. The result of their test reports will be out tomorrow. Samples of more persons, who came in touch with him, are being taken.“All who came in touch with him from March 17 to 20 and on March 23 are being traced,” shared a top official.The child was born on March 17 at Santokh Hospital, Sector 38. Thus, staff of this hospital that came in a contact with the professor has been quarantined. The staff, includes three doctors (one from Sec 15), nurses and other health workers.Besides, the 40-year-old man used to visit a medical shop in Sector 38. That chemist and his family members have also been quarantined. The waste collector, who used to pick garbage from his house, and washerman, who used to often come for clothes, have been quarantined too. Both are residents of Sector 25.The Covid-19 positive case of PU’s assistant professor is being seen as a first case of community spread of a city resident.The faculty had no travel history. Community spread cases are those where there is no travel history, no contact history and source of transmission is unknown. Before this, a similar case was reported in a city hospital, but it was a matter of Nayagaon in Punjab.Recently, he had gone to Indus Hospital, Phase 1, Mohali, for his X-ray as he was feeling unwell. A nurse, a resident of Maloya, two other hospital employees, residents of Sector 38 and 52 are among others quarantined.Meanwhile, a Badheri resident, an employee of Indus Hospital, Mohali, and the milkman were tested negative for Covid-19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/docs-among-45-quarantined-pu-profs-wife-infant-tested-70002
12-04-2020||---||Chandigarh Admn launches app to monitor home-quarantined||Chandigarh, April 11 The UT Administration has launched “CVD Tracker App” to monitor people placed under home-quarantine using geo-fencing technology that creates a virtual perimeter for a real-world geographical area. The app is being implemented by the Department of Information Technology, quarantine team of Municipal Corporation (MC), Police Department, in association with Webcom Systems Pvt Ltd. The app can be downloaded from Google Play Store or using the link http://uen.io/6v4y. The mobile application has been developed to identify and geo-fence specific area around people placed under quarantined. It would be mandatory for the people under quarantine to download the App on their mobile phones. Every quarantined user will be fenced within 50-metre radius of his place of quarantine. The quarantined person will have to upload his selfie every one hour. The system will match the quarantined location and the location from where the selfie was uploaded. “Number of quarantined people may increase in the future and this app will make it easier for the Health and Police Department to track the quarantined users through their GPS location. Any unauthorised movement will be immediately alerted to both the respective SDMs, the police, as well as the person concerned. Strict action will be taken against the violators,” said Nazuk Kumar, SDM, Central and Director, Department of Information Technology, Chandigarh. If any quarantined user breaches the geo-fence, he/she will get a warning message and the administration will get an alert in the control room that user has jumped the geo-fence. Strict action in the form of FIR under relevant provisions of law will be taken against the violators. The administration’s control room will be alerted even in case phone is turned off and penal action will be taken against the user.  Anil Kumar Garg, Additional Commissioner, MC, Chandigarh who is in-charge of Contact Tracing and Quarantine Teams formed by the MC, said the general public would also be able to login to this application and see all the “Red zones and quarantine or suspected areas” and if any person reaches near to or enters that area, an alert will appear on their mobile.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-admn-launches-app-to-monitor-home-quarantined-70001
12-04-2020||Mona||It’s the time to make most of it, says city architect||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 11On Tuesday, architect Deepika Gandhi woke up to a reminder to confirm plans with a friend go to lake and enjoy Super Pink Moon, alas the lockdown, that was not to be. Lake is out of bounds for a while. But apart from her morning runs at Sukhna, there’s little that she misses of her normal routine. The last few months had been tense, between college and museums, home chores and kids’ exams, she was hard pressed for time. And, now there is time...“Isn’t this that all of us wanted? More time to selves, now that we have it, why complain,” asks Deepika, Director, Le Corbusier Centre. She counts herself amongst the fortunate ones to have a government job, provisions available and family all together. Days sure aren’t the same. Now that there are no helps, household chores take up a lot of time, then there is her schoolgoing daughter’s studies. While son having just done his Class X is off the hook. With schools closed, Deepika is also playing her daughter’s teacher. The lockdown has unleashed the cleanliness freak in her.“When domestic helps do the work, one ignores many things. Now that things are in my hands, I have turned a perfectionist. Utensils are to be properly lined, each day a new corner is scrubbed and dusted till it sparkles and shines.”It fails Deepika who are these people complaining consistently of being locked up home. It’s the time to make most of it, attend to house and address loved ones. It’s the best time to teach children life skills. “All of us, I, my husband, son and daughter pitch in towards chores. It’s wonderful for sons and daughters to see parents manage home together.” Cooking is now fun, “There is time to plan, that one cannot go out so for children we try to keep menu interesting – South Indian today, continental tomorrow, Chinese the next day,” says Deepika thanking the Administration that one doesn’t have scurry for provisions, things are available. Now that the family is together, every third day, they try to restrict to their phone, screen time to the minimum.“As elders we need to set the example. We bid bye to gadgets and children have been following the same too, its one rewarding experience.”In the rush of day-to-day life, Deepika would at time miss her workouts. Now that there’s time, she and her daughter have taken up Zumba together. Each evening is their Zumba slot. That said, nothing matches the lure of the lake. As soon as the lockdown is over, she wants to run to Sukhna and spend an entire day just sitting and enjoying her favourite place in the city.“I have to make a quick run to the centre too, I worry all the time.”And till that happens, this architect really enjoys is that now is the time to enjoy that leisurely cup of tea. “This lockdown has made me realise the value of our backyard, terrace and balconies. As architects how much can we do with it, how much these little spaces can add value to life.” Till life trudges back to usual, its home and family that Deepika is taking recluse in!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/its-the-time-to-make-most-of-it-says-city-architect-70093
12-04-2020||Saurabh Malik||HC acquits man, son in ‘honour’ killing case||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 11Nearly 12 years after a pregnant teenager was found murdered in a jungle area in Chandigarh, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has acquitted her father and brother after setting aside the trial court judgment.The prosecution case was that the appellants had strangulated the victim — a claim ruled out by a medical expert. A doctor, who appeared as a prosecution witness in the case, deposed that the cause of death was “cranio-cerebral damage consequent upon blunt force”. Timeline November 28: Murder charges framed against the duoJanuary 12, 2009: Entire trial evidence recordedJanuary 15: Defence witnesses and final arguments heardJanuary 22: Accused convicted for murder under Section 302 of the IPCAvailable information suggests the case had created history of sorts as the entire trial was conducted and concluded in just about six months of the crime and in just three hearings after the framing of charges. Father Jaswant Singh was 45 and brother Sunil was 21 when they were sentenced to life imprisonment by the trial court.The entire evidence was recorded by the trial court in a day. The defence witnesses and the final arguments were heard by the court on the next date of hearing — just about two days later. The duo was convicted on the third date. The trial was put on fast track amidst apprehensions of the witnesses turning hostile in the case. The Bench of Justice Rajiv Sharma and Justice Harinder Singh Sidhu during the course of hearing was told that the victim’s body was discovered in the woods in July 2008 by one Shiv Kumar, who had gone to answer the call of nature.Another prosecution witness Surjit Singh had claimed that he was running a hotel in Kajheri village, when accused father and son came to him in a nervous state. They told him that Jaswant’s daughter was pregnant, but was not disclosing about the name of the person responsible. The matter had become the talking point in the colony and they could not bear the gossips in the area.The two further disclosed that they took the victim to the jungle area in Sector 53 after they hatched a conspiracy. She was strangulated. Jaswant Singh gave a stone blow on her face, while Sunil poured acid.Case based on circumstantial evidenceThe Bench asserted the case was based on circumstantial evidence. “It is settled law that in a case based on circumstantial evidence, chain must be complete and all circumstances must point towards the guilt of the accused. Thus, the prosecution has failed to prove its case against the appellants beyond reasonable doubt”.Referring to the extrajudicial confession, the Bench asserted Surjit Singh was not a man of authority at that time. In his cross-examination, the witness admitted that he did not tell about the extrajudicial confession to any person in the locality when it was made before him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hc-acquits-man-son-in-honour-killing-case-70092
12-04-2020||---||Chandigarh hospitals to have fever clinics||Chandigarh, April 11The UT Administration has directed that every hospital should set up a fever clinic as the first level of screening patients for Covid. The medical officers posted at such clinics will identify suspected cases and refer them to sampling centres, if required.Fever clinics are being set up at the GMSH-16, the GMCH-32, the PGI and the health care centres in Sector 22, 45 and Mani Majra. The move is aimed at tackling situation in the event of worst scenario.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-hospitals-to-have-fever-clinics-70091
12-04-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Chandigarh residents fail to get online food orders||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 11Chandigarh foodies, who went drooling after observing Zomato providing home delivery of cooked food in the city, felt betrayed after failing to get orders.The famous food aggregator offered to deliver a rich variety of Indian cuisine, wraps, cakes, non-vegetation dishes, pastas, burgers, pizzas and what not from Mohali-based restaurants to Chandigarh only after taking advance payment. Will consider it for Chandigarh: Parida After payment, delivery persons asked customers to cancel orders as they were not allowed to enter Chandigarh. “With all entry points sealed, deliveries are impossible in Chandigarh. I don’t know why Zomato and even restaurant owners are accepting orders,” said one of the delivery persons.Notably, if an unaware delivery person mistakenly picks up an order, it becomes his responsibility and the refund amount gets deducted from his salary, claimed a delivery boy.“If the order is ready and we are unable to deliver it, the amount gets deducted from our account. I received almost 10 to 20 orders for Chandigarh, but I have to cancel these within few seconds. Otherwise I would end up paying fines. All of them (Zomato and restaurants) will get their share but they don’t think if it’s feasible to deliver the food or not,” said a delivery person.An order was also placed by The Tribune correspondent to crosscheck the claims. The order was accepted by the restaurant and a delivery person was also assigned. However, after checking the delivery location (Chandigarh), the delivery boy requested to cancel the order. “The amount deduced will be reflected in the account within 5 to 7 days,” said one of the company representatives.Mohali allows food deliveryThe Mohali Administration has allowed delivery of cooked food in the district. “Certain restaurants are allowed to function, but only for home delivery. Considering the interest of captive population, we have also allowed home delivery of tiffin service,” said Mohali DC Girish Dayalan. When asked about restaurants accepting orders for Chandigarh, Dayalan assured to get it checked. “No, this is not allowed. They are only allowed to deliver food in Mohali. I will check this and it will be stopped immediately.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-residents-fail-to-get-online-food-orders-70089
12-04-2020||Panchkula||Now, nurse beaten up at Panchkula village||A few days after ASHA workers were misbehaved with while conducting a survey in Indira Colony, a staff nurse of the Civil Hospital here was allegedly assaulted and told to go to Pakistan by youths guarding an entry point of Billah village near Ramgarh.The complainant, a Muslim, said the incident took place around 8:30 pm on Friday when she was returning home with her husband on a bike. She told the police that they were stopped by around 25 men guarding the entry point.The woman said she told them that she was returning from the Civil Hospital after performing her duty. “Even as I showed them my ID card, they didn’t let us go and started beating us. Somehow, I managed to call my brother-in-law for help. We beseeched throughout. They didn’t pay heed and continued assaulting us. The suspects even groped me. When my brother-in-law tried to intervene, they hit him on his head with a stone. Furthermore, they told us to go to Pakistan and perform duties there,” she told the police in her complaint.She has sought police protection for her and her family.The police have registered a case under Section 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (unlawful assembly), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) and 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) of the Indian Penal Code.The FIR mentions the names of Brij Bhushan, Amit Kumar, Manjeet Singh, Sandeep and Golu as suspects. ASI Ram Mehar of the Ramgarh police chowki said a hunt had been launched to nab the suspects. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-nurse-beaten-up-at-panchkula-village-70071
12-04-2020||Mohali||Jawaharpur reports 2 more cases, Kharar one||With the surfacing of three more Covid cases, the total count in the district today rose to 51.Two more positive cases have been reported from Jawaharpur village of the Dera Bassi block of Mohali district, raising the tally in the village to 34. Those found positive today are two men, aged 38 and 58. They are the neighbours of Covid patients.MOHALI COVID REPORTThe village had reported its first Covid case on April 4 when a 42-year-old panch had tested positive for the virus. Since then 33 persons, 30 part of his extended family, have been found infected.The third case has surfaced at Astha Enclave in Mundi Kharar. The patient is the husband of the 78-year-old woman, who had died at the Civil Hospital in Kharar on April 7 and her samples were later found positive for the virus.All the patients had been admitted in the isolation ward of the Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur. Mohali Civil Surgeon Manjit Singh, said teams had been deputed at Jawaharpur village to take the samples of their family members and other contacts. He said reports of all 12 samples had arrived today and 10 of these were negative.The district administration has already sealed Jawaharpur along with other villages, including Devigarh and Mehmudpur, deploying 75 cops with three PCR vehicles to ensure no movement of people. None of the 34 patients in the village has any travel history. Most of them are asymptomatic and detected though testing. Some Tablighi Jamaat members had stayed in the village, but left before anyone could get information about them. DC Girish Dayalan said the district administration was undertaking extensive contact tracing and sampling, which was leading to the identification of more cases. "This will lead to their isolation in time and help in combating the virus," he added.Dayalan said the containment protocol was being strictly followed at Jawaharpur and the adjoining villages. Sanitisation was also being done at regular intervals, he added.Ban on religious meetDistrict Magistrate Girish Dayalan on Saturday issued orders regarding closure of all religious places in the district in order to contain the spread of Covid. He said no religious congregation would be permitted, added that the orders would come into effect immediately and would remain in force till further orders. Strict action in accordance with the law would be taken against the violators, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/jawaharpur-reports-2-more-cases-kharar-one-70068
12-04-2020||Chandigarh||Curfew in Chandigarh  to stay till country under lockdown||The UT Administration has decided to extend the curfew in the city till the lockdown continues in the country to control the spread of Covid-19.“The curfew in the city will continue as long as the lockdown in the country continues,” said Punjab Governor and UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore. New pass system at Sector 26 marketPresiding over a review meeting with senior officers, Badnore said it was heartening to know that Chandigarh had fared well in the first phase of the curfew.The Administrator directed Adviser Manoj Parida to formulate a scheme to utilise the services of idle workers in the second phase of the curfew. He also directed that as desired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, farmers going for harvesting and marketing of their produces should be facilitated during the curfew. The Adviser stated that on the Centre’s direction, efforts were being made to ensure the use of Aarogya Setu mobile application by all citizens. He stated that it would be mandatory for all government officials to download the application.Badnore appealed to the residents to cooperate with the medical survey team members, who were going house to house for screening the UT population.DGP Sanjay Baniwal stated that a mechanism was being developed to streamline the impounding and release of vehicles, which were detained during the curfew.DC Mandip Singh Brar stated that the curfew implementation needed to be strengthened in the city and strict punishment should be awarded to the violators. On this, the Administrator directed the DGP to do the needful.Home delivery of booksUT Administrator VP Singh Badnore has directed the Education Department to devise a mechanism under which 40 book stores of the city could arrange home delivery of books to the students during the curfew. Badnore also directed Adviser Manoj Parida to ensure that all students from the northeast, Ladakh and Jammu and Kashmir were taken care of in the city. An officer should be designated to look into their needs and cater to their essential requirements, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/curfew-in-chandigarh-to-stay-till-country-under-lockdown-70062
