15-04-2020||Chandigarh||Centre declares Chandigarh to be coronavirus hotspot||The central government on Wednesday declared Chandigarh to be coronavirus hotspot, a top official said.Chandigarh has been included in the list of 170 hotspots in the country, UT Adviser Manoj Parida said on Twitter.  “Union Government has declared Chandigarh as a HOTSPOT district,as per laid down criteria of Health Ministry,” he tweeted. “Chandigarh is included in the list of 170 hotspot districts (red zone) of the country,” he said.The development comes a day after Chandigarh Administration extended curfew until May 3, along the lines of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s lockdown.Chandigarh so far has 21 coronavirus cases but no reported deaths.Declaring a place to be hotspot would mean intensified containment strategy---primarily increased testing and isolation---in that area. Union Government has declared Chandigarh as a HOTSPOT district,as per laid down criteria of Health Ministry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/centre-declares-chandigarh-to-be-coronavirus-hotspot-71569
15-04-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Chandigarh administration to start publishing names of VIPs violating curfew restrictions||Chandigarh Administration will begin publishing names of VIPs defying curfew orders in the city, UT Adviser Manoj Parida said on Monday.Parida said in a tweet on Wednesday: “From tomorrow we will publish name and designation of VIPs violating curfew orders and going for morning and evening walk. Be warned”.His next tweet, which came an hour later, said: “Do u (sic) know full form of VIP? Very Idiotic Person”.Chandigarh is under curfew restrictions to slow the spread of coronavirus. Chandigarh Administration extended the union territory’s curfew restrictions until May 3 to match the nationwide lockdown on Tuesday, and said any relaxations would be considered only after April 20.The union territory has recorded 21 coronavirus cases so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-to-start-publishing-names-of-vips-violating-curfew-restrictions-71552
15-04-2020||Chandigarh||Husband of woman also found coronavirus positive in Panchkula; Sector 15 sealed||A day after a 44-year-old woman from Sector 15, Panchkula, was found Covid positive, her husband has also been diagnosed with the infectious disease.Sector 15 was sealed after the woman tested positive on Tuesday, taking the district tally to six. Markets have been shut down. Residents claim there is “no milk supply” as well.In view of guidelines/ Advisories issued by the government the area of Sector 15, Panchkula has been contained as containment cluster and necessary action is ordered to b taken by creating the containment zone and buffer zone. Read:Jasjit Kaur, the Civil Surgeon at the Sector 6-Civil Hospital, said the woman had flu-like symptoms for which she was being treated by a private doctor.On being informed, health workers home quarantined her and took swab samples.The woman is now in an isolation ward at the civil hospital.Health authorities have isolated her family and the private doctor who was treating her, and will send their swabs for testing, the civil surgeon said. They will also track down her contacts to isolate and test.While the woman is Panchkula’s sixth coronavirus cases, Haryana has recorded some 162 cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/husband-of-woman-also-found-coronavirus-positive-in-panchkula-sector-15-sealed-71514
15-04-2020||Patiala||Patiala reports third +ve case||Class IX, XI result on April 20Chandigarh: The UT Education Department has decided to release the results of Classes IX and XI on April 20. The result will be displayed on the website of the respective schools. It will also be conveyed to students through text and WhatsApp messages. Parents or students need not come to school for the same. They can call on the helpline numbers already circulated. TNSABVP wants fee date extendedChandigarh: The ABVP, PU unit, has requested the authorities to extend the date of fee submission for the residents of Girls’ Hostel Number 10. Campus president Harish Gujjar said the situation was not letting the students to submit the fee. Secretary Priya Sharma said inmates at the girls’ hostel number 10 have a monthly payment system, which is not viable in the times of a pandemic. She said either the fee-submission date should be extended or fee should be exempted. TNSRajiv appointed RFI joint secyChandigarh: Rajiv Sharma, a former rowing coach of UT Sports Department and national umpire of rowing Federation of India has been elected as an associate joint secretary of Rowing Federation of India (RFI). The election of the RFI was held in SATS water sports academy in Hyderabad. TNSOnline seminar on Covid-19Chandigarh: The Institute of Social Science Education and Research (ISSER), Department of Sociology, Centre for Human Rights and Duties and Centre for Social Work, Panjab University (PU), organised an online seminar on ‘Covid-19 in India: Systematic Response to Societal Challenges’, which was inaugurated by PU Vice-Chancellor Prof Raj Kumar. Prof Arun Patnaik, HCU, Hyderabad, was the key speaker. TNSThieves strike at MC’s storeChandigarh: A theft incident was reported at the Municipal Corporation’s store in the Industrial Area, Phase I, here. Goods impounded from vendors are being kept in the enforcement store. Sources said a member of the Enforcement Wing visited the store and found that someone had entered the store and stolen tobacco products. Around 20 boxes containing cigarettes and bidis were found open. Officials said the theft was suspected to have been committed on April 10 as CCTV was shut on that day. The police were informed about the incident. An investigation has been initiated into the matter. TNSSabzi mandi shut for two daysKharar: Kharar SDM Himanshu Jain has ordered to shut sabzi mandi in the town on Wednesday and Thursday. Ironically, the sabzi mandi stays close on Monday and Tuesday. According to information, the step has been as a large number of people gather at sabzi mandi. The SDM said stern action will be taken against a trader found selling vegetables at mandi. ocPU to be shut till May 3Chandigarh: Panjab University, including its regional centres, constituent and affiliated colleges, shall remain closed till May 3, said Prof Karamjit Singh, Registrar, Panjab University. The guidelines being issued by the Central Government from time to time would be applicable. These would be communicated separately as well. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/patiala-reports-third-ve-case-71311
15-04-2020||Mohali||Mohali Golf Range to conduct special clinics for underprivileged||The Mohali Golf Range (MGR), Sector 65, announced to organise special clinics for underprivileged children on the completion of its five years. The clinics will be organised after the lockdown period, said the management.“The range is one of India’s largest golf learning and practise facilities built as per international standards. The range is run by professionals and in order to celebrate five years of successful operations, we will organise special clinics for underprivileged children for two consecutive years,” said Shalini Kahlon, Director Castel Sports running the MGR.“Currently, the range has 1,100 members and a floodlight golf driving range and an academy which accommodates around 80 golfers at one time. It offers a two-tier 48 astroturf hitting bays, along with 900 square yards of tee hitting area and a Mckinsey style putting green. It also has a designated chipping and pitching area. A nine-hole Par-2 golf course has also been designed within the range for the beginners,” Shalini said.“We are already training underprivileged kids, but this clinic will help them learn about golf’s technicalities, including choosing the right equipment, improving swing force, body posture for putting various forms of shot selection and also, special classes will be organised for the mental fitness of these young underprivileged kids,” said former international golfer Harmeet Kahlon, Director Coaching MGR.“Apart from organising summer, winter golf camps, we have conducted free camps for women and specially abled children,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-golf-range-to-conduct-special-clinics-for-underprivileged-71310
15-04-2020||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib||24 rice mills earmarked as procurement centres: DC||The administration is fully geared up for procurement of wheat in the wake of the Covid-19 scare.For the first time, rice mills will be used as procurement centres said Fatehgarh Sahib Deputy Commissioner Amrit Kaur Gill.The Deputy Commissioner said, besides 33 procurement centers, 24 rice mills have been earmarked as purchase centers to ensure that farmers and labourers are in a limited number at a given place.Gill said arrangements have been made for proper implementation of the guidelines issued by the Health Department.We will ensure that every person gets a mask and sanitises his/her hands at grain markets.Member of Parliament Dr Amar Singh and MLA Kuljit Singh Nagra assured farmers that each grain of wheat will be procured.Arhtiyas will issue tokens to farmers and the latter can bring crop to grain markets on the day mentioned on tokens.Amloh MLA Kaka Randeep Singh, Superintendent of Police Amneet Kondal, District Food and Civil Supply Controller and officials of procurement agencies were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/24-rice-mills-earmarked-as-procurement-centres-dc-71308
15-04-2020||Panchkula||Helpline proves a boon for senior citizen||Red Cross’s helpline proved a boon for KV Mehta (82), a resident of Sector 9, Panchkula. Savita Aggarwal, secretary, District Red Cross, said Mehta’s son, who resides in Canada, called at the helpline and requested to send medicines and essentials for his father who lives alone.Aggarwal said she sent the Red Cross team to Mehta’s residence and handed him his medicines. The senior citizen gave Rs 1,000 to the visiting team members to purchase essentials for him, she said. Aggarwal sent DTO Ramesh Chaudhary to Mehta’s house to know about his his well-being and asked him to call on helpline numbers 0172-259509 and 99880-60110 for assistance in future.Mehta said if he had not received help from the Red Cross, he would have been in deep trouble. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/helpline-proves-a-boon-for-senior-citizen-71307
15-04-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula Administration appoints psychiatrists to monitor health of migrants||The administration has appointed psychiatrists and yoga instructors to monitor health of 412 migrants who are being kept at nine temporary shelter homes in the district in the wake of the Covid-19 scare.Panchkula Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said shelter homes are being regularly sanitised and arrangements have been made to provide food to migrants. The Deputy Commissioner informed that along with health officials, yoga teachers and psychiatrists have been appointed to monitor health of labourers.He said mobile charging points have been provided to ensure that workers stay in touch with their families.Ahuja said temporary shelter homes have been set up at various government schools in the district.He said 66 migrant workers have been kept at Government Senior Secondary School (GSSS), Barwala, and 55 workers have been kept at GSSS, Sector 17, Panchkula, 29 at GSSS, Saketri, 25 at GSSS, Ramgarh, and 13 at GSSS, Raipur Rani.Similarly, 118 labourers have been kept at GSSS, Kalka, 34 at Maranwala and 12 at Pinjore.The Deputy Commissioner directed officials deployed on the filed to practise social distancing and use masks.He informed that all the incident commanders and officials on duty are being asked to eat orange, lemon and vitamin C pills to increase immunity.He appealed residents to observe the lockdown till May 3 to combat Covid-19 pandemic. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-administration-appoints-psychiatrists-to-monitor-health-of-migrants-71306
15-04-2020||Our Correspondent||Health survey conducted at Dera Bassi's coronavirus hotspot Jawaharpur village||Dera Bassi, April 14The Health Department today conducted a ‘fever survey’ at Jawaharpur village. Highest number of positive cases has been reported from this village in the district.Earlier, a door-to-door survey was carried out in the village a few days ago, during which every resident had undergone a medical examination.In addition, samples of residents who were in contact with positive patients were also collected by the Health Department.Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said a team of doctors and staff visited the village and conducted a door-to-door survey in more than 500 houses. He said some people were given medicines as a precautionary measure.The Civil Surgeon said, “Frontline workers are doing their duty day and night by risking their lives to protect residents from Covid-19. It is our duty to honour them.”He urged people, especially residents of Jawaharpur village to stay indoors. The Health Department asked the villagers to practise social distancing, wash their hands regularly, eat healthy food and stay indoors.Deputy Medical Commissioner Dr Daljit Singh, District Nodal Officer Dr Harmandeep Kaur, Health Inspector Bhupinder Singh and other senior officials lauded doctors and staff for their extraordinary commitment to tackle Covid-19 outbreak.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/health-survey-conducted-at-dera-bassis-coronavirus-hotspot-jawaharpur-village-71276
15-04-2020||Manpriya Singh||This art critic knows how to take things in his stride||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 14When your forte cuts through the disciplines of books, history and art, one would think that lockdown doesn’t mean much, or at least doesn’t mean a different life. Renowned art historian and art critic Dr BN Goswamy agrees to that being true at some level. As for the rest, the Padma Bhushan knows how to take things in his stride.“To be honest, I am not missing art openings, inaugurations and appearances much. I don’t have any compulsions to impart a lecture every week,” he says, adding how his personal routine at home pretty much stays unaffected post lockdown, right from his early mornings to time on the computer.During times, when social distancing is a movement and not just a word, of missing company and human interaction, he cites a couplet of Ghalib that is just as relevant in current times, “Hai Aadmi Bajaa-e-khud ik Mehshar E Khayaal, Ham Anjuman Samajhtey Hain Khalwat Hi Kyun Na Ho.” (By and in himself, man consists of a swarm, a tumult of thoughts; At least I feel as if I am in company, even when I am by myself).When last year, his latest book, almost 27th or so, came out, he’d thought of taking a sabbatical. But in the past few days, he finds himself grappling with three ideas out of which he has to zero in on one.“I am using this time to know what this virus means and what should one do. One way to put it would also be that Gods are angry with us or so it seems.” However, lockdown has also meant more time with his family, comprising his children and grandchildren. “My granddaughter Damini is fond of going out, but she is taking things in her stride perfectly.” Family time also means, “That we all sit together and watch a movie.” After every family movie session, follows a tradition just as enviable.“We all comment, analyse, exchange thoughts and that goes on for quite some time,” he laughs, adding how the movie that he recently enjoyed was “Fury”. A significant part of the time is also spent with daily newspapers, four of which he subscribes to, and there’s no denying the virus making its way to each of the pages on each of the publications.“They are trying to fill your mind, heart and conscience with Covid,” says the Padma Bhushan, who lately has also been filled with thoughts on life after the virus. “I do try to analyse as to what is this going to do with human relations. Especially given the fact that we are quick to let the trust suffer and suspicion set in.” If only we can come out unscathed, psychologically too.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/this-art-critic-knows-how-to-take-things-in-his-stride-71275
15-04-2020||Chandigarh||Quarantine yourself when sick, says PGIMER nursing officer||The happiness of a 32-year-old PGI nursing officer, who was under treatment for Covid at the PGIMER for almost 14 days, knew no bounds when he learnt that he was tested negative for the virus yesterday. Special moment“It was a special moment for me when all PGI teams clapped when I was getting discharged from the hospital. The whole team supported me during illness,” said 32-year-old PGI nursing officer.As soon as he reached home at 4 pm today, the first thing he did was to take his 11-month-old baby girl in his arms.“I have been told not to play with the baby and make contact with family members, but I wasn’t able to resist myself. From now on, I will maintain some distance from them,” he said.“My wife has cooked delicious food for me. I savoured ‘sambar’ and ‘idli’. She told me that I have grown thin and look a little shabby,” he giggled.“For me, it was just like flu. If we feel sick, we should quarantine ourselves so that others are not infected,” the Covid survivor said. Initially, he had sore throat, runny nose and fever-like symptoms. His condition improved after 4-5 days. The nursing officer will stay under home quarantine before reporting back to work.Posted at the emergency medicine ward of the PGIMER, the survivor had tested positive for the virus on March 31 after coming in contact with a 65-year-old man from Nayagaon while monitoring his vital signs without any safety equipment.Dubai-returned man's mother dischargedAnother 40-year-old woman from Sector 30-B, mother of a Dubai-returned man, was also discharged from the PGIMER on Tuesday. She got infected from her 22-year-old son.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/quarantine-yourself-when-sick-says-pgimer-nursing-officer-71274
15-04-2020||Chandigarh||Face masks given to 1,300 newspaper vendors in Chandigarh||Coming forward to ensure safety of newspaper vendors working in the city, the UT police distributed face masks among 1,300 vendors.The masks were distributed among vendors at six locations from where newspapers are collected by them, including Mani Majra, Sectors 15, 22, 29, 37 and 47.DSP Gurmukh Singh said a total of 2,600 masks were distributed. “Two masks were given to each vendor,” he said.The police said they would continue to assist the vendors till the time the city was under lockdown.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/face-masks-given-to-1-300-newspaper-vendors-in-chandigarh-71272
15-04-2020||Panchkula||Six arrested for lockdown violation in Panchkula district||The police have arrested six persons for violating lockdown rules here today.According to information, the Sector 2 police arrested two persons near Majri Chowk for moving without any objective. The duo failed to give appropriate reason for their movement in the area. The police have registered a case under Sections 188 and 268 of the Indian Penal Code IPC at the Sector 5 police station.Cases registeredThe police have registered cases under Sections Sections 188, 268, 269 and 270 of the Indian Penal Code.In another case, three persons were arrested for violating lockdown rules in Maheshpur village near Sector 21. Similarly, a person was arrested from Gandhi Chowk in Kalka. The police have registered cases under Sections 188, 269 and 270 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/six-arrested-for-lockdown-violation-in-panchkula-district-71271
15-04-2020||Chandigarh||17 booked for not wearing face masks in City Beautiful||Eleven morning walkers and six others were today booked under Section 188 of the IPC for not wearing face masks. In figuresSo far, a total of 13,471 persons have been rounded up, 6,652 vehicles have been detained and 3,971 vehicles have been impounded. Moreover, a total pf 550 persons have been booked for curfew violations.Meanwhile, a total of 356 persons were today rounded up by the UT police for violating curfew orders.The police said 131 vehicles were detained and 177 vehicles were also impounded in different parts of the city.So far, a total of 13,471 persons have been rounded up, 6,652 vehicles have been detained and 3,971 vehicles have been impounded. Moreover, a total pf 550 persons have been booked for curfew violations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/17-booked-for-not-wearing-face-masks-in-city-beautiful-71270
15-04-2020||Chandigarh||Awareness campaign extended for 15 days||A campaign launched by the State Legal Services Authority (SLSA) on April 1 to spread awareness among people regarding social distancing, sanitisation and avoid spreading of Covid-19 due to overcrowding has been extended for a period of 15 days.11 legal aid clinicsAs per the directions received from Justice Jaswant Singh, 11 legal aid clinics were made functional from April 1 to 15 in Chandigarh from 11 am to 1 pm. Two paralegal volunteers and coordinators/mentor concerned managed the affairs of the clinic.Justice Jaswant Singh, Judge, Punjab and Haryana High Court-cum-executive chairman, SLSA, UT, extended the campaign from April 16 to April 30 after the Centre extended the lockdown period.The Legal Services Authority, UT, today submitted the first report of the community campaign against Covid-19 from April 1 till date to Justice Jaswant Singh. After going through the contents of the report, the executive chairman was satisfied with the functioning of the legal aid clinics.Around 3K families covered dailyAround 2,000 to 3,000 families are covered every day. Mahavir Singh, Member Secretary, SLSA, and Ashok Kumar, CJM-cum-Secretary, DLSA, will be the in-charge of ensuring smooth continuation of the campaign during the extended period.As per the directions received from Justice Jaswant Singh, 11 legal aid clinics were made functional from April 1 to 15 in Chandigarh from 11 am to 1 pm. Two paralegal volunteers and coordinators/mentor concerned managed the affairs of the clinic.The Legal Services Authority van was used for spreading awareness about Covid-19 and precautions needed to be taken by the public.Mentors/coordinators are responsible for preparation of awareness material to be distributed through paralegal volunteers in several areas.The SLSA coordinated with the authorities concerned such as the Labour Department, Municipal Corporation and the Health Department to take effective steps in identifying persons covered under the scheme so that they get assistance as per the entitlement.Helpline numbers - 7087112348 and 1516 - of the SLSA were functional for coordinating with the authorities in case of any emergency.Kits were arranged from donors and provided to some sweepers and safai karamcharis of the Municipal Corporation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/awareness-campaign-extended-for-15-days-71268
15-04-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||1,000 food packets for the needy||Social organisation comes to the rescueChandigarh: Jai Guru Dev, a social organisation, has been providing around 500 needy persons with food every day across the city. Hari Shankar Mishra, chairman of the organisation, said they had given food to nearly 7,500 persons in the past 15 days. Every morning, they start preparing food at the Jai Guru Dev Bhawan at Deep Complex in Hallo Majra so that no one goes hungry in the city during the curfew. He said they were distributing different menu every day. TNSWelfare foundationMohali: Members of the Fateh Welfare Foundation, Mohali, distributed ration among the families in various villages, including Sante Majra, Khuni Majra and Badali. Foundation president BS Mann said they had distributed pulses, sugar, tea, mustard oil and sugar among 250 needy families of the villages. “Along with this, we are also distributing food and ration among the poor from our office in Sector 115 on the Kharar-Landran road,” said BS Mann. The foundation also conducted the weddings of three girls of Sante Majra village at the village gurdwara in March this year. TNSISAgives 2,500 food packets to poor Chandigarh: The Independent School Association (ISA) led by Chairman HS Mamik has taken over the responsibility of ensuring supply of food packets to over 1,000 needy people twice daily by opening a community kitchen at member school for the purpose.Over 2,500 food packets are being distributed in the tricity, said Mamik. The community kitchen facility at New Public School, Sector 18, had been made operational in collaboration with the UT Food and Supply Department, he saidHe urged everyone to diligently adhere to all health protocols, including social distancing and not shaking hands.Lending a helping hand to the needy Chandigarh: ISKCON temple has been providing cooked food to 1,500 needy persons every day since April 2.More than 20,000 plates have been supplied to the needy through the Food Corporation of India (FCI) in Burail, Sector 25, and other areas till now. “We start preparing food around noon and meals are ready by 3 pm. The food is first offered to Lord Krishna,” Amrit Chaitanya Das from the temple said.The food is collected by the FCI around 4 pm and distributed at different places as per the need around the city.Railways distributes ration among cooliesChandigarh: Continuing its efforts to serve the needy and distressed during the lockdown due to the Covid-19 outbreak, a total of 128 coolies from Saharanpur, Yamunanagar, Jagadhari, Ambala and Bathinda were given ration by the Northern Railway Women’s Welfare Organisation (NRWWO), Ambala Division.Each coolie (Rail Sahayak) was provided with 10-kg atta, 5-kg rice,1-kg edible oil, 1-kg sugar, 250-gm tea and 2-kg dal. The ration was distributed at the Ambala, Yamunanagar, Jagadhari, Saharanpur and Bathinda stations by commercial inspectors and supervisors, assisted by the RPF staff of the Ambala Division.While distributing ration, proper hygiene and protocol of social distancing was followed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/1-000-food-packets-for-the-needy-71266
15-04-2020||Chandigarh||Legal services authority arranges food for Kashmir Valley migrants, NE pupils in Chandigarh||The State Legal Services Authority (SLSA), UT, has helped Kashmiri labourers and North East (NE) students by providing them food and ration amid the lockdown in the tricity under the guidance of Justice Jaswant Singh, Executive Chairman, SLSA.As per the request received from the Jammu and Kashmir Legal Services Authority on April 11, there were around 15 Kashmiri labour migrants who were without food and ration. The SLSA with the collaboration of Vivek Trivedi, convener, Association of Professional Social Workers and Development Practitioners (APSWDP), and Gopal Attri, para legal volunteer, provided ration to the migrants. Later today, a food heater was also provided to the migrants by the para legal volunteer.On April 11, the SLSA received an email from Mizoram Legal Services Authority to help all North East students stranded in different states. In pursuance to this, Rajeshwar Singh, Law Officer of SLSA, contacted the North East students asking about their requirements of food/ration. Pursuant to this, arrangement for food/langar for 120 students stranded in Nayagaon was made through a gurdwara in Nayagaon by the efforts of Manjit Malhotra, para legal volunteer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/legal-services-authority-arranges-food-for-kashmir-valley-migrants-ne-pupils-in-chandigarh-71255
15-04-2020||A CorrespondentMohali||Mohali police tighten security||The Mohali police today tightened the security in the district after Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh ordered the DGP to increase strictness in all districts, two days after ASI Harjit Singh’s hand was chopped off with a sword by Nihangs at a vegetable market in Patiala.As per the information received from the Mohali police, a total of 418 FIRs have been registered against the curfew violators till date since the curfew was imposed in the district. The police have arrested 569 persons in this connection so far. The cases were registered under Section 188 of the IPC in various police stations. Along with this, 874 vehicles are impounded by the police till today.SP (Traffic) Kesar Singh said, “We are not allowing anyone to travel without the curfew pass. Also, the number of cases has surged.”Meanwhile, the police have detained 83 persons in the temporary jail in the past six days. The hockey stadium in Phase 9 has been converted into a temporary jail till the prohibitory orders remain in force. The main reason for the move is to ensure that Covid-19 is effectively contained and stopped from spreading.Inspector Rajnish Choudhary, SHO, Phase 8 police station, said yesterday, 18 persons were detained, while today four persons have been detained till evening. “The violators kept in the temporary jail were released after warning,” said the SHO.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-police-tighten-security-71237
15-04-2020||Chandigarh||Police help senior citizens||Continuing the initiative for providing senior citizens with assistance, the UT police today made 584 calls to know their well-being.As many 145 calls were attended by the elderly.The police officials said only eight persons sought police assistance. The Station House Officers concerned were told to resolve their problems.Calls are being made every day to numbers that have been generated through the senior citizens associations, resident welfare associations and the police beat staff.In the past few days, a majority of the senior citizens have sought assistance for getting medicines, vegetable and groceries and visiting banks from the police personnel involved in the initiative.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/police-help-senior-citizens-71230
15-04-2020||Chandigarh||Legal assistance for women, children||The State Legal Services Authority (SLSA), UT, has approved the names of two advocates for legal-aid and support at the One Stop Centre (OSC) and 181 women helpline in Chandigarh.The advocates are Aanchal Thakur and Manjit Kaur. Their appointment has been approved as per the directions from Justice Jaswant Singh, Punjab and Haryana High Court-cum-Executive Chairman, SLSA. The orders were passed to help women and children as they constitute one of the vulnerable sections, who may be requiring legal aid and assistance during the lockdown.The legal aid counsels will be required to coordinate with the One-Stop Centre and officials handling women helpline number to give requisite legal aid to the needy through telephone or through video tools such as Zoom or any other technology mode.The legal-aid helpline will be diverted to their mobile phones and information regarding the same will be conveyed to the OSC.It is required during this phase the legal aid helpline numbers remain fully operational and are attended by lawyers from homes. The helpline will be handed over to the two lawyers concerned.Rajeshwar Singh, Law Officer, SLSA, and Neil Roberts, Project Coordinator, District Legal Services Authority, are directed to give assistance to the deputed panel lawyers as per nature of a case. All legal-aid applications received through emails or online portal of NALSA may be dealt with on a daily basis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/legal-assistance-for-women-children-71229
15-04-2020||Mohali||100 PPE kits, masks donated||The Mohali Senior Citizens’ Association (MSCA) today handed over 100 PPE kits, 200 sanitisers and 500 three-layered masks worth Rs 1.6 lakh to the health authorities.Swarn Chaudhary, MSCA president, with other members of the MSCA, handed over the kits to Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh in the presence of Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu. The organization will also arrange 200 masks (N95) for the paramedics.Sidhu lauded the efforts of the association and said the support was of great importance in the time of crisis.Besides Chaudhary, Sukhwinder Singh Bedi, Secretary General, Harinder Pal Singh Harry, Secretary, Public Relations, besides other executive members, Ravjot Singh and Brig JJ Singh (retd), were also present on the occasion. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/100-ppe-kits-masks-donated-71228
15-04-2020||Chandigarh||Online training  for teachers||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/online-training-for-teachers-71227
15-04-2020||Mohali||Floral tributes paid to Dr BR Ambedkar||The District Administration, led by Assistant Commissioner (General) Yashpal Sharma, paid floral tributes to the Father of the Indian Constitution, Baba Saheb Dr Bhim Rao Ambedkar, to mark his birth anniversary here today.The guidelines issued by the Punjab Government regarding social distancing in the wake of Covid-19 were strictly observed.The District Welfare Officer Sukhsagar Singh and other officers were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/floral-tributes-paid-to-dr-br-ambedkar-71226
15-04-2020||Chandigarh||Roadblocks in online education route for PU||There’s many a slip between the cup and lip for Panjab University (PU) to finally taste its experiments with online teaching and learning. The month-long lockdown, owing to the Covid-19 pandamic, got the MHRD and UGC etching guidelines for digital education, touting it as a viable mode for sustaining the country’s academic system.Language barriersFor students pursuing languages, online teaching is quite a task. “How could one prepare notes or submit assignments in Russian, Urdu or even German for that matter?” a student rued.Though the PU has tried to pull all its strings to get its online-teaching act together, including training workshops for its faculty members, on several accounts, the PU doesn’t quite make the cut. While most of the teachers in the university are complaining of dubious software, students are harrowed over time slots and non-availability of books.Remote areas have no internet accessAt present, only 157 boys and 54 girls are residing in various hostels of the PU. The remaining of them have returned to their hometowns. As a majority of the students come from either Himachal or Punjab, a lot of them have poor access to Internet. Rohit Sharma (22), a fourth year student of the UIET, spoke to us from his home in Kullu. He said: “Most of the students who come from remote areas in Himachal Pradesh are struggling with Internet connection. The WiFi signal is poor and the faculty transmits maximum information through WhatsApp.”No labs, booksStudents pursuing research or studying science or other practical subjects at the university are a troubled lot. A researcher from PU Department of Chemistry, Priya (26), said: “Several journals were earlier available only through the PU wifi and now the university has made them accessible to all. There’s no substitute for labs. Even if we study the theory online, how are we expected to understand the subject without practical application?”Gurinder Brar, who claims to have topped in MA, and is presently studying in PU’s Department of Education, said, “I need books to study. To answer one question, I need to study at least 20 books. How will I do that online?”“There is certainly an element of compromise when it comes to online teaching in science subjects. However, teaching that happens through the black-board mode can certainly be translated online. A majority of the undergrads or BDS-level students can be taught online, even on mobiles. I will be surprised to find that students don’t have access to laptops. I am sure as the situation improves, some concrete decision is taken either at local level or at the UGC level,” said Ashish Jain, Dean, Secretary of Medical Sciences, Panjab University, and the director of IQACConcerns expressed“We are aware of the problems being encountered by students in getting online education. Panjab University is in touch with the stakeholders. From April 15, a team of expert faculty members of the PU will be constituted by the Vice-Chancellor. The team will start Zoom training sessions for chairpersons of the departments, followed by faculty members and principals of the colleges. This training shall help in imparting education more effectively,” said the PU spokesperson.However, the faculty is averse to using the Zoom software. PUTA president Prof Rajesh Gill said the software had been banned in several countries. She shared: “Every time I open the software, it says signals ‘security breach’.”“We understand that practicals are not possible during the lockdown. We will find out a way out for this once the lockdown is over. Apart from the online modes of teaching, lectures are being recorded and forwarded through WhatsApp groups,” said the spokesperson.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/roadblocks-in-online-education-route-for-pu-71216
15-04-2020||Chandigarh||Task cut out — Clearing waste from quarantined homes||At a time when people are under lockdown and fear stepping out of their homes due to the Covid outbreak, Kamal Kumar, a resident of Maloya, has been collecting garbage from quarantined houses.He has been given the responsibility of collecting waste from nearly 35-37 quarantined houses in Sectors 32, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50 and 51.For Kumar, the day begins at 7.30 am. He and Kulbir, driver of the garbage vehicle, first sanitise themselves and the vehicle. Both wear a blue suit, face mask, safety cap, shoulder length gloves and shoes covers. Every evening, they get a new safety gear, which they wear the next morning.After entering each house, Kumar gives a garbage bag to the household who puts waste in it and then the bag is closed and kept in the vehicle. “We keep one-metre distance from people from where we pick the waste. Our safety is our first priority,” he says.He then throws the waste in a ditch at the dumping ground in Dadu Majra. The protective gear is also dumped there and then the pit is sanitised. Every vehicle is sanitised while entering and exiting the dumping ground.After finishing his work around 3.30 pm, he returns to his house. “Under this protective gear, I wear a T-shirt and a lower, which I wash every day. Then I take a bath. Even at home, I maintain social distancing,” he says.“I have a nine-month-old baby. Initially, my family used to fear for me. But somebody has to do this work. Even jawans are doing their job at this time,” he adds. Before this, Kumar, an undergraduate, used to collect waste from the Sector 17 market.Meanwhile, the MC’s Medical Officer of Health, Dr Amrit Warring, said, “We have formed 16 teams for the job. We request residents to stay at home so that our efforts do not go waste.” MC Commissioner KK Yadav said these collectors were doing a commendable job in these tough times and needed to be motivated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/task-cut-out-%E2%80%94-clearing-waste-from-quarantined-homes-71204
15-04-2020||Chandigarh||Screen vendors, sanitation workers: Residents||In a bid to ensure overall safety, city residents are now demanding regular medical screening of vegetable/fruits vendors, sanitation workers and others, who are working in this tough time of the Covid-19 crisis.How effective is thermal scanning in identifying casesThe WHO guidelines suggest that thermal scanners are effective in detecting people who have developed a fever because of Covid-19 infection. However, they cannot detect people who are infected but are not yet sick with fever. This is because it takes between two and 10 days before people who are infected become sick and develop a fever.They have demanded that the authorities should issue medical certificates to them so that the residents can use their services without any hesitation.Though the MC claims that these hawkers get screened whenever they come to the Sector 26 mandi, reports have suggested that no medical check-up was done at the time of issuing work permits.“The vendors and hawkers get screened at the Sector 26 mandi whenever they come to get the supplies. They face thermal scanners, sanitisation machine and are provided with gloves and masks to carry out their business in a proper manner,” said MC Commissioner KK Yadav.“Our team of doctors is available 24x7 at the Sector 26 mandi. They follow a standard operating procedure. In the past 10 days, the team has treated some vendors who complained about minor problems. They were asked to take rest. The vendors are also been directed to follow the standard procedure of washing hands and wear masks. The same applies to sanitation workers,” said Yadav. The UT Administration had issued 180 licences to hawkers, of which 145 are reportedly active.“The hawkers should be given some authentic proof stating their health. They go to different sites and come in contact with hundreds of people. So, they are more exposed to the threat. The authorities should conduct their medical check-up on a daily basis. It will help residents who won’t have to worry while making purchases from them,” said Kuldip Singh Gill, President, Residents Welfare Association (RWA), Sector 21 (B).However, many vendors were caught selling supplies without wearing proper equipment. A majority of the garbage pickers, who regularly visit hundreds of home, are also not provided with any special protective gear.“Most hawkers do not wear masks or gloves. They are making small profits and may not be able to buy sanitisers and gloves every day. Also, their carts should be sanitised. Most vegetables and fruits on the carts are covered with wet gunny sacks, which again are a source of infection,” said Isha Mehra, a local resident.“They touch many dustbins with the same gloves before dumping it on their carts. They push the carts throughout the city. The Administration should arrange a proper sanitation platform for them,” said Amit, another resident.“The weather is changing and we cannot wear gloves all day long. We try to wash our hands frequently. We are also at a risk whenever we purchase the supplies or come out to sell these. However, work has to be done,” said a vegetable vendor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/screen-vendors-sanitation-workers-residents-71202
15-04-2020||Chandigarh||No more disinfectant  tunnel after PGI cue||The UT Administration has now decided to stall the process of setting up more disinfectant tunnels after the PGI projected that the usage of such tunnels gives a “false sense of security”.Focus on social distancing instead: PGIMore focus should be on social distancing, washing of hands with soap and water and cough etiquettes, early detection and containment measures besides provision of PPE kits to health workers.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said, “If the unanimous opinion of doctors is that such tunnels are not effective or harmful, we will stop installing more. About the ones already existing, a decision will be taken by the UT Administrator.”A tunnel each has been set up at the Sector 26 grain market and the MC office in Sector 17. Three more such tunnels were in the pipeline. While the MC had installed the two tunnels, the UT engineering wing was to set up the other three.These tunnels spray sodium hypochlorite, a chlorine compound often used as a disinfectant or a bleaching agent. Initially, it was believed that this tunnel of sodium hypochlorite spray would work like a mass disinfectant, thereby disinfecting a large number of people.An official statement released by Prof JS Thakur, chairman, Covid-19 Prevention and IEC Committee, PGI, reads, “The use of these tunnels may give false sense of security and may have adverse health effects as sodium hypochlorite has a lot of harmful effects on body.”The PGI clarified that the medical institute did not recommend the use of sodium hypochlorite-spraying tunnels. MC Commissioner KK Yadav said, “We had written to the PGI Director and sought their opinion on the matter. We haven’t got it yet. If the opinion is diverging, we will remove the existing tunnels.”Harmful effects of sodium hypochloriteAs per the PGI, 0.5% solution of hypochlorite, which is known as Dakin solution, is used for disinfecting areas contaminated with bodily fluids, including large blood spills. But higher concentration of sodium hypochlorite (5%) exposure may cause nasal and ocular irritation, sore throat and coughing. While exposure to stronger concentration (10-15%) of this can cause serious damages in multiple organs like burning pain, redness, swelling and blisters, damage to the respiratory tract as well as the esophagus, serious eye damage, stomach ache, a burning sensation, diarrhoea and vomiting. According to the WHO, spraying alcohol or chlorine all over the body will not kill viruses that have already entered it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-more-disinfectant-tunnel-after-pgi-cue-71162
15-04-2020||Mohali||Two more coronavirus cases surface in Mohali district, tally 56||Two more Covid cases surfaced in the district today, raising the tally to 56.Two women tested positive for the virus today. A 56-year-old woman from Jawaharpur village of Dera Bassi and a 38-year-old woman from Mundi Kharar were found infected and have been admitted to the isolation ward of Gian Sagar Hospital at Banur.One each from Jawaharpur, Mundi KhararThe Jawaharpur woman, whose family members have already tested positive, was resampled and found infected. The number of positive cases in her village has now gone up to 38.None of the 38 patients has any travel history. Most of them were asymptomatic and detectedonly though testing. Some Tablighi Jamaat members had stayed in the village, but left before anyone could get information about them.The 38-year-old woman, a resident of Mundi Kharar, worked as a maid at the house of the 78-year-old co-morbid woman, who had died on April 7 at the Civil Hospital, Kharar. The elderly woman’s samples later tested positive for the virus. The husband of the deceased woman was also tested positive.Tarsem Singh, SMO, Civil Hospital, Kharar, said samples of her husband and three children and four members of another family residing near their home were taken and sent for analysis. All of them had been home-quarantined. He said the administration was also tracing other persons, who were in contact with the new patient.Civil Surgeon Manjit Singh said the samples of Jawaharpur residents who showed symptoms were taken and all were found negative.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said a 36-year-old patient, a resident of Sector 69, Mohali, was discharged from Gian Sagar Hospital after being testing negative for Covid-19 twice. The total number of persons recovered from the disease is six now.The Deputy Commissioner said the containment protocol was being strictly followed in Jawaharpur and the adjoining villages. Sanitisation was also being done at regular intervals, he added.Sector 15 woman tests positive in PanchkulaPanchkula: A 40-year-old woman of Sector 15 has tested positive, taking the total number of cases in the district to six. Civil Surgeon Jasjit Kaur said the woman had Covid symptoms and was getting treatment from a private doctor. She said they took her samples and sent the same for testing. The samples tested positive for the virus. She said they had intensified to trace the persons in her contact and would isolate them. Dr Jasjit Kaur said the woman neither visited abroad nor anyone else in her locality showed Covid symptoms. They were investigating how the woman got infected, she added. The Civil Surgeon said the woman had been admitted to the isolation ward of the Civil Hospital. The Civil Surgeon said they would be taking samples of the family members of the woman and the doctor who was treating her. She said till their reports come, they had been home-quarantined. She said they would intensify their search for identifying her other contacts as a precaution to contain the spread of the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-more-coronavirus-cases-surface-in-mohali-district-tally-56-71160
15-04-2020||Chandigarh||19 shops destroyed in fire at Sector 53 furniture market||Nineteen shops were destroyed in a major fire that broke out at the furniture market in Sector 53 here late on Monday night.According to fire officials, they got a call regarding the incident at 11.07 pm. Fourteen fire tenders were pressed into service to control the blaze. Two of these were from Mohali and one from Panchkula. The fire was brought under control in an hour, but the operation kept on till wee hours.The reason for fire could not be ascertained yet. Since shops were closed due to the curfew, officials are perplexed about how the fire broke out. “We are suspecting a foul play,” said a fire official.Market union members told the firemen that they estimated the loss at Rs 2-3 crore. However, the officials felt the loss could be less.Various fire safety norm violations have been detected in the market.In December last year also, a fire incident was reported from the furniture market. The fire wing had issued them an advisory, which was still not followed by the shopkeepers.MC Additional Commissioner Anil Kumar Garg, who visited the spot, said, “The combustible material like spirit and thinner were there. They have not acted on our advisory. We will write to the SSP to do the needful as it could prove fatal.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/19-shops-destroyed-in-fire-at-sector-53-furniture-market-71157
15-04-2020||Chandigarh||2 held with 50 boxes of liquor||Two persons were nabbed today by the operations cell of the UT police while illegally carrying 50 liquor boxes in a pick-up.According to the police, a team, led by ASI Hirdewant, had laid a naka near City Emporium Mall, Industrial Area, Phase 1, when they stopped a Mahindra pick-up for checking. The police found 50 boxes of whisky loaded in the vehicle.The two suspects — Atul (23), a resident of Sector 28, and Vijay (35), a resident of Ram Darbar — were arrested.The police said a case under the Excise Act had been registered against them at the Industrial Area police station.Liquor seized, 2 arrestedPanchkula: The police have arrested two persons in separate cases for illegally selling liquor in the city and have seized 156 bottles from their possession.The two suspects have been identified as Brajesh, alias Pappu, and Amar, residents of Kharag Mangoli and Majri Chowk in Old Panchkula.The police have registered a case against the two under Sections 188, 269 and 270 of the IPC and under the Excise Act at the Sector 5 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-held-with-50-boxes-of-liquor-71156
15-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Administration extends curfew till May 3||The UT Administration has extended the curfew in the city till May 3 to prevent any further spread of Covid-19.“The next week is extremely crucial and any relaxation at this stage will spoil the benefits given so far in maintaining a strict curfew in the city,” said UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore while presiding over the daily war room meeting here today.“Relaxations, if any, will be decided on April 20,” he said. He appealed to the residents to bear with the inconvenience in the larger interest of the country.Badnore also thanked the neighbouring district authorities for extending full cooperation in implementing the curfew in their areas.The Administrator expressed his happiness that two more patients from the city have recovered and discharged from hospital, reducing the total number of active cases to 12.He thanked the residents of the tricity for following the guidelines strictly and considerably restricting the spread of Covid-19.Adviser Manoj Parida said the curfew was being implemented strictly. Some instructions are awaited from the Government of India regarding benefits to be provided to the affected farmers, daily-wage earners and small-scale industries. The departments concerned will examine and submit it to the Administrator for final decision. Dr G Dewan, Director, Health Services, UT, said a door-to-door screening survey was conducted in Sarangpur, Raipur Kalan, Behlana, Mani Majra, Khuda Lahora and Khuda Jassu.Vinod P Kavle, Secretary, Food and Supply, said distribution of wheat and pulses had started. Around 3,000 families had already been provided with their quota of wheat and pulses in the areas like Ram Darbar Phase-I, Behlana, Kaimbwala, Kishangarh, Shanti Nagar, Vikas Nagar etc. The Administrator directed him to ensure that there was proper social distancing between beneficiaries during the distribution process.MC Commissioner KK Yadav said as many as 104 CTU buses carrying vegetable and fruits were reaching various parts of the city. He also said food packets had been distributed in Gwala Colony, Maloya, along with ration, soap and sanitary pads under the Livelihood Mission. He said home delivery of items through private companies was picking up in the city with nearly 1,500 supplies made on Monday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-extends-curfew-till-may-3-71155
15-04-2020||Tribune Reporters||Rapid coronavirus testing begins in Mohali, Jalandhar||Chandigarh, April 14Taking its battle against Covid-19 to the next level, the Punjab Government on Tuesday launched rapid testing facility from two districts of the state with an aim to eventually cover all 17 hotspots in a phased manner.840 tests in SAS NagarMohali district, which has the highest cases of Covid-19 in the state, has tested as many as 840 persons so far. The Health Department has even tested 11 deceased, who had reportedly died of other reasons, for the virus, as a precautionary measure. The department said every contact of the positive patient was tested for Covid in the district.The facility was launched by the state’s Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu at Subdivisional Hospital, Dera Bassi.ACS Vini Mahajan said the state government had received 1,000 rapid testing kits today from the ICMR. SAS Nagar (Mohali) and Jalandhar have been given 500 kits each to start the testing process, she said, adding the facility was likely to be extended to other districts, according to the situation of suspected cases and availability of rapid testing kits.The testing would initially be done for all patients attending flu corners of government health facilities, who have symptoms for more than seven days. The test is done with a single prick to take a blood sample and the result is available in 15 minutes.Instructions have been given to districts to submit daily reports of the tests conducted along with the results. A portal has been created by the Department of Health — www.covid-19punjab.in —for gathering real-time information on testing and recording patients’ profile.The state government has ordered 10 lakh such kits from the ICMR, with enquiries raised for another 10,000 in the open market.However , even two weeks after the state government announced to ramp up testing, nine of the 22 districts couldn’t even touch the mark of 100. Though the overall testing in the state has increased, some districts seem to be lagging.The worst districts in testing are Ferozepur, Fazilka and Tarn Tarn. Worryingly, Ferozepur has tested only 11 persons for Covid-19 while Taran Tarn has tested just 17. Ferozepur Civil Surgeon Navdeep Singh said they had tested all suspected patients so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rapid-coronavirus-testing-begins-in-mohali-jalandhar-71279
