17-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh soon to get Rapid Testing Kits||Two days after the city was declared as a hotspot district, the city will soon get Rapid Testing Kits.“The Central government has dispatched a lot of Rapid Testing Kits which will be utilised in consultation with the medical team,” said Arun Kumar Gupta, Principal Secretary, Health.He said as per the protocol of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), only persons with ILI (Influenza like Illness) symptoms of more than seven days would be tested with the kit.As per the ICMR, these kits will use antibody-based blood tests for COVID-19.Meanwhile, the UT Administration has also authorised SRL, a private laboratory, to collect COVID-19 samples and test them at subsidised rates of Rs 4,500 per patient.Any private citizen can take advantage of this facility, said Gupta.“If anybody fulfils our criterion, the government is committed to do the testing at its laboratory free of cost. But, if anybody wants to get the testing done as extra precaution, he or she can go to the private laboratory,” said Gupta.During the daily review meeting, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore instructed Dr G Dewan, Director, Health Services, to ensure that private doctors running clinics and dispensaries are trained properly in handling Covid cases, so that the unfortunate situation, as happened in Panchkula does not arise here.Badnore expressed hope that with full cooperation of Chandigarh residents they could get out of the Red Zone.KK Yadav, Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, informed that baby milk food would be given to mothers with small children wherever required.He further stated that all traders in Sector 26 market had been directed to keep sanitisers ready with them for necessary hygienic practice.  He further informed that all delivery boys have been mandated to wear gloves, sanitisers and masks, so that there is no risk of infection while distributing ration and vegetables.Adviser Manoj Parida said the UT Administration would not seek the review of the list of hotspot districts. No new COVID-19 case was reported in the city for the past three days and also, 10 out of 21 positive cases have been discharged from hospital.On converting Panjab University hostels into COVID-19 care centres, Parida said, “We will keep them as stand by, but there are very less chances of using the hostels. These could be used only if the number of Covid cases goes above 1,000.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-soon-to-get-rapid-testing-kits-72546
17-04-2020||Chandigarh||Two sanitation workers at PGI test positive for coronavirus||Two sanitation workers employed at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research tested positive for coronavirus on Friday, officials said. One was a 30-year-old resident of Nayagaon. District authorities have begun collecting swab samples of the patient’s contacts.The second is believed to be a resident of Dhanas. Both cases were detected through random testing conducted in the hospital.Eleven healthcare workers have been quarantined, officials said.Dr Ashok, spokesperson of PGIMER, said: “Both of the employees are asymptomatic as of now. We are going to investigate the source of infection. They were going to their homes after duty. They have been found positive in the random testing. We tested a few employees whose duty hours were done”.The development takes the total number of cases in Chandigarh to 22 and Mohali to 57.Meanwhile, a 30-year-old resident of sector 21 who had come in contact with contact with the city’s first coronavirus case---a student who returned from UK---was released from PGIMER on Friday. This takes the total number of active cases in the city is 11.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-sanitation-workers-at-pgi-test-positive-for-coronavirus-72545
17-04-2020||Mohali||Mohali reports one more coronavirus case; district tally stands at 57||Mohali reported another coronavirus case on Friday, taking the state tally to 57. A 30-year-old sanitation worker employed at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research tested positive on Friday, Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said.The patient has been admitted to PGI, he said.Health authorities have begun to collect swabs from the patient's contacts in the village.Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said in a statement that district health authorities had tested 901 swabs, of which 820 came back negative.Some 640 people are currently in quarantine. Additionally,1,874 people have already completed their quarantine.Mohali district has the highest number of coronavirus cases in Punjab since the outbreak was first reported in the state in March. The district has reported two deaths so far. Six people have reportedly been cured.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-reports-one-more-coronavirus-case-district-tally-stands-at-57-72539
17-04-2020||Our Correspondent||Newlywed couple among five people injured in road accident on Chandigarh-Hoshiarpur highway||Mahilpur (Hoshiarpur), April 17Five people, including a newlywed couple, were injured, when an SUV they were aboard was hit by a truck on Friday evening, when the wedding procession was going back to Gurdaspur after the function at Bhakhra Nangal.The accident took place on Chandigarh-Hoshiarpur state highway near police station Mahilpur when their SUV collided with a truck coming from the opposite side.The injured were admitted to the Civil Hospital, Mahilpur, from where the groom was referred to Hoshiarpur after his condition became critical.According to the information received, the truck driver—Gurcharan Singh—resident, Pandori Ganga Singh, has given his statement to Mahilpur police in this regard.He revealed that he left for Shahabad Markanda (Haryana) after loading potatoes in his truck from Hoshiarpur.When he reached Mahilpur, an Innova coming from the opposite direction, which was being driven by Harpreet Singh resident of Qadian(Gurdaspur), collided with his truck.In the accident, the newly married couple —Vinod Kumar, son of Baldev Ram, and bride Ritu, groom's mother Satya Devi and brother-in-law Gagandeep Singh, all resident of Qadian (Gurdaspur) were injured in the accident.Vinod Kumar suffered serious injuries in this road accident.Mahilpur police reached the accident site and took further action by taking both vehicles in possession.By the time of filing this news report, no FIR was lodged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/newlywed-couple-among-five-people-injured-in-road-accident-on-chandigarh-hoshiarpur-highway-72503
17-04-2020||Panchkula||Coronavirus: Three more test positive in Panchkula, district tally rises to 17||Three more people tested positive for coronavirus in Panchkula on Friday, taking the district's tally to 17.The three people, all residents of Kalka's Banoi Khuda Baksh village, had travelled to Sikar in Rajasthan to attend a religious congregation, officials of the district health department said. The new patients include a 68-year-old person, Panchkula Dr Jasjeet Kaur said. They have been quarantined.Three other people who had attended the same congregation had earlier tested positive for the deadly disease.The district now has 15 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/coronavirus-three-more-test-positive-in-panchkula-district-tally-rises-to-17-72464
17-04-2020||Gurnaaz Kaur||Playing football, tennis with grandson, enjoying time with pet keep him busy||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 16For someone who dedicates all his time in spreading awareness and educating the masses about the importance of prevention, life has surely changed due to lockdown.Dr Ram Kumar, former eye specialist, PGI, had one or two seminars planned every month till February-end. Now, when he has to be at home all time, he says, “My life is somewhat restrained but I am still making the most of it.”While public interest is on top of my mind all the time, life is quite calm these days. The lockdown has taught us we should be contended with what we have and live a stress-free life. — Dr Ram KumarFrom playing football, badminton and tennis with his grandson to enjoying time with his Labrador Leo, there’s enough to keep him busy.“I used to play tennis even before, but now I enjoy different sports with my new mate.” Dr Ram Kumar is quite active and feels happy that he is giving all his time to things he likes doing. A perfect day during this lockdown entails, “Waking up at 3 am, giving plenty of time to writing articles, which I wasn’t able to do before because of my social commitments, doing yoga for an hour, helping my wife in the kitchen, doing household chores, watching news, taking my dog for a walk, doing some gardening and back to news and some yoga after dinner.”He walks daily for one hour and catches up on some songs of 50s and 60s. “It’s my me-time, and I like to listen to Kishore Kumar and Lata Mangeshkar on my phone.”Dr Kumar feels there was never shortage of time, just that it is now being utilised on things that would otherwise feel secondary. Take for instance playing guitar. “I have been playing the instrument off and on for 15 years, but have never been very regular. I think that is why I haven’t perfected it yet. These days I am giving it more time.” Time with family, especially with wife, has also increased and he feels happy to have her company.Since a lot of his time goes watching and reading news, he feels, “The fear is much more than the real danger. Lockdown is very important but with peak summer, this virus should start waning.”Although, he misses public health education, something he has given all his life to, Dr Kumar has realised that he was often restless to do something for others. “While public interest is on top of my mind all the time, life is quite calm these days. The lockdown has taught us we should be contended with what we have and live a stress-free life.” And those who have too much of greed or are too ambitious, he says, “these tendencies make you resentful and critisise everything. That’s a very harmful way of living. Just know everything is temporary and you’ll feel centered.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/playing-football-tennis-with-grandson-enjoying-time-with-pet-keep-him-busy-72165
17-04-2020||Amit Sharma||Chandigarh cops rush to rescue labourers, find out they’re safe, getting food||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 16The UT police today faced an awkward situation when they rushed to rescue some migrant labourers allegedly stranded in Industrial Area, Chandigarh, only to find out that they are safe and getting adequate food and ration on a regular basis. Migrants tweeted group photo, sought helpIn the hope of returning to their native village, some migrant labourers from Odisha had tweeted a group photo, tagging several UT officials, stating that they are stranded in Plot No. 173, Industrial Area, Phase I, Chandigarh, and need help.In the hope of returning to their native village, some migrant labourers from Odisha had tweeted a group photo, tagging several UT officials, stating that they are stranded in Plot No. 173, Industrial Area, Phase I, Chandigarh, and need help.The UT Administration and police swung into action and reached the given location and found that all the migrants were provided cooked food daily for the past ten days.The police said one person had tweeted a picture of the labourers and stated that 22 of them are stranded.Inspector Jasbir Singh, SHO, Industrial Area police station, said that it was found that one of the migrants, identified as Chintamani, had received a call from someone from his village suggesting him to send a picture of all migrants so that the UT Administration provides them food and ensure that they are sent back to their native village.Chintamani said, “I was told to send a picture which can help the labourers to get back home. I didn’t know it would lead to an issue,” he added.Arjun, the site contractor, said, “They are working with me for the past six years. I have been regularly providing them proper food and shelter.”The SHO said, “The contractor had also given them money to for food after the lockdown.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-cops-rush-to-rescue-labourers-find-out-theyre-safe-getting-food-72164
17-04-2020||---||IAF chopper makes emergency landing||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 16A Cheetah helicopter proceeding from Hindon Air Force Station to Chandigarh airbase developed a technical snag soon after take-off. The helicopter carried out a safe precautionary landing on the Outer Ring Road Highway in the NCR, about three nautical miles from Hindon, today.On Covid dutyThe helicopter was on a Covid-19 task of carrying test samples of Leh.Actions taken by the pilots were prompt and correct, an IAF officer said. No damage to any property had been reported. A recovery aircraft for assistance was launched immediately from Hindon. The snag-affected aircraft was rectified and flown back promptly and safely at Hindon.The Cheetah, which is of 1950s vintage, is a light helicopter used for communication roles by the IAF as well as the Army and has been highly effective in high-altitude areas. Some of these helicopters were also modified and armed with rockets and gun pods giving them limited combat capability.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/iaf-chopper-makes-emergency-landing-72163
17-04-2020||---||Food shortage: Nayagaon man booked for raising false alarm||Tribune News ServiceMohali, April 16Coming down heavily, the district administration today got an FIR registered against a Nayagaon resident for raising a false alarm about non-availability of ration. On Wednesday, a Nayagaon resident called control room regarding non-supply of ration.The Deputy Commissioner (DC), Mohali, Girish Dayalan, said, “The administration has set up four sector-level teams that verify ration requisition calls made on the control room.”A team comprising some officials and an NGO was sent to the person’s residence at Nayagaon, which found 30-kg wheat flour and other items stocked and hidden on his premises, the DC added. The entire process was video graphed on the basis of which an FIR was lodged, the DC said.Anyone who makes a false claim about not availability of essentials shall be booked under the Disaster Management Act and on conviction be punishable with imprisonment, which may extend to two years and a fine.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/food-shortage-nayagaon-man-booked-for-raising-false-alarm-72162
17-04-2020||Sandeep Rana||Expect early monsoon this year: Met Department||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 16The city will witness early onset of monsoon and delayed withdrawal this season, predicted the Meteorological Department here.According to the Chandigarh Meteorological Department, the monsoon, which normally hits the city around June 29-30, is expected around June 25-26 this time. Due to this, monsoon withdrawal will also be delayed and is expected in the end of September. It is, otherwise, on September 25.“This is due to climate change. Monsoon arrival will be 3-4 days early and withdrawal will be delayed by around seven days,” said Met Director Surender Paul and added that the city would receive normal rainfall, which was 840 mm, which was good for agriculture.Paul also shared that the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) had done a scientific study of rainfall from the 1961-2019 data. It had been found that due to the change in climatic conditions, advance monsoon was being witnessed for the past around 20 years.Hotter summerIt will be a slightly hotter summer than normal this year. The Met Director said average maximum temperature was expected to be higher than normal by 0.5-1 degrees Celsius. The average temperature in the city remains between 38 degrees and 40 degrees. “It will be slightly hotter this time. It is due to the overall climate variability,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/expect-early-monsoon-this-year-met-department-72161
17-04-2020||---||PPE kits provided as per protocol, says PGIMER||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 16The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) today stated that the institute has a standard policy of distribution of protective protection equipment (PPE) kits/N95 masks and other equipment to the doctors and other healthcare workers, which is followed scrupulously.The PGI is receiving donations from public-spirited individuals/NGOs and other organisations. The office order hasn’t prohibited receipt of donations, but only bars soliciting donations by any individual/department in the institute’s name. — PGI spokesperson“It had come to the notice of the PGIMER administration that donations were being sought in the name of the institute citing shortage of PPE kits, etc. The PGIMER purchases requisite equipment centrally by following the standard purchase procedure and the supplies to various healthcare workers is managed by a resource management committee, which has strongly denied any shortage of kits,” read the official statement.A spokesperson of the institute said the PGIMER was receiving donations from public-spirited individuals/NGOs and other organisations. The office order had not prohibited receipt of donations, but only barred soliciting donations by any individual/department in the PGIMER’s name.All healthcare workers — doctors, nurses, laboratory technicians, hospital and sanitary attendants are being provided PPE kits and masks as per the PGI protocol in Covid suspected and positive patients. There is a sufficient stock of PPE kits.Demand-supply gapThe PGI is facing problem in procurement of PPE kits and N95 masks due to the gap between demand and supply throughout the country despite having sufficient funds like any other institution/organisation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ppe-kits-provided-as-per-protocol-says-pgimer-72159
17-04-2020||---||2 women held for assaulting, threatening Mohali councillor||Tribune News ServiceMohali, April 16The police have arrested two women for allegedly assaulting and threatening a councillor for allegedly showing biased approach in distributing ration to them.The suspects have been identified as Raj Kumari and Saroj, both residents of Phase XI, Mohali.Case registeredA case has been registered against the two women under Sections 323, 452, 506, 34, 188, 269 and 270 of the Indian Penal Code at the Phase XI police station.Councillor Jasvir Singh, also a resident of Phase XI, in his complaint to the police, said a group of women gathered outside his house around 6 pm. He said the women complained that some people were distributing ration at Bawa White House in Phase XI.The women told the Councillor that the persons there told them that they could not get the ration. If they wanted the ration, they (women) should get an authorisation letter from the councillor.Jasvir said he told the women that the matter was not in his knowledge. He gave them his number and told them that when the persons would again distribute the ration they should get him connected to them so that they could get the ration. After this, he came back to his house.Jasvir alleged that two women, Raj Kumari and Saroj, from the group followed him to the house. Raj Kumari caught his right arm while Saroj slapped him on his face. He said after this he ran towards one of the rooms in his house and locked himself fearing that the women could level false allegations against him.Jasvir said other members of his family arrived there and the women eloped from the house. While fleeing, the duo threatened him.He said the women were thinking that he was intentionally not providing them ration, adding that he feared threat to his life.A case has been registered against the two women under Sections 323, 452, 506, 34, 188, 269 and 270 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Phase XI police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-women-held-for-assaulting-threatening-mohali-councillor-72158
17-04-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||5,000 masks donated||Tractors, sanitisation equipment donatedMohali: Arun Raghav, Senior General Manager, Mahindra and Mahindra Swaraj Division, donated two tractors and sanitisation equipment to the Health Department under company’s corporate social responsibility. Raghav said they had also donated 15-day fuel and 8 tonnes of spraying chemical to the MC officials. SS Virdi, DGM Mohali, State Bank of India, and Regional Manager Sumit Rai also pitched in 100 PPE kits, 100 bottles of sanitisers and 500 masks. Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said the state government was prepared to effectively combat Covid-19. Municipal Corporation Commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg was among those present. TNS1,000 face shieldsfor PGIChandigarh: Anil Selhi and Rajesh Khanna of Sark Industries, an injection molding facility in Chandigarh, donated 1,000 face shields to the PGI on Thursday. Pritpal Singh Matharu, another Chandigarh-based entrepreneur, was also a driving force in this project. It’s noteworthy that the trio is from the same institution, Indo Swiss Training Centre – CSIO, Sector-30, Chandigarh. The entrepreneurs said they had a manufacturing capacity of producing 1 lakh face shields per month and would continue to increase their capacity till each and every frontline warrior was equipped with proper Personal Protection Equipment (PPEs). TNSPU gets PPE kitsChandigarh: The Panjab University Health Centre has received 25 PPE kits from Major Deepak Choudhary, Advisor External Affairs, Kandhari Beverages (P) Ltd, Chandigarh. Prof Raj Kumar, Vice Chancellor, expressed his gratitude for timely help. He appreciated the efforts of Prof Seema Vinayak, Chairperson, Department of Psychology, for being instrumental in getting help for the university. TNSTeachers donatePatiala: Contractual teachers of the Constituent Colleges of Punjabi University, Patiala, have contributed an amount of Rs 57,000 to the university as Covid-19 relief. Representatives of the Punjabi University Contractual Teachers’ Association (PUCTA) said they had made a small contribution and the university could use it as it deemed fit. Lovedeep Sharma, president, PUCTA, said: “The university can donate this amount to the CM’s fund for Covid-19 relief or use this to provide essentials to its employees.” TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-000-masks-donated-72157
17-04-2020||---||PGI blood bank looks for donors in Mohali||A CorrespondentMohali, April 16In view of the Covid-19 outbreak, the PGI has started communicating with volunteer blood donors and social organisations.Officials of the PGI have motivated volunteers in Mohali to come forward for the cause. A special sanitised vehicle of the PGI will offer the pick-and-drop facility.Mohali councillor Satvir Singh Dhanoa said he had received a call from a blood bank official who had asked him to find volunteers. Dhanoa said the gesture would benefit the hospital and patients.He said the donation process was going to start in a few days.PGI blood bank head RR Sharma and assistant professor Suchet Sachdev said there was no shortage of blood at the bank presently. However, no camp was organised for past several days amid lockdown.“We have started preparing a list of volunteers who are young. We need around 25 donors each day as per the requirement of the PGI,” said Dhanoa.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-blood-bank-looks-for-donors-in-mohali-72155
17-04-2020||---||200-MT wheat arrives in Fatehgarh Sahib||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib, April 16The process of wheat procurement started in the district today. Approximately 200 metric tonnes of wheat arrived in the grain markets of the district particularly at Amloh, Mandi Gobindgarh, Nanowal and Khamano.Deputy Commissioner (DC) Amrit Kaur Gill and Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Amneet Kondal visited the grain markets to inspect the arrangements and redress the problems faced by the farmers or commission agents.The DC said all arrangements had been made and no farmer would face any problem in mandis.She said tokens for entry into mandis had already been issued to the farmers and payment would be done through electronic system.Kondal said the guidelines of the Health Department would be strictly followed and social distancing would be maintained.Both DC and SSP said it was a challenge for the state government to procure wheat in such circumstances. Farmers should cooperate with the government to defeat the Covid-19 threat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/200-mt-wheat-arrives-in-fatehgarh-sahib-72154
17-04-2020||Mohali||Health workers want salary doubled||Members of the Contractual Multipurpose Health Workers’ Association today demanded that the Punjab Government should double their salaries on the lines of the Haryana Government.Jaswinder Singh from Amritsar and Jagtar Singh, Provincial Leader of the Multipurpose Health Workers’ Union, said they were at the forefront in war against Covid-19. They said despite the risk to their lives, they were performing their duty diligently.They said they had been putting forward their demands for a long time. They said even after delivering services diligently for years, the government did not bother to regularise their jobs. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/health-workers-want-salary-doubled-72153
17-04-2020||---||19 juveniles released from care institutions||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 16To prevent the spread of Covid-19 to Child Care Institutions (CCIs), a total of 19 juveniles have been sent back to their homes from an observation-cum-special home in an effort to reduce overcrowding in the institutions.These efforts were made under the close monitoring and guidance of Justice Jaswant Singh, Chairman, Juvenile Justice, Monitoring Committee, Punjab and Haryana High Court.In the first phase, five juveniles were released as per Section 98 of the Juvenile Justice (Parent Protection of Children) Act, 2015, for 21 days.After that, vide order dated March 30, 2020, passed by the High Court, three juveniles were released. Thereafter, the Supreme Court directed that the Juvenile Justice Committees (JJCs) of every High Court shall also ensure following directions: The Juvenile Justice Boards/Children’s Courts may consider measures to prevent children residing in observation homes, special homes and places of safety from the risk of harm arising out of Covid-19.After scrutinising the applicability of the orders, the Principal Magistrates, Juvenile Justice Board, and members found and released another 11 juveniles.Therefore of the total 43 juveniles residing in the home, 19 have been sent back to their families.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/19-juveniles-released-from-care-institutions-72151
17-04-2020||---||Amid curfew, theft at house, shop in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, April 16Two thefts have been reported from the city, which is under the curfew.According to the police, the complainant, Hira Singh, a PGI employee and resident of Sector 24, reported that the theft took place at his house between March 21 and April 14. He stated that a computer, an LED, Rs 18,000, an ATM card and some documents were stolen from his house.The complainant stated that he was in Himachal Pradesh when the theft took place. On April 11, he received an SMS on his phone that Rs 20,000 were withdrawn from his bank account using the ATM card, following which he returned to the city and found that his house had been burgled.The police were informed about the incident following which a case has been registered at the Sector 11 police station.In another case, the complainant, Subhash Goel of Kharar, stated that unknown persons stole around Rs 90,000 and some mobile phones from his mobile store in Sector 41 on April 15.A case was registered at the Sector 39 police station.On Thursday, the police apprehended four juveniles and recovered stolen mobile phones worth around Rs 6 lakh.Col Gursewak Singh (retd), president, Residents’ Welfare Association, Modern Housing Complex, said a thief was apprehended by residents in the wee hours of April 15 and was handed over to the police.Earlier, a theft at a liquor vend in Mauli Jagran was reported. Later, three persons were arrested for the theft.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/amid-curfew-theft-at-house-shop-in-chandigarh-72147
17-04-2020||Amarjot Kaur||For your veggies, he gets to work at 3.30 in the morning||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 16Rohit Kumar (26), a resident of Bapu Dham Colony, ferries fruits and vegetables in an auto across Sector 44-B daily. Back home, his eight-month pregnant wife awaits him. Amid the Covid fear and battling the scorching sun, Rohit won’t let either the sector residents or his family starve. Here’s a story of a working-class hero, attending to the 12-hour duty call, starting at 4 am every day.I tell everyone to stay at least one metre away from me. Social distancing is a must. Also, I wash my hands every 15 minutes for at least 20 seconds and use sanitiser regularly. — Rohit Kumar“To get the freshest vegetables and fruits, you have to make it to the Sector 26 grain market at 4 am sharp. I start at 3:30 am because I want to stay ahead of time. In business, time is everything,” says Rohit while attending to a customer.A bottle of sanitiser rests near the weighing scale, plonked on the edge of a blue-coloured tempo, the rear of which is stacked with all summer vegetables and fruits. Talking of timing, Rohit had got the permission to run his grocery business in the nick of time — just two days before the lockdown was announced.“I wanted to make money for the new family member, my wife’s expecting. At the same time, I wanted to feed people. Food is health. Food is immunity. Food is what keeps us alive. Just when I got to know about the pandemic, I applied for the licence, two days before the lockdown,” he says.Knowing well about the perils of the pandemic, especially with his domestic situation, Rohit lets nothing come in the way of his duty. Covering his face with a cloth and with a couple of masks in his pocket, he is quick to chide those who don’t obey the new social norms. “I tell everyone to stay at least one metre away from me. Social distancing is must. Also, I wash my hands every 15 minutes for at least 20 seconds and use a sanitiser regularly,” he says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/for-your-veggies-he-gets-to-work-at-3-30-in-the-morning-72146
17-04-2020||Our Correspondent||No fresh case  at Jawaharpur||Dera Bassi, April 16If the trend of the past 48 hours is any indication, Jawaharpur village, one of the Covid hotspots in Mohali district, may witness a turnaround. No fresh Covid-19 case has been reported from the village as the figure remained static at 38 today.A health official said, “No new confirmed case of Covid-19 has surfaced at Jawaharpur village in the past two days.” Civil Surgeon Manjit Singh said, “As many as 221 samples of persons, who were contacts of confirmed Covid-19 patients, were sent for testing. All samples have tested negative.”Meanwhile, Malkit Singh (45), the first Covid case in Dera Bassi, is showing signs of recovery. Malkit was shifted from the ICU to the general ward at the PGI today. Doctors are monitoring Malkit’s heath condition in the early phase of his recovery.Malkit, panch of Jawaharpur village, tested positive for Covid-19 on April 4. He showed symptoms of mild cough and fever on April 2 following which he went to the GMCH-32 for a check-up, health officials said. His samples tested positive for Covid. Later, he was shifted to the PGI. His sample would be taken again and if report comes negative, Malkit would be discharged, a health official said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-fresh-case-at-jawaharpur-72144
17-04-2020||---||145 vehicles impounded in Chandigarh,  359 curfew violators detained||Chandigarh, April 16A total of 4,374 vehicles have been impounded by the UT police so far, of which, 3,276 are two-wheelers, 1,008 four-wheelers and 90 autos.The police said 145 vehicles, including 125 two-wheelers, were impounded today and 359 persons rounded up for curfew violations. The police booked nine persons under Section 188 of the IPC, of which, five were morning walkers. Three caught without a face mask booked too.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/145-vehicles-impounded-in-chandigarh-359-curfew-violators-detained-72141
17-04-2020||---||Day after hotspot tag, Chandigarh to accelerate Covid testing||Chandigarh, April 16A day after the Centre declared the city a coronavirus hotspot, testing will be accelerated for prevention, containment and management of Covid-19.As per the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines for hotspot districts, testing for any cases of influenza-like illness such as fever, cough sore throat, running nose and severe acute respiratory illness will be done.Testing facility to come up at PU  Chandigarh: Panjab University has been identified as one of the Covid testing centres by the Government of India in order to scale up the testing capacity. The venture will be set up in collaboration with the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, SAS Nagar, and the Institute of Microbial Technology, Chandigarh. Various scientists of Panjab University will be part of the project. TNS Arun Kumar Gupta, Principal Secretary, Health, said, “The Centre considers total number of positive cases and not the number of recovered patients. The UT has 21 positive cases till date. So, it’s one of the 170 districts of the country which have contributed to 80 per cent of the total cases of the country. Districts were arranged in descending order on the basis of number of positive cases. So, these 170 districts are all hotspot districts.”“Chandigarh is a fully urban area and full city or town in the urban areas are to be containment zone, as per guidelines of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare,” he added.During the daily review meeting, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore was informed that the testing has to be accelerated and restrictions will be implemented strictly. However, the Administrator focused on the need for downloading Aarogya Setu app by all government officials and public in general.In a discussion with the Director, PGIMER, and chiefs of medical institutions, the Administrator advised them to explore the possibility of procuring/utilising rapid testing facility as per the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines.Adviser Manoj Parida mentioned that he had discussed with the Punjab and Haryana governments to run their offices in Chandigarh with the minimal staff, since the entire city had been declared a coronavirus hotspot and was under curfew.The Administrator directed DGP Sanjay Beniwal to intensify checking at city borders and ensure that only pass-holders and authorised persons are allowed to enter the city.“We have ensured that there is complete checking at borders. We check every person if he has curfew pass or not. We are also using thermal scanners to screen people entering our borders and ensuring that no person with any symptom enters the city,” said Parida.Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar said 64,105 food packets have been distributed among the destitute and needy in various parts of the city. The mid-day meal facilities in UT schools for preparing food packets have also been activated today.The Administrator directed the DC that there was no shortage of packed food for the poor and the distribution should be done in a fair manner.Finance Secretary AK Sinha said the last date for payment of electricity and water bills has been extended and those willing to pay the bills can do it online by downloading the application.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/day-after-hotspot-tag-chandigarh-to-accelerate-covid-testing-72140
17-04-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Now, vendors to be screened pre-work||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 16The UT Administration today issued directions to medically screen vendors, who go door to door for the delivery of essential items in the city.UT Adviser tweetsDirections issued to ensure all vendors, drivers and employees engaged in doorstep delivery to be medically screened and sanitised before starting work.UT Adviser Manoj Parida tweeted: “Directions issued to ensure all vendors, drivers and employees engaged in doorstep delivery to be medically screened and sanitised before starting work.”“Eleven medical teams have been formed to screen and certify every bus driver, shopkeeper, vendor, delivery boy and policeman engaged in providing essentials to residents,” he said.On April 14, residents’ demand for regular medical screening of vegetable/fruits vendors, sanitation workers and others working during the Covid-19 crisis was highlighted in these columns. Residents had also stated that the authorities should issue medical certificates to all workers and arrange protective gear for them.At a meeting held today, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore directed the MC Commissioner to ensure that the staff, including vendors, vehicle drivers, sanitation workers and others, must be medically screened, sanitised and provided safety gear as they interact with residents more frequently. Badnore stated that all online home delivery agencies should be directed to follow similar measures failing which their permission should be cancelled.“It’s a good step considering the health of both residents and workers. It will help workers to keep a check on their health,” said Anayat Sharma, a resident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-vendors-to-be-screened-pre-work-72138
17-04-2020||---||Vendors undergo screening||Panchkula, April 16Vegetable and fruit vendors underwent thermal screening and medical check-up today. Around 200 vendors were issued passes post-screening.Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said, “The street vendors have been advised to follow social distancing apart from wearing mask, gloves and a cap provided to them while selling fruits and vegetables.”They have also been told to sanitise their hands at regular intervals.“No vendor without a valid pass will be be allowed to operate. The permission granted to them will be cancelled, if anyone is found not complying with these rules,” the DC said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vendors-undergo-screening-72134
17-04-2020||Panchkula||7 of Panchkula couple’s family positive||Seven members of the family of the Sector 15 Covid positive couple have been found infected with the virus. The fresh cases have raised the district Covid count to 14.On Tuesday, a 44-year-old woman from Sector 15 was found Covid positive and her husband was also diagnosed with the infectious disease a day later.Contact tracing intensified in townHealth officials are yet to trace the source of infection in the case from Sector 15.DC Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said the woman had visited Pathankot on March 18. Now, the health officials have intensified contact tracing to stem the Covid spread. He said they had started isolating persons, who came in contact with these positive cases. So far, 55 such contacts have been traced.Administration cancels all movement passesThe district administration has cancelled with immediate effect all types of passes issued by the office of the Deputy Commissioner, either manually or through online mode, and any other authority for the movement to and from Sector 15.“Those who got infected include the woman’s daughter, sister, her daughter, brother, sister-in-law, another brother and his son. They reside in two houses in Sector 15,” said Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar AhujaOn April 2, the infected woman had developed some symptoms. She, however, visited a private clinic in Sector 11 on April 6 where the doctor took an Xray. The woman, who is a Postal Department employee, reported to the Civil Hospital on April 12, following which her samples were tested and found positive.The Health Department had traced 38 contacts of the woman, including family members and the doctor of a private clinic in Sector 11.Sector 15, one of the densely populated sectors in the town, was then declared a containment zone. The administration seized the entire sector as a preventive measure against the spread of the fatal disease.Appeal for testingThe Deputy Commissioner has urged residents of Panchkula, who know that they might have come in contact with this family, to report to health officials and get themselves checked. They can contact on 8558893911 and 1075. “Even a request for a mobile medical team is acceptable for those who can’t visit the Civil Hospital,” he said.“Only contacts with symptoms will be admitted to the isolation ward at the Civil Hospital while asymptomatic will be asked to stay under home quarantine for 14 days,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/7-of-panchkula-couples-family-positive-72133
