18-04-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: No easing of restrictions in Mohali after April 20, says DC||The Mohali administration will not ease curfew restrictions in the district on April 20, a top official of the district said on Saturday as Mohali reported another case of coronavirus.Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said in a tweet that any curfew relaxations could result in large movement of people---a development that could lead to an upsurge in coronavirus cases.Dayalan said in a tweet: “Mohali will not be relaxing the curfew on 20th since the district has the highest number of cases in the State and not reached the stage of no new cases in 14 days. Opening up would imply a large population who work/ reside in tricity moving to and fro in surrounding areas”.The district has so far reported 57 coronavirus cases---the highest in Punjab. Death toll from the deadly virus stands at two.The announcement also comes a few days after the central government and state tightened restrictions and announced an increase in testing in hotpots.Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in his speech on April 14 that he was extending nationwide lockdown until May 3, but would ease certain restrictions after April 20, depending on the prevailing situation.Days later, the central government divided the country into zones---red, orange and green---as part of its containment strategy.Red zones were districts with the largest number of cases and green zones were areas with no cases.The state government has already identified 17 hotspots in the state---with Mohali topping that list.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/coronavirus-no-easing-of-restrictions-in-mohali-after-april-20-says-dc-72955
18-04-2020||Chandigarh||Ambala coronovirus patient infected two PGI employees||The two sanitation workers from Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research have contracted coronavirus from an infected patient admitted to the hospital, officials said.The two sanitation workers, one from Chandigarh and the other from Nayagaon, were infected by a patient from Ambala who was admitted to the hospital.Some 43 persons who met him recently have been tracked down and isolated. Eleven of his colleagues, 15 family members, seven household contacts and 15 community contacts were traced, authorities said.Authorities are still trying to find the source of another case in the city---a 52-year-old woman from Sector 30 who tested positive on Friday. Authorities say she did not travel anywhere recently, confounding authorities about how she could have got the infection.A possible explanation, officials say, is that she contracted the infection from another patient from the same sector who was diagnosed last month. Although they do not know each other directly, what seems likely to health officials is that she contracted the infection from that person through a third person.“His house is in the lane behind that of the woman’s. She also has a few relatives in the same area. There could be chances of her getting in contact with him through a third person. Houses in Sector 30 are quite close. We have taken samples of a few persons living in the area,” said an official.That person, a man in his early 20s who began to show symptoms of the virus last month after he returned from Dubai, has now recovered.The woman recently visited some relatives in Maloya and also went to visit some neighbours and relatives in her own sector, forcing authorities to quarantine all of them.Authorities have so far home-quarantined some people in Behlana, Raipur Khurd and Sector 29, and sealed off a chemists shop, a grocery store and a Verka booth.Some 75 people have been tracked down and quarantined in all in her case, officials said.Additional Municipal Commissioner-cum-nodal officer Anil Kumar Garg said: “The infection for the two workers has been traced to an Ambala resident admitted in the PGI earlier. The two workers used to work where he was admitted. The source of transmission in the case of the Sector 30 woman is unidentified yet.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ambala-coronovirus-patient-infected-two-pgi-employees-72953
18-04-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Chandigarh declared containment zone||Chandigarh Administration has declared the district to be a containment zone---a development that comes a day after two more coronavirus cases took the union territory’s cases to 23.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said in his latest tweet: “Since in Chandigarh corona outbreak is scattered and not confined to a specific pocket, area, village or cluster, entire district has been declared as containment zone”.The development would mean that testing would be ramped up in the city, officials said. Health authorities will actively track down cases and conduct tests according to established procedure. Containment operation will come to an end only 28 days from the date the last case in the city tests negative. The UT currently has 12 active cases.A press release said the Chandigarh Administration was drawing up a detailed plan for containment.“He (UT Adviser Manoj Parida) also stated that as per Government of India’s directions, outsiders entering the city will be quarantined for 14 days either in homes or in Government Facilities to prevent spread of infection from outside.  He, however, stated that this will not apply to neighbouring residents coming for government duty or essential service,” the release said.In a series of tweets, Parida said UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore was concerned about two sanitation workers testing positive in Chandigarh’s Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research.“Monday sector 26 Mandi will remain closed. No distribution of fruits or vegetables by government bus. You can buy from local shops from 11 to 3 as usual,” he tweeted.“Governor extremely concerned about infection among health workers. Orders strict following of protocol and complete sterilisation of all hospitals and regular monitoring by team of doctors of premises and practices,” he said in another tweet. “Active corona cases now 12.Pray it decreases.”Chandigarh reported two more cases on Friday---a woman from Sector 30 and a man from Dhanas who was employed as a sanitation worker in PGI.Additionally, another sanitation worker at PGI is was a resident of Nayagaon, also tested positive, adding to Mohali's case count.The development comes two days after the central government named Chandigarh among the 170 hotpsots---red zone districts---for coronavirus.The central government had asked all states to roll out strict lockdown and containment measures in the red zone districts to enable these to turn orange and finally green. Likewise, the Centre has asked states to ramp up testing and contact tracing in orange zone. The idea is to prevent these districts from turning red.The classification of districts is based on the scale of current disease burden in a given district and the rate at which the cases are doubling.What is a containment zone?Ministry of Health and Family Welfare defines the containment zone as a specific geographical area where coronavirus cases are found.The administration imposes strict restrictions on movements in such areas to prevent further spread. These zones are primarily aimed at mapping local transmission of the disease and prevent the contagion from spreading.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/coronavirus-chandigarh-declared-containment-zone-72946
18-04-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Soldiers at Mohali's Paraplegic Rehabilitation Center make face masks to meet growing demand||Inmates of Mohali’s Paraplegic Rehabilitation Center (PRC) and their family members residing there are making cloth face masks to meet growing demand in the light of coronavirus.  A large quantity of masks has been provided to some hospitals for their use. Masks were sold through Army Wives Welfare Association outlets and about 700 masks were distributed in Chandimandir Military Station earlier. Another 900 masks now are ready for distribution.The Paraplegic Rehabilitation Center is a premier institution undertaking rehabilitation of disabled defence personnel who become paraplegic in the line of duty, and trains them in vocational activities so that they can become economically self reliant.PRC has also distributed these masks to the police personnel and health workers on duty, poor and underprivileged persons and sanitation workers operating in the vicinity of the rehabilitation centre. The residents and their family members who are residing in the premises of PRC are also using the same masks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/coronavirus-soldiers-at-mohalis-paraplegic-rehabilitation-center-make-face-masks-to-meet-growing-demand-72944
18-04-2020||---||ANM tests positive in Ambala; district tally now 8||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, April 18An auxiliary nurse midwife on coronavirus duty tested positive for the virus on Saturday, taking the district tally to eight.Civil Surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh said the woman worked at a containment zone. She has now been admitted to an isolation ward, the doctor said.Her contacts have been quarantined, and their swab samples have been taken for testing.Ambala health authorities have so far tested 751 samples in the district, of which eight have tested positive. Authorities are waiting for results for 106 cases.Three people have so far been cured and released from hospitals.Sonepat meanwhile reported three new cases on Saturday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/anm-tests-positive-in-ambala-district-tally-now-8-72942
18-04-2020||Manpriya Singh||Away from home, this Frenchman chooses to count his blessings||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 17Of all the things that the lockdown has taught us, one of these is the art of being grateful. In the same measure, it has made us take a little detour from the usual first impulse to complain a little and crib a lot. Sylvain Choin, Director, Alliance Francaise, Chandigarh, could count the cons of the situation, being away from his home country but he chooses to count his blessings instead.“You know in France, people still have to go to the supermarkets to get their daily supplies but here they reach on our doorstep. Everything is nicely planned here and that is great.” Exchanging notes, asking about the welfare of his friends and extended family back in his home country is a daily ritual now. Rest of the day goes by, “in the work from home mode”, which now also includes being in sync with any issues faced by his staff. “It’s a worldwide situation and something so grave has never happened in this century at least. All of us have to come out of it together,” says Choin, which leads the conversation to acceptance of the lockdown among citizens. “There is no denying a few errant cases that crop up every once in a while. The situation in France is also very complicated. The lockdown has been extended till May 11. At the beginning at least there were a lot of people who viewed as an encroachment on their basic rights but not anymore,” he adds.Of course to keep things focused on a positive note, he admits to now having much more time at hand, which translates to every single meal now, had leisurely with family comprising his wife and a three-year-old son. “The three of us definitely have much more time together. Breakfast is not rushed, lunch is leisurely and evenings are spent doing so many activities together.”Time is a luxury that gives access to so many things that money perhaps can never make up for. In the meanwhile, he has learnt to cook a dish that his wife has perfected, Oeuf Mimosa, which literally translated means (deviled egg). “We play football or do puzzles. We also make it a point to read together.” While he himself has just finished with a book “Capital and Ideology” by world acclaimed French economist Thomas Piketty. “The last series that we watched together is La Casa de Papel.” It’ll be a while before we return with fondness to these days, but he sure is making what they call lockdown memories.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/away-from-home-this-frenchman-chooses-to-count-his-blessings-72738
18-04-2020||Chandigarh||Five arrested with liquor||PU stops using Zoom appChandigarh: Soon after the Ministry of Human Affairs (MHA) released an advisory to avoid using Zoom video conferencing application, PU director of computer centre, after consulting with Dean Research RK Singla, directed the university to avoid using the app. Both, the faculty and staff of Panjab University have been asked not to use the software. Chairpersons and faculty members were asked to inform the students about it too. TNSGoods train for Tamil NaduChandigarh: Two goods trains left for Tamil Nadu and Assam from the Ambala Division carrying essential items. Ambala senior divisional commercial manager Hari Mohan said all precautions were being undertaken during loading and unloading of trains. TNSConstable suspendedChandigarh: UT DGP Sanjay Baniwal on Friday suspended police constable Ram Avatar, who had left Chandigarh while on leave and returned from his village in Narnaul district, Haryana, to avoid getting quarantined there. He was posted at the Sector 36 police station. The Police said though Ram Avatar was given leave, but he was not allowed to leave Chandigarh. He was suspended following the report of the Sector 36 SHO. TNS100-tonne wheat arrives at mandiChandigarh: Wheat procurement has begun at Sector 39 grain market on Friday. Around 25 trailers carrying around 100 tonnes of wheat arrived in the mandi. An official said they expect arrival of 15,000 tonnes of wheat. TNSCovid-19 patients counselledDera Bassi: To help Covid-19 positive patients overcome mental stress, Dr Daljit Singh, Deputy Medical Commissioner, Mohali, visited Gian Sagar Hospital to boost morale of the patients. He said counselling helps patients to remove their doubts and misconceptions about the disease. TNSRs2.1 cr donated to covid FundMohali: The Punjab Urban Development Authority (PUDA), Directorate of Town and Country Planning and Water Resources Department, have contributed Rs2.10 crore to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund. TNSFire at storage facility in PanchkulaPanchkula: A fire broke out at a refined oil storage facility at Industrial Area, Phase 2, Panchkula, today. The incident was reported around 7.50 pm. No casualties were reported. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/five-arrested-with-liquor-72729
18-04-2020||Chandigarh||Man attacked  with sharp weapons||A man, identified as Varinder alias Beedi, was allegedly attacked today with sharp weapons while he was going to Colony No. 4, Industrial Area, to get some medicines. According to the police, the complainant Chandwati, victim’s mother, reported that she along with her son was going to get medicines, when suspects identified as Anand alias Lakar, Kuldip, Golu, Raj Bihari, Ranjit and Aman Tripathi, attacked him with an axe, sharp weapons and sticks. The victim has been admitted to GMCH-32. A case of attempt to murder and rioting has been registered against the suspects.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-attacked-with-sharp-weapons-72715
18-04-2020||---||Pvt hospitals asked to spare beds, ventilators||Chandigarh, April 17 Around 18 private hospitals in the city have been asked to spare ventilators and beds for Covid wards, in case the designated government facilities are rendered inadequate in future. The Director Health Services (DHS) suggested that a committee comprising representative of the DHS, IMA and private hospitals would work out the details. The committee was asked to submit its recommendation within 24 hours. As per contingency plan, approximately 500 beds in private hospitals and nursing homes have been marked for Covid care centres (mild patients). The contingency plan had also suggested that ventilators in private sector not being used at respective hospitals can also be requisitioned by the Deputy Commissioner. Private hospitals will now furnish details, including number of beds, ventilators, oxygen cylinders, doctors and support staff, among others, to the DHS. Don’t treat outstation patients, pvt hospitals told Private hospitals were advised not call their patients from other states for treatment/check-up. The hospital authorities shall inform the Nodal Officer immediately if a patient visits from another state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pvt-hospitals-asked-to-spare-beds-ventilators-72714
18-04-2020||---||Man held on murder charge||Ambala, April 17 The Ambala police have arrested a man under murder charge after a dead body was recovered from Kardhan road on April 15. The deceased has been identified as Dimple Kumar, a resident of Brahmin Majra in Ambala Cantonment, while the suspect has been identified as Dharmender.  Gurdas Ram, a resident of Brahmin Majra, alleged that on April 14 around 8 pm, his brother Dimple Kumar (36), had went to buy medicines but didn’t return. “We came to know that an unclaimed body is lying at Civil Hospital, Ambala Cantonment. When we reached there we found that it was Dimple’s body. The police had got the post-mortem done at the hospital.”  He alleged that, “On April 16, we found some blood stains on the motorcycle of my brother. When we inquired we got to know that Dimple and his friend Dharminder had gone towards Ambala Cantonment on motorcycle and my brother’s body with injuries on head and other body parts was recovered from Kardhan road.”  Gurdas alleged that Dharminder killed his brother by causing him injuries. A case has been registered under section 302 of the IPC at the Mahesh Nagar police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-held-on-murder-charge-72713
18-04-2020||Mohali||Punjabi singer arrested with 30 gm of opium||Punjabi singer Gurinder Singh, popularly known as Vadda Grewal, was arrested by the Mohali police today for possessing 30 gm of opium. The accused singer, a resident of Sangrur was admitted to a private hospital in Sohana on April 13 due to drug overdose. “We recovered 30-gm opium from his possession and registered a case in this regard,” said DSP Ramandeep. A case has been registered against him under Sections 21, 61, 85 of the NDPS Act at the Sohana police station. The accused was produced in a local court today which sent him to judicial custody in Barnala jail.  — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjabi-singer-arrested-with-30-gm-of-opium-72712
18-04-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||Stench from sewage plant peeves Mohali residents||Tribune News ServiceMohali, April 17Residents of southern sectors in Mohali, including Phase 9 and Phase 11, fear an epidemic outbreak due to foul smell emanating from a sewage treatment plant (STP) in the vicinity.Residents claimed that they were inhaling foul smell 24X7 as they stay indoors due to the curfew imposed in the wake of the Covid-19.Abhinav Sharma, a resident of Phase 9, said Phase 11, Sector 68 and Sector 69 are densely populated and the STP is situated nearby.He alleged that drying of sewage waste in the open for selling it illegally as manure was the main reason behind stench.Satpal Singh, another resident, said people preferred to sit in their balconies in the morning and evening, but foul smell has forced them to stay indoors.He said they may or may not die of the Covid-19, but they would surely die of stench.The STP in Sector 66, Mohali, is run by the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation. Out of 48 mgd sewage received at the STO, 35 mgd is treated upto secondary-level and of this 10 mgd is further treated upto tertiary-level, which is recycled for irrigation of open spaces/ gardens. Secondary treated sewage is disposed of in an open nullah.Shailender Singh, Chief Engineer, Chandigarh Municipal Corporation, said, “The plant is running successfully. If we find any fault, we will get it rectified.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/stench-from-sewage-plant-peeves-mohali-residents-72711
18-04-2020||---||PGI’s refusal to admit Covid patient irks Panchkula Civil Surgeon||Panchkula, April 17The Panchkula Civil Surgeon has expressed resentment over refusal of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) to admit a 44-year-old Covid patient (woman), who had developed respiratory symptoms.Dr Jasjeet Kaur, Civil Surgeon, Civil Hospital, said, “We were told that only Covid-19 patients from the UT will be admitted tothe PGI. However, when the matter was discussed with the UT Administrator, the latter said there was no such ban.”“We had to shift her to a private hospital in Panchkula. I have apprised higher officials, who have discussed the matter with the UT Administration,” she added.She is the same woman from Sector 15, Panchkula, whose husband, daughter and six other family members have tested Covid positive.A PGI spokesperson, Dr Ashok, said, “The government hospital in Panchkula has six ventilators. They also have a Covid designated hospital. Despite having all these facilities, I don’t know why they were pressing for admission of that patient to the PGI?”“The patient just needed to be put on oxygen. The patient, who was stated to be serious two days ago, is stable now. They are unncessarily putting a burden on us and not utilising the facilities available,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgis-refusal-to-admit-covid-patient-irks-panchkula-civil-surgeon-72710
18-04-2020||Chandigarh||‘In legal writing, be precise and simple’||The Progressive Lawyers Forum (PLF) started series of webinars at its inaugural session with Justice K Kannan (retd) on the topic “How to improve legal writing and drafting skills” here today.  Lawyers, law students and law officers of various public sector undertakings attended the session. The online event was divided into two sessions of one hour each.  While sharing his legal insight with participants, Justice Kannan said, “In legal writing, one should be precise and also know how to use simple language in pleadings.”  Satyam Tandon, a young lawyer, asked the first question during the session, followed by several others. Gaurav Goel, president, Progressive Lawyers Forum, said: “In the coming days, the PLF will be conducting online session on various legal topics wherein judges, senior lawyers and subject experts will be the guest speakers.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-legal-writing-be-precise-and-simple-72709
18-04-2020||Amarjot Kaur||Panjab University Covid-testing brigade concerned over security||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 17To ramp up the testing capacity for Covid-19, the government has identified Panjab University (PU) as one of the testing centres, designed on the Ministry of Science and Technology’s hub-and-spoke healthcare model. The venture will run in collaboration with the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER), SAS Nagar, and Institute of Microbial Technology (IMTECH).Prof Prince Sharma, Dean of Science, PU, shared: “Volunteers will have to be trained. However, we are yet to find out a methodology. Also, RNA samples don’t pose any risk of infection as the virus is inactive.”Though the project is in the nascent stage, the director of the IISER and PU’s Dean of Sciences have expressed concern that they have not received testing kits so far. On the other hand, university’s research scholars, who had volunteered to be a part of the Covid-testing brigade, have been concerned over safety, security standards and the availability of equipment at the PU.How it worksDr Gowrishankar, IISER’s Director, said the centre had been designed on the Ministry of Science and Technology’s hub-and-spoke healthcare model. “The hub will receive the sample and spokes will help in testing. In the model, IMTECH, which is already involved in the testing of clinical samples of Covid-19, can play the role of a hub. The correspondence was initiated only a couple of days ago, so everything is in a preliminary stage.”Dr Sanjeev Khosla, director of IMTECH shared: “We will initiate the testing process here. We have all facilities to inactivate the virus, isolate RNA and conduct tests. However, we are still in the arly stages of discussions with stakeholders to start testing. The most important thing is biosafety cabinets. PPE kits are also very important. We have about six to 10 RTPCR machines for testing too.”As per the model, the hub will inactivate the virus and spokes will provide machine to do the testing and they will provide the machines that will run the data.At present, ISSER has six RTPCR machines and each has different sample holders and we can run four of them. “We don’t have the facilities to work with infectious virus. What is limiting us is the time required for RNA isolation and availability of kits,” said Dr Gowrishankar.PU’s roleProf Kashmir Singh, chairperson of PU’s Department of Biotechnology, said six departments have nine RTPCR machines and the cold storage facility was also available. A pool of 40-50 scholars have volunteered for the testing. However, they are worried over availability of safety equipment.“I got to know about the apprehensions of students. We have already looked into the possibility of arranging a stay at the hostels for our volunteers. Also, PPE kits will be made available,” said Prof Singh. He added: “We have cold storage facilities and a biosafety cabinets.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-covid-testing-brigade-concerned-over-security-72708
18-04-2020||Our Correspondent ---||Rapid action force in Mandi Gobindgarh||Fatehgarh Sahib, April 17  Amid the reports of unrest among migrants, DC Amrit Kaur Gill and SSP Amneet Kondal, along with the Amloh SDM, visited Mandi Gobindgarh, where thousands of migrant labourers reside and work in approximately 400 iron and steel manufacturing units. The DC and SSP said they had deputed rapid action force in Mandi Gobindgarh and near Amloh town to control any situation. They said Amloh SDM Anand Sagar Sharma has been deputed to be in touch with labour union leaders. So far, the district administration has been successful in persuading the labour not to migrate to their respective states.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rapid-action-force-in-mandi-gobindgarh-72705
18-04-2020||---||File PF claims online||Chandigarh, April 17 The Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) has launched an initiative wherein three basics of salaries of subscribers or 75 per cent of the available share can be withdrawn by filling online claims.  Pramod Singh, Regional PF Commissioner, said online claims were being settled through online process and payments are released within two days of filling of claims. He said employees in the regional office were working from 8 am to 8 pm and even on holidays so as to provide relief to PF subscribers which may help the poor fight against the Covid-19 epidemic. The officer said all claims filed by PF subscribers had been settled promptly and grievances received in the office through all forums are to be attended on priority. He said the regional office ensured disbursement of pension to the old and poor pensioners on time even in the epidemic conditions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/file-pf-claims-online-72704
18-04-2020||Chandigarh||Food for 21K in 450 anganwadi centres||Anganwadi workers, helpers and supervisors of the Department of Social Welfare, Women and Child Development, started ‘Take Home Ration’, wherein nutritious food and ‘besan panjiri’ will be delivered at the doorsteps of 21,000 beneficiaries from approximately 450 anganwadi centres.  In addition to this, eggs, bananas and milk were also distributed, covering 53 anganwadi centres at Mouli village, Daria, Kishangarh, Sarangpur, Dhanas, Khuda Lahora, Khuda Jassu, Khuda Ali Sher, Kaimwala, Behlana, Makhanmajra, Raipur Khurd and Raipur Kalan.  Ration was also distributed among nearly 350 beneficiaries at a slum area. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/food-for-21k-in-450-anganwadi-centres-72702
18-04-2020||Chandigarh||Babla donates 700 PPE kits||Students donate packaged waterChandigarh: In their bid to help the police personnel, members of the Bhavan Old Students Society donated packaged water bottles to the UT police. Vinay Aggarwal, president of the society, along with Bhavan Vidyalaya school, 27 Sector, donated 5,000 water bottles at the Sector 39 police station to SHO Inspector Amanjot Singh. The SHO said bottles would be distributed among the police personnel working tirelessly to ensure safety of residents. TNSRs5 lakh for Red CrossChandigarh: As part of its corporate social responsibility, the regional office of Bank of Baroda, on behalf of the Chandigarh region branches, have donated Rs 5 lakh to the Indian Red Cross Society through the Deputy Commissioner, Chandigarh. The bank expressed gratitude to the UT Administration for supporting the smooth execution of “PM Garib Jan Kalyan Yojna”. TNSBank of India hands over essential food itemsChandigarh: Pukhraj Pangriya, Zonal Manager, Bank of India, along with his team, handed over essential food item packets (14 quintal of wheat flour, 14-quintal rice and seven-quintal pulses) to Saurabh Arora, Director, Cultural Affairs Chandigarh Administration, for distribution among the needy. The bank also handed over 4,000 face masks and 25 essential food item packets to Chandigarh SSP Nilambare Jagadale and handed over 1,000 face masks and 25 essential food item packets to the Sector 31 police station SHO. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/babla-donates-700-ppe-kits-72701
18-04-2020||---||2 PGI employees, Sec 30 woman test +ve||Chandigarh, April 17Two employees of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education & Research (PGI), posted in the communicable diseases ward, tested positive for Covid-19 today. As many as 11 healthcare workers have been quarantined.A 30-year-old male hospital attendant from Nayagaon and a 50-year-old male sanitation attendant from Dhanas tested positive during random testing carried out in the hospital.Meanwhile, a woman from Sector 30-B in Chandigarh also tested positive for Covid-19 today. She visited the GMSH, Sector 16, for a check-up after which she was sampled at the hospital. Her husband and son have been home-quarantined.Dr Ashok, a spokesperson for the PGI, said: “Both employees are asymptomatic as of now. We are going to investigate the source of infection. They were going to their homes after duty. They have been found positive in random testing. We tested a few employees after their duty got over.”Sec 21 resident dischargedA 30-year-old male resident of Sector 21, who came in contact with the city’s first Covid case, a UK-returned woman from Sector 21, was discharged from the PGI on Friday. With this, the total number of active cases in the city stands at 11.‘Teams deputed to collect samples of contacts’Mohali: The Civil Surgeon, Dr Manjit Singh, said teams had been deputed to collect the samples of the contacts of the PGI employee from Nayagaon, who tested positive on Friday.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said so far a total of 902 samples had been tested and 820 were found negative. As of now, 640 persons were under quarantine, while 1,874 had successfully completed the quarantine period.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-pgi-employees-sec-30-woman-test-ve-72719
18-04-2020||---||Chandigarh to get rapid testing kits soon||Chandigarh, April 17Two days after the city was declared as a hotspot district, the city will get rapid testing kits soon. Around 4,800 kits are expected to be delivered by tomorrow.“The Central Government has dispatched a lot of rapid testing kits, which will be utilised in consultation with a medical team,” said Arun Kumar Gupta, Principal Secretary, Health.He said as per the protocol of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), only persons with influenza-like illness symptoms of more than seven days would be tested with the kit. As per the ICMR, these kits will use antibody-based blood tests for Covid-19.“The UT has also authorised SRL, a private laboratory, to collect Covid-19 samples and test them at subsidised rates of Rs 4,500 per patient. Any citizen can take advantage of this facility,” said Gupta.“If anybody fulfills our criterion, the government is committed to do the testing at its laboratory free of cost. But, if anybody wants to get the testing done as extra precaution, he or she can go to the private laboratory,” said Gupta.During the daily review meeting, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore instructed Dr G Dewan, Director, Health Services, to ensure that private doctors running clinics and dispensaries are trained properly in handling Covid cases so that the unfortunate situation, as happened in Panchkula, does not arise here. Badnore expressed hope that with full cooperation of city residents, they could get out of the red zone.MC Commissioner KK Yadav said baby milk food would be given to mothers with small children wherever required. He stated that all traders in the Sector 26 market had been directed to keep sanitisers ready with them for necessary hygienic practice. All delivery boys had been mandated to wear gloves and use sanitisers and masksc so that there was no risk of infection while distributing ration and vegetables.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said the Administration would not seek the review of list of hotspot districts.On converting Panjab University hostels into Covid-19 care centres, Parida said: “We will keep them as stand by, but there are very less chances of using the hostels. These can be used only if the number of Covid cases goes above 1,000.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-to-get-rapid-testing-kits-soon-72700
18-04-2020||---||3 more cases surface in Panchkula||Panchkula, April 17Three fresh Covid-19 positive cases were reported from Panchkula district today, taking the tally to 17. The patients had travelled to Sikar in Rajasthan to attend a religious congregation there.After they returned to their Banoi Khuda Baksh village in Kalka, the Health Department quarantined them at various facilities. Those who tested positive today aged 18 years, 27 years and 68 years. Civil Surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur confirmed the development.Of the total 17 patients, 6 are the ones who attended the religious congregation in Sikar.The district now has 15 active cases.Screening of Sec 15 residentsHealth officials on Friday conducted screening of Sector 15 residents with flu-like symptoms to contain the spread of Covid-19. Those who might have come in contact with the infected family members were also screened.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-more-cases-surface-in-panchkula-72699
18-04-2020||Amit Sharma||Hi-tech cameras to keep eye on nakas||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 17With an aim to monitor nakas while sitting in the office, the UT police have brought into use 4G internet wireless cameras, which record and live webcast the proceedings at the nakas.After the lockdown, the UT police, for the first time, have now started using these cameras so that officers can keep an eye on the enforcement of the curfew orders while sitting in the office or on the move. The cameras were installed at two nakas in the city, including one on the road separating Sector 27 and 28.DSP Charanjit Singh said there was a need for social distancing and at the same time there was also a need for keeping a strict vigil in the city for which these cameras were being used. “Police officers will keep an eye on the functioning at the nakas with the help of these cameras,” the DSP added.Cops have also been using body cameras so that any unruly behaviour from anyone violating the curfew orders can be recorded.The cameras were procured by the police in 2016 and the project was named Divya Drishti. It was launched with the help of 4G wireless cameras and body cameras. The idea behind the project was to enhance surveillance at traffic nakas and to end corrupt practices in the system.397 rounded upA total of 397 persons were rounded up by the Chandigarh Police on Friday for violating the curfew orders.The police said 193 vehicles were detained and 136 impounded in different parts of the city. The police also booked a morning walker under Section 188 of the IPC. Since March 23, 15,010 persons have been rounded up, 7,527 vehicles have been detained and 4,518 vehicles impounded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hi-tech-cameras-to-keep-eye-on-nakas-72698
18-04-2020||Sandeep Rana||Duty first for him in battle against Covid||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 17At a time when people prefer to stay indoors fearing the Covid-19 infection, a few bravehearts such as Municipal Corporation junior assistant Vivek Mehta are visting houses of those under quarantine and interacting with them.Mehta is a leader of one of the four contact-tracing and quarantine teams formed under Additional Commissioner Anil Kumar Garg, who is the nodal officer. His job involves visiting houses which are to be quarantined and obtain details from them.“Recently, we went to the house of a PU assistant professor after he was found positive for Covid. I was talking to his mother-in-law to get details of more contacts and the next day we got to know that she had also tested positive. We were taken aback, but with time, these things are becoming normal for us,” shares Mehta.Initially, a team used to cover 25 to 30 houses in a day for quarantining. Now, it’s quite less. A team has eight members, which leaves from the MC building in two different cars after getting the morning briefing from the nodal officer. Garg calls up or meets the Covid positive patient and the doctor concerned to know about his contacts. The information is then shared with the four team heads — Vivek Mehta, DP Singh, Vijay Bahadur and Paramvir Thakur — who submit their reports in the evening.“When our team visits a house, not only its occupants, but even neighbours get panicky. Most people cooperate with us, but some start quarrelling. Then, we make them understand that it is for their good that we are doing this. We also have a family and we also fear the virus, but its part of our job,” he said.Mehta asks questions about their travel history, whom they met and the places they visited in the city. Another team member puts a stamp on the hand of a quarantined person, another person sanitises the stamp, one clicks a pic and one pastes a quarantine poster outside the house. Each team comprises a policeman as well.“I would say all members are daredevil. There were a few members who stopped coming after three-four days. Even our other colleagues appreciate our efforts. We get satisfaction and feel like a soldier these days. “Initially, my family asked me why I was doing this, why not anybody else. I told them someone has to do it, why not me,” smiles Mehta.After reaching home in Sector 19, he immediately removes his clothes, puts them in hot water for washing, sanitises his phone and other belongings and finally takes a shower.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/duty-first-for-him-in-battle-against-covid-72697
18-04-2020||---||Private doctor booked on charge of negligence||Panchkula, April 17The police have booked a private doctor in Sector 11 here for allegedly failing to inform the health authorities about treating a suspected Covid-19 patient.The woman, a Postal Department official living in Sector 15 here, later tested positive and subsequently infected her husband, daughter and 6 other members of her family.The FIR was registered under Section 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the IPC against Dr Rishi Nagpal, who runs a hospital, at the Sector 5 police station.The woman had developed some symptoms on April 2. On April 6, she visited a private hospital where the doctor conducted an X-ray and found a spot on her lungs. It is alleged the doctor didn’t inform the authorities and prescribed her antibiotics.The woman reported to the hospital on April 12, following which her samples were tested. Later, she was tested positive. Her husband, who is an architect, was found positive a day later.Health Minister Anil Vij had directed that an FIR be filed against the erring doctor for negligence.Panchkula Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja told The Tribune that there was a negligence on part of the doctor.The doctor, who is home quarantined, had tested negative.The Indian Medical Association, Panchkula, in its official statemet, said the doctor had been wrongly implicated.“The IMA, Panchkula, stands by the doctor as he has fulfilled his duties to inform the district health authorities in time,” it said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/private-doctor-booked-on-charge-of-negligence-72696
18-04-2020||Deepankar Sharda---||Bakers flout norms, sell non-essential products||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, April 17 Despite the UT Administration issuing directions to supply only essential products during the lockdown period in the wake of the Covid-19 scare, some bakeries have been found selling non-essential products.  A Sector-35 based baker is selling cakes, which is a non-essential categorised product. Even food aggregators, including Zomato and Swiggy are also offering home delivery of cakes. They claim to pick up cakes from Sector 19 and industrial area-based bakeries. The Tribune team also possesses bill of a cake purchased from the Sector 35 outlet. “Cakes are generally tagged as bakery products. Mainly, we are selling breads and identical products,” said a manager of the Sector-35 based outlet.  UT Adviser Manoj Parida said bakeries have been only allowed to sell breads. “Food aggregators can only deliver ration and vegetables in Chandigarh. The Sector-35 based baker is only allowed to sell bread, not cakes. Violators will be punished,” said Parida.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bakers-flout-norms-sell-non-essential-products-72695
