19-04-2020||Chandigarh||Keep record of people given medicine for flu, Chandigarh medical stores told||The Chandigarh Administration on Sunday asked medical stores and doctors to maintain a record of people given medicine for the treatment of flu and similar symptoms.The order issued by Chandigarh Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar will come into force from Monday and aimed at tracing coronavirus patients in the city, from where 26 cases have been reported so far.           According to the order, all medical stores, chemists shops, including Jan Aushdhi shops, and doctors, particularly general physicians running private clinics, will have to maintain a record—name, mobile number and address—of the buyers or patients given medicines for fever, cold, throat infection, flu and similar symptoms.They will have to hand over this record to the director, health services, on a daily basis.The director will then track the patients with COVID-19 symptoms and take all necessary actions to control the outbreak of COVID-19, the order said.                             Any violation of this order will invite action under Section 188 of the IPC, it said.                  Earlier, UT Chandigarh Adviser Manoj Parida asked people to cooperate.“Chemists are being directed to keep personal details of purchasers of medicines for cold, cough flu, etc. please cooperate,” Parida tweeted.Chandigarh has been declared as coronavirus hotspot. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/keep-record-of-people-given-medicine-for-flu-chandigarh-medical-stores-told-73358
19-04-2020||Mohali||Nod to NHAI to restart construction of Kharar flyover||Decks have been cleared for the construction of the Mohali-Kharar flyover and the elevated road as the district administration here on Sunday gave permission to the National Highway Authority of Indian (NHIA).Confirming the same, Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said the NHAI had applied for the restarting of the work on the flyover as the labour was sitting idle and the project’s completion was in public interest.The NHAI assures that all precautions will be taken to ensure everyone’s safety, he added.It is pertinent to mention here that work on the Kharar flyover project had already delayed due to the lockdown in view of the coronavirus.Even residents of the town have urged the district administration to allow the construction work as there is no traffic on the road.The deadline for the completion of the flyover was September this year but as the work on the project was stopped for over one month the project would be delayed.However, as the district administration has given approval for starting the work there was hope that the project would be completed as the construction company would not be facing any hurdles in the movement of its men and machinery.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nod-to-nhai-to-restart-construction-of-kharar-flyover-73352
19-04-2020||Chandigarh||COVID-19 parcel train to run between Dewas and Jammu via Chandigarh||To facilitate the movement of goods to different parts of the country during the nationwide lockdown in the wake of COVID-19, the Railways will run a Dewas-Jammu Tawi-Dewas parcel express train on April 22.The train will depart from Dewas in Madhya Pradesh on April 22 at 2000 hours to reach Jammu Tawi  at 0200 hours on April 24.On the return leg, the train will depart Jammu Tawi on April 24 at 2000 Hours and reach Dewas at 2130 hours on April 26, according to a statement issued here on Sunday.Consisting of 10 parcel van and two sleeping-cum-luggage rake (SLR) coaches the train will have halts at Chandigarh, New Delhi, Rewari, Jaipur, Sawai Madhopur and Nagdai railway stations en route on both directions.Senior Divisional Commercial Manager Hari Mohan said that interested parties and suppliers can avail the facility for transportation of essential goods from Chandigarh to Jammu Tawi and other stations en route by getting in touch with the railway authorities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-parcel-train-to-run-between-dewas-and-jammu-via-chandigarh-73346
19-04-2020||Chandigarh||3 more test coronavirus positive in Chandigarh, Sector 30 sealed||Three new coronavirus cases were reported in Chandigarh on Sunday, taking the total number of cases to 26. The family contacts of the 53-year-old woman, who tested positive on Saturday, were diagnosed with COVID-19.The contacts include her 56-year-old husband, her 25-year-old son, and a one-and-a-half-year granddaughter. The authorities decided to seal a portion of Sector 30 after four cases surfaced from the same area.However, out of the seven family contacts of the COVID-19 positive case of Dhanas (PGI employee) six have turned out to be negative.The result of one is still awaited.Eight remote community contacts of the same case at Dhanas have been sampled at PGIMER.Meanwhile, a 32-year-old man, who returned from Canada, has been cured and discharged from PGIMER.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-more-test-coronavirus-positive-in-chandigarh-sector-30-sealed-73327
19-04-2020||Chandigarh||CRPF distributes 200 packets of food in Chandigarh amid coronavirus lockdown||Central Reserve Police Force’s (CRPF) 51st Battalion is daily giving 200 packets of cooked food to labourers and migrants to people residing in different colonies in Chandigarh amid coronavirus lockdown.The distribution of cooked food is being done with the coordination of the Chandigarh Administration.This exercise will continue to mitigate their problem due to the lockdown order.The battalion, along with Chandigarh Police, is enforcing the lockdown in the city and maintaining extra vigil at various 'nakas' to check migration.It is manning 18 'nakas' along the outer periphery of Chandigarh and is also performing duties like maintaining law and order, VIP protection and security to Punjab Raj Bhawan and Model Jail, Burail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/crpf-distributes-200-packets-of-food-in-chandigarh-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-73303
19-04-2020||Chandigarh||10 new coronavirus cases in a day take Punjab tally to 238||With 10 more cases — six from Jalandhar and four from SAS Nagar district —  being reported on Sunday, the total number of coronavirus patients in Punjab has gone up to 244. An infant and a senior citizen were among Mohali’s four new coronavirus cases, all relatives of an employee at the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research who recently tested positive.The 26-year-old wife of the PGI employee and his month-old, a 60-year-old woman and a 19-year-old man all tested positive on Sunday, officials said.  They are all residents of Nayagaon. The employee, a sanitation worker, was among two people on PGI’s payroll to be diagnosed with the infection recently.His wife and daughter have been admitted to PGI, while the other two are currently at Gian Sagar Hospital.The development takes Mohali’s tally to 61, with 53 active cases and two deaths.Punjab has reported 16 deathsMohali is the district with the highest number of cases in Punjab and two reported deaths.Punjab government has since identified 17 hotspots in the state---Mohali being the first in the list---to ramp its containment strategy. The state also imposed a curfew until May 3.The central government meanwhile named four districts in the state---Mohali, SBS Nagar, Jalandhar and Pathankot---among 170 read zones in the country.Meanwhile, seven people tested negative in Muktsar. The district has only one case so far---an 18-year-old resident of Uttar Pradesh’s Meerut who had come to a local mosque on March 18 after attending last month’s Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi tested positive on April 8.He is currently being treated at a local hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/10-new-coronavirus-cases-in-a-day-take-punjab-tally-to-238-73291
19-04-2020||Chandigarh||No May 9 deadline for completing syllabi: PU VC||In a tweet on Panjab University’s official website this Thursday, Vice-Chancellor Raj Kumar stated that problem solving/extra classes for 15-20 days and practical’s would be conducted in an offline mode. The tweet deems at the May 9 deadline null and void as the lockdown would be lifted on May 3.PU’s Dean (University Instructions), Prof Shankarji Jha said, “We got the notice today. May 9 deadline doesn’t stand anymore. An official update will be given.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-may-9-deadline-for-completing-syllabi-pu-vc-73124
19-04-2020||ATM van||ATM route plan for today||Location to start: Andhra Bank, Sector 17-B,ChandigarhCoordinator: Satvinder GurnamContact No. 8146903533Proposed route: Sector 20 and Sector 30, Chandigarh (10.30 am -4.30 pm)Time to start: 10.30 amATM van, Canara BankLocation to start: Canara Bank, Plot No. 1, Sector 34-A, ChandigarhCoordinator: RipinContact No. 9466779525Proposed route: Dhanas village and Dhanas Colony, Chandigarh (10.30 am – 4.30pm)Time to start: 10.30 amATM van, SBILocation to start: LHO, SBI, Sector 17-B, ChandigarhCoordinator: Deepak ChechiContact No. 9478535876Proposed route: Sector 48 (Societies) Chandigarh (10.30am–1.30pm), Sector 49, Chandigarh (1.30pm – 4.30pm)Time to start: 10.30 am||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/atm-route-plan-for-today-73123
19-04-2020||---||Workers demand pay, stage protest||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib, April 18A large number of migrant labourers who work at World Wide Foods Private Limited, Mandi Gobindgarh, hit the streets and protested against the factory owner for not helping them during the lockdown.Amloh SDM Anand Sagar Sharma along with Mandi Gobindgarh SHO rushed to the site and interacted with labourers. Sharma said the administration has been providing meals and ration regularly to labourers in Mandi Gobindgarh, but these workers were protesting as their owner refused to give salary.The SDM said he called the representatives of both parties and factory owner agreed to provide dry ration for 15 days and Rs 2,000 per person immediately. Remaining salary will be paid within a week, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/workers-demand-pay-stage-protest-73119
19-04-2020||Mona||Ex-Army General finds solace with books, stays in touch with friends||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 18“Not far from now, restrictions might be lifted, but life would never be the same,” said General VP Malik. Stuck at home in Panchkula, he has been following the lockdown rules and has figured out various ways to keep himself occupied.He said, “I begin my day with morning walk within the house. Then I read newspapers. I get three papers at home, The Tribune being one of them, which takes considerable time. Most of the day is spent in reading and writing. I keep getting messages and emails about geo-strategic subjects from the world over. It’s good to keep updated. There’s a lot to read and comment on.”“Post-lunch nap is almost forced these days,” said Gen Malik. He makes sure to stay connected with family and friends. “Every day, I talk to two or three friends. I also keep calling my children, which is an important part of my routine these days.”“One of the best ways to spend time is to brush up your reading habits. I always keep a book beside me. Currently, I am about to finish one by my friends Sunil Munjal,” he said.General Malik enjoys spending time at home. “Earlier, work and seminars kept me busy, but now I’m happy to find time to spend with my plants. I am happy to be quarantined as I get more time to spend with my wife,” he said.“This unprecedented situation has made one realise about life’s uncertainty. One needs to prepare oneself physically and mentally. Things may stay the same for us as we are old, but we do think about our children and grandchildren,” he shared.The decorated soldier, Former Chief of Army Staff, does miss going to a park with his wife for morning walks. He said, “I miss going out for meetings, seminars and lectures that were an integral part of my life before the lockdown.”As soon as life gets back to normal, he wants to resume walks with his spouse. “I want to meet my friends, get back to socialising in the evenings. If the situation permits, I would love to visit my son and daughter. I have started being part of webinars, it’s important to keep abreast of the situation,” he signs off.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ex-army-general-finds-solace-with-books-stays-in-touch-with-friends-73118
19-04-2020||Chandigarh||MC uses drone to sanitise mandi||The Chandigarh Municipal Corporation today started sanitisation of Anaj Mandi, Sector 39, here, with a drone.Mayor Raj Bala Malik and Commissioner KK Yadav were present during the sanitisation work. The drone can cover 7 metres of spraying range while flying. Having 10 liters of tank capacity, the drone can continuously fly up to 25 minutes in a single battery charge and cover a maximum of 60 to 90 acres depending upon the location. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mc-uses-drone-to-sanitise-mandi-73116
19-04-2020||Our Correspondent||Amid curfew, harvesting of  wheat begins at Jawaharpur||Dera Bassi, April 18The wheat harvesting process has begun in Jawaharpur village under the strict watch of a seven member committee.Dera Bassi SDM Kuldeep Bawa, who is the head of the committee, said a total of three combines have been pressed into service for the harvesting work.Of these three, two are from outside while one belongs to the village. The machines were thoroughly sanitised being used for cutting the crop. The SDM also added that a total of 250 acres of land is under harvesting in the village. Till date, 350 MT crop has been produced.He further added that the entire harvesting process is being carried out by the District Administration with special emphasis on maintaining social distancing, besides providing the people engaged in the work with masks, gloves and sanitisers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/amid-curfew-harvesting-of-wheat-begins-at-jawaharpur-73115
19-04-2020||Naina Mishra||Rapid test: Chandigarh to monitor  60 with flu-like symptoms||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 18Over 60-odd cases with influenza like sickness (ILI) screened during the health survey in the city will be closely monitored for rapid testing. Chandigarh has received 4,800 rapid testing kits after it was declared a hotspot by the Central Government.The UT Health Department has screened 6.85 lakh residents in the city through door-to-door health survey. The cases of ILI (cough, cold, low-grade fever, sore throat) are being monitored by the Health Department.“Our attempt will be to carry RT-PCR test within seven days of symptoms. If any such case comes which has more than seven days of symptoms of the ILI, then only we will conduct rapid test. As on date, the possibility of anti-body test is quite less in the city,” said the UT Health Secretary, Arun Gupta.He said, “We are closely monitoring symptoms of over 60 ILI cases that came up in the door-to-door screening.”All fever clinics and the government hospitals will carry rapid testing in the city. UT Administrator expresses concern||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rapid-test-chandigarh-to-monitor-60-with-flu-like-symptoms-73114
19-04-2020||Surinder Bhardwaj||Doctor booked for flouting social distancing norm||Fatehgarh Sahib, April 18The local police have booked three persons, including a doctor, for violating social distancing norms here.The police have registered a case under Section 188 of the IPC against Dr Deepak Jot, owner of Deepak Scanner and Diagnosis, Sirhind, and two of his employees Jagdeep Singh and Jagdev Singh.Fatehgarh Sahib SSP Amneet Kondal said during patrolling, GS Sikand, SHO, Fatehgarh Sahib, noticed a large number of cars parked outside Deepak Scanner and he went inside and found approximately 20 persons sitting near the reception area.The SSP said the doctor had already been warned by the Fatehgarh Sahib DSP and the SHO to maintain social distancing, but he ignored the directions.However, IMA doctors protested the move. They said on the one hand, the CM and the government were issuing warnings to open OPDs and diagnosis centres, while on the other, they were being booked. Dr Deepak said even in adjoining districts, Ludhiana and Ropar, all diagnosis centres were closed. Taking social responsibility, he decided to open the centre, he said. He said today, a nine-month pregnant woman needed an immediate scan. He said as he was scanning her, two of her relatives entered the centre by disobeying the guards he had deputed. He said he could maintain social distancing in his clinic and not on road.20 persons found near reception area||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/doctor-booked-for-flouting-social-distancing-norm-73113
19-04-2020||---||Cops provide ration to students from Ladakh||Our CorrespondentKharar, April 18The Kharar City police today distributed ration and eatables to nine girl students from Ladakh, who were residing in Kharar. The girls are pursuing different courses in nearby colleges and were struck due to curfew. They were putting up at Gurdwara Akali Daftar road since then.According to the information, the girls informed the president of a students’ association in Chandigarh that they have ran out of food and essential commodities. The information reached to a judicial officer in Mohali. Bhagwant Singh, SHO (City), Kharar, was directed by the judicial officer to solve the problems of the students. The SHO himself visited the residence of these girls and gave them ration and other eatables.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cops-provide-ration-to-students-from-ladakh-73100
19-04-2020||---||No major crop damage in Mohali due to rain: DC||Tribune News ServiceMohali, April 18No major crop damage has been reported from any party of the district due to unseasonal rains and hailstorms that lashed the region on Friday.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said no damage had been reported from any party of the district. Even the crops that had arrived at the 28 grain markets set up for wheat procurement in the district had been covered with tarpaulins.Crops that had arrived at the 28 grain markets set up for wheat procurement have been covered with tarpaulins. — Girish Dayalan, DC, MohaliDayalan said wheat procurement was going on smoothly in the 28 grain markets of the district. He said the district administration was laying emphasis on ensuring hygienic conditions in these markets so as to check the Covid spread effectively. He further said social distancing guidelines were being ensured in every market and masks and gloves were being distributed among both farmers and labourers.He said wheat procurement entered the third day in the district today and till date, the district saw the arrival of 17,308 metric tonnes of wheat throughout the district, of which, 16,522 metric tonnes had been purchased.Dayalan further said till date, Pungrain had procured 3,226 metric tonnes, Markfed 3,449 metric tonnes and Punsup procured 2,188 metric tonnes, while Punjab State Warehousing Corporation procured 2,006 metric tonnes of wheat, respectively. The Central government agency, FCI, had procured 1,718 metric tonnes of wheat, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-major-crop-damage-in-mohali-due-to-rain-dc-73095
19-04-2020||Chandigarh||MC distributes baby food||The Municipal Corporation (MC) has started distribution of baby food for the needy mothers. KK Yadav, Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, said “Baby food for the needy mothers has been arranged by the MC. Distribution will continue in different areas.”“Baby food will ensure proper nourishment to infants. Please wear face mask and stay safe,” said Mayor Raj Bala Malik. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mc-distributes-baby-food-73094
19-04-2020||Chandigarh||PU library starts remote login||Panjab University (PU) has set up off-campus accessibility for almost all its e-resources, including AC Joshi Library, which could be accessed earlier on the university campus only. ACIn the first instance, the remote login is provided only to faculty members of the university. Subsequently, the facility will be extended to research scholars. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-library-starts-remote-login-73093
19-04-2020||Chandigarh||Lodge Indian donates PPE kits to Deputy Commissioner||Sanitisers donatedChandigarh: Rajesh Gupta, Regional Manager (RM), State Bank of India, donated sanitisers to KPS Mahi, Additional Secretary (Health) and Dr Gajinder Dewan, Director, Health and Family Welfare Government Multi-Speciality Hospital, Sector 16, Chandigarh. TNSJoshi foundation donates 70,000 food packetsChandigarh: The Joshi Foundation and Heart Foundation have achieved an unbelievable mark of serving nearly 70,000 needy persons in a span of just 16 days. “I am happy to see that the NGOs are following strict measure of hygiene and cleanliness in the kitchen,” said Nazuk Kumar, SDM (Central).Both Joshi Foundation and Heart Foundation started the community kitchen on April 3. Around 4000 free-meal packets are cooked under ‘Jan Jan Bhojan — Feed the Needy’ programme. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lodge-indian-donates-ppe-kits-to-deputy-commissioner-73092
19-04-2020||Deepankar Sharda||NGOs face tough time during lockdown||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 18As the Indian Government has extended the countrywide lockdown till May 3, many NGOs are now staring at shortage of money to prepare free food for the underprivileged populace in the city. NGOs are looking at the option of either stopping production or reducing quantity of food.“It’s difficult to run free food service straightaway for 40 days for a small-time NGO like us. NGOs headed by politicians get donations easily. We have been managing donations from youngsters. As they too are under tremendous pressure, I don’t think we will be able to continue,” said an NGO member requesting anonymity.Interestingly, NGOs run by politicians in Chandigarh are providing food to their strongholds in order to get into good books of their future voters.“In the first week of the lockdown, there was repetition while serving food. Both the UT Administration and NGOs served food twice at the same venue,” said another NGO member.Beneficiaries want more distribution centresThe UT Administration claims to serve 55,000 packets of food on daily basis. The exact figure of underprivileged population is still not known. However, beneficiaries want more distribution centres to avoid rush. “The area Station House Officer (SHO) has collected data, which has been scrutinised by the SDMs concerned. As per the given instruction, we have been given the task of preparing food,” said Tejdeep Singh Saini, head (Food operations), Chandigarh.“Nearly 80% of supply from NGOs/volunteers is distributed through our network. This step has been taken to avoid repetition of food distribution at the same venue. There are few, who serve food directly,” he added.The Administration has set up three kitchens — Burail Central Jail, Chandigarh Institute of Hotel Management, Sector 42, and Red Cross Society — to prepare both lunch and dinner.Meanwhile, beneficiaries also demanded that food should be served on time. “On many days, we get lunch at around 4 pm and dinner at 11 pm. We request officials to give us food on proper time. There have been many instances, when we have faced shortage of food,” said Sushi, a Dadu Majra resident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ngos-face-tough-time-during-lockdown-73090
19-04-2020||---||Residents can access services through helpline, says Dayalan||Tribune News ServiceMohali, April 18In order to ensure that the common people don’t face any problem in getting essential supplies owing to the curfew imposed in the city to combat coronavirus, the district administration has launched toll-free helpline numbers.Disclosing this here today, Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said, “The helpline No. 112 set up by the state government is operational for seeking information about law and order situation, the police or the curfew. Similarly, No. 104 has been set up as medical helpline. While in case of seeking ambulance service, helpline No. 108 can be contacted.”“In case of any difficulty regarding the essential supplies the general helpline No. 1905 is operational to cater to the needs of the people. If anyone wants to seek advice of tele-doctor then toll free No. 18001804104 is operational,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/residents-can-access-services-through-helpline-says-dayalan-73089
19-04-2020||---||Right time to complete Kharar flyover: Residents||Our CorrespondentKharar, April 18Residents of the town have already suffered much due to slow pace of the flyover construction on the Mohali-Kharar road for the past many years. Under the present circumstances, there is no hope of early completion of the flyover.The Kharar flyover project, which was started in 2015m has already missed several deadlines. One problem or the other created hurdles in the flyover construction. Commuters faced long traffic jams on the road during the pre-lockdown period.At present, there is no traffic on the road and the construction has stopped due to the curfew in the wake of the Covid pandemic. Area residents want the work to be resumed while observing social distancing.“If wheat can be harvested, groceries, chemists and agricultural tools shops can open, petrol pumps can operate, why can’t the flyover construction work start while maintaining social distance,” asked some area residents.According to information, the Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India, has issued guidelines to all states for the continuation of construction work at projects within the limits of municipalities where workers are available on the site. L&T is constructing the Kharar flyover.When contacted, KL Sachdeva, project director, National Highway Authority of India, said, “We have already sought permission from the district administration to resume the construction activity at the project site.” “This is the right time to restart the flyover construction. After getting permission from the district administration, the work on the flyover can be started within hours,” he added.Former Punjab Vidhan Sabha Deputy Speaker Bir Devinder Singh has asked the state government to give its nod for starting the construction of the long-pending Kharar flyover project.“The government should give orders to resume the flyover construction from Mohali to the Khanpur T-point and the elevated highway at the earliest. This is the best time to start its construction,” he said.Earlier, the flyover construction work was running at a snail’s pace due to huge traffic on the highway connecting with the state capital, he added.“The government should take advantage of the curfew as negligible traffic is witnessed on one of the busiest roads in the area. It should give strict instructions to contractors for resuming the project,” he said.“Besides, the government and the Minister for Public Works Department should also pay attention to the Landran crossing on the Kharar-Banur-Tepla road. This crossing is a hotspot of traffic congestion on normal days,” the Taksali leader added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/right-time-to-complete-kharar-flyover-residents-73088
19-04-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Coaches play crucial role off the field||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 18Usually known for maintaining discipline on sports field, coaches of the UT Sports Department are now playing the same role off the field by helping the UT Administration in enforcing the lockdown restrictions across Chandigarh.A majority of the coaches from the UT Sports Department and the UT Sports Council have been appointed as observers/helpers with various parties instituted by the UT Administration. While some coaches have been given the task of maintaining social distancing in local markets, others have been asked to distribute food among the underprivileged here.As many as 54 coaches work under the UT Administration. Not only these sports professionals, but also managers, who look after the technicalities of stadiums, are part of this frontline warriors’ team.“Most of our coaches have been assigned different duties to help the Administration. They have been attached with teams maintaining social distancing, going door-to-door for fruit/vegetable supplies, distributing food and helping police/doctors on certain occasions,” said Tejdeep Singh Saini, UT Director, Sports.“As all our coaching centres are shut till further orders, we have diverted the manpower towards this social cause. In this hour of distress, we want them to play a crucial role in maintaining strict discipline. Coaches have great respect in our society and they are living up to that. So far, they have done an excellent job,” said Saini.“It’s been nearly a month that we have been performing this task. I still carry a whistle to control the crowd. However, this is a different field where I am performing the same duty. Even on humanitarian grounds, everyone should play his/her role in developing a society and I am doing the same,” said a coach requesting anonymity.While talking about the problems they face, coaches said people in the city were cooperative, but at some places they had witnessed lack of patience. “There are certain areas in the city wherein residents become impatient. We ensure that everyone gets a patient hearing so as to help overcome their fear. After all, we all are humans and we have to support each other in this hour of crisis,” said another coach.The Sports Director is also heading food distribution in Chandigarh, while KK Yadav, MC Commissioner and Secretary, Sports, is among the main team members of the UT Administration’s war room.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/coaches-play-crucial-role-off-the-field-73087
19-04-2020||Sandeep Rana||Covid patient from Ambala infected 2 PGI employees||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 18The contact tracing and quarantine squad of the UT has traced the source of virus transmission of two PGI sanitation workers while that of the Sector 30-B woman, is unknown yet. Three of them had tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday.According to officials, the PGI workers got infected from a Covid patient from Ambala, who was earlier admitted here. In the case of the 52-year-old woman, there seems to be a bleak possibility that she got the infection from a patient, who had returned from abroad recently and lives in the same area. He had later recovered.“His house falls in the lane behind that of the woman’s. She also has a few relatives in the same area. There could be chances of her getting in contact with him through a third person. Houses in Sector 30 are quite close. We have taken samples of a few persons living in the area,” said an official.According to the official, the woman has no travel history. She has her relatives in Maloya where she had gone. The persons whom she met in Maloya, along with her few neighbours and relatives in Sector 30, have been quarantined. Members of a house each in Behlana, Raipur Khurd and Sector 29 have been home-quarantined. A chemists shop, a grocery store and a Verka booth in Sector 30 have been sealed. A total of 75 contacts have been traced and quarantined till now.As the cases of two PGI workers, one is a resident of Nayagaon in Punjab while the other, a 50-year-old man, is from Dhanas. A total of 43 persons, who came in a contact with the latter, have been quarantined. Among them are his 11 colleagues and seven household contacts.Anil Kumar Garg, MC Additional Commissioner-cum-nodal officer, confirmed, “The two workers’ transmisson source has been traced to an Ambala resident admitted in the PGI earlier. The two workers used to work where he was admitted. The source of transmission in the case of the Sector 30 woman is unidentified yet.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-patient-from-ambala-infected-2-pgi-employees-73086
19-04-2020||Mohali||Samples of Nayagaon patient’s kin taken||No fresh case of Covid-19 surfaced in the district today. The health authorities have taken samples of the family members and close contacts of the Nayagaon resident who tested positive for the virus on Friday evening.The Nayagaon resident has been working in the Covid ward of the PGI, Chandigarh. Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said they would start surveillance in the village to detect other cases of Covid-19, if any. He said the family members of the Covid patient, who was admitted in the isolation ward of the PGI for treatment, had been home-quarantined after taking their samples. The test reports are awaited.He said they would take the samples of the other contacts of the patient in the village.The DC said 636 persons were quarantined in the district as of now while 1,893 had successfully completed their quarantine period. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/samples-of-nayagaon-patients-kin-taken-73085
19-04-2020||Panchkula||One booked for attempt to flee quarantine centre||The police have booked a person from a Pinjore village, who is currently quarantined at Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya in Mouli village of Barwala, for allegedly trying to run away from the facility.The suspect allegedly broke the door of a bathroom around 12:15 am on Saturday in an attempt to flee but was nabbed by cops deployed at the quarantine facility.The police said, “The suspect misbehaved with the policemen on duty. He then got involved in a scuffle with an ASI-rank official and tore his uniform. He created a ruckus. However, officials managed to send him back to his room.”Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja and DCP Mohit Handa today visited the quarantine facility to take stock of the situation.Inspector Rampal, SHO at Raipur Rani Police station, said, “As many as nine policemen deployed at the facility are being medically screened.” A case has been registered under the IPC and the Epidemic Diseases Act. As many as 73 persons are quarantined at the facility. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-booked-for-attempt-to-flee-quarantine-centre-73084
19-04-2020||Chandigarh||Disinfectant tunnels in Chandigarh shut||The disinfectant tunnels, which were opened with fanfare, at the grain market in Sector 26 and the MC office here recently, have been shut following a recommendation by the PGI.According to a letter written by the PGI to the MC, disinfectants work at a particular concentration after a specified period of time. It is difficult to predict whether the concentration is achieved while it is sprayed. Moreover, a majority of the disinfectants are toxic for human body. Thus, a study should be done to evaluate which disinfectants are non-toxic for human body. Till then, spraying disinfectants at tunnels should be avoided. A similar tunnel is also installed at the MC office and it has also stopped working.Sources said around Rs 8-Rs 10 lakh was spent on these two tunnels. MC Commissioner KK Yadav said: “We can start it again once we get clarity on disinfectants. Other facilities such as wash basins are working.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/disinfectant-tunnels-in-chandigarh-shut-73083
19-04-2020||Panchkula||No new case in Panchkula||No new Covid-19 positive case was reported from Panchkula district today after four days. It all started with the case of a 44-year-old woman from Sector 15, who was tested positive on April 14. A day later, her husband also tested positive.On April 16, seven family members of the 44-year-old woman were found positive. The district witnessed three more positive cases on April 17, taking the tally to 17. As of now, Panchkula has 15 active cases.Selected additional activities after Apr 20While presiding over a meeting with representatives of the local industries association at the Mini-Secretariat in Sector 1 here, Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said it was necessary to strike a balance between Covid-19 and economic activities.He said: “Selected additional activities will be allowed in the district from April 20 as per the detailed guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA)”.“We have been told by the government to prepare a plan for containment and non-containment zones. No activity, except essential services, will be allowed in the containment zone. Even in non-containment zones, we will have to follow certain standard operating procedures (SOPs) as directed by the MHA. A district-level committee has been constituted for the issuance of passes on a first-come-first-serve basis. Movement of people will go up after industries start operating. So, monitoring is even more important. Those involved in providing essential services should be tested on a priority to contain the infection. Industries will open in a phased manner .”Supply of essentials yet to be streamlinedSeveral residents living in the Sector 15 containment zone alleged that they were still facing problems in getting essentials. The sector had emerged as a hotspot after nine cases were reported from a family here. The sector was sealed by the authorities on the evening of April 14. Since then, the supply of essential items is yet to be streamlined. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-new-case-in-panchkula-73082
19-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh declared containment zone||Three days after the Central Government tagged Chandigarh as a Covid hotspot, the Administration today declared the entire UT a containment zone.Now, there will be active search for Covid cases and testing of all such cases will be done as per the sample guidelines. The containment operation will be over in 28 days from the date the last case in the city tests negative. The city has so far reported 23 cases and ten of them have recovered. What it meansUT Adviser Manoj Parida said, “Since in Chandigarh, the Covid outbreak is scattered and not confined to a specific pocket, area, village or cluster, the entire district has been declared containment zone.” “As per the Government of India’s directions, outsiders entering the city will be quarantined for 14 days either in home or in the government facilities to prevent the spread of infection from outside,” he said, adding that these guidelines would not apply to residents of the neighbouring areas coming to the UT for government duty or to provide essential service. “We will increase Covid testing in the city. The guidelines of the Central Government will be implemented strictly,” he added. During the daily meeting, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore today directed that the flour mills should be kept open, so that the beneficiaries receiving the wheat under the Central scheme could get it milled. Nearly 13,500 families were distributed wheat and pulses under the scheme so far.The Administrator expressed satisfaction that all delivery boys of online companies, milk vendors and traders were medically examined through special camps.It was also decided to keep the wholesale mandi in Sector 26 closed on Monday for sanitisation and cleaning. There will be no distribution of vegetables and fruits by the Administration’s buses on Monday. The residents can avail the facility of essential shops opened in the markets from 11am to 3 pm and get home delivery from 9 am to 9 pm. — TNSNo curfew relaxations in Mohali from April 20Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan on Saturday said they would not relax the curfew restrictions from April 20 since the district had the highest number of Covid cases in the state. He said the district had not reached the stage of no new cases in 14 days. So, the curfew would continue as a precautionary measure to check the spread of Covid.z||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-declared-containment-zone-73081
