21-04-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Seal all sectors in Chandigarh, says UT Adviser Manoj Parida||UT Adviser Manoj Parida on Tuesday requested the Mayor to ask all Municipal Corporation councillors to lead and help residents to seal Sectors."Madam Mayor, please put in a word to all councillors to lead and help residents in sealing colonies/areas/villages till May 3 in coordination with local police," Parida posted on Twitter.Madam Mayor ,please put in a word to all councillors to lead and help residents in sealing colonies/areas/villages till 3rd May. in coordination with local police.  Mayor Raj Bala Malik said she is going to ask all councillors to come forward."It is required, and we will support the move," she told Chandigarh Tribune.In a few areas, it has already been started.Sector 30 has been sealed by the authorities after coronavirus cases were reported here.In Sector 40 residents have themselves sealed the area. They have been doing thermal checking and using sanitisers on every exit.A list of these people has been prepared.A group of residents are keeping a check on all who are entering the sector at different entry points. They are also checking their curfew passes.Containing ourselves to contain #Corona!!! Happy that we have set an example & now residents in #Chandigarh are carrying this forward. Today entry/exit points got sealed in village DaduMajra. Hope we will corner the disease!#ChandigarhFightsCorona @vpsbadnore @manuparida1 pic.twitter.com/BAf8G8mtRS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/coronavirus-seal-all-sectors-in-chandigarh-says-ut-adviser-manoj-parida-74130
21-04-2020||Chandigarh||Apply for PU MDS by April 24||CU announces Rs 5-cr scholarshipKharar: Chandigarh University has announced Covid-19 Warriors Scholarships. Satnam Singh Sandhu, Chancellor, Chandigarh University, said: “Scholarships worth Rs 5 crores will be offered to the children of those fighting a war against Covid-19 on the frontline — doctors, nurses, para-medical staff, housekeeping staff, police personals of all states, ParaMilitary forces, media persons and sanitation workers.” Under the scheme, 10 per cent seats in all undergraduate and postgraduate programmes would be reserved for the wards of Covid-19 warriors and the students admitted under the category would be eligible for 10 per cent fee rebate. OCNat’l webinar on Covid at PUChandigarh: The University Institute of Hotel and Tourism Management (UIHTM), Panjab University, organised the first national webinar on ‘Corona and Covid-19: Impact, Innovation and Planning for post crisis’, said Anish Slath, Director, UIHTM. Prof Shankar Ji Jha, DUI, emphasised that it was the responsibility of all academician and policymakers to join hands and deliberate upon the causes, consequences and future course of action. Prof SP Bansal, Vice-Chancellor, HP Technical University, was the chief guest. TNSSector 26 man held with liquorChandigarh: The UT police have arrested a Sector 26 resident for illegally possessing liquor. The police said Balbir Singh was held with one box of whiskey and four boxes of country made liquor, which was kept in a jeep. The police also recovered Rs 4,500 from him. A case has been registered. He was later released on bail. TNS287 newspaper vendors screenedChandigarh: The UT police got newspaper vendors screened for the second consecutive day on Monday. Keeping in view their safety, 287 vendors were screened by teams of GMSH, Sector 16, here. As many as 100 vendors were screened at Sector 29, 109 in Sector 47 and 79 at Mani Majra. DSP Gurmukh Singh said nobody was found to be suspected. TNSPPE kits, masks given to UT SSPChandigarh: To fulfill the social responsibility, the Chandigarh Beopar Mandal, on behalf of traders, today donated PPE kits, sanitisers, face masks and hand gloves to SSP Nilambari Jagdale for police officials who are performing their duty by risking their lives. TNSRation kits to 1,200 familiesChandigarh: An NGO, “I Am Still Human”, has come forward to help daily wage earners, people living on footpaths, slums and physically challenged people. In the past 20 days, the NGO has already distributed ration kits among over 1,200 families, over 25,000 masks and 18,000 sanitisers. Vivek Mehra, founder of the NGO, said: “One ration kit will take care of food requirement of a family of four for a fortnight.” TNSMystery shrouds woman’s deathAmbala: Three members of a family were booked after a woman died under mysterious circumstances on Saturday. The deceased has been identified as Preeti, while the suspects have been identified as husband Gulshan, his father Yashpal and mother Sudesh of Bihta village of Ambala. A case has been registered under Sections 302, 201 and 34 of the IPC. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/apply-for-pu-mds-by-april-24-73953
21-04-2020||Ambala||Man out on parole ‘killed’ over old enmity||An Ambala resident, who was out on parole, was allegedly killed over old enmity by his nephew and his accomplice in Rolan village of Ambala Cantonment today.The deceased, who was in his 30s, has been identified as Gurmej Singh. According to information, Gurmej was sentenced to life imprisonment for killing his brother Ranvir Singh over property dispute five years ago. He came out on parole earlier this month due to Covid-19.A car hit him while he was on his way to get some vegetables today. Later, three men, including Gurmej’s nephew, came out of the car and attacked him with sharp weapons. After injuring him, the suspects managed to flee.The injured was rushed to the Civil Hospital, Ambala Cantonment, from where he was referred to the GMCH-32. He later succumbed to injuries.Randeep, kin of the deceased, said: “My uncle went to buy vegetables. Three men in a car hit him. We rushed to save him, but to no avail as we were less in number. After injuring him, they left in another car.”DSP Ambala Cantonment Ram Kumar said: “Gurmej was killed by his nephew and his two accomplices, who came in a car. The car was recovered from the spot. The kin of the deceased have raised suspicion on six people and the matter is under investigation.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-out-on-parole-killed-over-old-enmity-73947
21-04-2020||Harshabab Sidhu||Woman cricketer practises on roof for hrs||Mohali, April 20“Earlier, to win a war, people had to get out of their houses and face bullets. But to win the war against Covi-19, we just have to remain inside our houses. What can be simpler?” said cricketer Harleen Kaur Deol, who practises on the roof and in the backyard of her house to hone her skills.Harleen Deol (22), a resident of Sector 80 here, had just returned home after finishing the ICC women T20 world cup. The lockdown was imposed a few days later. Harleen, who might have playing domestic matches if not for the pandemic, now keeps herself busy by spending time with family and playing cricket, table tennis and football.She starts the day by taking a run early morning in her locality. After breakfast, she works out with her dumbbells. She watches TV with the family and also indulges in a few domestic tasks in the afternoon. In the evening, she spends two hours in batting and bowling drills.“Whosoever gets time in the family, he/she joins me in the practice. I am utilising the time to sharpen my skills and stay fit. During the lockdown, my mom, dad and brother are my coach,” she said.Harleen got selected in the Indian cricket team last year and was a part of the England, South Africa, West Indies and World Cup tour.Harleen went to Dharamsala (HP) in 2012 for training and since the, she never spent enough time at home. She said: “The past few years were spent in domestic matches, training camps and then international tours started. Now I am getting enough time with my loved ones. It has brought alive my creative flair as I discovered a few talents in me — drawing is one of them. I love to stay busy throughout the day to avoid any kind of overthinking. Now, all my focus is on the ICC women ODI World Cup 2021.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-cricketer-practises-on-roof-for-hrs-73946
21-04-2020||Mohali||Surprise check at Verka milk plant||The inspection team of the district administration today conducted a surprise check at the Verka Milk Plant to make sure that social distancing guidelines were being followed.AK Mishra, Manager (HR), Verka Milk Plant, facilitated the inspecting team.The team found that the security personnel were following the protocol by wearing triple-layered masks and maintained social distancing in the office. Besides, thermal scanner is available at the gate where the second line of security has been installed. Alcohol-based sanitiser was available at the main gate. A sanitising tunnel was also maintained, but it’s use had been discontinued. All sections have alcohol-based sanitising facility at entry points and a security guard was deputed to facilitate officials/ officers/workers.Milk tankers were first sanitised on arrival at the gate and again at the reception spot where milk is dispensed in silos. The social distancing norms were also being followed by the workers and drivers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/surprise-check-at-verka-milk-plant-73944
21-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Housing Board official granted bail in corruption case||Additional Sessions Judge (Duty) Rajeev Goyal today granted regular bail to a senior assistant officer of the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) in a corruption case. Accused Jagdish Raj Manchanda was arrested for allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs 20,000 on March 11.Hearing in the case was held through WhatsApp video call. In the bail application, SPS Bhullar, counsel for the accused, submitted that he has been in custody since March 11, 2020. Investigation is going on and as such, challan is yet to be filed. The counsel submitted that sanction to prosecute the petitioner was yet to be obtained.Opposing the bail application, the public prosecutor contended that the accused was caught red-handed while accepting a bribe of Rs 20,000 and no ground to grant regular bail to the accused is made out.After hearing the arguments, the Duty Judge granted regular bail to the accused on furnishing personal bond of Rs 50,000.According to the prosecution, accused Jagdish Raj Manchanda was nabbed by sleuths of the Vigilance Department for allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs 20,000 from the complainant on March 11.In a complaint to the Vigilance Department, the complainant alleged that he was allotted an EWS house in Dhanas. However, he lost his allotment and possession letters. In order to get the duplicate documents, he met Jagdish Raj Manchanda, who reportedly assured the complainant that he would do the work and demanded Rs 50,000 as bribe. However, after negotiation, the deal was settled for Rs 40,000.The accused allegedly asked the complainant to come with advance payment of Rs 20,000 near a liquor shop in Sector 22 on March 11. The Vigilance sleuths laid a trap near the liquor shop and nabbed the accused while accepting money from the complainant. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-housing-board-official-granted-bail-in-corruption-case-73943
21-04-2020||Chandigarh||Registered construction workers to get Rs 3K each||Registered construction workers in the city will soon get second installment of relief fund.UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore today decided to provide an amount of Rs 3,000 to 6,670 registered construction workers as a special relief keeping in view their present unemployment during the lockdown period.The amount will be in addition to Rs 3,000 already sanctioned earlier out of the Construction Labour Welfare Fund. The amount will be transferred to the accounts of the workers directly.The Administrator also directed UT Adviser Manoj Parida to take up the matter with the Government of India regarding payment of wages for workers by industrialists, out of ESI contributions already made.Earlier in the day, MP Kirron Kher rang up the Adviser to request about the payment of wages of April to factory workers out of the ESI fund. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/registered-construction-workers-to-get-rs-3k-each-73942
21-04-2020||Chandigarh||Ordering burgers lands man, food joint manager in trouble||Ordering burgers from an outlet landed a Mani Majra resident and a manager of the fast food joint in trouble after the UT police booked them for curfew violations.The police were patrolling in Mani Majra when they stopped a food delivery agent for questioning. The delivery boy revealed that he was on his way to deliver two burgers at an address of Modern Housing Complex (MHC), which were ordered from a food joint in Sector 9, Panchkula. The delivery boy was coming from Panchkula to deliver the order.The police said the order was placed by Rajat Mathur (29) and manager of the food joint Rahul Sharma (30) had accepted the order.“Both of them violated the curfew orders of the UT Administration by ordering non-essential items and delivering the same through a delivery boy despite the curfew orders in view of the Covid-19 pandemic,” said a police official.A case under Section 188 of the IPC has been registered against both persons at the Mani Majra police station. They were arrested and later released on bail.The police said the delivery boy was not booked since he was just delivering the order.When contacted, police spokesperson DSP Charanjit Singh said the steps were taken to ensure the safety of residents and to stop the spread of Covid-19 in the city.“The UT Administration has made all arrangements to provide cooked food or ration to people who are staying alone. There are helpline numbers of nodal officers who can be contacted,” the DSP added.However, Vishal, a resident of Sector 15, stated that a large number of youths, especially students, are staying alone in the city.“Online food service is the only option for many people who are staying alone. They neither have kitchen nor they know cooking. Though the Administration is providing food to people, those who can afford to order it online should be allowed to do so, so that the food provided by the Administration can reach someone who needs it more,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ordering-burgers-lands-man-food-joint-manager-in-trouble-73941
21-04-2020||Chandigarh||Social distancing goes for a toss at Ram Darbar||Social distancing went for a toss as people gathered in a large number to get free ration, which was distributed by the UT Administration, at Ram Darbar today. As many as 1,000 people gathered at the ground near a bus stop in Ram Darbar.According to information, the authorities had announced to distribute ration among residents at 12:30 pm. However, residents started gathering in the ground from 9 am. Some sat on the roadside while others stood in long queues in the open ground. They all huddled together giving two hoots to the social distancing norm.The ration distribution went on till evening. However, officials later announced that around 700 families would get ration today. But, the announcement came quite late.“We used to earn daily. Today, we have no food to feed our children. There is no work since 25 days. We have no other option, but to rush for ration,” said a group of labourers standing in a queue. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/social-distancing-goes-for-a-toss-at-ram-darbar-73940
21-04-2020||---||Appoint residents as SPOs in sealed areas: Badnore||Chandigarh, April 20Punjab Governor and UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore today expressed satisfaction over the note that rate of doubling Covid cases in Chandigarh was 25.4 days.As per the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, the rate at which Covid-19 cases are doubling in India has slowed down to 7.5 days. Before the lockdown, it was 3.5 days.The doubling rate in the neighbouring states of Punjab was 13.1 days, Haryana 21 days and Himachal Pradesh 24.5 days on Monday.Explaining doubling of cases, Arun Kumar Gupta, Principal Secretary, Heath, said, “Doubling of cases means the number of days in which active cases get doubled. For this, generally the data of current day is compared with that of one week ago.”On April 18, the doubling rate in Chandigarh was 21.74 days as the number of active cases were 12 and 15 on April 11 and April 18, respectively, Gupta added.“The number of active cases in the city today is 12. It was 14 on April 13. So doubling rate is negative today. But this keeps changing every day for every district,” Gupta said.During the daily review meeting, the Administrator showed concern about new active cases, which cropped up in the city. He directed Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar to identify specific pockets in the city, where new outbreak of Covid had occurred so that the Administration could focus on sealing specific spots.“Local residents should be appointed as Special Police Officers (SPOs) to regulate entry and exit into the area along with police officials concerned,” the Administrator said.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said, “Necessary orders regarding containment zone have been issued. A request has been sent to the Punjab and Haryana Governments and the Union Government to open only essential offices with minimal staff.”Special camp for scribesUT Administrator VP Singh Badnore has directed the Health Department to organise a special camp exclusively for testing mediapersons to prevent Covid infection. He said, “It is for the own good of journalists that they should come forward and avail of this facility. They should also download Aarogya Setu app.”Ensure adequate quantity of blood in hospitalsThe Administrator has directed Arun Kumar Gupta, Principal Secretary, Health, to ensure that adequate quantity of blood was available in all hospitals. He suggested that a mobile team could go to collect blood from willing donors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/appoint-residents-as-spos-in-sealed-areas-badnore-73938
21-04-2020||Naina Mishra||Class XI pass percentage goes up by 24.94 in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 20The results of classes IX and XI witnessed an improvement in pass percentage, thanks to 30 grace marks allotted to the students.The pass percentage for Class IX has shot up by 17.2 from 55 (2018-19 session) to 72.2 in the current session.Similarly, there has been an improvement in the pass percentage of Class XI by 24.94 from 70.56 in the last session to 95.5 in the current session.The results were displayed on the website of the 114 government schools of Chandigarh on Monday and text messages, WhatsApp messages and emails were sent to parents concerned. None of the students have been failed by the UT Education Department.4,550 get compartment, none failedOver 4,000 students in Class IX and 550 students in Class XI have received the compartment and a retest will be conducted later as per the date sheet shared by the respective school heads, confirmed District Education Officer Alka Mehta.Last year, 5,984 had failed in the exams in classes IX and XI as no grace marks were awarded. Former UT Education Secretary BL Sharma had discontinued the practice of awarding 10-15 grace marks last year.Due to the discontinuation of the grace marks policy last year, the pass per cent of Class IX had witnessed a drop of 17.18 and Class XI results dipped by 14.The students placed under compartment shall be given their marks tomorrow. The students can call on the helpline numbers already circulated. They can also call their respective class in-charges or the school counsellor to clear their queries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/class-xi-pass-percentage-goes-up-by-24-94-in-chandigarh-73937
21-04-2020||Mohali||Timely action averts major fire tragedy at Mullanpur village||A major tragedy was averted yesterday when wild growth in about 20 acres caught fire near Mullanpur village. The fire was brought under control within few hours due to prompt action taken by the district administration and no casualty was reported.According to sources, had the fire spread to other areas, it would have caused loss not only to human lives, but also to the animals in the village. The impact of the fire was such that the Administration had to rush two fire tenders to the spot to douse the flames.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said huge growth of ‘sarkanda’ grass on the outskirts of the village and near the IAS/PCS Society had caught fire. He said the grass could not be cut due to a court case going on between the gram panchayat, Mullanpur, and the village residents. He said the grass was spread over 200 acres and of this, 20 acres got burnt. But there was no loss of life.Dayalan said water tanker of the Forest Department arrived at the spot immediately. Also, 50-60 labourers, Range Officer Baljinder Singh and DFO Guraman Singh also reached the spite. The cause of the fire was being ascertained, the Deputy Commissioner added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/timely-action-averts-major-fire-tragedy-at-mullanpur-village-73934
21-04-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula MLA visits mandis to take stock of wheat procurement||As the state government has started procuring wheat from farmers, Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta today visited various mandis and purchasing centres, including in Barwala, Pinjore and Raipur Rani, across the district to take stock of the ongoing procurement process.He directed officials to ensure every grain of wheat would be purchased from farmers and they did not face any problem in the mandis.He said in the wake of the Covid-19 threat, all possible arrangements for hand washing and sanitisation has been made at every purchasing centre. The Panchkula MLA directed police officials to restrict the movement of farmers from other states to sell their crop in the grain markets here. “The social distancing measure should be implemented in all mandis. Those working at purchasing centres should wear a mask and should not be allowed to enter if not following the protective measure,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-mla-visits-mandis-to-take-stock-of-wheat-procurement-73932
21-04-2020||Harshabab SidhuMohali||Jagatpura villagers forced to sleep on empty stomach||Families living alongside the nullah at Jagatpura village have claimed that they are facing a lot of problems as they were not getting food or ration from anyone for the past few days.The district administration sealed the village and deployed police and CRPF officials on the entry and exit points of the village after a positive Covid case was reported from the village.Ranjit Singh, a social worker, said CRPF jawans and the police were not allowing anyone to go outside the village to purchase food. He said poor families were unable to make both ends meet.Today, the residents of the village showed their empty vessels to highlighttheir plight.Ranjit said a few days ago, a police party had distributed some food among the residents, but now, they were being forced to sleep on an empty stomach.He said some workers of Radha Soami Satsang Bhawan were providing evening meal tothese families.Villagers said the satsang workers were serving food to around 100 persons daily, but there were nearly 400 persons living alongside the nullah in rented accommodations. They said these families worked in the residential areas of the city as servants. They demanded that two meals should be served to them on a daily basis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/jagatpura-villagers-forced-to-sleep-on-empty-stomach-73931
21-04-2020||Chandigarh||Frontline warriors: 6-yr-old son is always on her mind||Nursing officer Anju Bala (35) is currently staying at an accommodation provided by the PGI on the premises. Her work at the emergency ward of Nehru Extension Building (Covid hospital) starts as early as 8 am.She dons the personal protective equipment (PPE) before entering the "battleground" -- the ground floor of Nehru Extension Building. Her job is to receive patients and direct them to the private ward on the third floor of the building.After work, she makes a quick video call to her six-year-old son. Bala has no answers to the questions her son poses. “I miss my child a lot. He gets emotional whenever he talks to me and asks Mumma kab aaoge? Mumma aap hi kyu? (Mummy, when will you come home? Mummy, why only you?),” said Bala.She said: “I explain to him that it is my duty and things will get better soon. He tells me that he is missing me very much. It’s hard to go a day without thinking about him.”“The first day, I was very scared and I did not want to touch patients. But gradually, the fear vanished,” she said.Bala, who is a treasurer with the Nursing Association, said: “The PPE is not easy to wear. You get sweaty, there is no space for air to pass by and you cannot touch yourself no matter how uneasy you are. Even when we are drenched in sweat, we still work because there is no other way. One has to be very careful with the PPE. If you touch the patient, you cannot touch yourself.”“Health workers are getting exposed to the virus probably because they are not taking adequate precautions even while wearing the PPE,” she said.“I have worked a lot in life but was never this fearful. The fear of staying away from my child if I get infected haunts me. I am staying at an accommodation provided by the PGI as I cannot expose my family to the risk,” said Bala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/frontline-warriors-6-yr-old-son-is-always-on-her-mind-73930
21-04-2020||Chandigarh||Dhaba employee found murdered in Chandigarh||A man, who worked at Paul Sweets Dairy and Dhaba in Sector 27, was reportedly found dead today.The victim's body was dumped near the booth market in the sector. His colleague, a suspect in the case, has been rounded up by the police. The police said they received information about a man lying at the booth market. A PCR team rushed to the spot and found that the victim, who had multiple injury marks, had died. After inspecting the spot, the police suspect that the victim was murdered at some other place and the body was dumped here.They scrutinised the CCTV footage of the area, which led to the identification of the victim as Arjun. Dhaba owner Anurag also identified the victim.The police said Anurag revealed that another employee, Budhi Lal, alias Gullu (20), was missing from the shop. The police said the suspect's mobile phone was put on surveillance and he was apprehended from Sector 28 when he was returning from Baltana, Zirakpur.The suspect is a native of Lucknow, and had been working at the dhaba for the past two years.UT SSP Nilambari Jagadale said it was yet to be established where the victim was murdered and how. "The suspect is being questioned," the SSP said. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dhaba-employee-found-murdered-in-chandigarh-73893
21-04-2020||Kharar||Work on Kharar flyover starts today||The much-delayed construction work on the Mohali-Kharar flyover and the elevated road will finally start tomorrow. Krishan Sachdeva, project director of the NHAI, said the district administration was kind enough to issue curfew passes to the construction company. “We will try our best to complete the project at the earliest,” he added.L&T spokesman TB Singh said the construction work would start tomorrow.Kharar SDM Himanshu Jain said the administration would provide all support to the company so that it could complete the project as soon as possible. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/work-on-kharar-flyover-starts-today-73892
21-04-2020||New Delhi||Milkha ’s daughter on front line in NY hospital||Legendary sprinter Milkha Singh’s daughter and ace golfer Jeev Milkha Singh's elder sister has been running a “marathon” in New York -- not on a track but at a hospital.Mona Milkha Singh is a doctor at the Metropolitan Hospital Center in New York, attending to emergency patients of Covid-19, which has so far claimed more than 40,000 lives in the US. New York has reported nearly 250,000 confirmed cases and over 18,000 fatalities.“She is basically an ER (Emergency Room) doctor in the hospital. So, when someone comes with the coronavirus symptoms, she has to treat them,” Jeev said.The 54-year-old Mona passed out of Patiala Medical College before moving to the US. She has been working there for more than 20 years.“I am so proud of her. She says it is like running a marathon every day. She has been working five days a week, sometimes day shifts, sometimes night shifts, 12-hour shifts,” Jeev said.“I feel worried. When you are treating people, anything can happen, so we talk to her every day. My mom and dad also keep checking on her,” the 48-year-old added. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/milkha-s-daughter-on-front-line-in-ny-hospital-73891
21-04-2020||Kharar||Hit by vehicle, 2 bikers killed||Two youths were killed and one seriously injured when the motorcycle they were riding on was knocked down by an unidentified vehicle near Lakhnaur village on the Kharar-Kurali road around 10 pm on Sunday. The Kurali Sadar police have registered a case under Sections 279, 304-A, 337 and 427 of the IPC against the driver of the unidentified vehicle.Naresh Kumar of Uttarakhand, who stays in Kurali, told the police that he, along with his two friends -- Parvinder Singh of Arnoloi village and Jaspreet Singh of Kurali -- was going on a motorcycle (PB 87 4208) towards Ghatour village near Kharar when a vehicle hit their two-wheeler.Jaspreet was riding the motorcycle while Naresh and Parvinder were riding pillion. Parvinder died on the spot, while Jaspreet and Naresh were taken to the Civil Hospital, Kharar, from where they were referred to the GMSH, Sector 16, Chandigarh. Jaspreet died at the hospital, the police said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hit-by-vehicle-2-bikers-killed-73889
21-04-2020||Chandigarh||15 Chandigarh entry points to be sealed today||In the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak, 15 entry points to the city will be sealed from April 21 till further orders.Entry/barrier points to be closedT-point behind Kaimbwala village near water pondSarangpur barrierJayanti Majro barrierNaka near IRB Complex on Sarangpur-Parachh village roadRoad from Mani Majra towards Mansa DeviRoad on the rear of the showrooms at the NAC, Mani MajraRoad from Mauli Jagran to Sector 17, PanchkulaRoad from Mauli Jagran to Sector 17/18, PanchkulaRoad separating Sector 52-C and DRoad separating Sector 52 and 53Badheri barrierRoad separating Sector 55 and 56Road from Maloya towards Togan villageRoad separating Sector 48-C and DRoad separating Sector 49-C and DThe police said all 38 outer border nakas were made operational on a round-the-clock basis where people and vehicles as per government instructions were being allowed to enter the city.Recently, cops deployed at these barriers were given infrared thermometers to screen all persons entering the city. The police claimed that their personnel at these outer barriers were also provided with enough masks, gloves and sanitisers to take precautions while discharging their duty.They said in view of the rising number of cases in the city and the need for restricting the entry of people, 15 outer barriers were identified and these would be closed for movement from April 21 till further orders.The police said no one would be allowed to even cross these barriers on foot.“The Mohali SSP and the Panchkula DCP have been informed to make necessary traffic diversions,” said a police official. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/15-chandigarh-entry-points-to-be-sealed-today-73888
21-04-2020||Panchkula||Youth tests +ve, Panchkula dist tally 18; one discharged||The Covid-19 tally in the district rose to 18 today after a 20-year-old youth, who had attended a religious event at Sirmaur in Himachal Pradesh and subsequently visited Bijnor in Uttar Pradesh, was found positive. He lives in Nava Nagar village on the Pinjore-Baddi road.He had himself reported to health officials on April 4, following which he was sent to a quarantine facility in Mouli village. Though he tested negative in the first report, his report came positive when sent again. He was thereafter admitted to the isolation ward of the Civil Hospital.Dr Rajeev Narwal, Covid nodal officer, said, “The primary contacts of the latest infected person have been under home quarantine.”With the new case, the count of infected persons, who attended religious events in different states, is seven.The number of active cases in the district is 15.The first two infected persons – a woman from Old Panchkula and a staff nurse – had recovered and were discharged from the Civil Hospital on April 11.Meanwhile, a 37-year-old man from Banoi Khuda Baksh village in Pinjore, who was diagnosed with Covid-19 on April 9, was discharged from the Civil Hospital today.He is the third person in the district to survive Covid. However, officials said he would remain in isolation at home for 14 days.Around 125 persons, who had returned to their respective villages in the district after attending religious congregations in different cities across the country, including Sikar in Rajasthan, were quarantined at Nada Sahib Gurdwara and Mouli village quarantine facilities.382 complete quarantine periodDeputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said that 382 persons had completed their designated quarantined period of 28 days.He said that 19 persons were kept in the isolation ward of the Civil Hospital and six at Command Hospital.Seven Covid-19 patients, who belong to the family of a Sector 15 woman, are receiving treatment at Maharishi Markandeshwar University Hospital in Mullana, Ambala. Two are at a private hospital in Panchkula. As many as 468 migrant labourers are quarantined at various temporary shelter homes. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-tests-ve-panchkula-dist-tally-18-one-discharged-73886
21-04-2020||Mohali||25-yr-old Nayagaon man found infected with virus||Another Nayagaon resident has tested positive for Covid-19. With the new case, the Mohali district tally rose to 62 today. Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said the new patient was a 25-year-old man. He lived in the same building where four members of a family, who tested positive on Sunday, reside.Dayalan said a drive launched by the district administration to identify people suffering from the deadly virus through comprehensive contact tracing and sampling and then undertaking measures to provide top-notch treatment to them had started bearing results.Dayalan said two patients were discharged from the hospital after being tested negative for Covid twice. He added that one of them was a 65-year-old man and the other a 55-year-old woman, residents of Sector 68 and 91, respectively. They were undergoing treatment at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur for the past two weeks, he said, adding that a total of eight Covid patients had been cured in the district.About Jawaharpur village, the DC said as of now, there are a total of 38 active cases in the village and of them, 37 were undergoing treatment at Gian Sagar Hospital. One was admitted to the PGI.Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said health teams were visiting every household in Nayagaon and screening people to identify suspected cases. The village had been sealed on Sunday after four persons tested positive.The Civil Surgeon said a total of 186 rapid test kits had been used for screening people in Nayagaon today. He said they had received 1,000 kits on Sunday. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/25-yr-old-nayagaon-man-found-infected-with-virus-73862
21-04-2020||Chandigarh||82-yr-old woman tests positive, Chandigarh count 27||An 82-year-old woman of Sector 18 tested positive for Covid today. With the new case, the total count of confirmed cases in the city has risen to 27.The woman is currently admitted to Alchemist Hospital in Panchkula. She was sampled for the virus at the Civil Hospital in Sector 6, Panchkula. She had been residing both at Sector 18 in Chandigarh and Sector 12, Panchkula.As per officials, the woman had been living with her three sons. Two of her sons live in Sector 18 and one in Sector 12, Panchkula. Those staying at the three houses have been home-quarantined. The initial contact tracing of the 27th case revealed that one of her sons had a travel history to Singapore. He had visited Singapore on February 11 and returned on February 20. He had also visited a flu clinic on April 5, implying the possibility of symptoms in the son as well. The woman is a patient of asthma and had reported to Alchemist Hospital a couple of days ago. The source of transmission is currently unclear. Meanwhile, two family contacts of the Covid positive woman from Sector 30, aged 16 and 13, were sampled at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital in Sector 16 here today. A resident of Sector 21, who is a community contact of the Sector 30 woman, has been sampled.All seven household contacts of a Covid positive PGI sanitation attendant, who lives at Kacchi Colony in Dhanas, have tested negative for the virus. All eight remote community contacts of the case, who were working in a dairy at the colony, too reportedly tested negative.A 23-year-old man of Sector 30, who is a contact of a Sector 30 youth with a history of return from Sharjah, has recovered and discharged from the PGI. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/82-yr-old-woman-tests-positive-chandigarh-count-27-73852
