25-04-2020||Chandigarh||Action to be taken against COVID-19 patient in Chandigarh for hosting party||A 30-year-old man tested positive for coronavirus in Chandigarh on Saturday, days after hosting a party at his home here, forcing UT Administrator V P Singh Badnore to direct police to initiate criminal proceedings against him.The patient is an employee of the government medical college and hospital here, a medical bulletin said, adding that the total number of cases in the Union territory now stands at 28.The UT administrator expressed deep concerns over the new case reported from the Bapu Dham colony, an official statement said.He directed the principal secretary (Health) to ensure that all contacts of the patients are traced and quarantined. Badnore also directed Director General of Police Sanjay Beniwal to initiate criminal proceedings against the patient for hosting a party at his house a few days back in violation of both curfew orders and social distancing norms, the statement said.Earlier, Chandigarh Adviser Manoj Parida tweeted, “Criminal proceedings will be initiated against Bapudham patient who had a celebratory party in his colony a few days back, violating social distance and curfew orders. God knows how many he infected.”Arun Kumar Gupta, Principal Secretary (Health), informed that 130 contacts of the patient had been identified and necessary steps were being taken to quarantine them. Meanwhile, Parida said non-essential shops and commercial establishments would not be allowed to open in Chandigarh as the city had been declared a containment zone.Since entire Chandigarh has been declared as a containment zone, the exemptions available in other states could not be given to local residents, he said in a statement.“Please note that Chandigarh being a containment zone, neighbourhood non-essential shops opening will not happen till 3rd May,” Parida earlier tweeted.The adviser said factories and plants could not be permitted in containment zones as per the central government guidelines. He added that the Centre would review the situation on May 3 and convey appropriate directions to the UT regarding relaxations, if any. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/action-to-be-taken-against-covid-19-patient-in-chandigarh-for-hosting-party-76216
25-04-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Despite Central order, no relaxation in Chandigarh, Mohali, clarify UT adviser, DC||UT Adviser Manoj Parida on Saturday reminded the citizens of Chandigarh that non-essential shops will not be operational, until May 3, as it was declared a containment zone.Also Read: Centre allows neighbourhood shops to open; Punjab Cabinet to discuss issue on April 30No relaxation for restaurants, salons, barber shops, clarifies MHAIn a series of tweets, UT Adviser announced that "manufacture, sale, supply distribution of liquor" will be banned in the city, until further orders.He, further, added that factories, industries or any e-commerce delivery would not be permitted."Please note that Chandigarh being a containment zone ,neighborhood non- essentialshops opening will not happen till 3rd May," his tweet read.Please note that Chandigarh being a containment zone ,neighborhood non- essentialshops opening will not happen till 3rd May.  He continued: "No industry /factory,nor any e commerce delivery of non essential items will be permitted in Chandigarh which is under curfew and containment zone".Also read: Centre allows neighbourhood shops to open; Punjab yet to decideNo industry /factory,nor any e commerce delivery of non essential items will be permitted in Chandigarh which is under curfew and containment zone.  "Manufacture, sale, supply distribution of liquor will continue to be banned, in Chandigarh, till further orders," he concluded.Manufacture,sale,supply distribution of liquor will continue to be banned,in Chandigarh, till further orders.  Meanwhile, Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan also clarified that no relaxation will be given in Mohali. In a tweet, Dayalan wrote: "Getting a lot of queries regarding opening of shops and other establishments. As stated earlier, no relaxation in curfew in Mohali as of now".Getting a lot of queries regarding opening of shops and other establishments. As stated earlier, no relaxation in curfew in Mohali as of now.https://t.co/q01o45FZ9R||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/despite-central-order-no-relaxation-in-chandigarh-mohali-clarify-ut-adviser-dc-76157
25-04-2020||Mohali||Cop shoots himself dead||Cops’ sweet gestureChandigarh: The UT police on Friday surprised a 15-year-old boy by greeting him with a cake on his birthday. Sources said the boy’s father informed the police about his son Kanisk’s birthday following which the SHO of the Sector 3 police station, Inspector Jaspal Singh, along with his team, went to Sector 11 to wish the boy. The cops stood at the gate and greeted the boy with a cake and wished him birthday. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cop-shoots-himself-dead-76114
25-04-2020||Chandigarh||Tandons go digital, spread positivity through storytelling on Facebook||When everyone seems to be in the grip of fear, anxiety and pessimism, former city BJP chief Sanjay Tandon and his wife Priya Tandon have revived their popular Sunrays books to a digital avatar.Seven books with inspiring stories had been keeping the couple busy for the past last 15 years. However, it’s during the lockdown that they got a makeover. “The lockdown was announced on March 25 and as our little contribution to lend positivity, we started with recording and sharing stories from Sunrays. We are amazed at the response of people,” opens up politician and businessman Sanjay Tandon.Stories rich in moral values are now being narrated by the duo on their Facebook page, Sunrays. Sanjay Tandon gives credit to his wife Priya. “She is the one who chooses the story, sets the place, colour coordinates our outfits and we record a story a day with the help of our family,” he shares proudly.While making videos and editing may be new to Priya Tandon, coordinating outfits or giving a new spruce to the space isn’t. “I have always loved to coordinate colours of our outfits. What I love more is that I am getting to read Sunrays books all over again.”“There is so much negativity around – rising number of cases, death toll around the world. While I am all for maintaining social distancing, wearing masks and gloves, we need to be positive to fight the virus,” says Priya Tandon.The Tandons are happy that whole their family is involved in the project. From choosing stories to setting, lighting and editing, their sons and daughter-in-laws participate enthusiastically. Sanjay Tandon continues to work from home under the foundation in the name of his father, Balramji Dass Tandon Charitable Foundation. He is distributing ration bags, helping the community kitchens to remain operational and encouraging people to help the needy. He is coordinating with the Administration for solving the issues of common man and helping blood banks.“Our storytelling sessions are getting an amazing response. So, we hope to continue till the lockdown is over. Later, maybe we can do one story a week,” shares Priya.It’s the power of prayer that this couple stresses on. “What humans have done to the earth is unforgivable. Let’s take this extreme intervention by the nature to pray the infinite power to lead is through it all. Prayer and positivity go hand in hand,” they say.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tandons-go-digital-spread-positivity-through-storytelling-on-facebook-76110
25-04-2020||ATM van||ATM route plan for today||Location to start: PNB House, Sector 17-B, ChandigarhCoordinator: Ashwani DhariaContact No. 9779196055Proposed route: Sector 50 (10.30 am to 1.30 pm) Sector 51 (2 pm to 4.30 pm)Time to start: 10.30 amATM van, Canara BankLocation to start: Canara Bank, Plot No. 1, Sector 34-A, ChandigarhCoordinator: Sarvpreet SinghContact No. 8728800158Proposed route: Sector 24 (10.30 am to 1.30 pm) Kacchi Colony, Dhanas (2 pm to 4.30 pm)Time to start: 10.30 amATM van, Andhra BankLocation to start: Andhra Bank, Sector 17-B, ChandigarhCoordinator: Satvinder GurnamContact No. 8146903533Proposed route: Sector 30 (10.30 am to 1.30 pm) Faidan village ( 2 pm to 4.30 pm)Time to start: 10.30 am||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/atm-route-plan-for-today-76109
25-04-2020||Chandigarh||Purse snatched at Mani Majra||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/purse-snatched-at-mani-majra-76108
25-04-2020||Chandigarh||Registration of  BS-4 vehicles extended||The UT Administration has given an opportunity to those, who have purchased BS-4 vehicles, but have not been able to register their vehicles due to the lockdown.Now, such buyers will be able to register their vehicles by April 30. This benefit will be available only to those, who have already completed and submitted all their formalities online.“Registration of BS-4 vehicles for all those, who have submitted complete documents online, is allowed by the Chandigarh Administration up to April 30,” tweeted UT Adviser Manoj Pardia.A senior officer of the Transport Department said the decision would benefit all those, who were not able to complete the registration process of their BS-4 vehicles, due to the lockdown. A detailed order would be issued in this regard soon, the officer said. During a meeting with the Adviser on Thursday, automobile dealers had raised the issue of completion of the registration process of BS-4 vehicles.“The registration of a large number of BS-4 vehicles is pending due to the lockdown and buyers are facing problems,” dealers added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/registration-of-bs-4-vehicles-extended-76107
25-04-2020||---||Command centre to monitor anti-Covid ops||Chandigarh, April 24To regulate anti-Covid operations in the city, new Control and Command Centre has been set up at the office of the Municipal Corporation (MC). Now, officials of the MC, Police and Health Departments will work under one roof. The centre will monitor all activities related to the management of Covid.During the daily review meeting here today, KK Yadav, Commissioner, MC, informed UT Administrator VP Singh Badnorethat the entire workforce of the MC had been screened for Covid.The Administrator advised Yadav to start cleaning roads, gullies and berms before the rainy season so that there is no waterlogging.Adviser Manoj Parida said, “A special drive will be conducted for screening inmates so thatthere is no outbreak of Covid-19 on the Burail Jail premises.”In a meeting held recently under the chairmanship of Arun Kumar Gupta, Principal Secretary, Home, UT, it was decided to release 30 to 35 per cent inmates to decongest jail.The sanctioned strength of jail is 1,120 (1,000 males and 120 females). The actual strength of jail was 1,007, which includes 420 convicts (400 males and 20 females), 583 undertrials (547 males and 36 females) and four children with mothers, before 30 to 35 inmates were released on parole or bail.Finance Secretary AK Sinha said that demands of industrialists for relief were being examined.The decision of the Government of India regarding concessions towards bank loans was awaited, he added.The Administrator appealed to the residents to strictly follow thecurfew orders and hygiene practices as recommended by doctors, so that the spread of corona could be contained in the capital city.The Administrator also appealed to the Muslim community to offer Ramzan prayers at home instead of going to mosques.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/command-centre-to-monitor-anti-covid-ops-76106
25-04-2020||---||Mohali ties up with Uber for emergency services||Mohali, April 24In order to ensure round-the-clock availability of vehicles for essential emergency transportation for citizens, the district administration has tied up with Uber India to provide rides to hospitals in the district without a curfew pass.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said the people can book a cab through the Uber App in case of any emergency. He further said they have started the initiative with Uber India under Uber Essential and Uber Medic to provide vehicles round the clock for the use of frontline officers.The DC said as per the arrangement, Uber Essential will provide 24 vehicles round the clock for any health/medical emergency only for plying within the district. Besides, Uber Medic will provide 20 vehicles for the use of frontline officers, including Health and District Administration. As the district administration already has requisite vehicles, the DC decided that these vehicles were to be placed at the disposal of Civil Surgeon, Mohali, for serving the needy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-ties-up-with-uber-for-emergency-services-76105
25-04-2020||Mohali||Withdraw cash through mobile ATMs in Mohali||In order to enable people to withdraw money from the nearest spot, the route plan of mobile ATM vans was unveiled by Himendra Jain, chief lead district manager, Mohali, today.He said on April 25 during the pre-noon time, the vans would go to Taj Towers in Sector 104 and Emmar MGF Mohali Hills in Sector 105, while post-noon, the vans would go to Dolphin Society in Sector 78 and Falcon Heights in Sector 82.Jain said on April 26 during the pre-noon time, the vans would go to Escon Arena Singhpura Road in Zirakpur and Maya Gardens in Zirakpur, while post-noon, the vans would go to Tulip Heights on VIP Road and Orbit Apartments on VIP Road, Zirakpur. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/withdraw-cash-through-mobile-atms-in-mohali-76104
25-04-2020||---||Chandigarh Administration issues  standard operating procedures for Covid volunteers||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 24For the enforcement of the Covid-19 guidelines, the UT Administration has issued Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for volunteers and NGOs.An order issued by District Magistrate Mandip Singh Brar stated that the volunteers, NGOs, volunteer organisations and other associations willing to work as Authorised Covid Volunteers (ACV) have to register themselves with the SDM concerned by submitting an application on the email-id of the respective SDM.A list of individual volunteers, if found suitable, will be compiled by the office of the SDM concerned for ready deployment, in case of any need. The NGOs, RWAs, volunteer organisations, and other associations should prepare a plan and duty chart for their societies or RWAs and submit the same with the application to the SDM concerned, states the order.The SDM will take the views of the police and the SDPO concerned to decide on these applications. If any changes are made by the SDM in the proposed plan, the same will be abided by the applicants.Every registered volunteer will be referred as ACV and every ACV must himself get screened by a team of the Health Department.These ACVs will only assist the police and the administration. They will not be allowed to perform any official duty. None of these registered ACVs, NGOs, RWAs and other associations will be allowed to seal main road (entry or exit points) by barricading, etc, at their own level. Authorised Volunteers to register with SDMAn order issued by District Magistrate Mandip Singh Brar states that volunteers, NGOs, volunteer organisations and other associations willing to work as Authorised Covid Volunteers (ACV) have to register themselves by submitting an application on the email-id of the respective SDM. These ACVs will only work under the supervision of the local police and the Administration and strictly as per the approved plan and duty chart. In case, the conduct of any ACV is found improper, the same will be removed immediately.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-issues-standard-operating-procedures-for-covid-volunteers-76103
25-04-2020||---||Mobile medical units to ensure health services in Panchkula||Panchkula, April 24The Panchkula administration will deploy mobile medical units in eight villages, six residential sectors and colonies from tomorrow to ensure that uninterrupted health services are provided to the people there. 12 such vans already running, says DC Panchkula Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said that the Health Department had been running 12 vans as mobile OPDs and dispensaries for health-related problems and distribution of medicines.These will be functional in villages, including Manak Tabra of Raipur Rani and Rathpur of Pinjore block, from tomorrow. Residents of several sectors and colonies at Sectors 12-A, 15, 19, 26, 7, 8 and Rajiv Colony can also avail of the services.Masks made compulsoryDeputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja today said that wearing protective face masks had been made compulsory for people stepping out of their homes during the lockdown. To ensure everyone gets masks, their production has been upped at Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs) at Raipur Rani, Sector 14, Panchkula, and Betna in Pinjore.386 complete quarantine periodDeputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said that as many as 386 persons had completed their designated home-quarantine period of 28 days.He said that 15 persons had been admitted to an isolation ward of the Civil Hospital, five at Command Hospital, seven at MMU Hospital, Mullana, three at a Panchkula-based private hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mobile-medical-units-to-ensure-health-services-in-panchkula-76102
25-04-2020||---||PGI staffer on duty caught with alcohol||Chandigarh, April 24A hospital attendant posted at the Covid ward of the PGIMER was removed from duty after he was found in possession of alcohol.A letter by Dr Usha Dutta, Department of Gastroenterology, sent to Dr Arun Aggarwal, chairman, employee management, on April 21 reads, “It has come to my notice that hospital attendant Ajay Kumar posted in the Covid positive area at Nehru Hospital Extension (NHE) emergency on the ground floor has been found with alcohol within the sarai quarantine premises.”“He was caught red-handed with a bottle of alcohol. He has confessed to the crime. He may be duly removed from his duty at the NHE. He will be quarantined in sarai with immediate effect,” Dr Dutta added.Dr Ashok, official spokesperson, PGIMER, said, “The contractor has been informed. Appropriate action will be taken as per the terms and condition of the contract.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-staffer-on-duty-caught-with-alcohol-76101
25-04-2020||Chandigarh||Khukhrain Sabha donates Rs1 lakh||Ration for rly workersChandigarh: The Fifty Railway Swachhta Sahayaks (cleanliness assistants) of the Ambala Cantt Railway Station were provided with ration kits by the Northern Railway Women’s Welfare Organisation (NRWWO), Ambala Division. Each Railway Swachhta Sahayak was provided with 10-kg atta, 5-kg rice, 1-kg edible oil, 1-kg sugar, 250-gm tea and 2-kg pulses. Harvinder Kaur, president of the NRWWO, Ambala, said the cleanliness assistants had played an important role in smooth operation of the railways services. TNS100 PPE kits donatedDera Bassi: Udayvir Singh Dhillon, General Secretary, Punjab Youth Congress, visited the Civil Hospital, Dera Bassi, and donated personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, masks, gloves and sanitisers to doctors and the staff tending to Covid-19 patients. Dhillon appreciated the services of the frontline health workers. TNS500 PPE kits, masks donatedChandigarh: The Technology Solution Providers’ Association (TECSPA) today donated 500 PPE kits, 500 masks and the same number of gloves to GMCH-32, Chandigarh; Government Hospital, Phase 6, Mohali, and Government Hospital, Sector 6, Panchkula, today. Manu Mehta, president, TECSPA, and vice-president JS Walia said more funding would continue in future. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/khukhrain-sabha-donates-rs1-lakh-76100
25-04-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||Fatehgarh Sahib is  now Covid-free||All 42 samples collected in Fatehgarh Sahib, including those of six contacts of a positive case from Rajpura, were reported negative, making the district Covid-free.Both positive Tablighi Jammaati women have been cured and discharged from Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur, said Dr NK Aggarwal, Civil Surgeon, Fatehgarh Sahib. He said luckily, no positive case had been reported in the district for the past two weeks.He said to check the spread of Covid-19, a special survey, screening and testing had been initiated in all villages of the district. He called upon people to help the government in war against Covid-19 by obeying the instructions and remaining inside houses and maintaining social distancing. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fatehgarh-sahib-is-now-covid-free-76099
25-04-2020||Mohali||Milk vendors, booth owners screened in Mohali district||In order to curb the spread of Covid-19, the district development and panchayat officer in association with director, cooperatives societies, and Health Department screened milk vendors as well as booth owners across the district and provided them protective masks.Divulging details, Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said a total of 346 persons from Verka, Amul, HF Super and Himalayan Creamery were screened and all were found asymptomatic. He said the screening was done at the Rose Garden Park in Phase 3B2, City Park Sector 68, and Silvi Park, Phase 10, Mohali, Children’s Park near police chowki, Sunny Enclave in Kharar, Ram Lila ground near bus stand in Dera Bassi and Lohgarh Park in Zirakpur.The DC said the milk vendors and the booth owners were given two masks each. He further said that the screened persons were also made aware about social distancing guidelines, besides other safety precautions and personal hygiene to be observed strictly in view of Covid. — TNS52 newspaper vendors screenedKharar: The drive, initiated by the district administration, for the screening of newspaper vendors and agents entered its second day today. The drive was carried out at the Sri Ram Bhawan in Kharar and 52 hawkers and newspaper agents were screened.The process of screening was carried out by a doctor and multipurpose health workers. The team, apart from screening the vendors, also sensitised them regarding complying with the social distancing guidelines, using masks and sanitisers. Apart from newspaper vendors, 30 ‘safai sewaks’ were also screened. All of them were found to be asymptomatic.More than a hundred hand sanitisers and masks were also distributed. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/milk-vendors-booth-owners-screened-in-mohali-district-76098
25-04-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Hostels chosen considering geographical location: Chandigarh Administration||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 24Considering the geographical location, the UT Administration has decided to convert four Panjab University (PU) hostels as backup Covid-19 isolation wards, said an official.The selected hostels are located at a non-residential area in Sector 25 and are at a considerate distance from other departments than those on the Sector 14 campus. Yesterday, the UT Administration requested to convert girls’ hostel number 8, 9, 10 and international hostel into Covid-19 isolation units. The UT Administration officials assured the PU that the facility would only be used under extreme crisis. However, the university authorities have already started the process of vacating the hostels.“The inspection of all hostels was conducted earlier this month. The capacity of these hostels varies — at a rough estimate, around 250 to 300 people can be put under isolation in each hostel,” said an UT Administration official.“All these buildings are located in Sector 25, which is away from the main campus (Sector 14) and most importantly, it is a non-residential area. The departments and a government school (located on the premises) are at a distance. There is uncertainty on the opening of schools/departments, so this place has been chosen.”When asked about students’ concern, the official added: “The facility is only a backup plan in case of acute crisis. Hospitals in Chandigarh — especially the PGIMER— caters to patients from nearby states and also from other parts of the nation. If cases are referred to the city from other places, we won’t have enough time to make arrangements at the eleventh hour. So, we have taken this precautionary measure.”“We had a very less number of occupants in these hostels. All have been adjusted to other facilities. Once the Administration takes over the area, they will be performing rest of the tasks. The entry to the area is already restricted amid the ongoing lockdown,” said Neena Capalash, Dean, Students’ Welfare (Women).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hostels-chosen-considering-geographical-location-chandigarh-administration-76097
25-04-2020||Mohali||No new case in Mohali||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-new-case-in-mohali-76083
25-04-2020||Panchkula||No new case from Panchkula for third day||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-new-case-from-panchkula-for-third-day-76082
25-04-2020||The Municipal Corporation||Home delivery of Milk, eggs from 5 am to 9 pm||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/home-delivery-of-milk-eggs-from-5-am-to-9-pm-76080
25-04-2020||Punjab Governor and UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore expressed happiness that the number of active cases in the city was reduced to 13 on Friday. Principal Secretary (Health) Arun Kumar Gupta said while the national recovery rate was 20 per cent||Badnore expresses happiness over recovery rate||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/badnore-expresses-happiness-over-recovery-rate-76078
25-04-2020||Naina Mishra||Man loses father after reaching Bihar||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 24The Covid pandemic has aggravated problems of patients suffering from other ailments as it is now claiming lives of some of those in need of regular medical attention.Dalip Kumar, a resident of Bihar whose father was taking dialysis treatment in the city and was putting up in Nayagaon, lost him after reaching his hometown today as he failed to get the dialysis facility there.He had hired an ambulance for Rs 30,000 from Chandigarh to reach Darbhanga district in Bihar as he thought he would avail of the dialysis facility there. “As soon as the ambulance reached my hometown, the entire neighbourhood raised the alarm as they took my father to be a Covid patient. People started hurling abuses at me for bringing my father,” said Kumar. Kumar’s father was getting his dialysis done from Dharam Hospital, Sector 15, Chandigarh, but the transportation cost was a major problem for him.Kumar said, “I thought before getting the dialysis done in my hometown, we would go to a Covid-19 centre and tell the authorities that we have travelled inter-state and if they wanted to get a test done, they could do so.”“My father was kept in a hospital for one day and everybody was scared to touch him. I struggled for getting a Covid test done. All I wanted was a certification from the hospital so that I could prove that my father wasn’t infected and he could be given dialysis,” he added.He said, “Healthcare facilities in Bihar are pitiable. But the only solace is that my father took at his last breath near his loved ones and the land where he belonged. I don’t think anything could have been done even in Chandigarh as I was putting up in Nayagaon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-loses-father-after-reaching-bihar-76072
25-04-2020||---||No Ramzan prayers at mosques in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, April 24Muslim leaders in Chandigarh today assured the Chandigarh Police that nobody would visit mosques to offer namaz during the holy month of Ramzan in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.Reaching out to religious leaders of the Muslim community, the police also gave 1,000 pieces of “janamaj” (prayer mats) and 2,000 packets of dates to Maulana Ajmal Khan of the Jama Masjid, Sector 20; Mufti Anas of the mosque at Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26; Kari Shamsher of the mosque at Sector 45, and Imam Mohammad Imran of the mosque at Mani Majra as a goodwill gesture.DGP Sanjay Baniwal and other police officers were present on the occasion. The police said the unique move would cement brotherly relationship and communal harmony.A police official claimed that they were told that it was for the first time since Independence that Muslims would not offer prayers at mosques during Ramzan, a fine example of solidarity in the fight against the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-ramzan-prayers-at-mosques-in-chandigarh-76066
25-04-2020||Saurabh Malik||HC gives nod to termination of pregnancy during lockdown||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 24Coming to the rescue of a woman seeking termination of pregnancy during the Covid lockdown period after the foetus showed symptoms of Down syndrome, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today not only allowed her plea, but also directed her to be treated as a poor patient.Taking up her petition through video-conferencing, Justice Sudhir Mittal directed that the woman be admitted forthwith after taking all necessary precautions required due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The procedure was also directed to be performed at the earliest keeping in view the urgency involved.Down syndromeReferring to a report by a medical board, Justice Sudhir Mittal observed that the foetus was suffering from Down syndrome and the said abnormality was associated with severe physical and mental handicap not compatible with normal life. As such, a recommendation had been made for termination of the pregnancy as it was possible without endangering her life.“I have been informed that the petitioners are people of limited means and are unable to afford the procedure. Thus, the respondent-medical institute is directed to treat the case as one of a poor patient and give all assistance available for such patients as per policy,” Justice Mittal added. Referring to a report by a medical board, Justice Mittal observed the foetus was suffering from Down syndrome and the said abnormality was associated with severe physical and mental handicap not compatible with normal life. As such, a recommendation had been made for termination of the pregnancy as it was possible without endangering her life.“The recommendation is based on internationally recognised medical guidelines, according to which, termination of pregnancy beyond 22 weeks can also be safely done. As the procedure sought by the petitioners is safe, even though the statutorily prescribed period is over and in view of a similar judgment of this court... I consider it appropriate to direct the respondent-institute to terminate the pregnancy as recommended by its permanent medical board,” Justice Mittal added.The HC had directed a medical board to clearly give opinion as to whether the termination of pregnancy would be feasible in the facts and circumstances of the present case and legal requirements.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hc-gives-nod-to-termination-of-pregnancy-during-lockdown-76065
25-04-2020||Naina Mishra||‘At Covid ICU, we keep patients’ morale high’||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 24For 26-year-old nursing officer Jagdish Chaudhary, who is posted in the Covid ICU ward at Nehru Extension Hospital, PGI, maintaining three-foot distance from patients gasping for air isn’t possible as there is always a direct contact.“Though we try our best to maintain distance from patients, when a critical case comes, we don’t think twice before rushing to evaluate,” said Chaudhary.Chaudhary was in the medical team that was looking after the six-month-old baby girl from Phagwara. He was part of the nursing staff who injected her, checked her blood pressure and performed cardiopulmonary resuscitation.“I worked with full dedication without fear of being infected, but the child could not be saved. It didn’t feel like I was on duty. Rather, it felt like we are rendering the greatest service of the time,” said Chaudhary.As there is a direct contact with patients in Covid ICU wards, personal protective equipment (PPE) kits come in contact first. However, the real challenge is ensure that there is no contact between the skin and the outer surface of the PPE.Chaudhary said: “During the six-hour shift, we don’t move our hand above the chest. If there is any pain or itching in the body, we have to bear it.”“We wear PPE kits over surgical gowns so that there is one more protective layer that saves us from direct contact. It takes half an hour to don a PPE kit, but removing the kit is no easy task either. While removing the PPE kit, we have to be extra careful so that there is no breach,” he said.Health workers have also become a support system for patients admitted to isolation wards and fighting Covid.“We cheer up Covid patients by making video calls and assuring their family members of recovery. We try our best to keep the morale of the patients high,” he said.Family unaware of dutyJagdish’s shift starts at 8 am and ends at 2 pm. However, Chaudhary’s parents have no idea what their son is doing these days. “I did not tell my family that I was posted in the Covid ward fearing that they would panic. I had told them that no mobile phones were allowed till 2 pm. However, my one-and-a-half-year-old daughter rings me up early in the morning and I do answer her calls,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/at-covid-icu-we-keep-patients-morale-high-76051
25-04-2020||---||GMCH Chandigarh ward boy tests +ve; Sector 35 man discharged||Chandigarh, April 24A ward boy working in the general surgery operation theatre at the GMCH, Sector 32, who is a resident of Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26, Chandigarh, tested positive for Covid-19. He is admitted to the GMCH and will be shifted to the PGI tomorrow.Meanwhile, a PGI team lined up outside the Nehru Hospital Extension block, designated as the Covid hospital, to cheer when a 49-year-old man from Sector 35 here was discharged after winning the war against Covid-19, giving hope to others fighting the virus. He was reunited with his family after 21 days at the hospital.The braveheart said: “I want to express my gratitude for the care I received at the PGI. I have been actually given a second lease of life,” he said.“The resident has made an incredible recovery and the joyful moment of his discharge marks a positive milestone for the PGI. This is motivating for our frontline warriors,” stated Prof Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, while lauding the efforts of thehospital’s Covid team. The PGI Director said: “Today’s discharge marks the successful recovery of seventh Covid-19 positive patient from the PGI’s dedicated Covid hospital. We hope to continue to send other patients as well to their homes soon.”The patient was admitted to the GMSH, Sector 16, on March 30 where he tested Covid-19 positive. He was shifted to the PGI on April 3. The patient had a history of contact with nephews returning from Dubai and Singapore (residents of Punjab).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gmch-chandigarh-ward-boy-tests-ve-sector-35-man-discharged-76048
