27-04-2020||Chandigarh||In highest single-day spike, Chandigarh reports nine new coronavirus cases||Chandigarh reported nine more coronavirus cases on Monday, officials said---the largest single-day spike the city has seen yet.Five people who worked at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32---three women doctors, a ward attendant and a man who worked on the hospital’s housekeeping staff---tested positive for the infection.Another community contact of the ward attendant also tested positive of Covid-19.A 19-year-old woman from Sector 52 who is a contact of a person from Bapu Dham colony who recently tested positive was also diagnosed with the infection.A 41-year-old man and a 65-year-old woman, both from the same household in Sector 30, tested positive.The development takes the Covid-19 tally for the union territory to 45.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-highest-single-day-spike-chandigarh-reports-nine-new-coronavirus-cases-76999
27-04-2020||---||PAU start-up comes up with sanitising machine, gives 7 to Chandigarh admn||Ludhiana, April 26Master Brain Agro Industry Private Limited, a start-up of Punjab Agri Business Incubator (PABI), Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), has developed sanitizing machines with the technical and business support. Master Brain Agro Industry Private Limited has delivered seven auto rotate gun spray machines to the Chandigarh administration to spray sanitizer.Gursewak Singh, who was selected for training in the first cohort of Udaan Expansion Stage Programme under PABI, PAU, attended a two-month training programme along with business and technical mentoring by experts in specific fields. He gave his first free trial to serve society by helping the administration in spraying sanitiser in his village near Barnala.Under the guidance of PABI team comprising Dr JS Mahal, Director of Extension Education; Dr TS Riar, Associate Director, Skill Development; Dr Poonam A Sachdev, Head, Department of Food Science and Technology; Karanveer and Rahul Gupta, Business Managers, he presented his agribusiness in front of CIC Committee, which has also been approved (worth Rs 18 lakh grant in aid). Dr Baldev Singh Dhillon, Vice-Chancellor, PAU, appreciated the effort made by the PAU start-up in helping society in the most difficult times of Covid-19 pandemic, a serious global threat to the mankind.GADVASU develops cost-effective sanitiserAccepting the call to fight COVID-19 through “Mission Fateh” of Punjab Government, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), Ludhiana, has come up with a cost-effective alcohol-based hand sanitiser.Innovations at the Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, GADVASU, Ludhiana, are proving highly useful. In line with guidelines of the WHO, the university has prepared a cost-effective alcohol-based hand sanitiser.Dr Vinod Dumka, Head of the Department, said the pandemic is a real time threat to present day global society. The best strategy at the moment was to strictly observe social distancing and frequent sanitisation of hands for breaking the spread chain of the virus. Due to immediate high demand, hand sanitisers, which were very expensive also, soon became out of stock. Dr Dumka said the cost of GADVASU hand Sanitiser was only around Rs 120 per 400 ml as against Rs 250 to Rs 400 for various commercially available brands.Dr Parkash Singh, Dean Veterinary Science College, said GADVASU had continued its essential activities, including emergency services at veterinary hospital, diagnosis and treatment of sick animals and management of animal farms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pau-start-up-comes-up-with-sanitising-machine-gives-7-to-chandigarh-admn-76939
27-04-2020||Naina Mishra||You’ll fight it, father tells Covid +ve nurse||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 26There has been an increase in cases of health workers getting infected by Covid at their workplaces. The city reported its fourth such case today -- that of a 26-year-old female nursing officer posted at the Emergency OPD of the PGI.After she tested positive for Covid at 4 pm today, she broke the news to her father, a police officer who is also a frontline Covid warrior in Haryana. The young nursing officer was told by her father, “You will fight the disease, just be brave, my girl.”“My father told me that I was a brave girl and would sail through this hardship with patience. He told me that I was healthy and didn't have serious symptoms,” she said.“I have no idea from where I contracted the infection. We used to see patients coming for non-Covid ailments in the Emergency. We keep following up with patients who are referred as suspected Covid cases. So far, I don’t think I have contracted the infection from a known source. It is possible that some patient in the Emergency might have been a carrier, from where I got the infection,” she said.She said, “The report came as a shock for me as I thought it would be negative. So far, I don’t have serious symptoms other than body aches and mild cough.”She said she had fever yesterday after which she was sampled for Covid. The nursing officer has been putting at the PGI hostel and is a resident of Haryana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youll-fight-it-father-tells-covid-ve-nurse-76797
27-04-2020||Chandigarh||Over 18K detained during lockdown||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/over-18k-detained-during-lockdown-76793
27-04-2020||Can random tests & harsher measures stop spread of covid ?||Testing people with respiratory illness can help||Start community testingDuring this hour of crisis, Chandigarh, which bears the tag of City Beautiful, must act smartly. Taking a cue from the situation, the authorities must go for random Covid-19 testing and take harsher measures, including community testing, to contain further spread of the epidemic in the city and adjoining areas.Naveen Gupta, ChandigarhTesting should be intensifiedThe rise in number of Covid-19 cases in the tricity is not a positive sign for residents. The authorities concerned of the tricity must enforce strict lockdown measures and social distancing norms along with no movement of people as curfew has already been imposed till May 3. Also, contacts of all infected persons should be traced and tested for the virus. Besides, rapid and random testing should also be conducted door-to-door in the tricity to identify infected persons.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliTake sincere steps to contain Covid-19The tricity authorities should take sincere steps to check the spread of coronavirus in Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula. No one should violate social distancing norms and move out without wearing a mask. Random testing of tricity residents for the virus must strictly be done and action taken accordingly to contain the spread epidemic.RK Kapoor, ChandigarhTesting at doorstepsIn view of the lockdown, testing of all residents in areas declared red zone should be done at doorsteps on a war footing. Instead of taking harsh measures, which inconvenience public at large stress must be laid on Covid testing. People should be educated to maintain safe distance and wear masks while going out of houses.Col TBS Bedi (retd), MohaliHarsher measures can check coronavirusThe standard quarantine period is 14 days. We have been indoors for more than 27 days. Further lockdown would affect livelihood of many, turn all persons above 50 years diabetic, cause depression among 90% people and make children frustrated. Hence, some relaxations are required. Harsher measures should be applied on those, who carry the virus and hide their travel/contact history. Fine should be imposed on such persons. Not random but extensive testing should be done in the vicinity of the infected person.AK Sharma, PanchkulaUpdate infra to tackle untoward situationThe day-by-day increase in numbers of Covid cases in Chandigarh and adjoining cities is a matter of concern. Thinking of respite in near future is self-deceiving. Therefore, before heading towards random tests, the authorities concerned should update infrastructure to meet any untoward situation. Nevertheless, we should also be hopeful that the rising temperature might control the spread of disease or the potency of coronavirus.Surinder Paul Wadhwa, MohaliWrong criteria used for classificationOnly persons, who are at present Covid-positive, should be taken into consideration and not the total number of coronavirus cases for classification of an area as hotspot. Again, particular area of the UT where there are more Covid-positive cases, should be declared as containment zone and not the whole city. Declaration of Chandigarh as hotspot by the Central Government and containment zone by the UT Administration will only increase panic and hardships of the general public in the City Beautiful.Amardeep Singh, ChandigarhRandom testing, harsher measures should be takenThe authorities are doing great job. I would like to applaud them for their efforts. Since Chandigarh has been declared as hotspot, I think the decision to take strict actions is must after all its for the welfare of society. Random testing will make residents more concerned and serious about the problem. It will also help in finding more Covid-positive patients and reduce its chance of spreading.Simran Gaur, ChandigarhAll residents must stay indoorsYes, for sure there is an urgency for random testing and harsher measures to check the spread of the virus. Nobody should be allowed to come out of homes in the containment zone. The strict implementation of curfew/lockdown is the need of the hour. Complete sealing of the area, which has even one case, is also must. Isolation and social distancing are the only weapons, which can kill the virus. As responsible citizens, we must follow guidelines in letter and spirit so that our country can get rid of the deadly Covid-19.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, ChandigarhTesting top priority for tricityIn the fight against Covid pandemic, policymakers are waging a war blindly because they do not know the extent of infection in society. Response to this crisis depends on figuring how fast the disease is spreading outside hospitals and in community. So, the need of the hour is to prioritise testing of individuals, who have severe symptoms and show up at hospitals.Vijay Malia, ChandigarhIntroduce self-testing kits to control spread of virusCovid-19 has created health emergency and financial crisis. It could not have come at worst time for India, already in the middle of slowdown. It is a long haul with great sadness no buffer to carry loads. Virus is spreading at fast pace with greater challenges. There is need for testing kits so that people themselves can test for virus, isolate themselves and take medical help. Use of cycles rather than public transport can slow down the spread of deadly virus. People must be taught to cope with difficult situation in a better way.Charu Malhotra, MohaliNorms warrant a revolutionary shiftThe blame for lapses leading to declaration of Chandigarh as a containment zone lies squarely on overconfidence and casual approach in comprehending the gravity/nature of pandemic. Sacrifices of the government and the people are negated when regulations are flouted with impunity. Everyone has to be a vigilant warrior to arrest further spread of the disease. Anyone venturing on roads must undergo thermal screening. Monitor asymptomatic persons and subject them to intensive testing where needed. It's time for revolutionary shift in attitudinal, behavioral and working norms during and post Covid-19 era.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaPay heed to subtle alarmIf the increase in Covid cases in Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula is any indication we must pay heed to the subtle alarm and gird up our loins to face the abominable crisis. Declaring the area 'Containment Zone' is not enough unless the tricity authorities follow it up by a concerted operation of random testing and harsher measures. Stalls for random testing should be set up over several smaller areas. Harsher measures should entail imprisonment and/or heavy fines.DR SS Bhatti, ChandigarhConsider tricity as one unitFor all practical purposes Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula should be considered as one unit not only for this pandemic, but for all law and order and other health-related concerns. None of these can be considered in isolation though forming part of different states. Every person has to be tested for Covid-19. Only one agency, preferably resident welfare associations (RWAs), should ensure total sealing of their respective areas. Too many agencies dilute efforts. RWAs should also report suspected cases to the authorities concerned. Harsher but not physically harsher methods are necessary with persuasion or disciplinary action. People are aware that Covid-19 is a threat to human race. Every citizen should stand as a devoted soldier to defend himself and the mankind. It is the question of our survival.Dr Gurdev Singh, MohaliDeploy more manpower, health teamsThe key to stop the spread of Covid-19 pandemic is only conducting tests on citizens. The government is announcing from rooftops that Covid-19 positive cases have become linear and not exponential, indicating a flattening of the country's positive rate. The data may suggest control over pandemic, but the ground realities are different. Chandigarh has a population of approx 12 lakh. At 1.5 times the national testing average per day, which is 500 tests per day, the UT Administration requires 2,400 days to test all residents of the city. This translates to over six-and-a-half years of testing. The government is playing a joke with the lives of citizens. It should accept the hard reality and deploy more manpower and teams to paint the true picture of the Covid-19 pandemic. The mere fact that today we are in a much better position than most developed nations, like the USA and China, is no consolation. It is sheer luck.Rajiv Boolchand Jain,ChandigarhTricity must fight battle togetherMost people working and contributing to economic growth of Chandigarh live in Mohali and Panchkula. As such, the tricity must fight this invisible enemy together. So is the treatment. There should not be any restrictions at hospitals for treatment of Covid patients from outside Chandigarh as medical facilities are better in capital city than states, which have higher mortality rate. The Administration should identify people suffering from deadly virus through rapid testing. There is a need for gradual opening up the economy. This is the right time to re-carpet bad roads.Col Balbir Singh Mathauda (retd), ChandigarhUse media to create awarenessTo ameliorate the condition of the tricity, the authorities concerned will have to make concerted efforts to create awareness among people about deadly virus through media during the lockdown. It is wise to create a healthy and hygienic atmosphere as coronavirus can only be prevented not cured. Only preventive measures can build up stamina and immunity.Anita Tandon, ChandiagrhDoor-to-door screeningDespite country-wide lockdown the number of Covid cases are still going north. Public has follow the lockdown protocol and desist from violations. As asymptomatic cases are also appearing, the civic authorities should not only resort to random checks, but also undertake door-to-door screening. The situation is still worrisome. More stringent measures, including extension of lockdown upto May 15, are needed to effectively combat the spread of virus.SS Arora, MohaliFind asymptomatic cases in tricityIn order to prevent community transmission of Covid-19 and come out from the containment zone, the focus of the tricity authorities should be on finding asymptomatic cases through random medical examination of residents by expert medical professionals. As tricity residents are educated, conducting tests on them will not be difficult. This will help control dangerous phase of the disease.Capt Jagdish Verma ( retd), ChandigarhAll citizens need must be screenedIt is not possible to find out Covid-19 patients without conducting any test. To find residents suffering from the disease the Administration should form screening committees comprising volunteers, RWAs, NGOs and health personnel to conduct door-to-door survey in the tricity. Team members should maintain record of names, mobile numbers, including travel history and addresses, of the surveyed persons and their health condition. The tricity Administration needs to emulate Bhilwara where 28 lakh people were screened, which helped in containing the virus.SK Khosla, ChandigarhDon't go for random testingWith rising Covid cases in the city, easing curfew for a longer time than usual is not a good idea. Lockdown violations should be checked with an iron hand. People, who are in self-isolation, should be quarantined properly. No one must run away from isolation wards. The authorities should not go in for random testing in the city as we have limited resources. They should set up more isolation wards and buy ventilators.Saikrit Gulati, ChandigarhQUESTIONWith Covid-19 cases rising in the tricity, there seems no certainty when educational institutes will reopen. While online classes are on for various courses, do you think it will affect the overall quality of education?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/testing-people-with-respiratory-illness-can-help-76792
27-04-2020||Panchkula||7 from Panchkula now free of virus||Seven persons belonging to the family of the infected Sector 15 couple were sent home from Maharishi Markandeshwar University (MMU) Hospital at Mullana in Ambala after they recovered from Covid. They had tested positive for the virus on April 16.On April 14, the woman was found positive and a day later, her husband was also diagnosed with the infectious disease. Rajiv Narwal, district nodal officer for Covid, said, “All seven patients were discharged from the MMU, Mullana, after testing negative for the infection. However, the subsequent report of the Covid infected couple is awaited. If the report comes negative for the second time, they will be discharged. They are currently admitted to a local private hospital.” So far, 10 patients have been discharged in the district. The tally of active cases now stands at eight. Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said 385 persons completed their quarantine period of 28 days. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/7-from-panchkula-now-free-of-virus-76790
27-04-2020||---||Mohali cops nab 4 gangsters in Panchkula encounter||Mohali, April 26Four members of a gang were arrested by the Mohali police during a brief encounter at Billa village in Panchkula this morning. A cop sustained injuries as a bullet hit his left leg.The arrested gangsters have been identified as Harsimran, alias Simu, a resident of Narayangarh, Dhruvmohan Garg, a resident of Ghaziabad, Gurpreet Singh, alias Gopi, a resident of Dera Bassi, and Gurcharan Singh, a resident of Paarwala village near Raipur Rani. The police have also recovered two country-made pistols, six live cartridges, two magazines and two empty shells from the gangsters.The injured cop, Head Constable Raspreet Singh, had managed to nab one of the gangsters despite getting a bullet injury. Raspreet was initially admitted to the Civil Hospital in Panchkula, from where he was referred to the GMCH-32 in Chandigarh. He would undergo an operation at the Chandigarh hospital.According to information, the incident took place around 6 am when a police team comprising 10 cops, led by SHO Rajnish Choudhary of Phase VIII police station, went to Ramgarh village, Panchkula. The police had received a tip-off that four gangsters involved in an attempt-to-murder case registered in Mohali were hiding in a house.The police team reached the village and surround the area where the gangster were hiding in a rented accommodation. On seeing cops, the gangsters opened fire. However, the police managed to nab three gangsters and when Raspreet tried to nab the fourth, who was trying to flee, the gangster fired at the cop. The bullet hit the cop’s left leg. Despite getting injured, Raspreet managed to nab the fleeing gangster after a brief chase.“It took us around 25 minutes to nab all four gangsters. Two rounds were fired in the operation, all by them. A bullet hit my left leg. I am happy I was still able to nab one of them. I am totally fine now,” said Raspreet Singh.*Were facing murder bid charge in MohaliDSP Ramandeep said, “The gangsters were involved in an attempt-to-murder case as they had opened fire on a milkman in Mohali in March this year. Since then, the police have been looking for them.”In March this year, Kamalpreet Singh (23), a milkman, was injured when three unidentified persons attacked him with a sword and opened fire at him.The incident had occurred when Kamalpreet was delivering milk in the HIG flats at Phase IX. In the meantime, three persons came on a Splendor bike and one of them opened fire on the victim.A case was registered under Sections 307, 34 of the IPC and relevant sections of the Arms Act at the Phase VIII police station on March 11.To be produced in court todaySenior officials of the Panchkula police, led by Deputy Commissioner of Police Mohit Handa, also reached the site and arrested the four gangsters. A case was registered against them under Sections 186, 188, 332, 353, 307 and 34 of the IPC and the Arms Act at the Chandimandir police station. The gangsters will be produced in a court on Monday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-cops-nab-4-gangsters-in-panchkula-encounter-76785
27-04-2020||Mohali||Eight more from Jawaharpur village recover||Eight more Covid patients from Jawaharpur village near Dera Bassi, who were admitted to Gian Sagar Hospital near Banur, were discharged today, taking the total number of patients to have recovered from the virus in the district to 22.With the discharge of these people, the number of active cases has dropped to 39. So far, 63 Covid cases have been reported from the district.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Manjit Singh, said all patients discharged today hailed from Jawaharpur, which had witnessed the highest number of cases in the district so far. Of the 22 patients to have recovered in the district, 13 were from Jawaharpur, he said.Dr Manjit Singh said the eight patients who had recovered were Manish (32), Gurjeet Singh (42), Jaspreet Singh (23), Reena (30), Taranpreet Singh (7), Sharanpreet Singh (14), Gurfateh Singh (one and a half years old) and Pritam Singh (80). He said these patients would be quarantined for 14 days as a precautionary measure at a quarantine centre in Sector 70, Mohali.Launding the health teams treating patients at Gian Sagar Hospital, Dr Manjit Singh said doctors, nurses and paramedical staff at the centre were the real warriors who were performing their duty with dedication while risking their lives. Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan lauded the efforts of the Health Department and said extensive contact tracing and the sampling process were bringing good results. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/eight-more-from-jawaharpur-village-recover-76783
27-04-2020||Mohali||Woman constable booked||The Nayagaon police have booked the woman constable, Usha Yadav, whose video went viral a few days ago in which she could be seen arguing with the police after she was not allowed to take a road that was closed due to the curfew.Inspector Ashok Kumar, SHO Nayagaon, said: "We have registered a case against Usha Yadav under Sections 186, 188, 353, 269 and 270 of the IPC and 51 of the Disaster Management Act. The sections are non-bailable and she will be arrested soon." — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-constable-booked-76782
27-04-2020||---||Chandigarh sees highest case spike in day||Chandigarh, April 26The city saw the highest spike in the number of Covid cases in a day on Sunday. Six cases were reported in the city today, raising the Covid tally to 36.The second highest number of cases was reported on March 30 when five persons had tested positive.Four family contacts of a GMCH ward boy, who resides at Bapu Dham Colony and had tested positive on Friday, have been found infected with the virus too. They are six-month-old son, mother and two sisters.His two community contacts have been sampled and their reports are awaited. His 14 relatives have been sampled for Covid too.Out of his 20 workplace contacts, 19 tested negative for the virus while one from Mauli Jagran was found Covid positive on Saturday. The Mauli Jagran patient’s six family contacts and two household contacts have also been sampled for Covid.The other two to test positive for the virus today are a 26-years-old woman, who is a nursing officer at the PGI and lives in a hostel at Sector 12, and a 25-year-old youth, a nursing officer at the GMCH and a resident of Sector 32.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-highest-case-spike-in-day-76780
27-04-2020||Chandigarh||11-month-old girl, mom discharged from PGI||The youngest Covid patient from the city, an 11-month-old girl, and her mother were discharged from the dedicated Covid hospital at the PGI here today. So far, nine patients have been declared cured and discharged from the hospital.Holding her daughter in her arms, the Sector 33 resident was extremely emotional at the time of discharge. She said, “There have been phases of hopelessness and despair. I thought I have lost the battle but eventually, I came out victorious in this Covid challenge. I stand indebted to each and every health worker for their care, concern and compassion.”Giving a ray of hope to others, she added, “My advice to those fighting the battle against Covid is not to lose faith in the Almighty and follow your doctors’ instructions religiously.”Swapanjit Sahu, assistant professor, Department of Psychiatry, PGI, said, “Though both mother and daughter were stable physically, psychologically, it was very stressful for them to stay in isolation. The mother reported significant distress during her ward stay and was consistently counselled over video call, addressing her anxiety and anger. Things were slightly not in favour as despite testing negative, she had to stay for more days as the baby tested positive again and again.This can be really disappointing for anyone but regular positive counselling and support helped her in winning the war against Covid-19.”Prof Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, said, “Today is all the more special because the recovery of the baby patient was a huge challenge for the medical team due to her tender age.”The baby girl’s father and grandmother too had tested positive for Covid. Four of the family members were admitted to the PGI on April 3.The girl’s father was discharged a week earlier. The condition of her grandmother is stable and on recovery path.Prof Vipin Koushal, Additional Medical Superintendent, Nehru Hospital Extension, PGI, said, “One can imagine how gruelling it must have been for the baby who could not even express her pain and anguish. Though we discuss the condition and prognosis of all patients, the team was emotionally attached to this little girl. I am glad that both the girl and her mother are healthy and in good spirits.”The mother-daughter duo will now be home-quarantined for 14 days as per the standard protocol to be followed by all Covid-19 patients. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/11-month-old-girl-mom-discharged-from-pgi-76778
27-04-2020||Sandeep Rana---||More cases from city hospitals worry officials||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, April 26 With more Covid-19 positive cases coming up from city hospitals, it has made officials worrisome as transmission source tracking is becoming difficult and infected cases are becoming carriers. In the past three days, four back-to-back cases from city hospitals have been reported. UT’s contact tracing and quarantine team officials are finding it difficult to trace the source of transmission in the cases coming from the hospitals. “It is worrisome. People from outside go to hospitals to get treated. But, now more cases of people getting infected from hospitals are coming in. They are becoming a source of carrier. They need to work out a strategy and plan something like screening all staff,” said an officer preferring anonymity. Contact tracing and quarantine nodal officer Anil Kumar Garg said: “Yes, it is difficult to zero down on them in contact tracing because they come in contact with n-number of people in hospitals. From patients to staff, they meet several people.” Dr JS Thakur, chairman, Covid-19 Prevention and IEC Committee at the PGI, told Chandigarh Tribune that, “Infection-control measures should strictly be followed in hospitals. At the PGI, we do follow these strictly. We should consider universal screening in referral institutions. Worldwide infection rate is 10-20 per cent among health workers. We are no exception. Otherwise, the UT Administration has done a good job here.” Health Secretary Arun Kumar Gupta said: “Naturally, hospital staff has higher possibilities of getting infected. There are asymptomatic cases and it only comes to light when they get infected. We are taking preventive measures such as providing PPE kits. We are also screening them from time to time, but it is not possible to screen 100 per cent of them.” A PGI nurse tested positive today. She hails from Kurukshetra and lives in a hostel in Sector 12 here. A nursing officer from the GMCH-32 also tested positive today. He is a resident of Sector 32. About 40 persons, who came in contact with him, have been quarantined. Yesterday, a GMCH-32 ward boy was found positive. He lives in Mauli Jagran and 27 persons have been quarantined in this connection. On Friday, his colleague, another ward attendant, who lives in Bapu Dham Colony, had tested positive. Over 130 persons have been quarantined in this case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/more-cases-from-city-hospitals-worry-officials-76777
27-04-2020||Patiala||On way to bring back devotees from Hazur Sahib, driver dies||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/on-way-to-bring-back-devotees-from-hazur-sahib-driver-dies-76776
27-04-2020||Gurnaaz Kaur||Time to focus on things that really matter, says educationist||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 26It is all about perspective. So, how one tunes the mind is his personal game. Just like Vivek High School chairman HS Mamik tells himself that the lockdown has given him a taste of retirement. It’s been mostly me time or playtime for this educationist.“I am one happy individual and the lockdown has given me time to think for myself, and focus on things that really matter.” Another pleasant feeling that comes along with being at home is, “I am bonding with my grandchildren. There is so much time to spend with them. It’s a blessing. Sometimes we play badminton, then there is Pictionary. When I am cooking, I teach them the basics. They have, in fact, learnt how to bake a cake and some other desserts. I can surely say they are now quite expert in baking cakes,” he says with satisfaction.Bonding with family on routine days used to take a backseat, for obvious reasons. “Everyone has to go for work and do their chores. Especially for kids, going to school, coming back with homework, the dedicated activities that follow - their day passes very quickly.”If time with kids is for cooking and playing, bonding among adults in the house is over discussions, planning work post-lockdown, and most importantly binge watching.“We all play together with the kids but when not doing that, it is time for Netflix. Narcos and some other shows I’ve enjoyed with them.” But more than Netflix, HS Mamik seems to have rejoiced watching Pakistani shows on YouTube. “Yeh Dil Mera and Henna, they are remarkable.”Leisure time aside, a look at the future brings a few worries too. “Lockdown was an intelligent decision and the Administration has done a good job but it’s time some relaxation was brought in otherwise it will be difficult to revive from the economic crisis.”Mamik feels there is now a pressing need for a chance to recover. “The government is in a spot, economy wise. Other countries are opening now. We have been down for a month already. I don’t know about Covid, but if we don’t open the green zone, workers and daily wagers surely be hit by poverty.”When it comes to opening of schools, he believes no online education can compensate for the actual environment of a school.“Since we do not want the kids to get out of touch with children-teacher bonding, online lessons are being given, there are conversations and worksheets. Senior classes are taught necessary subjects. It is all about imparting knowledge for now. Whereas in physical classrooms, the focus in on comprehensive development of pupils. A school entails so much more learning.”But for now, as long as the lockdown lasts, the change is to be accepted and appreciated. “I never thought I will be so addicted to mobile phone. I now check it every two hours. Thanks to this gadget, communication with everyone is possible sitting at home. Then there is my garden to look after and relax in the lap of nature. All my life, I’ve been working. This phase has brought in the much-needed break and I am grateful for it.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/time-to-focus-on-things-that-really-matter-says-educationist-76775
27-04-2020||Chandigarh||Covid testing kiosk at PGI||The PGI, Chandigarh, has set up its first Covid testing kiosk outside the Advanced Eye Centre on April 24 to ensure safe and fast testing. The task was initiated by Project Life MedTech. The project, founded by Akul Chopra and Dr Pradeep Atter, aims at assisting the nation in the fight against the Covid-19 with their team of experts from the GMCH-32 and AIIMS, New Delhi. Similar Covid testing kiosks had also been set up at other major hospitals in the city, including the GMCH-32 and the GMSH-16. These kiosks provide an effective barrier between the patient and the healthcare professional while taking the swab sample and helps decrease the usage of Personal PPE kits, which are expensive, time consuming to wear and short in supply. These kiosks are designed keeping in mind the safety and comfort of the medical professionals. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-testing-kiosk-at-pgi-76774
27-04-2020||Patiala||Fresh rain triggers dengue fear in Patiala district||At a time when the Health Department is busy focussing on containing the spread of Covid-19 in the district, fresh spell of rains have increased the threat of dengue.The lockdown has resulted in poor clearance of water at many spots. Consequently, there are chances of water stagnation at these places and the Health Department fears dengue mosquitoes may start breeding there.Notably, the dengue mosquito thrives in clean stagnant water and recent rains have made temperature conducive for its breeding.Health officials informed that they have already found dengue larvae at many places during their mass awareness campaign — Friday Dry-day. Under the drive, health teams go door-to-door in the high-risk areas and instruct city residents to keep their water containers dry, at least, for one day in a week.Following the detection of dengue larvae on Friday, the Health Department has already appealed to city residents to be more vigilant.Civil Surgeon Harish Malhotra said they had already started spraying larvicides and creating awareness among city residents. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fresh-rain-triggers-dengue-fear-in-patiala-district-76770
27-04-2020||Our Correspondent||NHAI makes the most of lockdown||Dera Bassi, April 26Turning the Covid-19 lockdown into an opportunity, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) is working on a war footing to complete the pending work, besides reviewing projects to expedite work.After the district administration allowed construction activities on stalled projects, the NHAI has also started work on the Dera Bassi railway overbridge (ROB).Earlier, the work could not be carried out at full capacity due to the conditions imposed by the authorities in wake of the lockdown.Several months ago, GMR officials inspected the Dera Bassi railway overbridge. They stated that the ROB required minor remedial measures for its expansion joints.Officials of GMR Ambala-Chandigarh Expressway Private Limited said the portion of these expansion joints were producing knocking sound. When vehicles pass over these joints, these produced jerk sound too.An official of GMR Expressway Private Limited said the administration had granted approval to the NHAI for commencing work on the projects in the city. The official said: “The staff concerned has been asked to follow guidelines while carrying out the repair work on the ROB. Workers had been asked to keep their faces covered and maintain social distancing during the work”.He said it was expected that the work would be completed within a week.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nhai-makes-the-most-of-lockdown-76769
27-04-2020||---||MC employee attacked with stones, bricks at Ram Darbar||Chandigarh, April 26 A Municipal Corporation employee, who was going to work, was attacked by a group of miscreants at Ram Darbar, Phase I, here on Saturday. The victim, Sanjay Kumar, was leaving on his two-wheeler when the miscreants stopped him and attacked him with stones and bricks leaving him seriously injured. The victim was admitted to the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, from where he was shifted to the Government Multi Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16. The victim’s brother, Amarnath, said he had an altercation with a few youths at Ram Darbar on Friday night, following which his brother Sanjay Kumar intervened and pacified them. “We had also called the police at the spot and the suspects still threatened us in front of cops,” he said. Amarnath said while Sanjay was on his way to the work the next morning, the miscreants attacked him. The victim reported the matter to the police following which an investigation has been initiated at the Sector 31 police station. However, the police claimed that they had not received any written complaint from the victim.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mc-employee-attacked-with-stones-bricks-at-ram-darbar-76768
27-04-2020||Naina Mishra||Mw not a vaccine for Covid: PGI||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 26In the pre-study phase, the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) has assessed the safety of Mycobacterium w (Mw) drug on four hospitalised patients with Covid-19 and found no short-term adverse effects.However, the institute has clarified that Mw is not a vaccine for Covid-19 and it is too early to say about the outcome of results and its use.Prof GD Puri, Head, Department of Anaesthesia & Intensive Care & Dean (Academics), explains: “Mw is not a vaccine for Covid-19. It is an adjunctive immunomodulatory treatment (in addition to standard care) for patients with sepsis. Mw is one of the drugs that is going to be evaluated on Covid-19 patients like many other treatments (remdesivir, tocilizumab and others) that are being tried in this disease.”Mw can potentially decrease the cytokine storm seen in patients with Covid-19, and may thus be of potential benefit in managing these patients and decreasing mortality.Dr Puri said: “In a multi-centre trial, we have shown that Mw decreases mortality in patients with severe sepsis. It is possible that adjunctive Mw can potentially decrease the cytokine storm seen in patients with Covid-19. We have used Mw in four patients with Covid where it was found to be safe. This was not an efficacy trial and we do not know whether Mw improves the outcome in Covid.”As per the official statement of the PGI, the impact of Mw use on long-term safety and efficacy will only be known after the conclusion of CSIR-supported clinical trial, which will be initiated soon at all three centres.A prospective randomised trial has been planned by the PGI, Chandigarh, along with AIIMS, Delhi, and AIIMS, Bhopal, to study the effectiveness of Mw in hospitalised patients of Covid.These selected institutes will study the use of Mycobacterium w (heat-killed Mycobacterium indicus pranii) as adjunct to the treatment of critically ill Covid patients. Around 40 patients each will be enrolled for trials, which will be managed by the CSIR.About cytokine stormCytokine storm is an overreaction of the body’s immune system. When the virus behind the Covid-19 pandemic enters the lungs, it triggers an immune response, attracting immune cells to the region to attack the virus, resulting in localised inflammation. In some patients, excessive or uncontrolled levels of cytokines are released, which then activate more immune cells, resulting in hyperinflammation.Why Mw for CovidAs Covid pandemic is associated with high mortality, patients with Covid have higher cytokine levels. An immunomodulator may thus be of potential benefit in managing these patients. Heat-killed Mycobacterium w (Mw), originally developed as an immunomodulator for leprosy, acts through the toll-like receptors (TLRs) pathway and enhances host-T cell responses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mw-not-a-vaccine-for-covid-pgi-76767
27-04-2020||Chandigarh||Badnore urged to change semester system||Former Mayor Davesh Moudgil has written to UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore, asking him to change the semester system to annual for the 2020-21 academic session. He has marked a copy to Prof Raj Kumar, PU VC. “The higher educational institutions affiliated to the PU are facing difficulties due to semester system of education. The months of April, May and June have been jeopardised due to the pandemic. It is a request to switch back to the annual system of education,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/badnore-urged-to-change-semester-system-76766
27-04-2020||Mohali||Pilgrims stranded in Nanded return home||Three residents from the district, who had gone to a pilgrimage in Nanded and got stranded there with several others, returned to their homes today. The pilgrims included DP Singh and his wife Manjeet Singh. They were received by the Regional Transport Authority Sukhwinder Kumar on behalf of the administration.  The three pilgrims were examined at the district hospital in Phase 6 for Covid-like symptoms. However, all of them were found asymptomatic and sent to their homes in vehicles arranged by the administration.  The pilgrims expressed gratitude to the Punjab Government in making efforts to get them back from Nanded in view of the lockdown imposed in the country. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pilgrims-stranded-in-nanded-return-home-76765
27-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Administration to take over 2 hostels on Tuesday||The PU authorities will hand over two hostels — international hostel and hostel number 10 — to the UT Administration on Tuesday, said Registrar Karamjit Singh. The step has been taken after the UT Administration decided to make four hostels as backup Covid-19 isolation wards. The PU spokesperson said other two hostels will be vacated only if the UT Administration needed them. The hostel wardens, meanwhile, will be facilitate keeping the belongings of students in safe custody. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-to-take-over-2-hostels-on-tuesday-76764
27-04-2020||Chandigarh||BJYM lends a helping hand to the needy||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bjym-lends-a-helping-hand-to-the-needy-76763
27-04-2020||---||Caddies in tricity a harried lot||Chandigarh, April 26As many as 400 caddies of the tricity are a harried lot due to the ongoing lockdown. With no source of income, it is becoming difficult for them to sustain their families.There are 200 regular caddies at the Chandigarh Golf Club (CGC), along with 100 who come off and on. The Panchkula Golf Course, too, has 100 to 150 caddies whose source of livelihood is carrying bags for golfers on the course. Some of them have been doing it for more than three decades now.Kamal Thakur, a caddie, has been tending the pins at the CGC for 25 years, but is still a daily-wager. Arvind, a regular caddie at the Chandigarh Golf Club, said: “This is the worst phase of our life. With no work for weeks, the situation is turning grimmer. Nobody knows what happens after May 3.”On an average, a full-time caddie earns somewhere between Rs 600 to 700 per day five days a week. Barring a few, they are hired on a daily basis and paid a fixed amount by their patrons. Most of the caddies are from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar who have settled in nearby villages.The Chandigarh Golf Club had recently given ration and Rs 2,000 each to caddies. Col Iqbal Singh, in charge of the caddies’ welfare at the CGC, said: “Some of them are really old, working here as caddies since 1990s. We tried to help them but we all know how difficult it is to sustain a family these days.”Panchkula Golf Course also came forward with food items and financial aid for them. But this is just a little more than moral support.Ankur, who has been looping at the CGC for the past 12 years, says: “A regular caddie covers 36 holes a day and that leaves him with no time to look for any other job. This is the only skill we have and the only source of our livelihood.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/caddies-in-tricity-a-harried-lot-76762
