29-04-2020||---||Restrictions on working of subordinate courts to continue: Punjab and Haryana HC||Chandigarh, April 29The Punjab and Haryana High Court today made it clear that the restrictions imposed on the functioning of the subordinate courts in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh in view of the Covid threat would continue till the curfew and the lockdown was in force.Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha ordered that all the district and sub-divisional Courts in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh will function “restrictively” from May 1 “till the lockdown/curfew is in force in the respective area”.Preparing the blueprint for functioning during the Covid lockdown period, Chief Justice Jha added the District and Sessions Judge would ensure in their Sessions Divisions that one or two Additional District and Sessions Judges, along with one or more Civil Judges-cum-Judicial Magistrates, and minimum supporting staff would attend urgent matters on rotation basis.Chief Justice Jha added the number of judicial officers to be so deputed for urgent work in the Sessions Division would be decided by the District and Sessions Judge. The remaining officers as well as the staff would work from home during the period and not leave the station without prior permission.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/restrictions-on-working-of-subordinate-courts-to-continue-punjab-and-haryana-hc-78115
29-04-2020||---||CSIO develops electrostatic disinfection technology to combat COVID||Chandigarh, April 29The Central Scientific Instruments Organisation (CSIO) here has developed an innovative technology based on electrostatics for effective sanitisation to fight against the COVID-19 pandemic and has transferred it to a Nagpur-based company for commercial manufacture and marketing.Called Electrostatic Disinfection Machine, it produces a fine uniform spray of disinfectants in the range of 10-20 micrometers to kill microorganisms and viruses. The machine uses very less disinfection material as compared to conventional methods, which is helpful in saving natural resources with negligible increase of chemical waste in the environment.“Charged droplets emitted from the disinfection machine can cover the directly exposed and obscured surfaces uniformly with increased efficiency and efficacy. The disinfectant reaches to any hidden areas of the target, where there is a maximum possibility to find the viruses. Therefore, it kills or inhibits the growth of pathogens very effectively,” said Dr Manoj K Patel, senior scientist and innovator of the technology.“We have come up with this innovative concept of electrostatic spraying for disinfection and sanitisation of public places, especially hospitals, poultry, trains and buses, airports and airplanes, offices, classrooms and hotels. It contributes to healthy lifestyle and healthcare of masses and is directly linked to Swachh Bharat Mission of Government of India,” said CSIO Director Dr Sanjay Kumar.The technology transfer agreement was signed by Abhijeet Gaan, Director, Rite Water Solutions Private Limited, Nagpur, and Dr Surender Singh Saini, Head, Business Initiatives and Project Planning at CSIO. The meeting was held through video conferencing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/csio-develops-electrostatic-disinfection-technology-to-combat-covid-78098
29-04-2020||---||Aggressive testing only way to identify COVID-19 cases: Chandigarh Congress||Chandigarh, April 29Chandigarh Congress president Pardeep Chhabra on Wednesday said “aggressive” testing is the only way to detect COVID-19 cases.“Till now the Chandigarh administration has not been able to devise any concrete strategy to ramp up community testing and that is why we have seen 20 cases coming up in last two days in city,” Chhabra said here.“Aggressive testing for coronavirus is the only way to identify, isolate and treat the patients of COVID-19,” he added.Chhabra said he is ready to get tested for COVID-19 to put all speculations to rest after someone tested positive for coronavirus at a food and ration distribution event where he was present alongwith the Chandigarh SSP recently.He said that all precautions and instructions for social distancing and hygiene are maintained at places where Chandigarh Congress is getting food prepared or distributed among the needy.Chhabra said that Chandigarh Congress has been running the ‘Chandigarh Congress Ki Rasoi - Bhookha Soye Na Koi’ campaign where food for more than 1500 people is made everyday. The campaign has been running since the start of lockdown on March 23 and will continue to provide packed food packets to all the residents of city up to May 3 who need help and support.Chandigarh has witnessed a spike in coronavirus cases in the last two days with the tally of positive patients touching 60. So far, no death has taken place in the city due to the virus. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aggressive-testing-only-way-to-identify-covid-19-cases-chandigarh-congress-78071
29-04-2020||Mohali||Coronavirus: Mohali reports eight new cases; district tally now 73||Mohali reported eight new coronavirus cases on Wednesday, taking the district's tally to 73---a spike that comes after the virus showed some signs of slowing down in the district.Three cases came from Dera Bassi’s Jawaharpur, a village that saw a sudden rise in coronavirus cases earlier this month, causing alarm among state health authorities.  Jawaharpur alone accounts for 42 of the district’s total number of coronavirus cases.A mother-daughter duo tested positive in the village on Wednesday. Both are the immediate family of a 47-year-old man who tested positive on Tuesday. The man is the brother-in-law of the village sarpanch who tested positive earlier this month.The village’s third case was a friend of the 47-year-old man.Five other cases came from elsewhere in the district---Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said five of 17 Sikh devotees who had just returned from a pilgrimage at Sri Hazur Sahib in Maharashtra’s Nanded tested positive.Maharashtra is the state with most Covid-19 cases in India, accounting for over 9,000 of over 31,000 infections in India, with a death tally of 400.The devotees were among 42 people---39 Sikh devotees and two students---who arrived at Mohali on Tuesday. The two students came here from Kota in Rajasthan.Dayalan said besides this, one Sikh pilgrim from Ambala also tested positive. All eight are currently at an isolation ward of Banur’s Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.Jawaharpur saw its first Covid-19 case on April 4, when 42-year-old year panch tested positive. The village reported its first coronavirus case on April 4, when a panch tested positive. Since then village has become a major hotspot.District authorities then ramped up testing and tightened restrictions as part of its cluster containment strategy.Mohali currently has the second highest number of cases in the state, after Jalandhar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/coronavirus-mohali-reports-eight-new-cases-district-tally-now-73-78055
29-04-2020||Chandigarh||Monsoon in Chandigarh by June 26; excess in Punjab, short in Himachal in April||While rains during, the month of, April were above normal in the agrarian states of Punjab and Haryana, it was below par in the hill state of Himachal Pradesh.Rainfall in Punjab was 32 per cent above the long period average and seven per cent above in Haryana, but 11 per cent below the long period average in Himachal Pradesh, according to data compiled by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) for the period April 1 to April 28.Punjab received 16.8 mm rain during this period as compared to the long period average of 12.7 mm.Haryana received 7.7 mm against the norm of 7.2 mm while Himachal received 54.6 mm against the 61.3 mm.While northern and eastern parts of Punjab received good rains during April, the south-western parts were relatively drier.Bathinda was the only district in the state that did not receive any rainfall during this period, IMD data shows.Other districts that have been hit hard including Barnala and Mukutsar, where the shortfall was 84 per cent and 81 per cent respectively.Sangrur, Moga, Ferozepur, and Faridkot are other districts where the shortfall ranged between 14 per cent to 54 per cent.Kapurthala and Patiala were the wettest districts, with the rains being as much as 403 per cent and 231 per cent above the long period average, followed by Fatehgarh Sahib and Ropar, where the surplus was 163 per cent and 114 per cent respectively.Tarn Taran, Amritsar and Mohali were other districts receiving significant surplus ranging between 96 to 102 per cent.Only nine districts in Haryana received rain above the long period average, with the central part of the state being deficient.Bhiwani, Panipat, Hisar and Jind were the driest in the state with the shortfall ranging from 60 per cent to 81 per cent.Ambala remained the wettest in April, with the surplus being 237 per cent. In Kaithal, Karnal and Rewari, rains were 118 per cent to 153 per cent above normal.Barring two districts, rains in Himachal Pradesh remained above the long period average.The upper regions of the state comprising Lahaul and Spiti and Kinnaur were highly deficient, with the shortfall being 58 per cent and 51 per cent respectively. Sirmour, Solan and Mandi were the wettest with a surplus of up to 100 per cent.Above-average rain in Punjab and Haryana comes in the backdrop of IMD predicting normal monsoon this year ranging between 96 to 104 per cent of the long-period average.Based on the data from 1961 to 2019, IMD has designed new objective criteria for defining monsoon onset over the entire country.According to the new forecast model, the monsoon onset date for Chandigarh has been revised to June 26 instead of July 1.For Jalandhar in Punjab, the date has been revised to June 28 from July 13 while for Bhiwani in Haryana it is now July 3 instead of July 6.For Shimla in Himachal Pradesh, the onset is delayed by a day to June 24 from June 23.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/monsoon-in-chandigarh-by-june-26-excess-in-punjab-short-in-himachal-in-april-78034
29-04-2020||Sandeep  Rana||14 more contract Covid-19 in Chandigarh; UT case count rises to 73||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 29Fourteen more persons have tested positive for coronavirus in Chandigarh on Wednesday taking the total number of cases in the Union territory to 73. Bapu Dham Colony in Sector 26 accounted for eight of those cases, making the area the most affected pocket of the city.Two positive cases were also reported from Sector 52. Besides, an 85-year-old woman, a resident of Sector 38, and a 38-year-old male staffer of GMCH-32, a resident of Sector 32-C, were also found positive.A total of 30-35 houses have been quarantined by officials after the Sector 38 woman tested positive. All houses fall in the same block the woman lives in.She had visited GMSH-16 twice recently and also came in contact of a milkaman and a vegetable vendor. The transmission source ia yet to be traced.Meahwhile, only Bapu Dham Colony has 22 positive cases now, becoming the most affected area in the city.It is followed by Sector 30-B EWS colony with 14 positive cases.Both the areas have already been sealed by the local police and are being screened by the health officials.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/14-more-contract-covid-19-in-chandigarh-ut-case-count-rises-to-73-77995
29-04-2020||Chandigarh||264 rounded up for curfew violations||A total of 264 persons were today rounded up by the UT police for violating the curfew orders.The police said 84 vehicles were detained and 130 vehicles were also impounded in different parts of the city. The police also made 99 people, who were rounded up today, download Aarogya Setu app.They also booked 28 persons under Section 188 of the IPC. Of these, 13 were not wearing masks and 13 others were morning and evening walkers.Since March 23, a total of 18,937 persons have been rounded up, 9,874 vehicles have been detained and 5,893 vehicles have been impounded. A total of 710 persons have been booked for curfew violations. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/264-rounded-up-for-curfew-violations-77752
29-04-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||Sirhind fruit & veggie market shut for week||The administration has decided to shut Sirhind Fruit and Vegetable Market for a week after a sudden increase in Covid-19 positive patients in Rajpura.A large number of vegetable vendors from Rajpura, Mandi Gobindgarh and other areas had started coming to purchase vegetables from the town.As Rajpura has become a hotspot, the administration does not want to take any chance and decided to close the Sabzi Mandi, said Gulshan Rai Bobby, chairman, Sirhind Market Committee. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sirhind-fruit-veggie-market-shut-for-week-77751
29-04-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||Sweet gesture by Panchkula cops, celebrate elderly man’s birthday||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, April 28Karan Puri, a senior citizen living in Sector 7 here, was in for a surprise when a police team arrived at his house with a cake and celebrated his birthday amid the lockdown.A police team, led by Women Police Station SHO Neha Chawla, made a surprise visit to the house of Karan Puri with a chocolate cake and also sung birthday rhymes for him.The police shared a video in which the man was given a surprise and the team sang the birthday song for him. The gesture moved him to tears and he said: “I am a senior citizen and was living alone as my children live abroad.” The police congratulated Puri on behalf of Commissioner of Police Saurabh Singh. Puri was then seen cutting the cake wearing a red birthday cap.According to the information, Puri’s children, who are living abroad, sent a message to Saurabh Singh on his Twitter account, requesting him to celebrate their father’s birthday. After this, he directed SHO Neha Chawla to visit Puri’s house with a cake.Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar also congratulated Puri on his birthday. The CM has lauded the efforts of the police and shared the video on his Twitter account.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sweet-gesture-by-panchkula-cops-celebrate-elderly-mans-birthday-77750
29-04-2020||---||Enriching musical repertoire||SD SharmaChandigarh, April 28Punjabi folk and Sufi singer Dolly Guleria (70) has been carrying forward the rich legacy of her illustrious mother and mentor Surinder Kaur, who is affectionately known as ‘Nightingale of Punjab’ by music aficionados world over.With her commanding excellence, expertise and versatility in performing and propagating myriad genres of music for over five decades, Dolly, the foremost disciple of late Ustad Abdul Rehman of Patiala gharana, has won accolades for her performances in over a dozen countries.On the Covid-19 pandemic, she said, “My heart goes out to all those who are suffering for no fault of theirs, but at the same time, the nature seems to have reprimanded us all of our forgotten duties and responsibilities. God and the nature have always been kind to us, but are we reciprocating with gratitude?”She said her sons Dilpreet and Amanpreet, who work with MNCs, had hardly any time to stay with them, but now constrained by prevailing circumstances, they were with her.“My day begins with gardening and watering of plants, which I do with my husband Col SS Guleria. Then I do ‘riyaz’. Since my disciples can’t visit me due to the Covid outbreak, I answer their queries online. In the absence of domestic help, I experiment with varied dishes. In the evening, I play ‘rummy’ with my husband for one hour before reciting ‘Rehras Sahib’. Besides, I enrich my musical repertoire by reviving and revising the ‘ragas’ and compositions taught to me by my gurus in the past,” she said.“I am making the most of the quarantine time by introspecting, analysing and evaluating the life experiences that nourished my psyche and ideals to take up new challenges in life,” Dolly added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/enriching-musical-repertoire-77749
29-04-2020||Chandigarh||2 drug peddlers land in police net||The Crime Branch of the UT police has arrested two drug peddlers while possessing 150 grams of heroin worth Rs 8 lakh.A team led by Inspector Ranjit Singh, in-charge of the Crime Branch, nabbed a drug peddler, Sandeep (33), a resident of Dhanas, from near a community centre in EWS Colony, Dhanas.The police said 100 grams of heroin worth around Rs 5 lakh was recovered from him.The police said a case under Section 188 of the IPC and Section 21 of the NDPS Act has been registered at the Sarangpur police station.In another case, Crime Branch sleuths nabbed an auto driver, identified as Rohit, alias Golu (27), a resident of Sector 52, while possessing 50.80 grams of heroin worth Rs 3 lakh.The police said they were patrolling near Attawa in Sector 42, when the suspect was nabbed. A case has been registered against him at the Sector 36 police station.The police said Rohit had a criminal past. A case of attempt to murder was registered against him in 2014.The suspects, who were arrested on Monday, were produced before a court which sent them to judicial custody. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-drug-peddlers-land-in-police-net-77748
29-04-2020||Sandeep Rana||Sector 30-B langar has UT officials worried||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 28Langar being served at doorstep in sectors amid the curfew and peaking positive cases is worrying UT officials as they feel it may have increased the risk of community spread.According to officials, one of the women in Sector 30, who was found positive for Covid today, was from a house where chapatis were being cooked and served door to door. Eight to 10 persons from different houses were preparing and going door to door to serve langar. While it is has been mandated that it can be done only under the supervision of the Administration, whose vehicles deliver food.“About 20-25 persons, who are in the know about holding langar or getting langar, have been quarantined today,” said a quarantine team official.“After we got to know that a positive case had surfaced, we had stopped serving langar on April 18, but it seems those cases are resurfacing now. It is yet to be confirmed whether the virus was spreading due to langar or some other activity,” he added.A senior official said one of the affected women had visited the GMCH-32 from April 11 to 16 for the delivery of her relative. “It is being investigated whether she got the virus from the GMCH-32 or she got infected from Sector 30,” added the official.Around 80 persons were home quarantined in Sector 30-B following the revelation of five new cases today. Nearly 70 persons were quarantined in Bapu Dham Colony where six new cases were reported today. Nearly 400-500 persons have been quarantined in these two sectors only till now.Officials are yet to find out whether the GMCH-32 ward attendant from Bapu Dham Colony got infected from his workplace or somewhere else.When contacted, contact tracing and quarantine team nodal officer Anil Kumar Garg he said, “These are now community spread cases in these sectors. It is now becoming difficult to zero down.”40 staff members test negative Around 40 doctors, paramedical and other staff in the GMCH-32 have tested negative for Covid. It was done following a slew of cases reported from the UT-run hospital. Garg confirmed it was a sigh of relief that all 40 had tested negative.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-30-b-langar-has-ut-officials-worried-77747
29-04-2020||Dera Bassi||Patient tests +ve for Covid-19, Dera Bassi hospital sanitised||Panic struck doctors and paramedical staff of the Civil Hospital here this morning after an under-treatment 47-year-old patient of Jawaharpur village tested positive for Covid-19, forcing the Health Department to disinfect the premises as a preventive measure.The hospital gate was closed for some time while disinfecting the premises so that other patients, including their attendants, visiting the hospital, could be saved from any possible exposure to the virus.Patients, along with their attendants, visiting the hospital on a routine were taken by surprise when they found the main gate of the hospital locked and they were stopped from entering the premises.Only emergency patients were allowed to go inside the hospital for treatment. However, the gate was later opened and emergency services were functioning as usual, said sources.Sangeeta Jain, SMO, Civil Hospital, Dera Bassi, said: “We immediately took all precautionary measures and all protocols were activated after the patient’s report came positive this morning”.The SMO said the services at the hospital, including emergency, were resumed after following necessary protocols.She said since couple of days, lots of patients were visiting the hospital. After an under-treatment patient tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday, the hospital had taken several preventive measures such as asking patients to visit the hospital only in case of an emergency and allowing one attendant with a patient.“We are taking every precaution to ensure that the infection is controlled. We are also reminding people to maintain distance and wash their hands before touching their eyes, nose or mouth,” she said.Meanwhile, the 47-year-old patient, brother of the woman sarpanch who had tested positive for Covid-19, was admitted to the Civil Hospital on Sunday evening after the former complained of vomiting and abdominal pain.At the time of admission, he had no symptoms related to Covid-19. On Tuesday, he tested positive for Covid-19. He had been shifted to Gian Sagar Hospital taking all protocol measures, said the SMO. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/patient-tests-ve-for-covid-19-dera-bassi-hospital-sanitised-77746
29-04-2020||---||Provide PPE kits, safety gear to all hospital staff: Badnore||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 28In view of the fact that Covid-19 has spread among staff of various hospitals here, the UT Administration has decided to write to neighbouring states to refer patients to the premium health institutions in the city only after testing for Covid-19 locally. MC to act against unauthorised vendorsMC Commissioner KK Yadav said strict action would be taken against unauthorised vendors roaming around to sell vegetables without authorisation. He stated that the Municipal Corporation would track the movement of vendors through the Covid application, which had been downloaded on their mobile phones. ‘Don't stigmatise Covid-19 patients’The Administrator appealed to people not to stigmatise Covid-19 patients. He said a person gets infected often without much fault of his/her and there was no justification in ridiculing or boycotting the patients or their family.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said he was going to write a letter to the Chief Secretaries of Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh that the patients should be sent here only after testing for Covid-19 locally.“We are also mulling over on how we can accommodate health workers at other places coming from colonies in the city,” he said.After three doctors and other healthcare workers tested positive for Covid-19, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore had a detailed discussion with the Director, PGI, the Director-Principal, GMCH, Sector 32, and the Head of the GMSH, Sector 16, through video-conferencing. The Administrator emphasised the need for following proper protocol so that the hospital premises do not become a source of infection. He stressed the need for providing PPE kits, masks and safety gears to all level of staff as per the laid down entitlement.The Administrator also emphasised the need for maintaining proper rotation of health staff so that employees get proper rest and relief without getting fatigue.The Administrator stated that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had enquired about the situation in Chandigarh over telephone this morning. He had explained to the Prime Minister regarding the steps being taken in the city to fight Covid-19. He also explained how Chandigarh had to deal with both Covid and non-Covid patients coming from the neighbouring states to the PGI, GMCH-32 and GMSH-16. Issues related to the tricity were also explained to him mentioning that all cooperation and coordination was being maintained among the tricity, he said.Arun Kumar Gupta, Principal Secretary, Health, said rapid testing kits received from the Centre were being returned as per the directions of the Central Government.The Administrator appealed to people not to stigmatise Covid-19 patients. He stated that a person gets infected often without much fault of his/her and there was no justification in ridiculing or boycotting the patients or their family. He directed all officials to enhance their efforts to ensure that the sudden increase in the number of positive cases could be controlled.Post-lockdown: Discussion on with stakeholdersFinance Secretary AK Sinha said he was holding discussions with all stakeholders regarding the strategy after the lockdown. The Administrator advised him to especially involve MP, elected representatives, RWAs, industries’ associations and members of the advisory council while preparing the report. On Monday, UT Adviser Manoj Parida had constituted a five-member committee, chaired by Sinha, to examine and recommend the steps to be taken in the post-curfew period in the city. The committee has been asked to submit its report by April 30.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/provide-ppe-kits-safety-gear-to-all-hospital-staff-badnore-77745
29-04-2020||Kharar||Ration for specially abled||Sanitisers donatedFatehgarh Sahib: The Health Club of Desh Bhagat University School of Ayurveda and Research in association with Unnat Bharat Club of the university distributed 120 sanitisers and 100 masks to the Civil Hospital, Amloh. Senior Medical Officer Lajinder Verma appreciated their effort . TNS Sirhind gets fogging machinesFatehgarh Sahib: With the efforts of Kuljit Singh Nagra, Fatehgarh Sahib MLA, Municipal Council, Sirhind, received fogging machines and spray pumps to fight Covid-19. He handed over these machines and pumps to the Deputy Commissioner and SDM-cum-Administrator on Tuesday. The MLA said the administration is geared up to fight the pandemic and there was no dearth of any equipment. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ration-for-specially-abled-77743
29-04-2020||---||Twins on Covid duty at Sector 40||Chandigarh, April 28Twin brothers Sukhpreet Singh and Sagarpreet Singh, both students of Chandigarh University, Gharuan, have set up a screening centre at Sector 40 with the support of the UT Administration, the Chandigarh Police and the Municipal Corporation. The students are working on the initiative of sealing the entry points of their sector.Working under the 40’s Fighter Welfare Club, the students screen every commuter using thermal thermometers, sanitise vehicles and provide them gloves/face masks. The camp was inaugurated by UT Advisor Manoj Kumar Parida. The duo give credit of the initiative to their father Darshanpreet Singh, who works as an Inspector in the Enforcement Wing of the Municipal Corporation.“We screen nearly 1,000 commuters at the two entry points on a daily basis. If we notice any person with high temperature, we immediately inform the medical team,” said Sagarpreet Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/twins-on-covid-duty-at-sector-40-77742
29-04-2020||Chandigarh||Association wants industry reopened||The Industries’ Association of Chandigarh has sought an immediate fiscal stimulus from the Centre for the revival of the industry.In a letter to the UT Finance Secretary, association president Pankaj Khanna stated that Chandigarh had been declared a hotspot (red) zone by the Central Government. While changing of hotspot zone may not be possible at the local level, the UT Administration could certainly have a re-look at measures such as curfew and containment zone on the lines of Punjab, Haryana and Delhi, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/association-wants-industry-reopened-77741
29-04-2020||Chandigarh||PU hostel sanitised, inmates told to follow social distancing||A day after a missing contact of Bapu Dham Colony (BDC) Covid-19 patient was rounded up from Panjab University (PU) Hostel Number 1, the authorities on Tuesday sanitised the whole building.The person, who works as a PU multi tasking staffer, stayed in the servant quarter after he was denied entry to the BDC. Hostel warden Rajeev Kumar said the hostel was sanitised immediately and around 15 students, who are staying in the hostel, have been advised to maintain social distancing.The authorities concerned are considering of taking an appropriate action against the staffer, who concealed the information about his association with the Covid-19 positive patient, informed a PU spokespersons. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-hostel-sanitised-inmates-told-to-follow-social-distancing-77740
29-04-2020||Col MS Mann (Retd)||A whole new world awaits||The world, as a whole, is undergoing a psychological transformation. This harsh reality of life has made us all come face to face with the fact that we humans are still slaves to the wishes of nature, and we are nothing but mortal remnants in the skin with different colours, fitted with different voice boxes.With so much of knowledge, resources, money and technological advancement as we claim to have, we, as a planet, have not been able to find any solution to the problem. The pandemic has exposed the false policies and misinterpreted investment plans for the betterment of humanity across the world. None of the governments was ready to tackle such a crisis.The genesis of this problem lies in China. But what was the rest of the world doing? Playing a game of wait and watch? We all were like a fly which fell prey to the innocent flame (the warning bells from Wuhan), whereas the flame was giving light to the world, and now we blame the flame for having burnt us alive. The alerts were always there, but who paid attention? No one.We all have quietly picked up lessons and derivatives out of this dark phase. Moving ahead, we should be thankful to God if we are spared, and if we come out victorious, we should mend ourselves in ways more than one.In my view, life in future would be a whole new experience.Let us all take a pledge to be more responsible and accountable for what we do. And promise not to exploit mother nature.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/a-whole-new-world-awaits-77739
29-04-2020||---||34 stranded Sikh pilgrims from Nanded reach Mohali||Tribune News ServiceMohali, April 28Thirty-four Sikh pilgrims stranded at Hazur Sahib in Nanded, Maharashtra, and two students from Kota, Rajasthan, returned to the city late yesterday night.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said the pilgrims and the students had been kept at the district quarantine centre in Sector 70. He said these persons had been quarantined after five asymptomatic persons, who had recently returned from Hazur Sahib, tested positive for Covid in Tarn Taran district.Dayalan said instead of basic screening, these persons would be tested through PCR and in case, they were found positive, they would be quarantined at an isolation facility and if they were found negative, they would be put under home quarantine for 14 days.Meanwhile, sampling teams of the District Health Department today collected a total of 88 samples from the district quarantine centre in Sector 70. Of these, 36 samples were of the pilgrims returning from Hazur Sahib, including the bus driver and the conductor, while two samples were of the students.Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said apart from this, samples of 25 close associates of two positive cases, which surfaced in Jawaharpur village today, had also been taken. He said a total of 20 samples were taken from the patients who came to the district hospital for examination, while five samples were taken from a hospital in Kharar. He said that these patients came to flu counters set up at government hospitals for examination of cough, sore throat and other ailments. Their samples were taken as a precautionary measure.District Epidemiologist Dr Renu Singh, Dr Harmandeep Kaur and Dr HS Cheema were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/34-stranded-sikh-pilgrims-from-nanded-reach-mohali-77738
29-04-2020||Deepankar Sharda||J&K students demand buses to return home||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 28Stuck in Mohali district due to the ongoing Covid-19 lockdown, students from Jammu & Kashmir (J&K) today requested the district authorities to arrange buses for their safe return back home.The students, who are pursuing different courses in nearby colleges, have been under home-quarantine since March 22. Majority of them are putting up in Sector 80 and Kharar and claimed to have ran out of money.“We have no money and want to go back home. We have approached the local officials and they ensured to help us out after getting a green signal from the J&K authorities,” claimed Ishfaq, a student of Chandigarh University. “We have been urging the authorities through various platforms, but to no avail,” said Shafayat.Most of the students belong to Srinagar and Kupwara. “We have been eating food from our own pocket. It’s been long and our parents are also worried. We have heard that students of Himachal Pradesh and other states have also been sent back that is why we are raising this demand,” said Aquib Fayaz.Besides, there are 10 more students who demanded that buses should be arranged to send for them.Meanwhile, officials said they have received numerous requests but there is no possibility of inter-state movement right now. “It’s better to be stay at one place in this situation. We have been told that many students/labourers and others, who were allowed to travel out from other states, have been put under quarantine either at Pathankot, Kathua or Lakhanpur,” said Aashika Jain, ADC, Mohali.She further added, “Almost all quarantine centres are full due to which authorities are facing such problems. It’s not wise to move out at this time. We have been providing food and ration to the needy and we will definitely reach out to those who are in distress. The Mohali Administration stands by all students.” J&K government spokesperson Rohit Kansal said, “We have not received any request as claimed by the students. Let the document first come to us then we will see what we can do.”“The government is facilitating movement of students and others. However, a large number of people are stranded in various cities. Inter-state coordination is necessary to help them out. At our level, we are facilitating maximum possible requests,” said Shahid Iqbal Choudhary, DC, Srinagar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/jk-students-demand-buses-to-return-home-77737
29-04-2020||---||Schools seek govt approval to charge fee for giving salaries||Chandigarh, April 28The Panchkula Public Schools Association submitted a memorandum to the Haryana Chief Minister and the Director General of Secondary Education, Haryana, seeking permission to take fee from the students to disperse teachers’ salaries and cover other expenses.Teachers threaten strikeThe association claims that the teachers have threatened to go on strike, if they did not get salaries. The association submitted that government needs to be balanced for all stakeholders to fix responsibilities. “The schools should not be made to bear unsustainable losses. Only 10 per cent of the parents have deposited the fee voluntarily and even those who can pay are consciously imagining the lockdown period as a ‘fee-free period’ since the department’s guidelines are so indicative,” stated Neera M Singh, president of the association, in the memorandum. “Under the current circumstances, schools will not be able to pay salaries regularly to the teachers, staff, class IV employees and others unless all parents are asked to pay monthly dues on regular basis. It has been further stated that, “We also request that 50 percent of the school staff should be allowed to be present in the school to assist teaching staff with online class,” said Neera.Withdraw directive regarding fee: ISAThe Independent School Association (ISA) has already submitted a representation for allowing taking fee from the students. HS Mamik, president, ISA, had insisted that all private schools are not profit organisations. “By not receiving fee, the schools will not be able to meet their financial obligations, including, salaries, repayment of loans, agreements of teaching aids and others,” he stated in the representation. Mamik had earlier said that, “It is necessary to amend or withdraw the directive regarding fee.” It was also demanded that the administration should also return all ‘reserve fund’ submitted by schools and clear all dues pending on the account of EWS admissions.Bus operators follow suitThe Chandigarh School Bus Operators’ Welfare Association also submitted a memorandum to the Punjab Governor for allowing schools to take 50 per cent transport charges from students in order to disperse salaries of drivers and attendants. “We have over 4,000 staff of drivers/ attendants/others and all belong to a low-income group. They were given salaries of March, but now it’s tough for us to make further payments,” said Manjeet Saini, president of the association.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/schools-seek-govt-approval-to-charge-fee-for-giving-salaries-77736
29-04-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||Ex-XEN turns SUV into ambulance, offers free service||Tribune News ServiceMohali, April 28At a time when everyone is doing his/her bit in the fight against Covid-19, a retired government employee has converted his SUV into an ambulance to ferry patients to nearby hospitals, that too free of cost.Chander Mohan Chawla, a retired executive engineer (XEN) from the Bhakra Beas Management Board, converted his Fortuner into an ambulance by removing its rear seats.Chawla said, “The lockdown has hampered ambulance services and many a time, one does not get a response from medical emergency number (108). It causes hardships to the needy, especially pregnant women and senior citizens who have heart problems or other serious ailments. Private ambulance operators charge exorbitant rates for the service. So I decided to turn my SUV into an ambulance and hired a driver. Anyone who wants to avail of the service can contact on mobile number 9988007739.” He said, “On an average, fuel worth Rs 800 is spent on the service in a day. The amount is being contributed by my family, friends and former colleagues.”Chawla said earlier they had distributed food among migrant workers and the needy in Mohali. The food was being provided by Eye Charitable Society in Sector 22, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ex-xen-turns-suv-into-ambulance-offers-free-service-77735
29-04-2020||Mona||Together we can triumph the pandemic, says NGO||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 28A giving nature is one of the traits Rakesh Uppal inherited from his father. Since his college days, he had been associated with charities and on the eve of New Year 2017, he started his own NGO, Umang-Ek Nayi Soch, with the elderly at an old-age home in Sector 15.“Never did I think that we will be able to serve people during a pandemic,” says Uppal. Days start early for this NGO president. Right from getting ration, taking it to kitchens and getting it prepared and distributing it among the needy, he takes care of everything. “I go to the mandi to fetch provisions and don’t buy it from vendors. If at the same cost, we can feed 130 instead of 100, why not?” he says. Through the day, he is joined by varied volunteers, police officials and his fellow workers.“In the beginning of the lockdown, a few daily wage earners approached me for food. That day, we decided to carry on with serving the needy,” he says. Now, they have designated spots to help people. Along with helping labourers, the volunteers serve water, tea, biscuits and some meals to the police and sanitation workers.“People are sharing ration, sanitisers, masks and helping us in preparing and packing meals. They are also helping us locate those in need.”A few days ago, the NGO helped labourers stuck at a construction site. They didn’t have food for the past two days. “Creating awareness is a significant part of our mission. When we showed up at the construction site, a lot of residents came out to help,” said Deepinder Singh, who has been part of Umang. He draws inspiration from his mother and father, an Indian naval officer who lost life in the line of duty.Members of Umang – Virender Rawat, Ashish Rawal, Vaibhav Narang and Sanjay Kumar — are working with the UT Traffic Police and Pramod Madaan, president of NGO Prerna. They take all precautions while carrying out their tasks. “We wear masks, gloves and take proper precaution. As soon as we get back home, we sanitise our wallet, phone and wash clothes immediately,” said Deepinder. He said: “A rickshaw-puller, with no work or home, refused to take meal as he was already served by someone and wanted others to get food. People like him motivate us to reach out to everyone.”“Together, we can beat the pandemic and witness triumph of the human spirit,” say Deepinder and Rakesh Uppal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/together-we-can-triumph-the-pandemic-says-ngo-77734
29-04-2020||Chandigarh||45-yr-old defeats Covid, discharged from PGI||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/45-yr-old-defeats-covid-discharged-from-pgi-77733
29-04-2020||---||2 more cases surface in Dera Bassi's Jawaharpur village||Tribune News ServiceMohali, April 28After almost two weeks of no Covid case, two men tested positive for the virus at Jawaharpur village of Dera Bassi in the district today. With the new cases, the total count of Covid patients in the village rose to 40 in the village and 65 in the district. The persons found positive are aged 47 and 60. They have been admitted to the isolation ward of Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.The 47-year-old man is the brother-in law of the village sarpanch, who had earlier tested positive for the virus.Earlier, rapid testing was done on these two patients but they were found not carrying the virus. As the health authorities did not believe the test reports, they conducted the Covid tests, the reports of which declared them positive for the virus. The first case in the village was reported on April 4 when a 42-year-old panch had tested positive. Since then, 39 more persons have tested positive for coronavirus.The authorities said none of the 40 patients had travel history. Most of them were asymptomatic and detected only though testing. The authorities suspected that some Tablighi Jamaat members had stayed in the village, but left before anyone could get information about them.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said health teams were deputed at the village to take samples of their family members and other contacts. He said as of now, 30 persons had cured of the disease while the number of active patients in the district was 38. The DC added that the results of seven tests were awaited.Dayalan said the containment protocol was being strictly followed in Jawaharpur and its adjoining villages. Sanitisation was also being done at regular intervals, he added.Meanwhile, three Covid patients, including the first patient from the hotspot Jawaharpur, have recovered. They were discharged from the hospital today. Now, the number of Covid patients to have recovered in the district is 30.Civil Surgeon Manjit Singh said of the three patients recovering on Tuesday, two belong to Jawaharpur and one from Sector 68, Mohali.Malkeet Singh, 43, who was the first person to get infected with the disease in Jawaharpur, was discharged from the PGI, Chandigarh, while his daughter Amanpreet Kaur (17) was discharged from the Covid care centre at Gian Sagar Hospital. Both of them have been quarantined for 14 days at the district-level quarantine centre in Sector 70 here.The Civil Surgeon said the third patient, Abdul Aziz (28), was sent home.A total of 17 patients belonging to Jawaharpur have recovered so far. The remaining patients are undergoing treatment at Gian Sagar Hospital and their condition was stable, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-more-cases-surface-in-dera-bassis-jawaharpur-village-77732
29-04-2020||Naina Mishra||Sector 30-B, Bapu Dham account for 50% cases||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 28Fifty per cent Covid-19 cases in the city are from two affected pockets – Bapu Dham Colony and Sector 30-B.Though the street lanes from where cases are being reported are being sealed in Sector 30-B, residents have reportedly been found violating the social distancing norms by crossing roofs or playing indoor games in gatherings. This has now prompted the UT Administration to install CCTV cameras to keep a vigil on the residents in these pockets.A total of 16 cases have been reported from Bapu Dham Colony and 14 from Sector 30-B. Manoj Parida, UT Adviser, said the outbreak needed to be contained by focusing resources at Bapu Dham Colony in Sector 26 and Sector 30-B.“CCTV cameras will be installed and drones will be used to nail those violating the norms. The police will also patrol the area regularly by donning personal protective equipment,” said Parida.MC Joint Commissioner Anil Garg said: “Residents are not following social distancing and curfew orders.”Devinder Singh Babla, councillor, said: “We have prepared a team of volunteers in Sector 30 and we are sealing the areas ourselves. Those found violating the norms will be penalised.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-30-b-bapu-dham-account-for-50-cases-77731
