30-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh continues to be in red zone; 6 more test positive for COVID-19||Six more persons have tested positive for Covid-19 in Chandigarh on Thursday, taking the total number of positive cases to 74 in the Union Territory.Meanwhile, Chandigarh continues to figure in the new list of 130 red-zone districts of the nation released today. PTIThe fresh cases include a 10-year-old girl, 14-year-old boy, and an employee of Government College and Hospital (GMCH)-32, according to a medical bulletin.A total of 1,147 samples have been tested so far and of them, as many as 1,022 came out negative, while reports of 50 samples are awaited, the bulletin said.A total of 18 Covid-19 patients have been discharged from hospitals after recovery, it said.Meanwhile, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore laid stress on concentrating screening and testing of all persons and suspected cases in the pockets of Bapu Dham Colony and Sector 30-B, where there has been a spurt in Covid-19 cases.He asked the Health Services director, G Dewan, to send medical teams for extensive screening and testing in these areas. Badnore said a large number of cases coming up were an indication of vigorous survey and testing.He also advised hospitals, including the PGIMER, to gradually open up facilities for non-COVID-19 patients, a government release said. The authorities should also facilitate their transportation to-and-fro from the hospitals, he added.Private clinics were also directed to open their facilities as per the guidelines of the Union Health Ministry, he said.Badnore thanked the residents of Chandigarh for giving ideas regarding the exit plan after May 3. A final view would be taken keeping in view the directions received from the Central Government, he said. TNS/PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-continues-to-be-in-red-zone-6-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-78552
30-04-2020||Chandigarh||COVID-positive woman gives birth to healthy baby in Chandigarh||A coronavirus positive woman gave birth to a baby, who tested negative for the deadly disease, at GMSH, Sector 16 in Chandigarh.The woman is a resident of Bapu Dham Colony in Sector 26, which has reported the highest number of cases in Chandigarh.According to sources both the mother and the baby are doing well so far.The woman came to the hospital last week, following which she tested positive for the contagion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-positive-woman-gives-birth-to-healthy-baby-in-chandigarh-78508
30-04-2020||Mohali||13 more test coronavirus positive in Mohali; district tally reaches 86||Mohali district on Thursday reported 13 more coronavirus cases, taking the total in the district to 86.Those infected include 10 pilgrims who had recently returned from Nanded in Maharashtra, where they had gone to pay obeisance at Gurdwara Hazur Sahib.A man found positive is an employee of the PGI and a resident of Mullanpur village in the district. He was in contact with the Nayagaon resident, also a PGI employee undergoing treatment at the isolation ward at PGI Chandigarh.Two more tested positive in COVID hotspot Jawarharpur village.The 30-year-old person from Nayagaon who was working as sanitation worker in the Covid ward of the PGI, had tested positive on April 19 while four members of his family had tested positive on April 20. Later, another Nayagaon resident and also a PGI employee had tested positive on April 23.Giving details, Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said that of the 41 samples of the pilgrims who had arrived from Nanded 16 had tested positive. He said besides these, another pilgrim, a resident of Ambala, had tested positive.He said the pilgrims who had arrived in the city had been kept at a quarantine centre in Sector 70. He said those tested positive have now been admitted to the Covid Care Centre at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.Dayalan said health teams had been deputed to take the samples of the remaining members of the family and other contacts in Mullanpur village. He said that as of now 30 people had been cured of the disease while the number of active patients in the district was 52. He said of the 43 patients from Jawaharpur only 25 are active coronavirus positive cases undergoing treatment at Gian Sagar Hospital.Woman dies in isolation ward of Patiala hospital; coronavirus test result awaitedPatiala: A woman, who was admitted to the isolation ward of Government Rajindra Hospital, died on Thursday morning.Hospital authorities said her sample for coronavirus was taken on Wednesday. However, the test results are awaited.Meanwhile, one more pilgrim who returned from Hazur Sahib in Nanded, tested positive for coronavirus.He arrived on Monday evening and was quarantined in a local gurdwara in his native village Dhanetta in Samana block of the district.The Civil Surgeon said he was being shifted to the isolation ward of Rajindra Hospital.With this, 64 people have tested positive for coronavirus in the district.23 new corona positive cases in AmritsarAmritsar: The health authorities have confirmed 23 new Covid 19 cases in the district from among the passengers who had returned from Hazoor Sahib two days ago. With this the patient count in the district has increased to 47.Meanwhile, in Tarn Taran too, with seven new cases from among those returned from Nanded, the count reaches 15.After 2 positive cases, Bathinda admn on alertBathinda: After two positive cases were reported on Wednesday evening, the district administration and health department have come into action mode. A family member of the positive case was earlier sent back home after she reported negative, but now she has been called back again to the quarantine centre and their lane in Parasram Nagar has been sealed.The positive case, Balwinder Singh Pappi, had come in contact with 16 people in the district and the teams are tracing them.Meanwhile, government ambulance drivers refused to bring in Covid-19 suspect patients as they claimed that they were not given the PPE kits. Following this, NGOs ambulances were asked to bring suspected cases.3 Nanded pilgrims test positive in GurdaspurGurdaspur: Three of the 41 samples of Nanded pilgrims have test positive.Punjab School Education Board tells students to exercise during lockdownChandigarh: The Punjab School Education Board has advised school students to start exercising daily, during the lockdown. A schedule of exercises that students can do while in their homes has been shared by the Board.Nanded pilgrim found infected with coronavirus in MogaMoga: A pilgrim who returned from Nanded in Maharashtra was found infected with coronavirus in Moga district. Has been admitted to the district hospital.Nanded pilgrim tests coronavirus positive in MuktsarMuktsar: A 40-year-old man of Kaoni village in Gidderbaha subdivision here, a Nanded returnee, tested coronavirus positive in Muktsar district on Thursday. He was home-quarantined.A total of three persons tested coronavirus positive today. One is from Kaoni village in Gidderbaha subdivision and two are residents of Muktsar town.Now, the district's total case tally is four.A Tablighi Jamaat congregation attendee, who tested positive on April 8, is already admitted to local COVID hospital.2 test coronavirus positive in SangrurSangrur: Two more people have tested coronavirus positive in this district. Health authorities have started conducting tests of all their contacts. Till date, the district has seen five positive cases. The earlier three were cured.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/13-more-test-coronavirus-positive-in-mohali-district-tally-reaches-86-78458
30-04-2020||Chandigarh||Woman duped||Class XII student collects Rs1 lakhChandigarh: Nehmat Sandhu, a Class XII student of Strawberry Fields School, Sector 26, has collected Rs 1.1 lakh and procured 1,000 masks to be used for fighting Covid-19. The 17-year-old daughter of politician Manpreet Singh Bunny Sandhu was determined to contribute her bit for the society. “The contribution will reassure me that I have done my duty towards society,” said the Sector-8 resident. Earlier, Nehmat had contributed money for sanitary pads to be distributed among the underprivileged women. tnsSuspected covid patient ends lifePanchkula: A suspected Covid patient, who was admitted to the isolation ward of the Civil Hospital in Sector 6, committed suicide on Wednesday evening. The deceased has been identified as Bhola (30), a resident of Surajpur near Pinjore. The deceased was admitted as he was suffering from tuberculosis. Sources said his samples were taken and doctors were awaiting reports. Sources said the deceased jumped from the window of the chest ward on the third floor. A case has been registered under Section 174 of the CrPC. TNSEnrolment date extendedChandigarh: Panjab University has decided to extend the last date for fresh enrolment of registered graduates from April 30 to June 1 on the basis of recommendations of the committee constituted to look into the work related to the 2020 Senate elections. TNS248 violators rounded upChandigarh: A total of 248 persons were rounded up by the police for violating curfew on Wednesday. The police said 158 vehicles were detained and 148 vehicles were also impounded in different parts of the city. Cops also made 98 persons download Aarogya Setu App. The police have booked 23 persons under Section 188 of IPC, of which 12 were not wearing masks and six others were morning and evening walkers. Since March 23, a total of 19,288 persons have been rounded up, 10,095 vehicles have been detained and 6,132 vehicles have been impounded. Moreover, 761 persons have been booked for curfew violations. TNSGirl dies in road accidentDera Bassi: A 15-year-old girl riding pillion died while her mother sustained injury when their Activa scooter skid near Dera Bassi on Tuesday. The victim has been identified as Simran Dhiman, a resident of Dera Bassi. As per information, the incident happened when Simran along with her mother was heading towards Dera Bassi from Mehmadpur village. When they reached near Countryside Resort, their scooter lost balance. The duo was rushed to the Dera Bassi Civil Hospital. Simran was referred to GMCH-32, Chandigarh, where she succumbed to her injuries. TNS‘Expedite work on Kharar flyover’Kharar: Kharar MLA Kanwar Sandhu on Wednesday highlighted that work on Kharar flyover has not picked up pace as the contractor (L&T) was facing issues, which need to be addressed at the earliest. He wrote to the Principal Secretary that the construction firm was having difficulty in getting crusher, stone dust and sand which were being supplied by stone crushers from Ropar and Mohali. The firm requires around 10,000 metric tonnes of these items every week. The firm was also facing problem in procuring cement, bitumen and flyash from plants and stock yards. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-duped-78330
30-04-2020||Dera Bassi||30-yr-old woman commits suicide||A 30-year-old married woman allegedly committed suicide by hanging herself from a ceiling fan at her flat in Dera Bassi on Wednesday. The victim has been identified as Poli Bhagat. The incident came to light when her husband got a call from her sisiter-in-law. The victim’s husband found Poli hanging from a ceiling fan. No suicide note was found. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/30-yr-old-woman-commits-suicide-78329
30-04-2020||Mohali||Homoeopathic dispensaries to ensure availability of ‘arsenium album 30’||The administration today directed homoeopathic dispensaries to ensure availability of ‘arsenium album 30’ medicine. The said medicine is to be given to desirous people after a thorough medical check-up. The medicine can be taken for three days empty stomach (four-five tablets).Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said the entire record will be maintained with regard to the dispensing of the medicine. He said this would help in analysing how effective the medicine has proved.He said said the District Homoeopathic Officers/Homoeopathic Medical Officers would also make people aware that this medicine must not be considered as a treatment of Covid-19. It is just an immunity booster to fight diseases, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/homoeopathic-dispensaries-to-ensure-availability-of-arsenium-album-30-78328
30-04-2020||---||Mohali DC to decide on relaxation today||Mohali, April 29The administration would take a call on giving relaxation in curfew by holding consultations with stakeholders on Thursday.According to information, as the district falls in red zone and has 73 positive patients (highest than any other district of Punjab), the administration will hold discussion with industrialists, real estate developers and business establishments.At present, residents can purchase grocery and medicines online or by making a call to nearby chemists or provision stores.It is pertinent to mention that the Punjab Government had issued detailed guidelines in this regard ensuring industrial activities in the state. Accordingly, the district authorities have been directed to call the industrial associations for a meeting and persuade them to restart operations in the permitted areas.Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said, “The state government has announced relaxation in curfew by allowing opening of shops/industry from 7 am to 11 am in the state. However, SAS Nagar being a hotspot, the administration will take a call by holding consultations with the stakeholders.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-dc-to-decide-on-relaxation-today-78325
30-04-2020||Mona||Lot’s cooking for ex-Chief Architect||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 29“No one saves us but ourselves. No one can and no one may. We ourselves must walk the path,” Maitreyi C Gupta, former Chief Architect, Haryana, quotes Buddha to pull similarities between the current lockdown and war. “With Covid, we are in the war zone and must not take our responsibility in this challenge any less,” says Maitreyi, who hasn’t stepped out of her residence in Sector 27, Chandigarh, for over a month.Superannuated on February 29, the architect with Kurukshetra Museum, Mata Mansa Devi Complex and Rakhigarhi Interpretation Centre, Hisar, to her credit, has kept her early morning routine on. “I begin my day with walk in my backyard followed by yoga and meditation. My morning tea is special as my son and his family join me for a video chat,” she said.“I am so glad that I have got time to clean my house properly, which is not possible during working days. I have taken out old recipe books to get back to baking. Experimenting all over again in kitchen has led to some amazing banana cake, ‘dosa’, ‘dal makhani’ and ‘naans’.” While her husband Parveen Chander Gupta decides the menu, together they cook. Also, cooking lessons are being doled out to their younger son who calls London home. While keeping positive, she said, “No one had ever expected a pandemic, only our collective efforts can break this chain. My husband is an entrepreneur, but we are sitting quietly at home. It’s time to look at the larger picture and not at personal gain or loss.”In the absence of a gardener, Maitreyi takes out seasonal vegetables herself. “Every single day, I pluck a tomato or two and some brinjal. It’s so satisfying.”“I remember the 1971 war, I was a little kid then. Nobody ventured out and glasses were blackened. No one spoke of schools then, but today, we can rely on technology to keep the learning going,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lots-cooking-for-ex-chief-architect-78323
30-04-2020||---||Cops face music for failure to check party||Chandigarh, April 29The UT Police today initiated administrative action against the Station House Officer, Sector 26 police station, and Incharge of Bapu Dham police post, for their faliure to prevent an anniversary party at Bapu Dham Colony (BDC) during the lockdown.The police post Incharge, Sub-Inspector, Gurmeet Singh, was transferred to the Police Lines, Sector 26.An explanation has also been sought from the Station House Officer, Inspector, Narinder Patial, and Incharge of the police post by UT DIG Omvir Singh Bishnoi.A ward attendant, who worked at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, had held his anniversary party on April 17.The ward attendant later turned out to be Covid positive.People who had come in his contact, including his family, neighbours and friends have tested positive.In last one week, the Bapu Dham Colony has witnessed a sudden rise in Covid cases following which the UT Administration declared it as an ‘affected pocket’.Meanwhile, Sub-Inspector Rohtash Kumar, who was in Vigilance Cell has been posted as the Bapu Dham police post Incharge.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cops-face-music-for-failure-to-check-party-78322
30-04-2020||Chandigarh||12 CRPF men each now patrol Bapu Dham, Sector 30-B outskirts||The UT police have stepped up patrolling in the areas that have been witnessing a rise in Covid-19 cases and have been declared ‘affected pockets’ — Bapu Dham Colony and Sector 30-B.Deployment at BDCTwelve CRPF personnel each have been deployed for patrolling the perimeter of both areas. Besides, CCTV cameras have been installed there to keep a watch on people moving out of the houses.Police officials said three places in the city had been declared ‘affected pockets’, — parts of Bapu Dham Colony and Sector 30-B and Kachi Colony in Dhanas.“Of these three pockets, most cases have been found in Bapu Dham and Sector 30-B. Taking no chance, these particular areas have been sealed completely as a comprehensive strategy. The movement of residents in these pockets is totally restricted and non-essential services are banned,” the police said.The police said the persons under home quarantine in those areas were strictly under the surveillance of CCTV cameras.“Announcements are being made in the affected pocket areas instructing residents to remain at home,” said a police official.As per the guidelines, except for authorised persons like heath officials, police on duty etc., nobody is allowed to enter or exit the ‘affected pocket’.Incident commanders have been deployed to control the entire ‘affected pocket’ areas.A contingent of over 50 police personnel, including two inspectors and one SHO, had been deployed at and around Bapu Dham round the clock.The police said all necessary protection gears, including masks, hairnet, gloves, personal protective equipment (PPE) and face shield, were provided to the cops on duty inside the ‘affected pockets’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/12-crpf-men-each-now-patrol-bapu-dham-sector-30-b-outskirts-78321
30-04-2020||---||Chandigarh Administration expands affected zones in Bapu Dham||Chandigarh, April 29With nine more tested positive for Covid today, the UT Administration has expanded the area of the affected zones in Bapu Dham Colony here.“Now, 2,500 more persons will be included in the affected area, so that there is greater effectiveness in containing the virus,” said UT Adviser Manoj Parida.Nearly 23 residents of the area have tested positive for Covid-19 so far. Earlier, 300 families were included in the affected pocket to contain the spread of the virus in the colony.Parida said 14 CCTV cameras in Bapu Dham Colony and 26 CCTV cameras in Sector 30-B had been installed. It would help the police in monitoring the violation of social distancing in the area, he added.During the review meeting, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore expressed serious concern over the rising cases. The Administrator directed that intensive screening and testing should be done in the affected pockets such as Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 30-B and Kacchi Colony.He said all resources and manpower should be concentrated on this and strict vigil be maintained. He directed Director General of Police Sanjay Beniwal to regularly patrol all areas and take stringent action against those found violating social distancing.The Administrator said though the Punjab Government had extended the curfew by two weeks, the Chandigarh Administration would take a decision only after consulting all stakeholders and keeping in mind the guidelines of the Government of India on the subject on May 3.The Administrator directed Vinod P Kavle, Secretary, Food and Supplies, to find ways to help non-ration card holders, who were also in need of assistance.He directed MC Commissioner KK Yadav to see if the Grain Market in Sector 39 could be activated further, thereby de-congesting the crowd in the Sector 26 sabzi mandi. He also stressed on the need for total sanitisation of the area.Yadav said affected pockets in Bapu Dham Colony and Sector 30-B had been sealed and no entry or exist was being allowed. He further said the Municipal Corporation was making arrangements for sale of grocery-essential items through government buses, which would be sent there every day.The Administrator appealed to the residents to use hand sanitisers and maintain social distancing to protect themselves from the virus.BS-IV vehicles to be registered by April 30Administrator VP Singh Badnore has directed Harish Nayar, Secretary, Transport, to ensure that all 1031 BS-IV vehicles, which have complete documents, should be registered by April 30, the last date given by the Supreme Court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-expands-affected-zones-in-bapu-dham-78320
30-04-2020||Sandeep Rana||Dense population, curfew breach in Bapu Dham pose challenge||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 29The rising cases of curfew violations and dense population in Bapu Dham Colony (BDC), the city’s most-affected pocket, is posing a major challenge for the UT, which is going all out to curb the spread of Covid-19.According to information, there are around 52,000 people living in 2,500 houses in the colony. In Phase 1 (Kacchi colony) of the BDC nearly 114 houses have been sealed. Also, in order to prevent the entry of outsiders, residents in adjoining areas have started sealing off their entrances.The 23 positive cases reported from the area so far are from five houses, which are ground plus two floor houses. In one such house where positive cases were reported, there are 18 members. In another affected house, there are 23 members. These are joint families living on different floors. Some of the houses have given a room or two on rent.“Mostly people from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, most of whom sell vegetables live here on rent. Around 10-15 persons live in one room. Even if each one pays Rs 1,000, it comes to be Rs 15,000 per month from one room. There is no check on this and lives of many are put at risk for quick bucks,” said a resident.“It will be difficult for health officials to screen or examine all of them. Risk further increases because many customers come in contact with them. On the other hand, social distancing and curfew norms are being violated flagrantly here,” he said.“Though the area was sealed recently, till yesterday people were seen crossing the barricades. Today also, some of the quarantined persons had crossed the barricaded area. Things have become stricter only after the deployment of CRPF personnel here,” said local residents.Till now, 23 persons of the total 68 cases were from Bapu Dham Colony. And all of them, who tested positive, excluding the first case, were the ones quarantined by the contact tracing and quarantine team. Around 300-400 had been quarantined in the colony.“We first quarantined those who came in contact with positive persons. Now, we are doing door-to-door screening. This is the only formula which works. We have also started sampling people in the adjoining places outside the sealed areas,” said a senior official.DSP (East) Dilsher Chandel said, "Sector 30 and 26 area's SHOs along with others should be more strict. They should send teams inside affected zones and take action if anyone is violating the curfew. Morning and evening walkers should be booked.”Contact tracing and quarantine team Nodal Officer Anil Kumar Garg said, “All those who tested positive were home-quarantined.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dense-population-curfew-breach-in-bapu-dham-pose-challenge-78319
30-04-2020||Panchkula||Residents in Panchkula resent restrictions||Residents of Sector 15 have resented the administration’s move of further confinement for the next 14 days.The Citizens Welfare Association members and other residents of the area have asked for a review of the situation in Sector 15 before implementing restrictions after April 28. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/residents-in-panchkula-resent-restrictions-78318
30-04-2020||Sandeep Rana||It’s a service to the nation: Fireman||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 29Though fireman Naveen Kumar lives in the same house in Mani Majra, he does not meet his family members so that they stay protected.Since the time he has been assigned the Covid-19 duty, he has self-isolated himself as a precautionary measure. “My six and eight-year-old kids talk to me from a distance. My mother is old and diabetic. So, I haven’t met them for a month,” said Naveen.Every day, when he reaches home, his wife helps him in sanitising his belongings. Following this, he straight away goes to his room. Naveen, a personal assistant to the Chief Fire Officer, is currently heading a quarantine team, which isolates those entering the city from outside and those who are found negative.“I daily meet my team members, so there is a risk to me too,” he said. He also monitors the supply of vegetables and fruits in 11 sectors through CTU buses.“At 4:30 am, I visit the Sector 26 sabzi mandi to check whether the vendors are properly screened and using masks and gloves. I have even got a WhatsApp group made to keep a check on vendors. I also visit different sectors to check the supply of essentials,” he said.His work may invite risk in these tough times, but Naveen, who was awarded the President’s Fire Service Medal for Gallantry in 2017, feels it is a service to the nation.“I believe in the motto of the Fire Department, ‘We serve to save’. When we join fire services, we do not fear death. It is also a service to the nation,” said the confident firefighter.When asked whether his family feared for him, Naveen said, “No, they instead tell me to do more ‘desh seva’ and go ahead,” he smiled. He said nodal officer Anil Kumar Garg had been an inspiration for him and his colleagues Amarjeet Singh and Gagandeep Sharma were also effortlessly working in this tough time.PCS KPS Mahi had also been a great support to him at the sabzi mandi, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/its-a-service-to-the-nation-fireman-78317
30-04-2020||Chandigarh||Property consultants donate 2,000 masks||Syndicate member donates bloodChandigarh: Ashok Goyal, a member of the PU syndicate, donated blood for the 104th time at Rotary and Blood Bank Resource Centre, Sector 37. He conveyed the community that it’s safe to donate blood and serve the humanity when hospitals need it the most. TNSAuto-rickshaw driver gets medical helpMohali: The District Red Cross Society and the Mohali administration provided insulin to a diabetic person from Nayagaon. The person, an auto-rickshaw driver, had called 112 and a team of Drug Control Officers reached his house and handed over insulin to him. TNSStudents stitch masksZirakpur: As many as 40 Industrial Training Institute (ITI), Zirakpur, students raised awareness about social distancing and made 300 masks. The ITI students will be distributing these masks and create awareness about other safety practices by visiting various residential societies in Zirakpur. The raw material for the masks was provided by the local MLA. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/property-consultants-donate-2-000-masks-78316
30-04-2020||Chandigarh||Disinfection technology transferred||An innovative electrostatic-based technology developed by the Central Scientific Instruments Organisation (CSIO) for effective disinfection and sanitisation to fight Covid-19 has been transferred to a Nagpur-based company for commercial manufacture and marketing.Called the electrostatic disinfection machine, it produces a uniform spray of disinfectants in the size range of 10-20 micrometers to kill microorganisms and viruses. Due to their very small size, the surface area of droplets increases, thereby enhancing the interaction with harmful microorganisms. The machine uses very less disinfection material as compared to conventional methods."Charged droplets emitted from the machine can cover the exposed and obscured surfaces with increased efficiency and the disinfectant reaches hidden areas of the target where there is a maximum possibility to find the viruses," said Dr Manoj K Patel, senior scientist and innovator of the technology. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/disinfection-technology-transferred-78315
30-04-2020||---||Sans safety gear, survey staff worried||Chandigarh, April 29The Chandigarh NHM Employees’ Union apprised the Adviser to the UT Administrator of the apprehensions of medical and allied healthcare employees on field duty.“Employees visit every household without proper coverall gowns and N95 masks,” said Amit Kumar, General Secretary, Chandigarh NHM Employees’ Union Amit Kumar, General Secretary of the union, said: “Today, a survey was conducted at Bapu Dham Colony and unfortunately, several staff members were without protective gear — personal protective equipment kits and N95 masks. All workers are in the grip of fear of catching the infection, which can further affect their families and their colleagues.”“Employees visit every household without proper coverall gowns and N95 masks. The department has provided just face mask, head cover and shoe covers which are not sufficient to ensure safety,” added Kumar.UT Health Secretary Arun Gupta said: “We understand their concern. We will like to ensure adequate protection is given to the survey staff as per the guidelines.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sans-safety-gear-survey-staff-worried-78314
30-04-2020||Gaurav Kanthwal||Owners of wedding resorts feel pinch, look for alternatives||Tribune News ServiceZirakpur, April 29To make the marriage memorable, they had arranged a helicopter ride on the departure ceremony, but on the day of their wedding, the couple quietly sat in a car and left for home. All they had were parents and kin to celebrate. Best laid plans of many couples have been ruined this marriage season. So have the dreams of resort and banquet hall owners, who had waited for the marriage season with rose-tinted glasses.“Both bride and groom were NRIs. They could not wait till November, so they decided to solemnise it,” said AKM Resorts owner Rajeev Chhabra. “Those who are okay with small ceremonies are still going for it, but majority of the events and marriages have been put on hold,” said Chhabra.It seems the post-Covid life would need everyone to make some compromises in life. And the business community is slowly getting a grip on the situation. Those in this business for years predict that the Covid-19 pandemic has changed the dynamics. Wedding resorts and banquet halls will face stiff competition from hotels now. “This will be the new norm from now onwards. People will prefer small gatherings and for that hotels are a good option,” said Girish Dogra, general manager, The Wedding Resorts.Sohi Banquet lease owner Samuel Massey said, “As far as banquet halls are concerned, this wedding season is ruined. Most of the marriages and events have been postponed till October-November. People will be apprehensive to hold big gatherings and the guests would be wary whether to go or not in winters. The hotel-restaurant industry is in a wait-and-watch mode.”“On an average, banquet halls charge between Rs 40,000 and 50,000. And in case an event is cancelled, the amount is returned with some deductions,” said the businessman.The hotel and restaurant industry is the worst-hit sector in the Covid-19 pandemic and the industry insiders feel that even after the lockdown there is a long battle for survival ahead.“Staff salary, generator fuel, regular expenses, electricity bill. Everything is same, only the earning part is nil. Every businessman will have to work out a new strategy to deal with it,” Dogra said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/owners-of-wedding-resorts-feel-pinch-look-for-alternatives-78313
30-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh residents pitch for online payment amid Covid fear||City residents are of the opinion that the UT Administration should think about introducing online/mobile mode of accepting payments for offering door-to-door delivery of essentials, including vegetables and fruits.A majority of the payments are being made through currency notes, which should be avoided. Approximately 62 Chandigarh Transport Union (CTU) buses and 20 vehicles have been pressed into the service of supplying vegetables and fruits to residents from the Sector 26 market.However, despite such a large fleet of vendors, the Administration has not stressed on the need for introducing online modes of payment.In wake of the Covid-19 outbreak, the Indian Banks’ Association (IBA) had made an appeal to people to wash their hands after touching or counting currency. The IBA has also asked customers to use the online and mobile banking channels for making transactions. Even various banks and the RBI are encouraging non-cash options.“There are several options available under mobile payments and almost everyone has an access to it. The Administration is doing a fair job, but such steps should be introduced,” said Mehak, a resident.Arti Manchanda, who was buying vegetables at Sector 19, said: “Several people touch the currency notes in circulation. Vendors in buses have no access to online modes of payment. So, we have to pay through cash. If the Administration will encourage online/mobile payments, they will get a tremendous response.”However, officials were unavailable to comment on the issue. Since there is an acute rise in the Covid-19 positive cases, people are extra cautious. “It takes just five minutes to attach one’s bank account with various applications such as BHIM, Google Pay, Paytm and others. The vendors, who are not used to taking online payments, should be encouraged to do so. There are four vendors, two policemen, two volunteers and other staff members in a bus, who could help each other in learning about electronic methods of accepting payments,” said Manish Verma, a city-based advocate.“We try to pay the exact amount to avoid taking change back. Several members of our society have placed tables where they keep the currency notes given by vendors for at least a day,” said Madhu, another resident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-residents-pitch-for-online-payment-amid-covid-fear-78312
30-04-2020||---||DSP nodal officer to ensure health workers’ safety||Chandigarh, April 29The UT police have designated a DSP as the nodal officer to ensure the safety of healthcare professionals fighting Covid-19 in Chandigarh.DSP (Security) Udaypal Singh has been designated as the nodal officer, who will be available round the clock to redress any safety issues related to the functioning of medical professionals.The police said the DSP would also ensure immediate action in case of any incident of threat or violence against healthcare professionals. He would also coordinate with the local chapter of the Indian Medical Association.As per the Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Ordinance No. 5 of 2020, a person who commits or abets the commission of an act of violence against healthcare personnel (doctors, nurses, paramedical workers and community health workers) or abets or causes damage or loss to any property during an epidemic shall be punishable with imprisonment not less than three months, which may extend to seven years. It is a non-bailable offence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dsp-nodal-officer-to-ensure-health-workers-safety-78311
30-04-2020||No new Covid-19 case was reported from Panchkula on Wednesday. At present||No new Covid case in Panchkula||Panchkula gets Covid testing labPanchkula: The first Covid testing lab of the district became functional at the General Hospital, Sector 6, on Wednesday. With this, the results of samples will be available the same day. Earlier, all samples were being sent to the PGI and IMTECH and the results were received the next day. Initially, a maximum of 26 samples can be taken in a day. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-new-covid-case-in-panchkula-78309
30-04-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University prof defeats Covid||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-prof-defeats-covid-78308
30-04-2020||---||Eight more cases surface in Mohali||Mohali, April 29With the surfacing of eight more cases of Covid in Jawaharpur village of Dera Bassi and other parts of the district, the count of infected persons in the village today jumped to 43 and in the district to 73.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said three persons from Jawaharpur were found positive. They included a 43-year-old woman and her daughter, aged 15. The woman is the wife of a 47-year-old man who had tested positive on Tuesday. The man is the brother-in law of the village sarpanch, who too was infected with Covid. The third person to test positive in the village today is the friend of the 47-year-old man.The new patients have been admitted to the Covid care centre at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.Dayalan said five of the 17 Sikh devotees who returned from Sri Hazur Sahib in Nanded yesterday had also tested positive for Covid. They are in the age group of 43-55 years. These devotees were among the 39 Sikh devotees and two students from Kota, who had returned to Mohali yesterday.The Deputy Commissioner said a Sikh pilgrim from Ambala, aged 28, had also tested positive. He said all Sikh pilgrims and two students had been kept at the quarantine centre in Sector 70.He said now, the six devotees would be admitted to Gian Sagar Hospital. Dayalan said as of now, 30 persons had been cured of the disease in the district while the number of active patients was 41.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/eight-more-cases-surface-in-mohali-78306
