03-04-2021||Today's||Seeking support, denying representation||In West Bengal, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have announced impressive schemes for women in the hope of wooing the silent woman vote. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has cast herself in the role of Bengal’s daughter doughtily taking on an interloper. But despite the rhetoric, women’s representation remains well below what is fair and equitable. With 17% women candidates, the TMC has done well in giving women more representation than others, but gender parity is still a long way off.The case of Kerala, a consistent top performer in development indices, is disappointing. The lists announced by the three major fronts — led by the Left, the Congress and the BJP — feature just 40 women out of 420 candidates, an abysmal nine per cent. Over decades, women have been assiduously kept out of the higher reaches of Kerala politics. There have only been eight women ministers ever in Kerala. Many will recall legendary leaders such as KR Gowri and Susheela Gopalan being sidelined by the Left Front even though they were hugely popular and were star campaigners.The same is true for Tamil Nadu, where all parties are offering substantial sops to attract women voters, but have been tardy when it comes to improving their position in the political decision-making apparatus. The All India Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK), which is in alliance with the BJP, has promised ₹1,500 to one woman in every household if voted to power, free washing machines, free gas cylinders, Amma patrol teams; other parties too have weighed in with promises of salaries for household work and special police units to investigate crimes against women. But in total, the two major alliances in the state have put up less than 13% women candidates. According to Election Commission data, since 1967, on an average, less than five per cent of Tamil Nadu’s MLAs have been women.Yet, the scenario at the local government level is very different in all these states, especially Kerala and Tamil Nadu, where women are coming to the fore and bridging the gender gap. Part of the reason is reservations, but affirmative action ends at that level. Beyond that, women encounter structural and discriminatory barriers; they are denied tickets, primarily on the ground that they supposedly lack the winnability factor. The fact that the AIADMK had a woman leader, or that the Congress continues to have strong women leaders, has made little difference.Sops such as washing machines may make life easier temporarily for women. But the patriarchal attitude is visible in the language of many leaders during the campaign — when they speak of the safety of daughters, mothers and wives as though these are the only identities a woman has.If parties want the support of women voters, then they owe it to women to create enabling conditions for them to progress through the political system and have a say in political decision-making. This can easily be done by identifying women at the local level who have done well, and throwing the party’s resources and weight behind them.India’s major parties seem to be able to organise party cadres to work for relatively untested male candidates, with ease. Surely, this can then be done for women who have worked at the grassroots instead of fobbing them off with patriarchal condescension and getting the women’s vote through freebies. This should be on the agenda of all enlightened parties. Perhaps, next time around.lalita.panicker@hindustantimes.comThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/seeking-support-denying-representation-101617458769951.html
03-04-2021||Today's||The role of MGNREGS in the climate crisis||While the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) has been a valuable employment tool and safety net, as seen in the migrant crisis, its role in building ecosystems resilient to the climate crisis is being increasingly recognised. There is now an urgent need to bring upfront the scheme’s potential in addressing matters of lives and livelihoods while combating the climate emergency. MGNREGS is climate-smart, contributing to both mitigation and adaptation. Its coping strategies lower the risks posed by the climate crisis while providing legally mandated demand-driven employment to resource-poor households.In 2020-21, an unprecedented degree of work was undertaken across 711 districts and 268,524 gram panchayats. Of the total expenditure of ₹110,900 crore, about two-thirds were on works related to natural resource management (NRM). The mammoth scale of the NRM component in MGNREGS provides a major boost to improving the productive capacity of land, water and forest resources. This helps reduce the vulnerability to climate risk as groundwater availability increases, soil fertility improves, tree cover is enhanced, drought- and flood-proofing measures are put in place.MGNREGS’s contribution towards livelihood security and creation of durable assets is well-quantified with a record of dug wells, farm ponds, check dams, desilted tanks and trees planted, updated regularly on the official website. However, studies that measure the contribution of MGNREGS towards improving the adaptive capacity of the beneficiary households have remained few and far between.A 2009 study by NH Ravindranath at the Indian Institute of Science (IISc) demonstrated that the scheme was improving resilience to climate risks in some drought-prone regions. A subsequent report (2018) of the IISc, after assessing the adaptive capacity of 12 different development schemes, rated MGNREGS as foremost in effectiveness. A recent study (2021) by the Centre for Science and Environment highlights the critical import of water conservation to arrest the adverse effects of the climate crisis. It concludes that MGNREGS is the “world’s biggest adaptation programme as it harnesses the labour of people to invest in building the wherewithal to fight drought and build resilience”.The capacity of MGNREGS to deliver on the mitigation front takes into account that land is both a source and sink of carbon. Land degradation from large-scale destruction of forests, soil erosion and intensive farming accounts for about a quarter of the global greenhouse gases. Trees in agricultural landscapes, better-managed watersheds, forests and farmlands lead to enhanced carbon sequestration both above and below the ground.India’s Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC) under the 2015 Paris Agreement refers to the country’s commitment to generate an additional carbon sink of 2.5-3.0 billion tonnes of CO2 equivalent by 2030. Going by present trends, target achievement will prove to be a major challenge. In the Third Biennial Update Report (BUR) submitted by the Union government to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in February, MGNREGS’s contribution to sequester carbon was assessed at 62 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent in 2017-18 from cumulative works implemented. This performance needs to be enhanced.To strengthen MGNREGS, the following needs to be done: Provide for full funding to make it truly demand-driven; deepen the scope of convergence by proactively linking farm assets with climate-smart agriculture technologies and practices; develop robust methodologies for measurement and accounting of environmental services; commission more independent studies and surveys that can quantify the scheme’s adaptation and mitigation capacity to climate risks; and factor into the feedback proformas not just the numerical count of works being undertaken but also the environmental services provided. It is time to acknowledge MGNREGS as a climate-smart green employment generation programme. In a world that will continue to warm, the rural poor will suffer its worst consequences. As a public intervention, Climate-smart MGNREGS appears to be our best bet.Rita Sharma is a former secretary, ministry of rural development and served as secretary to the National Advisory CouncilThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-role-of-mgnregs-in-the-climate-crisis-101617458768249.html
03-04-2021||Today's||In Myanmar, a test for India’s values||I often ask myself the question — “what sort of democracy is India?” I don’t need Freedom House to confirm that, at home, we’re only “partly free” or V-Dem to categorise us as an “elected autocracy”. To me, that’s been clear for a while. But, outside its borders, does the world’s largest democracy stand up for the principles it’s supposedly committed to? Do we support popularly elected governments, liberty, human rights, free speech and fair process abroad?If you judge by India’s response to the tragedy playing out every day for the last two months in Myanmar, the answer till last week was a resounding “No”. Our papers, no doubt, reported the unceasing resistance against military rule and even our inward-looking parochial television news channels occasionally covered it. But our government, the one institution elected to speak for us, was silent. Not a word of criticism when the numbers killed daily by the army climbed from the tens into the hundreds. Not even concern when the generals threatened to shoot their own citizens in the back or, worse, in the head.Yet this is happening next door. It’s a neighbouring country. Part of a region we want to be the acknowledged leader of. One of the more important countries embraced by Buddha’s message of love and peace first propounded at Sarnath. In short, this is our part of the world. Yet, for two months, we closed our eyes, plugged our ears and sealed our lips. We even shut our doors to refugees who fear for their lives. Since then, we’ve spoken but sotto voce. Our comments are mild, non-specific and uncritical of the army. They sound reluctant. They smack of timidity. I expected more from the world’s largest democracy.Sadly, this is not the first time we’ve turned our back on the people of Myanmar and their struggle for democracy. Our response was no different in 1988 when the army refused to recognise Aung San Suu Kyi’s first electoral triumph. Thirty years of military rule followed. The world stood by Suu Kyi. India, after giving her the Nehru Prize, tried to forget her. Yet India is almost her second country. She was at school and college in Delhi. Her mother was ambassador from 1960 to 1967 and the doyenne of the diplomatic corp. Of those dark decades when India did nothing to keep alight the flickering flame of democracy, this is what Suu Kyi said to me in 2015: “They tried to keep away from us … it saddened me that India, the largest democracy in the world, was turning its back on democracy in order to maintain good relations with the military government.”And now we’re doing it again. I know this time Suu Kyi is a fallen icon but her National League for Democracy is the freely and fairly elected government, and she is by far the most popular leader of the country. How can the world’s largest democracy forget these simple incontrovertible facts?Simply by claiming our true interest lies in retaining the support of the Myanmar junta tackling separatists and insurgents in our Northeast. I don’t deny that’s important. But democracy is even more. And our principles should always be our first concern. They must not be trumped by expedient interests.Let’s never forget what legitimises our fierce determination to defeat separatism and insurgency and keep India intact is our commitment to democracy and human rights. But if we’re deaf, dumb and blind to the brutal repression next door, we’ll diminish our integrity. That will affect how we see ourselves, it will damage how the world views us. The truth is India matters because it’s a democracy. One that has survived — even if not always flourished — in trying circumstances. That’s why we’re special. In comparison, the size of our market is of secondary importance.So, remember, today the sound of the tolling bell may come from across the border, but tomorrow it could toll for you and me.Karan Thapar is author of Devil’s Advocate: The Untold StoryThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-myanmar-a-test-for-india-s-values-101617458711257.html
03-04-2021||Today's||Restoring India’s political middle ground||Three tiny bones in the middle ear, the hammer, anvil and stirrup, collectively the ossicles, perform a crucial function. They keep the human body in balance. India’s political body has lost its ossicles. The middle has been overcome by vitriolic opponents. Debate is being replaced by narrative. And as a result, we have lost all balance. The blame lies with two groups: Loyalists of the Narendra Modi government, but, equally, the growing club of the anti-Modi liberal clergy. Message has become secondary to messenger: “Which side are you on?” is the only prism that matters.We are on neither side. We speak from that shrinking sliver of the middle ground, neither Modi-bhakts nor Modi-haters. There are reforms and initiatives of the Modi government that we agree with, but also actions that we disagree with. For 20 years, we have brought a non-ideological, problem-solving approach to urban change, working with political dispensations across party lines. While we haven’t always been successful, we have always made our case in an environment of vibrant democratic debate. But the corrosive discourse we are seeing now is dangerous. Serious debates are getting trivialised into a Modi litmus test. Take one example — the recently-released Freedom House report on Democracy for 2021. It’s a serious report, from an institution with a rock-solid reputation. There are 25 questions spanning two categories: Political rights and civil liberties. A key aspect of the methodology is assessing changes from the prior year. This year, India’s score slipped to 67, from 75 in 2020, moving it from “free” to “partly free”. But peel the layers back a bit. India’s big drop was in civil liberties, to 33 from 40 last year. But here’s the rub — the same Freedom House report gives Hong Kong a higher score (37) than India on civil liberties. The scoring on some questions seems perplexing. For example, on “Is there freedom for non-governmental organisations, particularly those that are engaged in human rights and governance-related work?”, Hong Kong rates higher than India.Given all that’s happened in Hong Kong, it’s ludicrous for even the most trenchant critic of the Modi regime to agree with these assessments. A healthy debate would have been enlightening. Instead, the report became fodder for a face-off — between a liberal caucus and the Modi regime. No one on the liberal side flagged these contradictions, possibly because it’s inconvenient and doesn’t suit their narrative. But those representing the ruling regime are also to blame — for rolling out the anti-national trope or suggesting that we ought to create our own democracy index.As a result, that space in the middle, for a reasoned debate, shrank once again. And even before the dust settles, the next issue-du-jour is breaking news, for the scuffle to begin anew.This scorched earth approach may be acceptable to these warring factions, because they are fighting a bigger battle over legitimacy. Modi’s critics claim that democracy is endangered in India. As evidence, they point to the attempts by the Modi regime to bully/undermine/co-opt various institutions and voices — the media, courts, business community, opinion-shapers. Has the government attempted to overreach? Only a rabid Modi-bhakt would disagree.But the right measure is not what was attempted. Which regime wouldn’t want a friendly media? When is it that those in power haven’t attempted to muzzle or nudge other arms of accountability? Fortunately, the messy plumbing of the State not only leaks like a sieve but is often too dysfunctional to be effective. The right measure is, therefore, not the attempt itself, but whether it succeeded. In a vibrant democracy, failed attempts result in public backlash, thereby strengthening the voices of the Opposition. Take the Disha Ravi case. Did the government attempt to overreach? Yes, and it was Exhibit A for ineptness. But what was the response? Fiery opposition and public opprobrium ending with a harsh put-down by the courts. The liberals proclaimed yet another example of the Modi government muzzling free speech to pronounce a further erosion of democratic values in India. Viewed through a different prism, however, one could reach a different conclusion — that there are enough voices of opposition, and importantly, agile alliances, to thwart any attempt to silence critics. And, therefore, that democracy is alive and kicking in India.Take another example — the farm law debates. We see coalitions and cleavages, symbolism and squeeze-where-it-hurts tactics on display from both sides, the farmers’ network and the government. And there are upcoming state elections to politically test the competing messages. What more can one ask for? Whichever way the farm law debate settles, it should surely be considered a resounding win for Indian democracy.This battle for legitimacy is being fuelled by a dual monopoly in the intellectual-political landscape. The liberals claim, with merit, that the Modi-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is acquiring hegemonic control over India’s electoral democracy. But liberals ignore that they hold similar hegemonic sway over the global narrative. Modi’s electoral hegemony is public. The liberal hegemony is invisible. In this asymmetric intellectual war, the liberals have a well-established, influential global network spanning academia, think-tanks, media and opinion-makers that gets instantly activated. The conservative right has nothing close to this. As to the BJP’s efforts to construct its own ecosystem, it’s debatable how long this will take to bear fruit, if at all.Confronted by the BJP’s electoral hegemony, the liberals seem to have shifted the goalposts — to measure democracy beyond electoral processes. While such an approach is intellectually valid, the timing of this shift is questionable, coinciding with the BJP’s 2019 election victory — the democracy-between-elections theme was barely mentioned earlier.Also, they are on a slippery slope to question the value of elections, since India’s voters, more than any liberal network, have been the real sentinels of our democracy. After all, it was the electorate which ensured that India walked back from the brink of the Emergency in 1977. Or, more recently, when it displayed remarkable political sophistication in Delhi’s state elections of 2020, bringing back the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) with a 67-seat majority, barely seven months after giving all seven Members of Parliament (MPs) of the city to the BJP.India faces complex challenges on a variety of fronts. Each of these needs equally complex solutions that can only emerge from substantive, nuanced debates. These exchanges can be intense, even bare-knuckled, pitting one set of ideas against another. But this can only happen when India has a large and vibrant political middle. These political ossicles, the hammer and the anvil to forge the ideas, and the stirrups to propel India forward, are critical to preserve and nurture our democratic culture.Swati Ramanathan and Ramesh Ramanathan are co-founders of Jana GroupThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/restoring-india-s-political-middle-ground-101617458709560.html
03-04-2021||Today's||As Covid returns, India must not repeat the mistakes of 2020||There is a familiar paranoia in the air as India confronts a sudden surge in Covid-19 cases. And we are in danger of making some of the same mistakes all over again — errors that much of the western world continues to make, and that we should have learnt better from, by now. The most colossal misstep is that we are being pulled back into thinking in the lexicon and language of lockdowns.My extensive reporting travels across India through the year of the pandemic convinced me of one thing. Indefinite shutdowns — of housing societies, neighbourhoods, schools, cities and, finally, borders — is a counterproductive move that ravages the economy, punishes the poorest of citizens and offers no sustainable solution to the spread of the virus. It would be akin to believing you can get fitter by starving, instead of adopting a balanced diet. You may briefly shed kilos rapidly, only to put them all back on again and acquire a host of other ailments, physical, emotional and psychological, along the way. Lockdowns have — or should have — a singular logic, which is to buy breathing space for the health care system. The 2020 national lockdown’s initial purpose was to allow for stadiums or other large spaces to be converted into makeshift hospitals, ancillary frontline staff to be mobilised, and enough oxygen to be procured. They were meant to be short and finite preparatory interventions, not repetitive, draconian, policed diktats that just keep us further and further away from normalcy, and basically become ways of penalising those who can least afford it.A year on, we also know more than we did previously. We know we should not go racing to the hospital in a panic if our pulse oximeter throws up favourable numbers; we know that we mostly need high-flow oxygen and not ventilators; and we know that all therapeutic medicine is by trial and error, mostly paracetamol meets steroids, the latter strictly when needed. And we know or should know that testing positive should not be spoken of as if it’s the end of the world — despite the surge, India’s recovery rate is still close to 95%. The most dramatic difference between 2020 and 2021, of course, is that vaccines are now available. And this is where our urgent focus should be, rather than on an alarmist daily tabulation of how many people have tested positive. We should allow data to lead us towards a productive direction. For instance, we know that eight states account for nearly 85% of all new Covid-19 cases. Among these, we know that more than 60% are from Maharashtra. It’s a no-brainer that we need to universalise vaccination coverage for all adults in these hot zones. Taking an aggregated, pan-India approach to the vaccine rollout, when some states clearly need this more than others, is short-sighted. We are wasting time debating whether India needs to halt its acclaimed vaccine maitri programme and focus inwards; the fact is we are inoculating well below production capacity. And a little over 6% of vaccines are being wasted nationally. This is nothing short of criminal. While there may be two views on making a vaccine mandatory, the best way to address vaccine hesitancy is to link its requirements with economic and social activity, whether travel, dining in closed and crowded places, or catching a movie. Once enough people realise that the only way to reclaim our lives is to take the jab, self-indulgent drawing room debates by the elite will be forced to draw to a close. Sure, there have been instances when people have contracted the virus a few days after taking the shot. But the vaccine guarantees protection against severe disease and death. It prevents infections in a significant proportion of cases (70-80% for the vaccines in use in India) and ensures that you dont fall gravely ill or need hospitalisation. Thus, if we inoculate enough of our population, especially in the cities, where Covid-19 is most prevalent, and target the 10 worst-hit Indian cities, the pressure on the hospital system will reduce by itself. As the country that produces 60% of the world’s vaccines, and as a leader in mass immunisation programmes, this should be more than doable for us. But a conventional, bureaucratic mindset appears to be holding us back. The vaccination programme needs to be reset and targeted. At least three new global vaccines that have Indian partners need to be allowed in without the demand for bridging trials. Virologists such as Dr Shahid Jameel have underlined the urgent need for unlocking Johnson & Johnson, Sputnik and Novavax from these regulatory hurdles, pointing out that it is wasteful to be lost in percentage point debates over efficacy. As long as the vaccines are safe and provide protection against mortality and serious illness, that’s all that counts. This is where our Covid-19 conversation must be centred — in the future. Not in revisiting ideas like lockdowns that are detrimental to the health of nations. Barkha Dutt is an award-winning journalist and authorThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/as-covid-returns-india-must-not-repeat-the-mistakes-of-2020-101617378612224.html
