04-04-2021||Today's||Designing resilient economic institutions||The tragic reverse migration, in the aftermath of the lockdown last year, is seen largely as a policy failure. The episode, however, also revealed deeper institutional weaknesses in the labour market. While working reasonably well during periods of normalcy, these weaknesses became our Achilles Heel in a crisis.What are economic institutions and why do their weaknesses matter? Plainly put, economic institutions are the underlying structures — the nuts and bolts — that enable economic activities in general, and public policies in particular, to work properly. Some institutions work at macro- or economy-wide scale, such as the legal infrastructure, which ensures property rights or contractual obligations. Other institutions may be more specific, such as the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC), which ensures smoother working of the financial system. The problem with institutional weaknesses is that they make it impossible for policies to achieve their desired targets. Even the best policies can fail if the underlying institutions do not support them. What were the pre-existing labour market institutions that failed during the lockdown? Here, it is important to understand the difference between State and private institutions. Institutions of the State define the relationship between the government and private actors, for instance, individuals and firms. Private institutions, on the other hand, enable interactions within the private sector, say, between firms and individuals, or between two firms. In India, reforms during the last three decades gave rise to two important labour market institutions — the first private, and the second, State. The first is third-party contracts, where the labour markets are run by private contractors. In this arrangement, firms rely on contractors to hire workers for them. These workers are not on company payrolls, but are paid by the contractor, who, in turn, is paid by the firm. This arrangement saves costs for firms, since contractual workers are not entitled to social security benefits and, generally, receive lower wages, relative to their colleagues in regular employment. It also enabled firms to enjoy much more flexibility. This transformed employment relationships in India and enabled a large number of new forms of employment.The second institutional development happened due to the lack of significant manufacturing growth, which meant that employment did not keep up with labour force growth in the country. There was pressure on policymakers to develop social safety nets for those unable to get gainful employment. This resulted in an institution that came up specifically to address the problem of joblessness in a market economy. It took the form of a rural jobs guarantee programme, the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS).The reverse migration was symptomatic of the failure of both these institutions in the face of the pandemic. Anecdotal evidence suggests that as soon as there was a lockdown, many of the labour contractors went missing. This meant that the labourers had no means through which they could retain their employment. On the other hand, firms that were willing to retain their workers during the lockdown could also not do so, since payments to contract workers go through the contractors that went missing. The main reason for this institutional crisis was that there was no incentive for these contractors and middlemen to continue their business in the midst of the uncertainty during the lockdown. Thus, the limitations of such an institutional arrangement became stark during the pandemic.The problem was compounded by the fact that our social safety net programme, particularly MGNREGS, is not designed for an urban crisis. There was no mechanism through which income transfers could be made to those who lost jobs in the urban areas. It is hardly surprising then that millions risked their health and lives trying to return to their villages, rather than stay on in their urban dwellings.What lessons can we take away from these experiences about future institutional design? The key learning here is that institutional capabilities that allow reasonable outcomes during normal circumstances may not do so during a crisis. Thus, the design of institutions has to keep in mind crisis scenarios and how to deliver during those conditions. In the labour market, for example, with the introduction of fixed-term contracts in the new industrial relations codes, firms have much more flexibility in labour markets, and so third-party contracts can be abolished altogether. The advantage of this is that in any future crisis, any form of income support to the labourers can be channeled directly through the firms.As far as safety nets are concerned, we need to recognise that during a crisis, it is up to individuals and households to decide whether they want to stay on or migrate back home. However, providing them with support that can reach them wherever they are will definitely help to prevent a repeat of the massive migration-on-foot that we saw last year. The effort to universalise ration cards is a step in the right direction. However, the lockdown also showed that expenditures other than food can also become crippling and ultimately, only cash transfers can help solve some of these problems.The bottom line is that we need to develop institutions that are not only efficient during normal circumstances but also resilient during a crisis.Sabyasachi Kar is RBI chair professor, National Institute of Public Finance and Policy (NIPFP). Mayank Jain is research Fellow at NIPFP The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/designing-resilient-economic-institutions-101617548173592.html
04-04-2021||Today's||What campaign slogans, speeches and songs reveal about Bengal’s polls||In recent years, election campaigns in India have tended to be high-pitched, but the one in Bengal seems to be shriller than usual. That has partly to do with the high stakes involved. For the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC), it is an existential battle. For the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Bengal is a prize that it has long eyed for both ideological and electoral reasons. Many analysts have dismissed election campaigns in India, particularly the current one in Bengal, as hitting the lowest registers and missing the real issues. But that does not take away from the importance of campaigning and its impact on voters, particularly the undecided ones.The BJP has picked on the theme of poriborton or change that the TMC so successfully used in 2011 against the Left Front’s 34-year rule with the memorable slogan, Hoy ebar noy never, (this time or never). To make a distinction, the BJP has added ashol (real) before poriborton. The BJP’s election manifesto also promises a return to Sonar Bangla, or Golden Bengal, borrowed from Rabindranath Tagore’s classic song. This has been supplemented with the rhetoric of the Jai Shri Ram slogan, which was alien to West Bengal, and is now being used for both communal and caste mobilisation. The TMC has pushed back against the BJP’s Hindu nationalist rhetoric by resorting to Bengali nationalism and labelling the BJP as bohiragato or outsiders. It has also encouraged the use of the slogan Joy Bangla to counter Jai Shri Ram. During campaigning, the TMC unveiled its slogan, Bangla nijer meyekei chaay (Bengal wants its own daughter), which combines the centrality of Mamata Banerjee in the party’s campaign even while emphasising the outsider tag for the BJP. The other TMC slogan — khela hobe (game is on), which hints that elections are a playground but also a battlefield, has become wildly popular, with Banerjee almost always referring to it in her speeches. The BJP has responded by saying the game is over. The Left, in a sign of its attenuated state, has tried to revive its fortunes by using a remix of a Bengali song from a B-grade film.The campaign has, at times, become vitriolic and personal, but this can also be seen as part of the carnivalesque nature, albeit with violent undertones, of Indian elections. The BJP has referred to Banerjee not just as didi (elder sister) but pishi (aunt) for allegedly patronising her nephew, Abhishek Banerjee. The chief minister (CM) has, in turn, consistently alleged that Amit Shah’s son is a top cricket honcho because of nepotism. And she has not spared Modi or Shah and their physical appearances either, referring to the duo as hodolkoothkoot and kumro potash, Bengali words that are difficult to translate and play on body weight. In a recent speech, she also noted that the growth of Modi’s beard was inversely proportional to the state of India’s economy. The BJP has countered by mocking Banerjee’s foot injury sustained during campaigning. The party’s state president, known for making incendiary comments, criticised the CM for campaigning with one leg in plaster, advising her to wear Bermuda shorts instead of a sari.While some of the physical jibes are in poor taste, the symbolism of the body and dress in politics goes back a long way. Anthropologist Mukulika Banerjee has noted that while oratory and wordplay are essential in campaigns, voters also pay close attention to the clothes, expressions and body language of politicians. The CM, for instance, has always been identified with simple handloom saris and slippers. Modi, in contrast, chooses different clothes, depending on the setting.Social media has become integral to campaigning and mimics some characteristics of physical campaigning, including spreading misinformation. While it has lessened the importance of election rallies, it has not supplanted them. It has also popularised political songs, WhatsApp messages and memes which are not always linked to political parties. One example is a song by prominent Bengali actors against religious intolerance that has gone viral. It takes the good, bad, ugly and silly to make a campaign. The battle for Bengal is no different.Ronojoy Sen is senior research fellow, ISAS & SASP, National University of Singapore The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/what-campaign-slogans-speeches-and-songs-reveal-about-bengal-s-polls-101617547632905.html
04-04-2021||Today's||In Kashmir, new aspirations and a ray of hope||Kashmir Valley’s chinar trees, after having been stripped bare by the bitter winter, have begun to grow fresh buds. By the end of the month, they will regain some of their former glory. Will Kashmir and Kashmiriyat undergo such a renewal?Over the past week, I met several young people while in Kashmir with my family. Tausif Majid, from Tangmarg, Baramulla, considered a hotbed of terror, told me he is preparing for the entrance examination for a post-graduate degree in chartered accountancy. He eventually wanted to join the Indian Administrative Service. Somewhat surprised, I asked him why. He said over the last 10 years, many had passed this examination in Kashmir, and he hoped to do the same, through hard work, and bring name and fame to his family. I was elated, for it is the dreams of the young that make the world a better place.Two days later in Pahalgam, I passed a signboard that said “Punjabi Vaishno Dhaba, pure vegetarian”. For vegetarians like us, this seemed like a godsend. We found the one empty table in the small, clean eatery. While the four of us were perusing the menu, a young woman came and asked in fluent English, “Sir, I hope you have chosen from the menu. Tell me, what can I offer you?” We did not expect such grace and courtesy towards outsiders in a town marred by violent terror.After a delicious meal, I learnt her name was Gurupriya and she was from a family of Kashmiri Sikhs. Gurupriya told me, “This dhaba was opened by my father, now I have been running it for the last few years.” She wanted to expand the business further so that she could give everybody a taste of the good food and warmth of Kashmiri hospitality. Gurupriya said her uncle also ran a similar Punjabi restaurant nearby. Back in the car, I recalled that I had come to this region after 18 years. If I came back after another 18 years, perhaps I would find that the young woman had fulfilled her dream. While wandering about the Valley, I noticed a number of new hotels, wide avenues and signs of fledgling businesses. While it is too early to say that normalcy has returned, these are positive signs that things are on the right track. Feelings of dissatisfaction and alienation will remain among some and this will be kept alive by radical elements for as long as they can.While I was talking to Gurupriya on the afternoon of March 29, terrorists had attacked a member of the Block Development Council (BDC) and his security personnel, outside the municipal office at Sopore in Baramulla district. On April 1, as we were re-entering Srinagar, I learnt that a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) worker was attacked at Naogaum that day. According to the Institute for Conflict Management, in 2020, 321 people lost their lives in 140 terror incidents — these include 33 innocent Kashmiri civilians, 56 security personnel and 232 terrorists. This shows that the maximum damage is being inflicted on the terrorists. One reason for there being no major disturbance after the effective abrogation of Article 370 is the effective working of the security forces.Lieutenant-Governor Manoj Sinha is aware that to establish peace in the Valley, ordinary Kashmiris must gain the upper hand. This is the reason why he personally meets people one day in the week. All senior officers are present at this meeting, and problems are dealt with immediately. He has set up complaint boxes in every panchayat, and, in order, to address people’s problems, he has begun a block day programme every Wednesday.As a result of such accountability and direct communication, students have lined up for scholarships. In the last financial year, 800,000 students benefited under various scholarship schemes. Until December 2020, 950,000 lakh applications for scholarships had been received. This explains the confidence of young men such as Tausif at Tangmarg.Mohammad Amin, a government employee, was delighted that the railway project connecting Srinagar to Jammu is being implemented at a rapid pace. He believes that when the train between Delhi and Srinagar becomes operational, young people will find an easier passage to higher education. He said that earlier too, a lot of money used to come from Delhi, but, for the first time, people were seeing that it was being put to better use. A young entrepreneur, who had returned to Srinagar after completing his Masters in Business Administration from London, was so impressed with the flourishing infrastructure that he decided to construct a hotel here. He spoke of feeling hopeful after years, despite all the naysayers.Will Kashmir’s dreams, like those of its fabled chinars, blossom this time around? I, for one, am very hopeful.Shashi Shekhar is editor-in-chief, Hindustan The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-kashmir-new-aspirations-and-a-ray-of-hope-101617547391418.html
