07-04-2021||Today's||In new India, leveraging the country’s great mineral potential||Among the most important sectors with an impact on economic growth is mineral mining. In terms of generating employment, the sector, second only to agriculture, directly and indirectly employs about 11 million people, and sustains the livelihood of about 55 million people.Despite its huge potential, India’s mineral mining sector remained choked under previous regimes. India had been underexplored — over 17% of the nation’s land area has mineral reserves whereas mining is being carried out only on 0.25% of the area. The sector had also underperformed in attracting investments. While mineral production stands at ₹1.25 lakh crore annually, its import is a whopping ₹2.5 lakh crore.But given the importance of the sector, the Narendra Modi government has envisioned increasing the sector’s contribution from 1.75% of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) currently to 2.5% of GDP. My ministry’s most important task, therefore, has been reforming this sector, with the aim of increasing the mineral production output by 200% over the next seven years. The Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Amendment Act, 2021 is a step towards achieving this.A large number of mining blocks were not brought into production for many years. Most have been blocked in legacy cases. Such cases can neither be granted lease because the time period to grant them is already over, nor can they be brought to auction because of the legal impasse. We have amended the existing provision for reallocation of such mineral blocks through a transparent auction mechanism. Auctioned mines not made operational within three years will be returned to states concerned for reallocation through auction, as will greenfield mines allocated to public sector units that are not brought into production after a review.One of the key reforms is transferring all valid rights, approvals, clearances and licenses to the new lessee, valid until the mineral reserves last. This would facilitate lessees to transfer the mine to another entity, thus bringing in fresh investment and entrepreneurship to operate the mine.Since 2015, geological reports for 143 mineral blocks have been handed over to various states. These blocks are auction-ready, but so far, states have only auctioned seven blocks. To ensure that national reserves are put to best use, a provision has been made wherein the Union government can conduct auctions in consultation where states face challenges or fail to conduct auctions.Removing the distinction between captive and non-captive mines was long in coming. We knew it was akin to participating in a race with one leg tied. With no such distinction now, there will be a level-playing field for mineral block auctions. Existing captive mines have also been allowed to sell minerals over and above their requirements. A 50% rebate in the revenue share, for the quantity of minerals produced and dispatched earlier than scheduled date of production, has also been provided.This amendment Act is set to redefine the standard of exploration required for auctioning of partially explored mineral blocks for prospecting licence-cum-mining lease. This will boost seamless transition from exploration to production and encourage the participation of private players. The amended provisions in the Act also ensure better clarity on “Mining without Lawful Authority” to save lease-holders from unjustified penalties under other litigations.We have also fulfilled a long-standing demand by making local Members of Parliament members of the District Mineral Foundation (DMF) governing council to make DMF more outcome-oriented. Arrangements have also been made to keep a check on misuse of DMF funds so that inclusive development of those affected by mining can be ensured. There are several other changes in the MMDR Act that will boost the ease of doing business in the mineral mining sector, make it more competitive, pave the way for creation of employment opportunities, and have a multiplier effect on several other sectors. Over several meetings, PM Modi laid out a plan where the sector takes allied industries on a growth course to help India become a $5-trillion economy. These amendments are in line with his vision, and the sector will play a major role in defining a New India.Pralhad Joshi is Union minister of coal, mines and parliamentary affairsThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-new-india-leveraging-the-country-s-great-mineral-potential-101617803609498.html
07-04-2021||Today's||Visualising tech education of the future||Project 2061 was a long-term project initiated in 1985 to reform education in science, technology and math. The name was inspired by Comet Halley, which happened to be in the earth’s vicinity in 1985. It is said that the project director often joked that it would take that long (76 years) to turn the massive ship of education around because of the tremendous inertia in the system.Fast forward to 2021. We know the writing on the wall — technology is accelerating at an unprecedented pace, organisations that are thriving are the ones quickest to adapt and so on. But here is the question — has our tech education kept pace with this change? Are we preparing Gen Z to shape this future, responsibly?We need to hit refresh on our tech education, now. Here are three areas which need a refresh.First, disciplines of the future.Standalone engineering departments are steeped in history. Civil engineering is among the oldest formal engineering disciplines and reflects the start of construction of roads, bridges and cities. Mechanical and chemical engineering emerged in their current form around the Industrial Revolution. Computer engineering came later. The next century is being defined by the advent of new technologies. The car of yesteryears was primarily a mechanical device, but the car of the future will be electric, autonomous and connected.The future of education will be interdisciplinary. The siloed degrees of the past need to give way to interdisciplinary programmes. For example, robotics and cyber-physical systems will shape the factories of the future. Future health care will be at the intersection of biosciences, computing and engineering. It is time for us to embrace cutting-edge interdisciplinary programmes in mainstream education.Why is this important? This brings us to the second area — solving grand challenges.We are faced with perceptible grand challenges every day — unclean air, cyber insecurity, global pandemics and more. These challenges affect the world at large and are even more pertinent to India. The raison d’être of engineers has been to create solutions for people. However, engineers identify themselves not by solutions, but by narrow disciplinary toolkits which risk irrelevance over time.What if every researcher and student identified themselves less with a discipline (“I am an X engineer”) and more with a problem? For example — “I am working on affordable and clean energy access for every person” or “I am working on making our cyberspace safe”. What if each of the 1.2 million engineers graduating every year in India took on a real problem for industry or society?That mindset to solve problems, supported by a multidisciplinary education combining advanced technology with its estranged cousins — humanities, design and business — can catalyse the emergence of solutions. The ancient Takshashila University, which was home to some of the greatest Indian scholars such as Panini, Charaka and Chanakya, was multidisciplinary.What kind of students would lead this change? And that is the third area of focus — identifying future tech leaders.We need tech leaders who are not only intellectually strong, but also passionate, creative, entrepreneurial and socially conscious. However, if our higher education institutions anchor disproportionately on test-oriented intelligence, our high school students will learn to view their self-worth through the same lens. Tech universities of the future need to have holistic selections to signal that they value not only intellectual quotient, but are also interested in what drives a student, what the student has built, what the student wants to solve. This will have a great impact on adolescent life by replacing pressure with more purpose and joy.This brings us to the final point — whose responsibility is it to execute this? Building high quality universities was once seen as the prerogative of either the government or a few select philanthropists. Open architecture has shown a way for diverse people anywhere to be able to contribute to a mission. This idea is making its way into how greenfield universities are being set up in India and existing institutions are evolving.A wide variety of people can make meaningful contributions to the mission — scientists and educators can help students imbibe a research mindset early on, industry can provide relevant problems to work on, entrepreneurs can show students how to make solutions viable, existing premier institutions can share intellectual strength with new-age institutions, philanthropists globally can contribute funds towards the mission.It is said that the best way to predict the future is to invent it. We need all hands on deck to invent the future we want to wake up to, without waiting for the next sighting of Comet Halley to get our act together.Neeraj Aggarwal is chairman-Asia Pacific, Boston Consulting Group, and founder and trustee of the upcoming Plaksha University. Pallavi Jain is a consultant, Boston Consulting Group and director, strategy and programmes, PlakshaThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/visualising-tech-education-of-the-future-101617803607903.html
