11-04-2021||Today's||The emergence of good businesses||What is good business? The answer to that question will drive the fundamentals of business in the future. This discussion has been underway. In 2019, for instance, the European Union passed legislation to ensure full Environment, Social and Governance (ESG) disclosure by listed companies and investment funds. Goldman Sachs even declared that it would cease supporting the IPOs of companies that have an all-male board of directors. In August 2019, one of the United States (US)’s largest business groups, the Business Roundtable, replaced its longstanding “shareholder primacy” mantra to urge companies to consider the well being of environment and workers, alongside their pursuit of profits.The pandemic has intensified this discussion on the nature, role and purpose of business. The crisis provided an unflinching perspective on how businesses really conduct themselves — the level of scrutiny applied to businesses (and even, business leaders) has been unprecedented. And quite rightly so. Business is a useful metaphor for capitalism itself; the basis of our society, where and how we create value, and how we define success. As part of our 75th celebrations, the Mahindra Group launched a public conversation on what constitutes good business. The results clearly reflect the shifting sentiments regarding business’s role, and what really constitutes a good deal, or job, or investment. According to Mahindra’s Good Business Study, covering over 2,000 Indian citizens, 62.42% of respondents cited society and community as critical to their idea of good business. From an employee perspective, nearly half (49.35%) the respondents believe that equality of opportunity, diversity, flexible working and an innovative environment are the top qualities of a good employer. Such new definitions of what constitutes good business are even reflected in investment choices. 70.27% of respondents claim that they would never invest in a business they did not consider to be genuinely good. Two factors have influenced these changing perceptions of good business over the last ten years.First, the emergence and activism of the millennial generation (typically, aged between 25 and 35). According to Deloitte’s most recent Millennial Survey, more than a quarter of millennials would choose not to purchase from an organisation because of its stance on a political issue, and 29% would do the same, based on the comments or behaviour of a company leader. 70% of millennials expect their employers to focus on societal or mission-driven issues. No other generation has exerted such an impact on the way we do business, on employee experience, and on consumer expectations. They represent one of the last decade’s biggest drivers of good business. This is also reflected in our own Good Business study. 45.27% of millennial respondents relate good business to non-financial metrics such as workplace diversity and environment. By contrast, just 39.22% of those over the age of 46 applied the same metrics.Second, the overwhelming priority for many traditional and existing businesses, including ours, has been to ensure that they are genuinely good. For example, minimising the environmental impact of the production and use of products, ensuring transparent and fulfilling careers for employees, and communicating the same to investors and the wider community are factors that contribute to companies making it to the Great Places to Work lists.Some of our own businesses are a case in point: Susten, for instance, delivers clean energy to some of India’s remotest regions; Mahindra Waste To Energy Solutions Ltd converts organic waste into Bio-CNG and fertilizer; while Mahindra Electric Mobility Ltd has been a pioneer in electric transport. Collectively, these businesses epitomise this transformation towards good business, and are already generating over half a billion dollars every year. Such businesses epitomise the purpose of our Group – enabling people to rise and achieve the best of themselves. In effect, this encapsulates what good business means to us.What do these trends suggest about the coming decade? One, in demographic terms, it will be fascinating to see whether and how today’s millennials retain their influence, as tomorrow’s managers, entrepreneurs and business leaders.Two, I am particularly interested in their successors, Generation Z, who are under 25. This generation of consumers will increase their per capita spending by more than 70% in the next five years. How will they impose their perceptions of “good” business on the way they consume, work, and invest?One recent study describes them as even more committed to our planet and other ethical considerations. A staggering 92% surveyed said they care about social and environmental issues, and 89% are worried about the health of our planet. Significantly, 94% believe that companies should help address such urgent issues; this is an even higher percentage than their millennial predecessors. Such statistics provides a clue — and an optimistic one — to the nature of good business in the coming decade.Finally, the approach of adapting existing businesses towards this new set of considerations that characterised the last decade will be gradually replaced by businesses that are created to be fundamentally good – good by design. Businesses will define their existence — their products, means of production, relationships with employees and community — in terms of their wider role in society. Here, technology will play a crucial role — not merely in the conception of products and services, but in how they are produced and delivered to consumers. The transformation of the education sector provides a case in point. India’s EdTech market is expected to grow from less than US$1 billion to eight or ten times that size over the coming five years. The sector is the epitome of good “by design”, employing technology to deliver relevant skills to Indians who, in many cases, would otherwise not have access to it.These clues from the last decade provide a glimpse into the future of good business. Will this still be the most important discussion of the next decade in 2030?Ideally, I would hope not. The best outcome would be that the good prefix is discarded as irrelevant, And that the nature of business will be inherently good by design. Good and business would become synonymous. Such businesses are already making an impact, even in terms of financial returns. For society, the return would go well beyond financial metrics and be far more significant. By 2030, what would be the point of contemplating any other type of business? Anand Mahindra is the chairman of the Mahindra GroupThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-emergence-of-good-businesses-101618151673947.html
11-04-2021||Today's||India’s vaccine strategy is based on science||India has been undertaking the world’s largest vaccination drive. In less than three months, we have managed to provide more than 100 million doses across the country, which is more than the population of Germany. The country has already achieved one of the highest daily vaccinations per day across the globe with 4.3 million vaccinations, which is close to the population of New Zealand. India has also achieved the fastest rate of reaching the 100 million vaccination milestone, ahead of the United States (US) and China. Our daily vaccination rates are also among the highest in the world. This doesn’t mean that there is no scope for improvement. Of course, we need to expand capacity and continue innovating, which has been our approach throughout the pandemic.When I saw an editorial with five questions on India’s vaccination strategy in this newspaper on Thursday, I was surprised. It seems that the recent bug of fact-free opinion has transcended Twitter and entered the editorials of a venerable newspaper such as HT.In the beginning, there are two insinuations — first, that there is a vaccine crunch, and, second, that everyone immediately needs a vaccine. We must understand that vaccines are a scarce commodity in the world. They are not like candies which can be manufactured, supplied, and consumed any time and anywhere. That is why India, as well as other countries, decided to prioritise groups which are vulnerable. The primary purpose of vaccination is mortality reduction and decreasing the burden on the health care system. This was laid down by the government in 2020 itself. The first phase of the vaccination drive prioritises vulnerable groups such as older citizens, health care workers, and front-line workers. For instance, older citizens face an acute threat as those aged 45 and above have accounted for almost nine out of 10 Covid-19 deaths across the country.Across the globe, countries have prioritised vulnerable groups in their vaccination programmes as the supply and delivery capacity remained limited initially. Similar to India, the first phase of the vaccination drive in many countries had age and occupation-based eligibility criteria. For instance, in the US, the Centre for Diseases Control and Prevention had recommended that vaccines should initially be given to health care workers, front-line essential workers and those aged 75 years and above. Gradually, coverage was expected to include younger age cohorts and other essential workers.India has set a target of vaccinating around 300 million vulnerable citizens by August, and we are very much on course to achieve that. There is no supply crunch when it comes to achieving this target.Here, it is also important to understand that vaccines are a preventive tool which works after a lag period of six to 10 weeks. It is not a treatment to be administered to reduce the case-load in the middle of a wave. To focus only on vaccines and not pay attention to ramping up testing, tracing and proper treatment will be counterproductive.It is amusing that the newspaper argued against India’s vaccine maitri programme, and advocates an inward-looking approach for the sake of a populist argument. Is it not a good thing that India has set an example for the world to follow, earned strategic advantage on various dimensions, and is being appreciated globally for its assistance? If the government had refused to supply vaccines to other countries, the same newspaper would have criticised Prime Minister Narendra Modi for being a “vaccine nationalist”. However, this advocacy of a protectionist and “closed” India is again bereft of the facts. A large proportion of the 60 million-plus vaccines sent abroad were either commercially exported or supplied through the COVAX programme. A substantial share was part of contractual obligations that the manufacturer had to fulfil. We must remember that manufacturing rights are accompanied with contractual obligations. The next question constructs and demolishes a straw man to make a point. It says that the government-approved Covaxin based on faith. This sentence does not do as much disservice to the regulator and Bharat Biotech as it does to the credibility of the newspaper. Data on the safety and immunogenicity of Covaxin, based on trials held in India, were available when it was approved; only the efficacy figures were pending. The government is as eager, if not more than the newspaper, to ensure that other vaccines also get approved. It is surprising that some of those who opposed the “clinical trial use” approval for Covaxin are now arguing in favour of completely bypassing bridging trials. Imagine what would happen to the confidence of people if a hastily-approved vaccine which works well elsewhere causes some issues in the Indian population.While I have already elaborated on why age-based criteria was adopted, I would like to engage with this argument of more vaccination in urban areas. At this rate, shall we make the vaccination programme more targeted and focus on high-rises and slums within cities? Shall we focus more on malls and markets given the high density of people found here? Is there a successful display of this strategy anywhere in the world? However provocative the argument is, when a government decides on a strategy, it needs to be both equitable and feasible. Adding additional layers of complexity is neither feasible nor desirable. Unlike commentators, governments need to overcome real trade-offs and constraints.Vijay Chauthaiwale is in-charge, foreign affairs department, BJP, and a senior scientistThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/indias-vaccine-strategy-is-based-on-science-101618151672725.html
11-04-2021||Today's||A Calmer You, by Sonal Kalra: Say a big ‘thank you’ to all those jealous folk||Why are you giving me such strange looks? I’ve never claimed to be normal, have I? You’re offended because you, like all of us, were taught at school that jealousy is a very bad thing. That it breeds hatred and discontent. Despite that, you could never help that feeling of something snapping inside you when your best friend scored more in math or when the prettiest girl in the class accepted his proposal of friendship.A lot of you who work know that feeling when the boss suddenly turns all against you because a jealous colleague bitched behind your back. Or when your brand new car wakes up with scratches because the friendly neighbour had difficulty digesting that you could afford one. We, my dear people, were born with the J gene. All of us. The only difference being that while most of us manage to accept it as a natural emotion and keep it in check, some others decide to express their unhappiness with, well, your happiness. Today’s column is dedicated to these people. I think they are just fabulous. Here’s why.1. They reaffirm your successSomeone being jealous of you is the biggest proof that there’s something right, and good, happening in your life. Lakshay, a regular reader of this column, had written to me about a friend of his, “He calls himself my best friend, but it is so obvious that anything good happening to me upsets him. I told him that dad’s getting me an iPhone and suddenly there were these murmurs in the class about what a big show-off I am. I know who started it. How can people be so double-faced?”Hmm … well people are double faced so that you remain confused about which face to slap!! Sorry, that was a bad joke. But, hey Lakshay, don’t forget to thank and love your dad for getting you the iPhone now that you have proof that it’s something worth showing off.You see, what the jealous people unknowingly do is put a firm stamp on the fact that your life, in some ways, is better than theirs. It could be materialistic, or even emotional. A lot of friends may be jealous of how your boyfriend sends you heart-shaped balloons each week. (Really? Don’t smile, that’s so cheesy. Why are you still with him?)The problem is only when we start paying more attention to their jealousy than to our success. As long as you are not rubbing your happiness in someone else’s face and making them feel small, you have every reason to celebrate and enjoy the fact that life’s treating you nicely. Stop feeling sorry about your success or apologising for your achievements. Say a big thank you in your heart, to everyone who’s jealous of you. You would have felt like such a loser if no one in this world envied you. No?2. They make you strive harder to hold on to your successJealous people are such noble souls. They sometimes deliberately express their displeasure in such mean ways that you take it up as a challenge to hold on to your win. My friend Priya used to be very tense because every time she would get a promotion at her workplace, some colleagues would start rumours about her proximity with the boss. She decided to take it up as a challenge and worked so hard at her performance that the no one could ever question the rise in her career graph. The bitterness sometimes ignites a fire in you to prove and sustain that you were worth feeling jealous of. So, aren’t you eternally thankful to those who made it possible? If it hadn’t been for their envy, you would have easily taken your success for granted, rested on your laurels and fallen off the pedestal while asleep. Thank them, silly, rather than resenting their presence in your life.3. They help you see the true colours of peopleFirst, go give a big hug to someone you think is jealous of you, and then I’ll tell you why. See, the J-ones mostly take out their frustration by going behind your back and saying mean things to those in your life. It could be your friends in class, colleagues in your office or even relatives in the family circle. Ask Bubbly aunty and she’ll tell you her theory on how all sister-in-laws should be called sinister-in-laws.Haan, coming back to the point, when the J-brand people bitch behind your back, it’s a wonderful opportunity to see who in your circle falls for it and who doesn’t. THAT will tell you who you can trust in your life and who is not worthy of it. If a close friend believes someone who is back-biting you, maybe that close friend shouldn’t be close anymore. Think about it. They were doing you such a big favour and you’ve been feeling low about their actions. Go hug.After all this unsolicited gyaan, a word for those who are honest enough to admit that they’ve been feeling jealous of someone. Dekho bhai, my great grandmother Erica Jong used to say, ‘Jealousy is all the fun you think they had’…arthaat, door ke dhol suhawane. From a distance, someone else’s life looks all rosy, because the thorns are too small to notice. They prick only the one who’s holding them. So, before you go all green with envy and those around you can smell your heart burning, count your own blessings and thank God that you are you, and not someone else. Because you know your own problems and can deal with them. The unknown devils in someone else’s life are far more dangerous. Calm it.Sonal Kalra wanted to launch a ‘Are you J? Come, here’s a hug for you’ campaign but a friend told her it sounds a bit obscene. Maybe she’s J. Mail her at sonal.kalra@hindustantimes.com, facebook.com/sonalkalraofficial. Follow on Twitter @sonalkalra. You can now listen to Sonal Kalra’s podcast #TensionNot on http://htsmartcast.com and http://htheathshots.com.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/a-calmer-you-by-sonal-kalra-say-a-big-thank-you-to-all-those-jealous-folk-101618113209913.html
