15-04-2021||Today's||In West Asia, where US and China’s interests intersect||Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi’s recent six-nation tour of West Asia has sparked discussions about Beijing’s taking a more active approach in the region. In part, this is driven by China’s expanding interests; in part, it is a product of the China-United States (US) competition and geopolitical churn underway after Joe Biden’s election. Wang’s visit came in the backdrop of American policy towards the region undergoing key changes. Under Donald Trump, the US withdrew from the nuclear deal with Iran and pursued a re-engineering of the region’s politics. This fructified in the form of the 2020 Abraham Accords and the end of the Gulf Cooperation Council crisis involving Qatar earlier this year. Beijing’s official response to these was lukewarm at best. Concerns about the impact on the Palestinian issue and the potential for an anti-Iran coalition dominated the discourse, as any consequent instability would not only hurt the progress of the Belt and Road Initiative but also China’s energy imports.Biden’s election victory, however, eased some of these concerns. Under Biden, the US has returned to engagement with Iran. The ongoing talks in Vienna, aimed at bringing both the US and Iran back in compliance with the nuclear deal, is an example of this. However, engineering a thaw with Tehran while balancing the interests of Tel Aviv will not be easy. At the same time, Biden has adopted a tougher position on Saudi Arabia compared to Trump. He ended US support for the war in Yemen and made public an intelligence report on the killing of journalist Jamal Khashoggi. Given the pressure from the liberal wing of the Democratic Party in Congress over US-Saudi ties, it appears that the Riyadh-Washington relationship will remain difficult.This resetting of the pieces creates new drivers for Beijing to play a greater role. After his visit, Wang Yi outlined five broad parameters of future engagement, while emphasising that China supports building a “new security framework” for the region that eschews major power competition. The five parameters include seeking deeper development and digital economy cooperation; ensuring oil infrastructure, energy and trade security; cooperation on fighting terrorism and de-radicalisation; building alignment on values such as non-interference in internal affairs and human rights; and pursuing nuclear non-proliferation.Based on these, it is clear that Beijing wants to do more but is not keen on replicating Washington’s political and military engagement in the region. In fact, China continues to remain wary of the ethnic and political fault lines inWest Asia. The challenge for Beijing will remain in deepening its stake while avoiding getting caught up in the region’s political disputes.China’s interests lie in, first, securing its energy supplies, given that it is heavily dependent on Saudi Arabia and Iraq and desires easier access to Iranian supplies. In contrast, West Asia is no longer critical to US energy security. Second, there is a desire to secure and expand Chinese infrastructure investments in the region. Third, while American, European and Russian exporters dominate the region’s arms market, Beijing has made inroads with drone sales and desires a bigger piece of the pie. Despite this, it is wary of the possibility of a nuclear-weapons race in the region, which can lead to tremendous instability. Fourth, China wants to engage regional players to build greater support for its approach to issues such as human rights, multilateralism and development and deployment of new technologies.Examining these, it is clear that there are areas where American and Chinese interests coincide. The American presence in the region allows a certain degree of free-riding for China, particularly with regard to security objectives related to terrorism, trade and energy. At the same time, Washington is unlikely to be opposed to Beijing committing more resources in this context. There’s also a chance for alignment on Iran and nuclear non-proliferation. US secretary of state Antony Blinken acknowledged this after the Anchorage dialogue with Chinese diplomats, identifying Iran and Afghanistan among two areas where the interests of both sides “intersect”. On values and emerging technologies, however, frictions are likely to persist and even deepen.Manoj Kewalramani is the chair of the Indo-Pacific Studies Programme at the Takshashila InstitutionThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-west-asia-where-us-and-china-s-interests-intersect-101618491969320.html
15-04-2021||Today's||Board exams cannot always work; find better ways to assess students||In the wake of the pandemic, the government has decided to cancel the Class 10 examination and postpone the Class 12 examination conducted by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE). In the run-up to the decision, the questions most frequently asked included: Should we hold exams or not? Will colleges be comfortable accepting grades without the formal exam? But the question that needs to be asked is this: How can an externally-administered, end-of-year board exam be the only way to obtain an authentic and valid assessment of a child’s abilities?In my almost three-decade-long career, I have come across many students who did not make the 95%-above mark and were considered “unworthy”. Maybe they did not make it to the top colleges but are doing very well for themselves, despite scoring 80% or 60%. Board exams, clearly, end up categorising those who have great skills in pen-and-paper tests as successful and the others as not.It is sad and ironic that the assessment carried out by the school where the child has spent 12-14 years is less authentic/or of no consequence. Our internal assessment systems are not robust enough to give authentic and valid data on student achievements, which is why we cannot trust the grades we get in schools, and instead rely on the external exam.Also Read | CBSE decision on board exams: What states are doingThe answer also cannot lie in aping other international boards — they cater to either a tiny population, or a less varied social and cultural group.Continuous and Comprehensive Evaluation (CCE) — a grade-based framework mandated by the right to education and then scrapped in 2017 — gave a glimmer of hope. A progressive idea, if did not stand the test of time perhaps because it focused more on reporting rather than assessing. More importantly, it continued to believe in a one-size-fits-all system.Only if we look at skills that are required in the workplace, and skills that make us more sensitive and participative global citizens, can we review and improve our assessment system, because only then will we give opportunities to develop these in the classroom. These include information literacy, digital and media literacy, collaboration, communication, research, data analysis, critical thinking, problem solving, among others. The traditional assessment system has not been able to develop these skills and cannot do so. Better teachers might still try and give opportunities in the classroom but constraints of time and of syllabus eventually lead them to encourage memorising and learning meaningless, outdated facts.Here, then, is what needs to change.First, recognise India is diverse. Every individual comes from a different set of cultural and social norms, has different abilities and talents, and cannot and should not be assessed in one way. Assessments will have to include elements of research, personal perspectives, and opportunities for displaying creativity/innovation. Children should also be allowed to show work that has been developed when given the opportunity to work at their own pace, with little constraints on time.Educating a child entails preparing the child for a life beyond school. Only when these skills are clearly listed and articulated will they become a part of the content and the pedagogical processes, and only then will schools give opportunities to develop these. Assessment will then have a clearly defined purpose, to evaluate whether the planned learning outcomes have been achieved, and to what extent.We will therefore have to develop assessments in school, often also called internal assessments. This will have to include student work through the year, be it a research piece in science, a critical appreciation of a book the child has read in languages, or an essay on contemporary issues in humanities, identified by the child. This will not only give an opportunity to the child to take time on a project but also allow her to form and express opinions. It will also allow for diversity – because contemporary issues vary from region to region, from floods in Bengal to cyclones in Odisha to pollution in Delhi to migration in the Northeast.Second, assessments will have to allow students flexibility in presenting their ideas via any medium, a movie or a monologue, in the written form or a painting. Languages will need to be assessed in not just all four skills — reading, writing, speaking and listening — but also in presenting ideas, comprehending what has been read or heard, discerning between real and fake facts, and in appreciating good forms of expressions, whether in the written form or spoken or in reel. We will also have to move from the idea of teaching a text to teaching the skill to appreciate and comprehend language in all its forms.Students will have to be given opportunities for collecting, processing and interpreting data and ideas. They will have to learn to wade through all sorts of information and choose the most appropriate resource. Each subject area will have to identify important attitudes and skills that need to be developed and provide opportunities within the classroom and subject area to develop and assess these skills. If we are able to achieve this, we will be armed with enough information about the student to be able to comment with confidence on skills and abilities. We will also give ample and diverse kinds of opportunities for every individual to demonstrate knowledge, understanding and abilities. Increasing the weightage of internal assessment grades in calculating the final grade is the way forward. The problem of standardisation can be easily met by using percentiles and not absolute scores.This might sound utopian and impractical. But we are already developing many skills and assessing these as we go along, informally. Both CBSE and NCERT have been progressively pointing in this direction. Every good teacher knows the value of a class discussion, of customised assessments and assessing varied skills. Every Holiday homework, which encourages research and interpretation, is assessing skills of data interpretation and information literacy. Every assessment of speaking and listening skills, which asks for personal ideas, and every book cover that children design, assesses creativity. We now need to formalise these, train teachers, create exemplar schools who walk the talk and support others. We also need to show honesty in our internal assessments and trust and belief in our systems.Richa Sharma Agnihotri is the Principal of Sanskriti School, New DelhiThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/board-exams-cannot-always-work-find-better-ways-to-assess-students-101618464177780.html
15-04-2021||Today's||Elections and violence do not make Bengal; its history and people do||“All because of Bengal…” is how it is put.“Were it not for the staggered elections in that state, the EVMs in Assam, Kerala and Tamil Nadu would have been opened by now and we would have had the results of the elections in those states…”“Were it not for Bengal, by now, there would have been curbs placed on the public to check the virus super-spreader and this spike might not have happened…”“All because of Bengal…”This hurts. It hurts Bengal, it hurts those who cherish Bengal. But more, it hurts the truth.And what is that truth? Let me put it in the form of five propositions.One, Bengal has known electoral violence for years now. Two, that violence has brought discredit to the state. Three, it needs to be addressed. Four, the Election Commission of India has to make note of it and factor it into its scheduling of elections in Bengal. Five, but — and here I might invoke the Bangla word that is also a Hindi word kintu — Bengal is bigger, much bigger, than this small tumour of violence in its life and its people are greater, infinitely greater than the unseemly, untypical and unwelcome “goons” who hide within the crevices of its society.Click here for complete coverage of West Bengal assembly electionThe word goon enjoys currency in the political discourse of the state. All parties use it to describe a category of men on the other side who would be ordinarily called thugs or toughs, generally strong-arming simple people by their aggressive and intimidating behaviour. The compliment is promptly reciprocated.The goon symbolises electoral violence in Bengal. The open secret about the goon is that he is not even remotely political. He is just what he is called — a goon. Looking up the word’s etymology I found the word comes from an American slang, though there is a view that the word goon is derived from the Hindi word goonda, which has the exact same meaning as how goon is used in English.The word thug is of established Hindi origin. But it cannot and does not describe the world from which have come Munshi Premchand, Acharya Narendra Deva, Subhadra Kumari Chauhan, Maitholisaran Gupt, Mahaprana Suryakant Tripathi Nirala or Mahiyasi Mahadevi Verma.A goon, likewise, as I said a little earlier, symbolises electoral violence in Bengal. But he cannot and does not symbolise Bengal. He does not have any title to Bengal or to being Bengali. Bengal is bigger far than any election that has been held in that state, greater than any event in its chequered life.Do I say this because it is the home of Thakur Sri Ramakrishnadeb and Srima Sarada? Of Swami Vivekananda and of Sri Aurobindo? Do I say this because it is the birthplace of Rabindranath Tagore, Bankimchandra and Saratchandra Chattopadhyay, Kazi Nazrul, Toru Dutt, Sarojini Naidu, Mahasveta Devi? Do I say this because from its soil have risen the great scientists JC Bose, PC Ray, Meghnad Saha? The great artists Jamini Roy, Nandalal Bose, Ram Kinkar, Somnath Hore? Great economists such as Amartya Sen, Sukhamoy Chakravarty, Ashok Mitra? Great statesmen such as Surendranath Banerjea, Chittaranjan Das, Subhas Chandra Bose, Ashutosh Mukherjee? And because it has inspired heroines in the freedom struggle such as Matangin Hazra and Pritilata Waddedar? Of course I do.Do I say this because by opening its heart to people from beyond its frontiers, it is Bengal that gave the greatest Muslim statesman of our times, Maulana Abul Kalam Azad, a home for years, gave non-Bengali teachers such as CV Raman and Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan their great renown, sent BR Ambedkar to the Constituent Assembly and in the very different field of cricket, as Ramachandra Guha tells me, gave Arun Lal, originally from Delhi, an opportunity to play for Bengal in the Ranji Trophy? Do I say this because some noble souls from outside our shores such as Ronald Ross, CF Andrews, WW Pearson, Tan Yun-shan and Elmhirst made Bengal their home and gave to it their skills and compassion, preceding Mother Teresa and her immortal example? Of course I do.But I say this primarily for another reason. A reason that has to do with another greatness, the greatness of its simple, ordinary people, farmers, mainly, mazdurs, professionals. In 2007, during the height of the Nandigram crisis, I stopped, without notice, at a hamlet near there called Muradpur. It consisted of not more than ten houses, around a pond. The occupants of each mud dwelling asked me to come in and spend some time with them. They asked for nothing, expected nothing. Some offered me food, some a little place to sit on. One homemaker welcomed me with an impromptu aarti. As she poured some drops of precious oil on the wick that she had hurriedly improvised, words lost all meaning. Only faith remained. Soundless.It is these simple people who make Bengal. They are Bengal. Let us be proud of them, be grateful for them. They deserve an aarti from the rest of India.Gopalkrishna Gandhi is a former administrator and diplomat who has also served as the governor of West BengalThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/elections-and-violence-do-not-make-bengal-its-history-and-people-do-101618401885782.html
