16-04-2021||Today's||The Taste with Vir: The politician as super-spreader||The economist Joan Robinson is supposed to have said that for every statement about India, the exact opposite is also true.I was reminded of her words as I watched the latest wave of the Covid pandemic cut a swathe through India. In our cities and our towns, grim-faced ministers announced ‘curfews’ (the word ‘lockdown’ is to be avoided, apparently, after the fiasco last year) while poor migrant workers thronged railway platforms looking for trains that would take them back to their villages. Small businesses prepared to go bust. Hawkers starved. Hospitals struggled to keep up with the flood of new cases while crematoria said they were full; anyone with a funeral to conduct would have to wait in line for at least a few hours.And yet, just two hours from Mussoorie where I am writing this, lakhs of pilgrims thronged the banks of the Ganga to celebrate the Kumbh Mela. There were no masks. There was no social distancing. The pilgrims were assured by politicians and others who should know better that they were in no danger because they had divine protection.Alas, no such protection was forthcoming. Each day, hundreds tested positive. God knows how many Covid cases there really were because only a small proportion of the pilgrims were actually tested. As the symptoms took hold, the condition of those afflicted turned worse and the death toll began to rise.The contrast between the imposition of curfews and the insistence on strict social distancing all over India and the super-spreader nature of the Kumbh could not have been greater or more glaring.But all calls to cancel the Mela had been rejected and even as the Covid cases mounted, state officials maintained, with increasing levels of desperation and mendacity, that the Kumbh was not a threat to public safety.Even as people were dying in Haridwar, another tamasha was taking place in another part of India. For reasons nobody can fully explain, the Election Commission planned an extraordinarily long campaign for the assembly election in West Bengal. It is true that Bengal is a large state with its own set of specific problems but it did seem odd that the Election Commission managed a poll for 234 seats in Tamilnadu in one day. But Bengal with its 294 seats took over a month.It was hard to dispel the suspicion that the Commission wanted there to be lots of time available for the BJP’s central leadership to go from region to region to campaign against the TMC, which is a local Bengal party.Well, the Commission got its wish. For over a month now, politicians have been organising massive super-spreader rallies in Bengal. There are huge crowds. There is no social distancing. And even the leaders who address these rallies and mix with local workers don’t worry unduly about masks or distancing. There is not much testing in the villages of Bengal so it is hard to tell what the accurate Covid figures are, but there is little doubt that infections are going up.How can a country with the second largest number of Covid cases in the world (or the largest number if you believe those who say that India is under-reporting its cases), occupy two separate realities? There is the India where people die or are thrown out of work, where the health structure is collapsing. And there is the India where lakhs of pilgrims cheerfully bless each other with the virus; the India where politicians urge people to gather together so the infection can spread.For every statement about India: the opposite is also true.Yes we are imposing strict anti Covid measures. And yes we are also encouraging the spread of the virus.We all know what the real reason for these bizarre alternate realities is.Politics. The BJP is the party of Hindutva. It fears a dent in its loyal support base if it interferes with religious festivals. Far better to let the Kumbh turn into a super-spreader festival than to risk upsetting its supporters. And the West Bengal election is crucial to the BJP. Opinion polls suggest that it has, for the first time, an opportunity to form the government in West Bengal, a huge breakthrough for a party that, only a decade or so ago, was not such a significant player in the state.Is it going to throw away that opportunity only because of a little spiked ball of death called the Corona virus? Once you recognise what the government’s priorities are, then it becomes clear why India is losing the battle against Covid.It seems probable now that the sudden surge in Covid cases is due to a more easily transmissible virus variant. This is not unprecedented. The virus mutates all the time and new variants have been discovered all over the world. In the UK, for instance, when the Kent variant was discovered, the government locked the country down and ordered vaccinations on an emergency footing. Britain is now opening up again, its numbers largely under control.In India, there has been no conclusive word yet from the Centre about any more transmissible variant. Meanwhile the UK is studying what it thinks might be a new Indian variant. And though state health authorities suggest that this might in fact be the case, the Centre continues to act as though the surge is our own fault. Why didn’t we wear our masks properly? We caused the surge ourselves.Variant? What variant?Because everybody at the top of the political structure was too busy with elections, the fight against Covid was left to second-raters and middle-level morons. It suited the politicians to pose as heroes who would send vaccines to the world. Clearly nobody in the medical establishment told them that we did not really have enough vaccines to supply the world. Now, we are reduced to importing vaccines.The UK vaccinated its people at super-speed once it knew that a dangerous new variant was around. We stuck to our own pre-arranged pace. This was passed off as a thought-out strategy when actually we had no other choice. We did not have the vaccine doses required to open vaccination to those at risk in hot-spots. When vaccines began to run out, then like all second-raters who find that the situation is slipping out of their control, the minister and his henchmen began playing politics and blaming state governments.Now that the situation is desperate, the Prime Minister has finally over-ruled the smug buffoons who have been handling our Covid response. More vaccines will be approved. The vaccine programme will be stepped up.No doubt in time, these will be lauded by pliant media as master-strokes. By then, people will have died or suffered terribly. All because politicians were too busy fighting elections to care about our health. Here’s one generalisation about India that I don’t think even Joan Robinson can dispute. Every time there is a crisis, you can count on politicians to slip up and let the people down.And no, the opposite is never true.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-taste-with-vir-sanghvi-the-politician-as-coronavirus-superspreader-101618576307363.html
16-04-2021||Today's||In the India-China relationship, the question of trade deficit||For more than a decade, India’s large trade deficit with China has been a growing concern. The focus of the issue, however, has largely been political. With the confrontation along the border and the pandemic leading to a campaign for self-reliance, the question of trading with a country that is also clearly a strategic adversary has gained renewed policy interest.Final consumer goods are quite often, in public perception, (mis)understood as constituting the biggest chunk of Indian imports from China. While the absolute numbers definitely seem large, what do the facts suggest? Based on the Broad Economic Classification categories, goods for final consumption, in 2020, accounted for 7.48% of imports from China. However, about 63% of imports were in the intermediate consumption category, which is defined as “goods and services used up in the course of production within the accounting period”. The import of capital goods comprised 16% of imports from China. As things stand, about 80% of imports from China are used in the production process.Another finer level of analysis resorts to examining the trade in parts and components (P&C) — items such as blades, engines, electronic instruments, motors, which aggregate or supplement larger final goods such as gas turbines or mobile cranes. India’s share of imports in this category over the years has been fairly low and steady, hovering around the 10% mark.But over the course of the last two decades, the share of P&C in imports from China rose from about 12% in 1998 to about 22% in 2020. Similarly, the share of China in India’s P&C imports rose from a paltry 5% in 2001 to about 35% in 2021. In summary, what we observe is an increased Chinese role in the Indian production process. Ironically, China itself sources a lot of inputs from the East Asian economies with which it holds deficits.Are there any policy options to reduce this deficit? Resorting to taxing these intermediate goods heavily and/or trying to produce them domestically would be returning to the early import-substitution years (an economic disaster). Neither can one source these inputs from other countries easily — China has a proximity privilege, which, in trade empirics, is a strong determinant of bilateral trade flows. Unless transport costs are enormously reduced, it makes no economic sense to source these from other countries. And even if the government were to tax final consumer goods, it would not be adequate to correct the deficit.With no realistic policy options in the short-run, we revert to a fundamental question — should we be concerned about the trade deficit? The answer would perhaps be in the negative given that India still is a largely unskilled labour-surplus economy with a jobs crunch (which was exacerbated during the pandemic). To solve the jobs problem, an important agenda would be ramping up domestic manufacturing.Historically, leading export countries began as assemblers and later moved on to capturing segments of the production chain. With large assemblers growing, domestic firms see a profit opportunity to start producing intermediate inputs for the assemblers. India, however, has never employed such a strategy.Given that a large chunk of the imports from China goes into the production process, an ideal strategy would take advantage of this deficit, accelerate domestic manufacturing via assembling and find newer destinations to market output. Coupled with massive investments in infrastructure, it can also be a step towards addressing the jobs crisis.It is not necessary to pursue cheap exports. An enabling environment via service links (policy openness, low wages, and good infrastructure) will enable manufacturers to seek their own comparative advantage — better quality, lower prices through lower wages, niche products or anything else. Moreover, if strategic concerns are to be addressed, investments in transport infrastructure, at least in the short-run, would make it possible to source intermediate inputs from other countries. Since Adam Smith, we have understood that gains from trade are larger than the costs. Ignoring this enormous gain made in knowledge would not be wise.Vedant Monger is an economics graduate and will be a LAMP Fellow for 2021-22The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-the-india-china-relationship-the-question-of-trade-deficit-101618575915953.html
16-04-2021||Today's||The Great Indian Kitchen raises the right questions||The unannounced guest is someone we’ve all met. “The women can rest today,” he says grandly. The men are taking over the kitchen.After dinner, you can see from the way her shoulders sag that the kitchen is an apocalyptic mess: Dirty utensils, splattered curry, onion peels, and, from afar, a voice demanding two cups of black tea.Much has been written about Jeo Baby’s The Great Indian Kitchen, streaming on Amazon Prime. At an online function, Supreme Court judge DY Chandrachud referred to it. Others see it as a comment on socially-imposed gender roles, patriarchy in religion and society, a remark on the Sabarimala judgment, and the stifling of female aspiration.Its truth prevails across the globe. Leisure is a male pursuit while the women chop, clean, sweep, fry, wash, simmer, serve. Worse is the justification of this drudgery as “auspicious” work, because what can be more important than running a house and raising children? Also Read |The Great Indian Kitchen movie review: A powerful film on patriarchyThere is no country where housework, or to use its more accurate term, unpaid care work, is equally shared. But the gap in India is particularly wide with women spending around six hours a day; men 52 minutes. No surprise then that unpaid care work is the “main barrier to women’s participation in the labour force,” finds the International Labour Organisation.With so much to be done (unpaid) at home, women in India continue to leave the paid labour force in droves. It’s a situation made worse by the pandemic where the labour of housework has shot up with families at home, leading to a disproportionate job loss among women.In the latest round of assembly elections, some parties promised salaries for housework, leading to a welcome debate on putting a value to domestic work.Should housework be paid for? If so, what’s a fair compensation? Who will pay? Would it lead to a greater sense of entitlement by men or would it lead to more opting for paid housework?Housework certainly needs an image makeover, stripped of all the humbug of noble work and shorn off its gender stereotyping. Media must play a role in normalising the man in the kitchen, not as a super-hero but as a regular guy putting dinner on the table every day.Also Read | Study finds disproportionate ‘gender bias’ behind Facebook’s job adsThe courts have insisted on equal compensation to housewives killed in motor accidents, implying that their lives are of equal monetary value, even if they do not bring an actual salary home. This attitude of an equal partnership should inform other legal matters including divorce and maintenance. The noisy salary debate does little to hide the zero policy measures to ensure a reduction in the gender gap in housework. There is silence by government around the crisis in female workforce participation. We do not have a pandemic recovery plan tailored to the needs of women who have been hit harder than men.The Great Indian Kitchen raises the questions. The answers are yet to come.Namita Bhandare writes on genderThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-great-indian-kitchen-raises-the-right-questions-101618565534811.html
