17-04-2021||Today's||From 1977, a tale of a prince and a wink||At the time, I wondered if the wink was deliberate. Later, I began to question whether I’d imagined or even made it up. But when it supposedly happened, it was hard to miss. It also made me feel insufferably special!It was June or maybe July of 1977, I was graduating from Cambridge and Prince Philip was the new chancellor of the university. This was the first graduation ceremony he presided over. I was kitted out in full subfusc and mortarboard with the tassels dangling at a becomingly rakish angle. Of course, his gown was more elaborate and colourful.However, I’d been ready for a while. Along with a few chums from Pembroke, we’d already had ourselves photographed in full graduate regalia. That picture, with its cheesy smile, hangs in my study.That morning there was quite a crowd outside Senate House. The Duke was the obvious draw, but so too was the line-up to receive honorary PhDs. The two I remember were Queen Margarethe of Denmark and General Gowon of Nigeria. She was tall, stately and striking. At 37, she was a very pretty queen indeed. Beside her, Gowon cut a foolish and sorry figure. He looked far too pleased with himself. He seemed to bounce rather than walk with a silly smile plastered across his face. “Butcher of Biafra” someone in the crowd shouted as he processed past. Gowon pretended not to hear.Pembroke was among the first five colleges whose would-be graduates were asked to enter Senate House to receive their degrees. The Duke was sitting on a high-backed gilded chair at the far end of an aisle each of us had to walk down one at a time. It was a short but carefully choreographed ceremony. Each of us was required to kneel in front of the chancellor and place our hands in his. He was supposed to speak in Latin but I noticed that a proctor, who tried to look inconspicuous by the Duke’s side, took that task upon himself.When it was my turn, I got my gown entangled between my knees as I descended to rest on them. Consequently, my hands plunged into the Prince’s. He stared at me forbiddingly as I mouthed a silent apology. My face was the colour of a ripe tomato.Meanwhile, the proctor droned on in incomprehensible Latin. It didn’t last very long. A few minutes, if that. When it was over, I scrambled to my feet, mercifully without any further mistake. And that’s when it happened.As he released my hands, the Duke winked. It was very quick, no doubt, but clear and obvious nonetheless. And he kept a straight face. There wasn’t even a hint of a smile. Yet, one of his eyes had unmistakably shut and reopened whilst the other continued to look fixedly ahead.I spent the rest of the day talking about it. The Prince was the first member of any royal family I had met and at 21 that seemed to count for a lot. But what I couldn’t get over was the wink. I kept asking if he had winked at everyone else. Or did he have a problem with one of his eyes? Was it, in fact, a squint? Whatever the explanation, I felt special. Almost chosen.Around 13 years later, I was part of The Walden Interview team at London Weekend Television when Brian Walden, the host, interviewed the Prince’s daughter Anne. For security reasons, her car drove into the basement. I was one of the people waiting to receive her as she’s stepped out of the Rolls.When she learnt I was a Cambridge graduate, she asked if I was there after her father became chancellor. I needed no further prompting. My story spilt out and I told her about the wink.“Typical of him”, she snorted. That’s the closest she comes to a genial smile. “If you’d stumbled as you got up he’d have roared with laughter!”Karan Thapar is the author of Devil’s Advocate: The Untold StoryThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/from-1977-a-tale-of-a-prince-and-a-wink-101618664063052.html
17-04-2021||Today's||Saving the economy from the second wave||India imposed one of the strictest lockdowns in the world when the Covid-19 pandemic struck last year. This took a heavy toll on the economy. Gross Domestic Product (GDP) contracted by a massive 24.4% — the largest among major economies in the world — in the quarter ending June 2020. The 2020-21 GDP is expected to contract by 8%. The economy started to improve once restrictions were eased. GDP growth returned to positive territory in the quarter ending December 2020. The sequential recovery prompted claims of a V-shaped recovery in the economy. Most forecasts, institutional and private, expect the economy to grow in double digits in 2020-21 and surpass the 2019-20 GDP. All these forecasts were based on the crucial premise that India would not experience a second wave of Covid-19 infections. That assumption does not hold anymore. Not only do we have a second wave, it is more severe than the first.The economic impact is already showing. Nomura India Business Resumption Index (NIBRI) dropped to 90.4 in the week ending April 11, where 100 is the pre-pandemic value of economic activity. It reached 99.3 in February. Private forecasters are already making downward revisions to growth. A research note by Samiran Chakraborty from Citibank has already reduced 2021-22 GDP estimates by 50 basis points — one basis point is one hundredth of a percentage point — to 12%. Pranjul Bhandari from HSBC has kept her GDP projection unchanged at 11.2%, but warns of downside risks if “lockdowns intensify or spill over well into May”. The surge in new infections has resulted in states and cities imposing localised partial lockdowns, which will hurt the economic recovery that was underway. Things will only get worse if and when panic-driven migrant workers seek to return to the poor migrant-exporting states, where health and monitoring facilities are grossly under-equipped to deal with the pandemic. Reports and anecdotal accounts suggest that medical infrastructure, even in the large cities, is already strained. What should be the economic policy approach at the moment? First, it is important to underline what it cannot be. Neither a business-as-usual policy stance nor a repeat of the strategy adopted in the first lockdown is an option. Here is why. Business as usual will result in infections spreading at a faster pace across the country. Not only will this overwhelm the medical infrastructure, it can also compromise the supply chain of essential commodities including food. Agricultural production or supply of other essentials did not suffer during the first lockdown last year. This cannot be taken for granted at the moment. At a time when inflation is already on an upward trajectory, any scarcity, or even a perception of it, in essential supplies can throw things out of kilter rapidly.This means that governments, the Centre and states together, must take immediate steps to impose restrictions, including on mobility, to control the spread of the virus, even as it allows essential activities (including those critical to the economy) and movement of goods, intra- and inter-state.Any such move must learn from the experience of the last year’s lockdown. Here are two things which should be taken into consideration while deciding what is to be done. When the pandemic first erupted, nobody had any idea how long it would last and the time it would take to develop a vaccine. This created a dilemma when it came to economic support. Fiscal measures such as direct cash transfers could not have continued indefinitely. Perhaps, this was the biggest reason why the government’s response tilted more towards the liquidity/credit guarantee route rather than a fiscal push.There is reasonable clarity on these two pandemic-related questions now. First the good news — vaccines are here, and India has the wherewithal to produce them in bulk at affordable rates. The bad news is that it will take a long time to vaccinate the adult population of the country and the pandemic has the ability to keep coming back in intermittent waves, where the next wave can be bigger than the previous one.This clarity needs to be incorporated into policymaking. The economic response to the second lockdown (or whatever the necessary restrictions are called) needs to give a heavy boost to supply-side infrastructure on the health front — from testing and contact tracing to vaccine production and delivery. The quicker this can be done, the lower will be the quantity of the demand-side support (which too will be absolutely critical during the lockdown) required. Which brings us to the second issue. Who needs support, how much, and for how long? The pandemic has exposed fault lines in India’s fiscal federalism structure like never before. State governments did most of the heavy lifting during the pandemic. It is déjà vu for them as cases are surging. Unlike the Centre, which has been able to compensate for its revenue loss through routes such as increased taxes on petrol-diesel, states have taken a beating in terms of revenue. For the next few months, at least until the second wave recedes, states need to be incentivised to adopt a proactive approach in dealing with the pandemic. This can include additional grants tied to better testing and contact tracing or some sort of support for sectors which are likely to be the worst-hit by the pandemic. For instance, Bihar being offered funds in return for exhaustive testing of migrants returning in trains, or Goa being assured of critical minimum support for its hospitality industry, could help.The government could also consider targeted hand-outs to sectors worst affected by the lockdown and wage support to companies to ensure last year’s large-scale layoffs are not repeated. This need not be indefinite. The government hopes to vaccinate 300 million people (two doses) by the end of August. Even if it were to take till September, this is a substantial number which, along with non-pharmaceutical interventions, will crush the curve of infections. But for these five or six months, both companies and individuals will need help — and preferably direct fiscal help. Chanakya understands that the choice between lockdown and allowing infections to spread is not an easy one. Both hurt the economy and cause human distress. But ignoring the pandemic will not help in any way, and will only make the foundations of future recovery weak. What is needed right now is a meticulously planned surgical strike of containment and vaccinations with a clear time horizon. What is also needed is a targeted stimulus. This approach, if it has to succeed, will require a considerable amount of political capital to be invested. The health and economic crises are inextricably linked — and it is only by battling the former can there be progress on the latter. letters@hindustantimes.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/saving-the-economy-from-the-second-wave-101618664061464.html
17-04-2021||Today's||Protect the rights of women migrant workers||With the surge in Covid-19 across the country, there are reports, yet again, of migrant workers being left with little choice but to go back to their villages. But within this, the gender dimension has been largely overlooked. In the process of migration driven by Covid, the impact of migration on women is different from that on men.Women’s migration is not seen so much as employment-driven but as part of them relocating to places where their husbands get jobs. This is why, perhaps, they are invisible when discussing the problems that migrant workers are facing. Even though women enter the workforce in the areas they migrate to, the main reason many of them cite for migration is marriage. In the forced migration that happened last year and is re-emerging now, as in most disasters, there is an unequal gender impact.Male migration often leaves women in their villages looking after their children and extended family. This increases their burden of having to take up traditional occupations, mainly agriculture as well as care work for the elderly and children and managing the household. Many of them often don’t have the local networks, knowledge base, and ability to access many welfare schemes.The National Commission for Women had issued an advisory to the ministry of women and child development last year on measures which should be taken for the welfare of women migrants. These include, ensuring accessibility of nutritious food and drinking water; ensuring no separation from family or children where possible; and provision of sanitary napkins and special steps for the dignity and safety of lactating mothers. The advisory also spoke of protection from eviction from their residences; ensuring reponses to gender-based violence from the police and inclusive redressal mechanisms; medical care, including mental health, in migrant clusters; access to communication with their family and measures to address trauma; and access to sanitation facilities such as masks, sanitisers and soap.The response from most states to these recommendations has been slow to non-existent. Many quarantine centres and shelters for migrant women are not safe, nor are they safe on the long road home where they have neither facilities nor physical security.Many women migrants, both those still in urban areas and those who have returned home, have had to compromise on many essential requirements in their daily lives. Those in urban ghettos have been largely trapped in their rooms with their out-of-school children, unable or unwilling to venture out for fear of the virus, making them more vulnerable to anxieties and worry. With all health care workers pressed into service to battle the pandemic, many migrant women have no access to health services for other ailments.The government’s draft National Policy on Migrant Workers has largely overlooked the specific needs and concerns of migrant women. Now would be a good time to incorporate a rights-based approach in the policy with relation to migrant women. Women migrants and their vulnerabilities can be tackled only if the government addresses the structural and other challenges which cause them to be so invisible. It has to focus on women in the informal sector, especially migrant women, in its upgradation and skills programmes. The surge in Covid cases should occasion a rethink on the issue of women migrant workers and their needs, which can then be institutionalised so that they are less vulnerable during the pandemic and after.lalita.panicker@hindustantimes.comThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/protect-the-rights-of-women-migrant-workers-101618664001450.html
17-04-2021||Today's||Courts must dispel gender stereotypes||Gender sensitisation was neither a part of our school curriculum nor a part of our training when we joined the legal profession three decades ago, Though the Constitution has special provisions for women (Article 15), and, fundamental duties require citizens to renounce practices derogatory to the dignity of women, what is now recognised and addressed as misconduct or gender harassment and discrimination was an existential hazard faced by women on an everyday basis.Provisions existed in the Indian Penal Code (IPC) to curb extreme forms of harassment such as outraging modesty (Section 354) and offensive words and gestures (Section 509). Yet, the first step towards redressal of grievances of women regarding harassment in the workplace was as late as in 1997, when in Vishaka vs. State of Rajasthan, the Supreme Court (SC) issued guidelines to address the issue.Despite the Vishaka guidelines, the fact that the judicial and legislative system has a blind spot in matters of gender and is slow to change is apparent. It was only in 2013 that that legislation was finally introduced on the issue — through the Sexual Harassment of Women at the Work Place Act, 2013. It was, also, only in 2013, spurred by a public interest litigation (PIL), that SC created regulations for a gender sensitisation committee.Also Read | Study finds disproportionate ‘gender bias’ behind Facebook’s job adsGender equality, in the context of violence, came up in the December 2012 gang rape case (2017), when Justice Bhanumathi, in her concurring judgment, reminded us of the need for gender sensitisation at the school level as a mechanism to prevent sexual crime. She reiterated that honesty, pride and self-esteem are crucial to the personal freedom of a woman. The focus in the case, however, was on crimes against women with a clarion call for sensitisation of the public in matters of gender justice.Yet, in a recent case, SC, acting on a PIL by Aparna Bhat and other well-meaning citizens, has had to come down heavily on an errant decision from the Madhya Pradesh High Court (HC). As a condition for bail, the MP court asked the accused, a 26-year-old man facing charges of molesting a woman, to get a “rakhi” tied by her on the day of Raksha Bandhan. Quashing these absurd bail conditions, SC gave directions about the nature of bail conditions that can be imposed. Once again, it reiterated the requirement for sensitivity in matters of gender, and directed courts to desist from expressing stereotyped opinions. It also asked the National Judicial Academy to impart training to young judges, prosecutors, standing counsel to sensitise them to gender.While SC talks about freedom of choice and autonomy, yet the absence of sensitivity and presence of stereotyping is glaring. Casual observations and remarks promote gender biases, which, most unfortunately, have got rooted in our jurisprudence through judgments of constitutional courts. There have been enough recorded cases where not only the trial courts, but also HCs and SC have made observations about victims of rape and sexual offences — from holding that young women “conveniently fabricate the story of kidnap and rape” (State vs. Sushil Kumar, 2013) to saying that “(her) conduct during the alleged ordeal is also unlike the victim of forcible rape” (Raja vs. State of Karnataka, 2016), and to infamously propounding that “instances of women behavior are not unknown that a feeble no may mean a yes” (Mahmood Farooqui vs State (Govt. of NCT OF Delhi), 2007).Judges take an oath to uphold the Constitution and laws. Our evidence law circumscribes facts which a court can take judicial notice of. Social prejudices and retrograde social practices should never enter the realm of adjudication before any court, especially a constitutional court, as it compromises the impartiality and integrity of the justice system. This can, and does, lead to miscarriage of justice, and more significantly, the re-victimisation of complainants. Women ought to be able to rely on a justice system which is free from myths, cultural constructs and stereotypes, and on a judiciary whose impartiality is not compromised by these biased assumptions.Equality under the law is not only fundamental to access to justice but requires judicial equanimity and impartiality. Eliminating judicial stereotyping is crucial for ensuring equality and justice for victims and survivors.In 1985, the United Nations recognised the right to fair treatment of victims of crime. In India, based on the recommendations of the Malimath Committee, for the first time, the term victim was defined under the Code of Criminal Procedure. While there have been recent amendments that enable a victim to be treated fairly, the fact remains that for over 150 years, a victim was accorded the mere status of a witness at the fringes of the criminal justice system. Occasional corrective decisions of the court during this period display an individualistic approach. There is a need for a consistent judicial philosophy to correct the imbalances of the past, while ensuring that inborn prejudices and biases regarding gender are weeded out.SC has given far-reaching directions to sensitise and change the mindset of judges while deciding cases, but will these directions alone suffice? What is additionally required is a scrutiny and overhaul of the justice delivery system to ensure that courts engage in an adjudicatory process, regulated by laws; eschew biases and stereotyping; and not delve into areas which have no relevance to the decision. Addressing judicial stereotyping and strengthening the role of judiciary in dismantling stereotypes is critical in ensuring that every individual’s rights are protected, without discrimination.Sidharth Luthra is a former additional solicitor general and senior advocate, Supreme Court Ketaki Goswami is an advocate The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/courts-must-dispel-gender-stereotypes-101618575195593.html
