20-04-2021||Today's||To level the playing field at work, start by levelling it at home||On April 15, the Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde, while hearing a case on judicial appointments, remarked that the time had come for a woman CJI. But, he said, chief justices of high courts stated that women lawyers have often refrained from taking up judgeship citing domestic and parental responsibilities. After the initial outrage wore off, I looked at the statement again.It is true that women in all professions disproportionately bear the responsibility of being a primary parent to their children.Yes, women can multi-task, yes, they can have it all, and yes, they can reach the pinnacles of their chosen careers. Many women on the Bench today have raised children, been caregivers to ailing family members, yet shown how it’s done professionally.But the statement still hurt. A lot. I convinced myself it doesn’t apply to me. I play ball with the boys. While I am a mother, and the primary parent to my son and daughter, I believe I work as hard as my male counterparts. I convinced myself it doesn’t apply to me because my husband fills in parenting gaps with pleasure when my career requires him to. Thinking back, however, reminded me how that wasn’t exactly true.Also Read | Courts must dispel gender stereotypesI thought back to my first pregnancy, which was over a decade ago. Visibly pregnant at eight-and-a-half months, standing in a crowded court room in the Supreme Court for several hours. I never asked anyone for a chair, because I believe that if you want to be treated as genderless, you must treat yourself as exactly that. Nor was any chair ever offered.I thought back to a few months after that, and the sight of a female colleague walking out of a Supreme Court courtroom in tears. She had delivered a baby three weeks earlier, and the presiding judge said he would like to hear the matter after he was done with all the other cases. She explained her situation, baby in the parking lot waiting for her, in his grandmother’s arms. Still, the court did not think it appropriate to adjourn the matter for a few weeks at her request.I thought back to the time a senior counsel retorted, “that is the most ridiculous excuse I have heard” when a female colleague told a judge that she could not stay beyond 4.30pm as she had to breastfeed her newborn baby.Today those days feel like a different life. My children are older and my career more established. But those were the years in your career when a woman is not fungible with her spouse in carrying and feeding a baby. Those are years when you need the system to support you, in order to stay in the system.While we look today at the minuscule number of female judges and designated senior counsel, we should recognise that these women did it despite the odds. The system did not make it easy for them or support them through the difficult years. These are the ones that made it through. I am now on to the next phase, a phase where both parents are equally equipped to parent. The CJI cited Class 12 Board exams. There is no reason why parenting cannot be an equal partnership at that stage.I am fortunate to practice in perhaps the most gender-neutral environment of any court in the country. Today, the Delhi High Court is not a “boys club”, either at the bar or the bench, but this is not true of courts in other cities and states. We need to change that.Historically, parenting, care-giving and domestic activities finding mention in work life was perceived to be weak or unprofessional. That’s because someone outside the workplace was performing them. Women are not asking for special treatment at the workplace. Barring the few sensitive years of childbearing, they don’t need it, if they simply receive equal treatment at home.Shyel Trehan is a graduate of NLSIU, Bangalore and Columbia Law School. She is a counsel practising in the Delhi High Court and Supreme Court The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/to-level-the-playing-field-at-work-start-by-levelling-it-at-home-101618827811668.html
20-04-2021||Today's||Robert Mundell and RBI’s impossible trinity||In the first week of April, legendary economist Robert Mundell passed away. In 1999, Mundell was awarded the Nobel Prize for his work on how monetary and fiscal policy works under different exchange rate systems. He is also seen as the father of the Euro.For generations of economists and policymakers, Mundell holds an exalted position for his work on the impossible trinity. He said that policymakers can choose any two, but not all three, macroeconomic objectives — foreign capital mobility, fixed exchange rates and inflation management.What was a mere academic idea soon acquired practical relevance as economies had to choose from these three objectives. This was particularly true in the 1990s when foreign capital mobility became a popular policy reform. Economies made choices based on their conditions and aspirations.The United States (US) chose inflation and foreign capital mobility and kept exchange rates flexible maintaining the status of the US dollar. China chose inflation and fixed exchange rates to keep its exports competitive while keeping capital controls. Hong Kong, positioning itself as an international financial centre, chose free capital mobility and fixed exchange rates.Also Read | With RBI keeping interest rates on hold, quantitative easing to unfold: FitchInterestingly, India did not make these choices. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) maintained foreign exchange reserves and intervened in foreign exchange markets to stabilise the rupee. The capital account was not fully liberalised, preventing hot inflow and outflow of foreign capital. In 2003, the government also announced the Market Stabilisation Scheme (MSS), which absorbed the excessive liquidity resulting from RBI’s interventions in the forex market.In 2016, RBI adopted the inflation targeting framework (ITF). Under ITF, central banks typically choose price inflation and free capital mobility and leave the exchange rate to markets. However, learning from the 2008 and 2013 taper tantrum crises, RBI continued to build foreign exchange reserves to safeguard from excess volatility of rupee and capital flows.Over time, Mundell’s classical macroeconomics trinity has been adopted to understand trinities (or trilemmas) in other sectors. Dani Rodrik’s political-economy trinity is based on democracy, national sovereignty and global economic integration. Dirk Schoenmaker shows the incompatibility among financial stability, financial integration and national financial policies.Recent central bank policies can also be reframed as another trinity — of inflation targeting, liquidity and government bond interest rates or yields. Large government deficits are pushing yields upwards. Higher yields lead to overall higher interest rates, which, in turn, threaten economic recovery.Central banks are caught in this crossfire to keep the yields low. If central banks increase liquidity to bond yields, they give up on inflation targeting. If central banks focus on inflation and liquidity, they give up on yields.The central banks of Japan and Australia explicitly target yield curves by flooding liquidity whereas those of England, the US and Europe do so implicitly. It is interesting that inflation has not really risen despite such easy monetary policies by these central banks.In the case of RBI, the trinity choices are not as straightforward. The pandemic led to a large increase in government borrowing, which put upward pressure on bond yields. RBI managed this trinity by increasing liquidity via multiple programmes, keeping bond yields low. This was at the cost of almost ignoring the inflation target, which remained above the upper target range of 6% from April, 2020 to November, 2020. The markets also ignored high inflation and supported RBI’s efforts to support the weak economy.The government announced high borrowing for 2021-22 as well, continuing to put pressure on RBI. This time, the bond markets demanded higher yields as the economy was recovering sharply — though the impact of the second wave of Covid will have to be seen. However, the government wished to keep the 10-year yield at 6%.RBI was once again caught in the middle of this battle. It was as if RBI was Brahma mediating between Shiva and Vishnu (and I leave it to readers to decide who is who). As earlier programmes had diminishing marginal utility, in its recent April policy, RBI announced a new programme named Government Security Acquisition Programme (GSAP 1.0).GSAP is nothing but old wine in a new bottle as it provides a calendar for the age-old Open Market Operations (OMO) that absorb and infuse liquidity in markets. Post-GSAP, the bond yields eased to 6% levels but again rose to the 6.10%- 6.15% range, tracking the rise in inflation. We are also witnessing interesting games between the government, RBI and bond markets in every bond auction.But how long can RBI ignore inflation, given it is an inflation-targeting central bank? In a recent bulletin article, RBI economists said that the central bank is “striving to ensure an orderly evolution of the yield curve, but it takes two to tango and forestall a tandav”. This was indeed a colourful way to express the tussle, with RBI putting the onus back on the markets. But the central bank should realise that the markets are seeing the inconsistency in the RBI’s choices.Mundell showed this nearly 60 years ago — when confronted with three objectives, you can, sometimes, just choose two. Given RBI’s objectives, it should pick inflation and liquidity and leave bond yields. Otherwise, the tango will eventually turn out to be a tandav.Amol Agrawal is a faculty member at Ahmedabad University. He writes the Mostly Economics blog The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/robert-mundell-and-rbi-s-impossible-trinity-101618827331345.html
20-04-2021||Today's||To beat the second wave, understand it||It would be comic if it were not so deathly serious. The home-grown variant B.1.617 was visible in the United Kingdom (UK) in February, when here, it was claimed surges were not due to new strains. Cabinet ministers derided an Opposition politician for suggesting an expanded vaccine portfolio, labelling him a broker for pharmaceutical firms, before expanding the portfolio three days later. Apparently, there is no shortage, but states are shutting down vaccination centres. An empowered group of senior officers says there is no oxygen shortage, but the Prime Minister’s Office cancels a meeting with a key international visitor to review the situation.All these point to tightly controlled information, unhelpful to transparent and collective pandemic management. What information can be released to help combat the pandemic?First, the share of antigen tests available with Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). This is an imperfect measure of missed infections, due to the nature of the test. Cities and districts with higher share of antigen tests need more attention because it’s likely that they may be missing infected people, who go on to infect others.Second, the reasons for testing (also with ICMR) — of self-testing, surveillance (e.g. fever clinics) contact tracing, etc — some indicate under-detection. A high share of contact tracing is better than high self-reporting, which depends on an individual’s intent to test.Third, the proportion of different variants (from the Indian Sars-CoV-2 Consortium on Genomics, hopefully better-funded now). Punjab reported a high share of the UK variant, B.1.117. This does not have an immune-escape mutation and is thus more responsive to vaccination. In Maharashtra and other states with a high share of B.1.617, immunisation may reduce the severity of infection but it may not stop the infection itself, as it has a possible immune-escape mutation. This has implications for disease management and how the benefits of immunisation are communicated. If a large number of people get infected after immunisation, then vaccine hesitancy may rise, affecting the expansion of vaccination.Fourth, the location of cases (from analysis of ICMR data and states’ administrative reports). Whether it is big cities, small towns or rural areas matters for the spread and plans to move people and materials to manage the pandemic. Sketchy data from Maharashtra seems to indicate a move away from the bigger cities, but it is unclear whether it is to smaller towns, peri-urban areas or villages. This can also matter for the geographical prioritisation of vaccination.Fifth, the age structure of cases (from ICMR) and deaths (from states). We are assuming that younger people are less likely to have severe disease and this underpins our vaccination strategy. It seems that young people are getting infected in this surge, but not much. Numbers from Mumbai indicate that the share of those below 50 is now around 65%, whereas previously it was around 57%. Is this related to vaccination or the variant?Reports from Pune, Mumbai, Delhi, among others, indicate that hospitals are filling up. While the case fatality numbers from Mumbai seem lower, it is higher in many districts which needs attention. High hospital occupancy and low fatality indicate that more people are coming in for treatment but are also getting cured, even for older persons. This, with the age structure, affects how patients are prioritised and open communication would reassure families running around for oxygen and remdesvir.Sixth, are vaccinated people in hospital with severe infection? With 11 million health care and frontline workers fully vaccinated, and nearly 90 million people above 45 getting at least one jab, a substantial proportion of the age group, especially in urban areas has been vaccinated. If they are not showing up in hospital, even if they are infected (which could be determined if the ICMR form captured vaccination status, as recommended by the Lancet Commission Task Force), it is good news.Seventh, there is need to build vaccine-confidence by reporting adverse events following immunisation (AEFI), currently not released with the vaccination data. Some cases of blood clots from the AstraZeneca (Covishield) and the Janssen vaccine (which share a common viral vector platform with Sputnik V) have been reported internationally. With over a 100 million vaccinations in India, it is unusual not to see such reports here. This does not breed vaccine-confidence — rather, it increases the likelihood of misinformation increasing vaccine hesitancy because the government is seen as trying to conceal negative information.Eighth, recognise vaccine shortage and modify our strategy. We can release vaccination information by rural and urban and formally prioritise by geography, given the disease’s spread. The initial favouring of urban areas may have helped. We can redefine frontline workers to include construction and manufacturing workers and street vendors in cities, who, even if sick, are likely not to test, to avoid losing income. The geography and age profile of infection will help in this decision.Ninth, we need to mitigate the spread from large gatherings like the Kumbh, as with returning migrants last year, with quarantine and testing. The will not work in election states, where it is prudent to expect a sharp rise in cases and be prepared to combat the surge, by moving patients if needed. We will be lucky if it does not occur, but won’t be caught napping if it does.Tenth, the media must ask far more questions and not accept “trust us”. If governments are pushed to answer, they may be forced to think. It is time for them to trust us.Partha Mukhopadhyay is senior fellow, Centre for Policy ResearchThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/to-beat-the-second-wave-understand-it-101618760787481.html
20-04-2021||Today's||Why a Gauhati HC order on a citizenship case is important||Over the last two years, several reports have exposed the flawed workings of Assam’s Foreigners’ Tribunals, where individuals accused of being “illegal immigrants” have to prove their citizenship. The reports suggest that these tribunals have followed arbitrary processes, placed the burden of producing extensive documentary proof on marginalised individuals, exercised little genuine independence vis-a-vis the executive, and that their tenure is linked to how many people they can declare to be “non-citizens”. This is particularly serious, given that the stripping of citizenship means the loss of all basic rights, and vulnerability to deportation.In this context, a recent Gauhati High Court (HC) judgment comes as an important corrective, and raises some hope for bringing the foreigners’ tribunal process more in line with the rule of law.The tribunal had declared one Haidar Ali to be a non-citizen, despite extensive documentation — including voter lists and property documents — being placed to show that Ali’s parents and grandparents were Indian citizens, and had been so for decades. The tribunal did so on the basis of perverse reasoning — for example, that along with Ali’s parents, there were certain other names in the voting lists that had not been explained; that Ali had stated during oral evidence that he had certain siblings while he had not done so in his written evidence, and that this justified drawing an “adverse inference” against him; and that despite Ali’s father himself testifying to their relationship before the tribunal, a “sufficient link” between the two had not been proven.The Gauhati HC — speaking through Justice N Kotiswar Singh — set aside the order, and declared Ali to be an Indian citizen. Apart from a careful consideration of the documentary evidence, it noted that the structure of the Foreigners’ Tribunal proceedings was such that those accused of being a foreigner had no knowledge about the circumstances under which they had been referred to the tribunal or the nature of the accusations against them — no documents or evidence had to be furnished to them. In HC’s words, the individual “is totally in [the] dark as to how he came to be considered a foreigner and not an Indian.”For this reason, the court held that if an individual “introduces new facts to discharge his onus [of proof], it cannot be said to take the State by surprise ... in fact, all opportunities should be given to a proceedee to enable him to produce all such documents which come to his possession even at a later stage also, to substantiate his claim that he is an Indian. No pedantic view should be taken, if there has been some delay or if the same is not mentioned in the written statement.”HC’s observations are important, as it is an oft-repeated statement that “strict procedural rules” do not apply to the workings of the Foreigners’ Tribunals. More often than not, however, this laxity in procedure is used to the disadvantage of accused individuals — for example, by denying the application of the rules of natural justice. HC, however, restored parity by specifying that in the same manner, strict procedural rules should not be used to shut out an individual’s ability to prove her citizenship.Justice Singh also made two further important observations. First, he noted that in cases where individuals were illiterate, or where their birth had not been recorded, documentary evidence would be impossible to obtain. In such cases, facts about date or place of birth could be proved by oral evidence. And second, as the standard of proof was one of “preponderance of probabilities”, a few inconsistencies ought not to be used to defeat an individual’s claim to citizenship. Both observations — while not new — bore reiteration by HC, especially in view of the conduct of the Foreigners’ Tribunals.While the judgment of the Gauhati HC will not solve all the issues that continue to plague the Foreigners’ Tribunals — and inflict great hardship and suffering on ordinary people — it, and more judgments like it, will at least help to restore a semblance of the rule of law to the process.Gautam Bhatia is a Delhi-based advocate The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/why-a-gauhati-hc-order-on-a-citizenship-case-is-important-101618760307557.html
