24-04-2021||Today's||Four questions on the vaccine strategy||The one thing journalists are good at is asking questions. We’re naturally curious, even inquisitive. We rarely accept at face value what is said to us. If it’s from someone in authority, we usually distrust it. Our inclination is to dig below the surface because we suspect the truth is hidden from view. This can make us pesky and awkward. At times, even bolshie and obstreperous.Well, I think it’s time to ask a few questions about the government’s vaccination strategy. But I’ll do it fairly. I’ll simply pose the questions that need to be answered. While we wait for the government’s response — if there is one — you judge if the questions raise deep and disturbing concerns. In other words, I’ll leave you to come to whatever conclusion you want.The first question is the most important. It has two parts. Given that as far back as May or June last year, when Pfizer, Moderna and AstraZeneca were working on a two-dose vaccine, we knew that if 75% of the Indian population was to be fully vaccinated, we would need two billion doses. Given that we also knew our total nationwide vaccine-producing capacity could not deliver two billion doses in the required time frame, wasn’t it obvious the government needed to take immediate steps to ramp up our production capacity? This isn’t based on rocket science. Just simple maths.So what did the government do? Sums of ₹10 crore were made available to the Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech to help with vaccine trials but, as far as I can tell, nothing was done to boost production capacity. If I’m right, was this explicable and understandable? Or utterly irresponsible?The consequence is today, when the government wants to vaccinate at five million doses a day but public health experts are recommending 10, we produce under 2.5 million.Let me come to a second key question. As far back as May or June, Serum Institute decided to risk its own money and produce and stockpile AstraZeneca (Covishield) in the hope it would be successful. The United States, United Kingdom and the European Union placed firm orders and also paid for them. All of this was before the vaccine was approved and licensed. The intention was to guarantee an assured supply. Did the Indian government take a similar step? If not, why not? Did it not believe this was wise and necessary? Or did it not think of it?The argument that India doesn’t have the money simply doesn’t wash. A sum of ₹35,000 crore was set aside in the budget for vaccination. Why wasn’t it used? Furthermore, Serum Institute is an Indian company. Placing confirmed advance orders and paying for them would have helped boost its capacity. This was, therefore, atmanirbhar to boot.Time for a third question. At the end of 2020, the government reached an agreement with Serum Institute to buy 100 million doses at ₹200 each. That’s one of the lowest prices in the world. But in January, when it placed a firm order, it was for only 11 million doses. Why? I’m told thereafter the government acquired additional amounts in similar lots of 10 or 20 million. Again, why? Our purchase strategy should have been designed to help our vaccine producers. Doesn’t this feel like tactical game-playing?Finally, my last question. Nearly three weeks ago, Serum asked for ₹3,000 crore to boost its manufacturing capacity. By now, the government knew India was short of vaccines whilst the second surge was escalating exponentially, yet it took two weeks to respond. Why? In a crisis, speed is critical but the government thought time was on its side. Its explanation — we had to find a way of paying. It did so at the speed of business-as-usual.I’ll stop at this point. It’s now for you to decide if these questions raise disturbing issues and are worth asking. We may differ in our answers but the ones that matter will come from the government. But when?Karan Thapar is the author of Devil’s Advocate: The Untold StoryThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/four-questions-on-the-vaccine-strategy-101619276165197.html
24-04-2021||Today's||Women are key to financial inclusion||For a long time, financial service providers have focused on high net-worth individuals, salaried individuals and business owners to increase their profitability.This is attributed mainly to two factors. One, a lot is known about these segments because they leave large financial footprints and rich data. This enables financial service providers to make accurate decisions, create targeted products and manage Know Your Customer (KYC) risks. Two, the cost of customer acquisition, maintenance and service costs in retail banking business is high.However, digitisation is enabling inclusion of customer segments, which have been historically excluded from the financial service provider gamut. Effective implementation of Aadhaar-based eKYC collection and authentication lowered barriers of entry to the formal financial system. It has allowed the Jan Dhan-Aadhaar-Mobile (JAM) trinity to lay the foundation to bring 230 million unserved and underserved women into the formal financial services ecosystem. Women Jan Dhan customers constitute a cumulative ₹61,000-plus crores of deposits in these accounts.We worked with a leading public sector bank to look at ways of increasing savings adoption by Jan Dhan customers, and found that when engaged effectively, they are an important and economically valuable consumer segment for banks for the following set of reasons.First, women are decision-makers for spending and savings in most low-income households. They are thus more committed and disciplined savers than men. In our pilot project, we found 32% of women who were committed to saving versus 25% of men. These women grew their balances by 36% during the project period of five months (versus 24% by men). This showed that when given the opportunity, women save and by doing so build financial resilience.Two, women value relationships over deals, special offers and rates. As their interaction with the bank improves, women can be encouraged to avail overdraft loans and micro-insurance, which enable them to invest in their families and create revenue opportunities for financial services. Thus, the bank will see better cross-sell and larger lifetime value in serving women customers.Three, the Government of India sent ₹500 as direct benefit transfer (DBT), each month between April to June 2020, directly to women Jan Dhan accounts as Covid-19 relief. This has led to the activation of dormant women accounts and a spate of new accounts being opened by women. Families now want women to have and use their accounts, since they want to receive government benefits being sent to women. We saw a 15% increase in the number of women’s accounts since March 2020, compared to a 4% increase of men’s accounts in the same period.Despite digital technologies and government initiatives, hurdles to serve women Jan Dhan customers have not been eliminated. A challenge in engaging women is the lack of gender-disaggregated data.Financial service providers need to deploy strategies that focus on the Jan Dhan women segment by using sex-disaggregated data. For instance, target and communicate with women and design products and processes to be women-centric. At a policy-level, collecting and analysing gender-disaggregated data is vital for the creation of products and services for low-income women.Women’s engagement with financial institutions and their ability to access participation in work and credit from such institutions can increase their social capital. Thus, empowering 230 million women Jan Dhan customers financially leads to the potential upliftment of 920 million lives, at an average family of four. It is economically viable for banks to target women, while contributing to such social good. The second wave of the pandemic has intensified the need for economic support. Our research shows that the government’s continued focus on women and their inclusion in the financial sector can have a transformative impact in boosting household economic resilience, expanding women’s access to credit and work opportunities, aiding empowerment and equity.Sriraman Jagannathan is executive vice president, Asia, and Bhargavi Ramadugu is specialist, advisory services, Women’s World BankingThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/women-are-key-to-financial-inclusion-101619276163691.html
24-04-2021||Today's||Covid-19: Is this a political turning point?||Never has independent India faced a crisis of the magnitude that is currently confronting the nation (with the exception of the Partition). Yes, there have been wars, internal insurgencies and conflicts; there is chronic deprivation; and there have been political challenges. But never has India witnessed hundreds of thousands of people get afflicted by a deathly virus every day or the scale of today’s suffering — visible in hospital emergency wards, at homes, even in crematoriums. There can only be one national priority at the moment — beating back the second wave of the viral pandemic by providing every medical asset and resource necessary, breaking the chain of transmission, moving towards universal vaccination as early as possible, and ensuring relief to every suffering family. Everything else will come later — but it will come, for a defining and transformative moment such as this will inevitably have political consequences.Riding on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s popularity, the central government enjoys an unprecedented degree of popular legitimacy and power. Many have, in the past, made the mistake of underestimating the PM’s political skills, and the government’s ability to bounce back from crises. Demonetisation was meant to erode the government’s base among the poor, but as reportage in Hindustan Times from eastern Uttar Pradesh (UP) in November 2016 showed, the move, in fact, enhanced its popularity. The economic slowdown was meant to shatter the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s winning record in 2019 — but a clever mix of nationalism and the politics of welfare neutralised it. The Citizenship (Amendment) Act protests were seen as shaking the regime’s foundations — but the ruling party converted it into a polarising issue and its electoral implications remain unclear.The lockdown and migrant crisis was expected to erode the Centre’s credibility — yet, there is little evidence, be it through anecdotal accounts or election results (in Bihar) or surveys (in Bengal) that it dented the PM’s image. The farm agitation was expected to deal a blow to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Yet, perhaps due to its geographical concentration to limited regions, and the mistakes of the movement itself, the party’s base remains largely intact.But the second wave of Covid-19 is, arguably, a political turning point. To be sure, no government could have anticipated the scale of the crisis, with close to 350,000 cases a day. The United States (US), with far more resources, better scientific infrastructure, and a developed health system, too went through multiple waves of the pandemic — and it is only with expedited vaccination that the pandemic has been brought under some degree of control, for now. But while this context is important, so is the fact that historical trends (remember the second wave of the Spanish Flu was more devastating than the first), contemporary experiences (the subsequent waves of Covid-19 elsewhere) and the nature of the disease itself (the virus is unpredictable) should have made India more alert, less complacent. This crisis is also different for three political reasons. For one, the pandemic has come home to the Indian elite, upper middle class, middle class, and the neo-middle class. The BJP may dismiss the “Lutyens elite”, but beyond that central Delhi bubble, across urban India, lie large swathes of Indians who have played an outsized and disproportionate role in determining politics.Remember, in 2009, urban and middle-class India went with Manmohan Singh, delivering to the Congress a surprising victory. Remember, in 2014, even as the intelligentsia was sceptical of the BJP and Modi, this segment of urban and semi-urban middle class Indians backed a new leader — and provided the momentum for the BJP’s victory. By 2019, the party had indeed expanded — but this segment stayed loyal, visible in results from cities and towns across north, west, and east India. Today, it is middle class India which has been hit. If the 2019 election, to use analyst Abhinav Prakash’s memorable words, was between Lodhi Road (representing the anti-BJP constituency) and Noida (representing the pro-BJP constituency), today, both Lodhi Road and Noida are affected, as are the middle class locations of Lucknow and Patna, Kanpur and Thane, Surat and Bengaluru.These citizens are living through the crisis, and their experiences are at variance with official claims. Neither can blame be easily deflected on to other entities — although some of that is already underway with repeated reminders that health is a state subject and that India’s pandemic stats still look good when seen in the context of its population. Two, the suffering of citizens is today getting channelled as anger — at governments in general, and the Centre in particular. Last year, citizens gave the government the benefit of doubt — this was a new disease, there was sympathy for the State, and a sense that no force could, instantly, beat back the pandemic. Citizens were willing to pay the costs through a lockdown and diminished economic opportunities to save themselves and save the nation, in the hope that the government would be better prepared.This year, there is limited sympathy. The government’s claims of the progress in health infrastructure in the past year — and indeed there has been progress — is met with scepticism, for what citizens are experiencing is a historical era of scarcity. The State is seen as weak, unable to even provide citizens with the oxygen required to breathe. The rallies in West Bengal and the green signal to the Kumbh — both of which have undoubtedly added to Covid numbers — are seen as examples of entirely skewed priorities. And in neighbourhoods, family WhatsApp groups, and hospitals, there is only one question — could the government not have prepared for this wave better, when it had one year to do so? The crisis has also exposed weak Indian State capacity, both domestically and internationally. And the sense that India was a rising power, feted by the world, has taken a hit — the country is seen as desperately needing support to tide over the crisis.And finally, the second wave will intensify the economic crisis. The recovery from the lockdown last year had a clear tilt — where corporate India was getting back on its feet and markets were rising, but the deprived were continuing to suffer and inequality was growing. This time, both ends of the economic spectrum will get hit again, in different degrees. The hopes of a major boom this year are being moderated, migration of workers from cities to villages has started, factories are shut again, demand is plummeting, supply chains are disrupted, and the health and economic crisis is back. It is not certain if citizens will continue giving the government the benefit of doubt as their incomes dip and expenses rise, amid enhanced health related costs.This is not to suggest that the BJP will lose elections. In West Bengal, for instance, the party may well win. Neither is to suggest that in three years, the current mood, a product of the current circumstances, won’t change. But among citizens, deep distrust and doubt have crept in over the central government’s ability to deliver. The romance has frayed. And this may well be the political legacy of the second wave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/covid19is-this-a-political-turning-point-101619276162447.html
24-04-2021||Today's||The contours of the Bengal battle||Next Sunday, the winner of the West Bengal elections will be known. The result has the potential of shaping, and possibly undermining, India’s federalism.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) campaign has been fronted by star campaigners from Delhi — Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah, party chief JP Nadda, and Union minister Smriti Irani, the only one to speak Bengali. So notable has the been absence of the state BJP that party leaders from Delhi have had to assure crowds that the chief minister will be Bengali if the party wins.The BJP’s dependence on Delhi campaigners has enabled chief minister (CM) Mamta Banerjee to play the Bengali card, for all its worth, and attack the BJP as a party of outsiders. She believes she can win because Bengalis have a strong sense of their identity, and a long record of voting for staunchly Bengali leaders and parties, whatever their political hue.After Independence, Bengalis stayed with BC Roy as CM until his death almost a decade-and-a-half later. He was a member of the Congress but, in those days, the Congress was a federation of parties headed by leaders who were very much their own men. Roy was an independent-minded Bengali patriot who was close to Mahatma Gandhi but had an ambivalent relationship with Jawaharlal Nehru.After him came a period of political instability, which earned Bengal a bad name for violent unrest. Then there did come five more years of Congress rule, but in 1977, Bengal revolted against Indira Gandhi’s autocracy and elected the Communist Party of India (Marxist) and its allies. They ruled for almost 34 years. The state’s long-serving CM, Jyoti Basu, once told me that the CPI(M) hadn’t been able to spread to the neighbouring states because it was so firmly identified as a Bengali party. Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress, which displaced the Communists ten years ago, is even more firmly Bengali than they were.In this election, the BJP is hoping that its Hindu identity will trump Banerjee’s Bengali identity. To strengthen its bid for the Bengali Hindu vote, the BJP has accused her of cultivating a Muslim vote bank. Even though the central Border Security Force is responsible for preventing illegal immigration, the BJP maintains it is still continuing and blames the state government for it.The immigrants issue led the home minister to jeopardise the success of the PM’s recent Bangladesh visit. Two days after Modi’s return, Shah said in a newspaper interview, “Poor people are leaving Bangladesh because they don’t get enough to eat in their own country.” This provoked an angry response from Bangladesh’s foreign minister, who called the remark unacceptable.The BJP has also tried to persuade Bengalis that joining the mainstream will revive investment in Kolkata and its hinterland, once known as the workshop of India. Bengal’s reputation for violent industrial unrest has lingered on, harming investment prospects. The years of Communist rule didn’t help, nor did Banerjee when she drove Tata’s Nano project out of the state.This election, with its eight phases, has been controversial because of its duration — the longest in West Bengal’s history. This may well have favoured the BJP because it has the resources to sustain such a lengthy campaign. There has also been the controversy over the rallies both sides have held, ignoring the pandemic. It’s been a bitter, personalised fight. If, when the din of electoral warfare dies down, the BJP emerges the winner, India will lose a doughty champion of federalism and Bengal will break its tradition of being ruled by a Bengali party.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-contours-of-the-bengal-battle-101619276161197.html
