25-04-2021||Today's||Vaccine nationalism hurts the whole world||There can be no doubt that the most effective weapon against the Covid-19 pandemic is to vaccinate as many people as we can in the shortest possible time. We cannot even begin to think that we have won half the battle until at least 70% of the world’s population is vaccinated. But this doesn’t seem possible as things stand now. For India, the situation is particularly grim given the soaring number of cases and the United States (US) placing restrictions on raw materials for vaccine production.The reason why vaccines are not either easily available or affordable to everyone, especially the underprivileged, is because of vaccine nationalism, which is seeing countries buy up vaccines at a rapid rate with many of them now having supplies far above their requirements. The West has focused on “the developing world” largely to exploit cheap labour. When labour became expensive in Europe and the US, a majority of multinational companies from these places turned to China. At that time, the world’s most populous country was desperate to pull itself out of poverty. Despite its avowedly Communist ideology, the proposal by various European countries, under the tutelage of the US, to set up factories in China was welcomed by its leadership. Though communism and capitalism made for strange bedfellows, they proved hugely beneficial to China. Today, it has a significant presence on the world stage and has emerged as a strong challenger to the US in economic terms. The tensions between the US and China are, in the view of some experts, akin to the beginning of a second Cold War. But before this spiralled out of control, the coronavirus, which originated in Wuhan, shattered the world as we know it. It ripped through continents, shutting down businesses, stopping cross-border commerce and putting the brakes on socialising. The lengthy lockdowns slowed down the process of globalisation. The US, the United Kingdom (UK) and other developed nations rushed in to corner the bulk of vaccines for their citizens. According to the British Medical Journal, at the outset of the pandemic, the US booked 800 million doses of the vaccine with six vaccine-manufacturing companies with a provision for a billion more doses. The population of the US is 331.42 million which means that it has far more than its needs. The same is the case with the UK. The Boris Johnson government has made arrangements for five doses per citizen. This is detrimental to poor countries in Africa and developing nations like India. India has a population of 1.4 billion. To vaccinate 70% of its people, it will need as many, if not more, doses than the US has made provisions for. A degree of immunity kicks in only after two doses of the vaccine. Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi’s active initiative has led two companies in Pune and Hyderabad to begin manufacturing the vaccine some months ago. The material required for the Serum Institute of India in Pune to manufacture the vaccine has been restricted by the US. The CEO of the company, Adar Poonawalla, has requested President Joe Biden to lift these restrictions, but so far he has not done so. Hopefully, the World Health Organization (WHO) and the Indian government will be able to put enough pressure on the US to make it see reason. Meanwhile, Bharat Biotech has announced that it has increased manufacturing with help from the Centre. This is a positive step, but experts feel it will take months to manufacture the required amount of doses.And it is not just vaccines. Patients need oxygen, hospitals, and ventilators. PM Modi has assured the nation that this is being given top priority. It would have been of great help if the rich countries that benefit from India’s cheap labour had offered a helping hand. WHO predicts that only 37 countries will be able to achieve the desired vaccination goals. We may have to wait till the end of 2022. Vaccine nationalism by rich countries will be counterproductive in the long run. The International Chamber of Commerce has predicted that if developing nations do not receive the required doses of the vaccine, the global economy will suffer losses of up to $9.2 trillion. It will cost around $25 billion to provide enough vaccines to all poor countries. The head of WHO, Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, has rightly pointed out that if the poor and middle-income countries do not get vaccines, it will be impossible to bring the global economy back on track. That is why it is in the interest of all nations to ensure the equitable distribution of the vaccine in an interdependent world. The WHO chief’s statement in this regard is pertinent — the priority should be to vaccinate some people in all countries rather than all people in some countries. But will the rich and powerful countries see the wisdom in this?Shashi Shekhar is editor-in-chief, Hindustan The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/vaccine-nationalism-hurts-the-whole-world-101619358008334.html
25-04-2021||Today's||The CCP history revision elevates Xi Jinping to the level of Mao Zedong||Last week, the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) revised its history again. Since 1999, the party has made these revisions once every decade, airbrushing out leaders who crossed the line, blanking out certain incidents from public memory and putting its own gloss on major events.The latest version, released earlier this month, was timed to coincide with the 100th year of the party’s founding. This new edition of the party’s history endorses the policies of Xi Jinping, reinforcing other efforts to enhance his image as he prepares to secure a third term at the helm of affairs at the next party Congress in 2022. This is unprecedented as, since 1980, no Chinese leader has held the country’s top positions for a third term.Although indoctrinating entire generations with sanitised versions of events has always been important to authoritarian regimes, this is probably the first time that the party has simultaneously launched a year-long campaign for the nationwide study of its new history.Everyone in the 92-million-strong party, as well as all members of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA), is mandated to study this Brief History of the Communist Party of China. It will also be taught in all schools and universities across the country.The importance of the new history can be gauged from reports, articles and commentaries that appear every day in the People’s Daily, the party’s official newspaper, as well as from the extensive coverage by media. On March 31, before the revision was announced, the party’s leading theoretical fortnightly journal Qiu Shi (Seeking Truth) reproduced a hitherto unpublished speech by Xi on the importance of studying party history. In his speech, delivered on February 20, Xi specifically listed eight important points for study.The Brief History and the study campaign also have political significance. They promote Xi’s image and elevate him to a position at par with Mao Zedong and Deng Xiaoping, China’s most important Communist leaders. They reinforce the narrative, pushed since 2013, that China under Xi has embarked on another 30-year era like those of Mao and Deng.Among the important differences between the old and new versions is the reduced emphasis on Mao’s era. While the older version had three or four chapters on Mao’s 30-year era, the new edition encapsulates it in only two. Further, the older version extensively examined the decade-long Cultural Revolution -- the period of national turmoil from 1966 – and discussed it in one lengthy 11,000-word chapter, holding Mao responsible for the “serious disaster”.The new version appears to absolve Mao of the Cultural Revolution’s excesses, has shrunk references to it to just one page, and makes no mention of party rectification, the anti-Rightist struggle, the Great Leap Forward, or the overthrow of the Gang of Four. Instead, it says the internal turmoil was not caused by Mao but rather because many of his ideas for building socialism were not thoroughly implemented. In fact, it credits Mao with exploring new ways to fight corruption, special privileges and red tape within the party and the government, indicating its hardening stance under Xi.The new version predictably takes a more hawkish and nationalistic approach to major events, thereby, endorsing Xi’s aggressive foreign policy. Writing on the day of the new history’s release, the Hong Kong-based Apple Daily said that while the older edition emphasised Deng Xiaoping’s low-profile approach to diplomacy, the new version highlights the party’s heightened efforts to deal with western sanctions. It recalls that in November 1989, well after the West imposed sanctions on China following the bloody Tiananmen Square crackdown in June 1989, Deng told then United States (US) president Richard Nixon that the Chinese people would “never beg for the cancellation of the sanctions” even if they dragged on for 100 years.Xi’s bid for a third term may, however, not be without any serious hiccups. The resentments among a wide cross-section of people lingering since last year and exacerbated by the Covid-19 pandemic, may resurface nearer the party Congress.Jayadeva Ranade is a former additional secretary, Cabinet Secretariat, Government of India, and is presently president of the Centre for China Analysis and StrategyThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-ccp-history-revision-elevates-xi-jinping-to-the-level-of-mao-zedong-101619358006936.html
