26-04-2021||Today's||The political fallout of the second wave||The devastation and trauma which is being inflicted on Indians, rich and poor alike, by the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic is unprecedented. Given the fact that the State (both the Union and the state governments) had more than a year to prepare for this, and has yet been found wanting in terms of both prevention and treatment, it will be interesting to see the political fallout of this. India entered a new political epoch in 2014, which has been described as the fourth party system by political scientist Milan Vaishnav. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) under the leadership of Narendra Modi is the dominant political hegemon today. An important pillar which supports the BJP’s current political dominance is the centralisation of welfare benefits where everything from health insurance to a toilet and now portable water connections to the voter is attributed to Modi. Neelanjan Sircar and Yamini Aiyar have described it as the politics of vishwas (trust). This begs an important question. If voters have rewarded Modi and his party for achievements, tangible and non-tangible — enhancement in India’s prestige post-2014 being a good example of the latter — then will the Centre not receive a disproportionate share of the blame for the current crisis? And will this not be reflected politically? The short answer is not necessarily. Here’s why. Market failures in Indian politics are the first reason. Simply speaking, political parties do not have the right incentives to deal with such issues. The basic premise that there will be a political fallout of the second wave is that the pandemic matters to the voters. The experience of the Bihar elections, the first major poll to be held after the lockdown, which hurt incomes, does not seem to support this. Data from the CSDS-Lokniti post-poll survey shows that 0.1% (one in 1,000) of the respondents thought that “coronavirus/lockdown/migrant related” issues were the most important concerns while voting in Bihar in 2020. To be sure, the first wave did not extract as high a cost as the second wave, and perceptions could change. But politicians, while deciding strategy, are more likely to be guided by past experience. Not only did the National Democratic Alliance retain Bihar, the BJP also became the senior partner in the alliance. Both the Centre and the states have changed their minds from being pro-lockdown to become pro-livelihood in a year. India imposed one of the most stringent lockdowns in the world last year even though Covid-19 infections were only a small fraction of what they are now. In his address to the nation on April 20, Modi advocated lockdown as a policy of last resort. This author, in a March 2020 piece in these pages, underlined the asymmetry in the costs and benefits of the lockdown, “while the benefits of a lockdown preventing the infection from spreading would equally accrue to everyone, the costs will be disproportionately higher for the poor, who, unlike the better off, have neither the luxury of working from home nor enough of a savings pool to exhaust while not earning”. The evidence at hand, of the post-pandemic recovery being profit — rather than wage-led, and employment recovery lagging the growth recovery supports this argument. It also explains why governments have had to use lockdowns only as a last resort. Indeed, any lockdowns that will be imposed now will be by the states. And any inefficiencies in the vaccine drive for everyone between the ages of 18 and 45 years will again be attributed to the states (which have seen all sorts of last-mile issues in managing the drive so far). Ultimately, the political fallout of this crisis, among the worst this country has seen, may well be a function of whether political parties, irrespective of their hue, eschew narrative-setting and work for what really matters. Ashok Mitra, arguably India’s tallest Marxist intellectual, has described the political situation during the Quit India Movement and Bengal famine, which killed millions of people, in his autobiography. “Members of the middle class were in a fix. Congressmen courted arrest and went to jail. Communists were out of jail (having opposed the Quit India Movement as Nazi Germany was seen as an aggressor against socialism) and worked selflessly in famine relief. It was best trying to give up who was right and who was wrong. The ravages of the famine and the general state of food scarcity, however, left people with little time for polemics over political ideology...But the role of the comrades who came to succour the dying and starving, selflessly, tirelessly, and with the sincerest of zeal, impressed the middle class no end”. Their famine relief work brought more than just goodwill for the Bengal Communists. It also generated huge tailwinds for the land struggle, which ultimately brought the Communists to power for 34 uninterrupted years in 1977. “Social dynamics has its own way of creating near opportunities for some and crises for others,” Mitra wrote. If the Communists had done nothing, Indian history would have been very different. The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-political-fallout-of-the-second-wave-101619439554475.html
26-04-2021||Today's||Why Biden delayed offering help to India||On Sunday, the United States (US) announced that it will immediately make available raw materials requested by vaccine manufacturer Serum Institute of India (SII) and will also send supplies of therapeutics, rapid diagnostic test kits, ventilators and personal protective equipment to India.A statement released by the National Security Council, after a telephone conversation between US national security adviser Jake Sullivan and his Indian counterpart, Ajit Doval, said additionally that Washington is “pursuing options to provide oxygen generation and related supplies on an urgent basis.” The statement, which came after two overnight tweets by Sullivan and secretary of state Antony Blinken, both indicating that help was on the way, put an end to a period of speculation on whether the US was abandoning India during what may be its worst humanitarian crisis since Independence.This concern arose because of the time it took the US to state exactly what assistance it would provide to New Delhi after the current cataclysmic wave of Covid-19 overwhelmed India’s health care infrastructure. The period of uncertainty began after Adar Poonawalla, CEO of SII, appealed to President Joe Biden in an April 16 tweet to lift an “embargo of raw material exports out of the US so that vaccine production can ramp up” in India.Six days later on April 22, when asked by a reporter whether the White House would lift the ban on the export of vaccine raw materials that threatened to slow down India’s vaccination drive, a state department spokesperson, answered in a way that sounded like Washington might not allow the export. The next day, White House press secretary Jen Psaki clarified the issue, stating that the US is “working closely with Indian officials at both political and experts’ level to identify ways to help address the crisis.” Despite Psaki’s reassurances, there was an impression created that the Biden administration might not help India. On social media, there was speculation that the bilateral relations between India and the US were strained. A few Indian analysts questioned the reliability of the US as a partner and suggested Russia may be a better ally. While many of these theories have since been put to rest, questions arise as to why there was this period of uncertainty about what relief and support the US would provide to India. There are three possible reasons for this: America’s own unfinished battle with the virus. The deliberative nature of the Biden White House decision-making process. And, the understandable desire to avoid a political controversy in the middle of the pandemic in the US.First, even though Biden has exceeded his vaccination targets for his first 100 days in office, the US is still not out of woods, as far as the pandemic is concerned. On Saturday, April 24, more than 50,000 Americans tested positive for the dreaded virus and around 750 lives were lost. That is why state department spokesperson Ned Price pointed out on April 22, while responding to the question on lifting the embargo on vaccine raw materials, that the country “has been hit harder than any other country around the world” and the administration has “a special responsibility to the American people.” Second, when it comes to decision-making, Biden who served decades in the Senate and for eight years as vice-president to President Barack Obama is an institutionalist. He believes in getting feedback and inputs from different stakeholders before making a commitment to action.Sunday’s announcement came following days of intense intra-agency discussions at the highest level, involving, among others, officials from the National Security Agency, the department of state and the office of the US Trade Representative. Interestingly, until the Sullivan-Doval call, there was no official statement from the Indian side on the issue, indicating that those discussions were going on. Finally, in these divisive times in the US, the administration must be mindful of potential attacks from the nativist “America First” crowd if it appears to chart a course in the international arena that suggests that it cares more about foreign nationals than its own citizens. It is true that there is a bipartisan support for relations with India. But there are some elected officials who could use the administration’s humanitarian and completely appropriate support for India and the world for exploitative purposes.The good — and I should add expected — news is that the US is doing the right thing in lifting the embargo on vaccine ingredients and sending other critical supplies to India. The surprising thing is that there was ever any doubt or question that it would. The Biden administration also brings a compassion and moral understanding to the table that empowers it to do this as the right thing to fight this virus globally.Frank F Islam is an entrepreneur, civic leader, and thought leader based in Washington DC The views expressed here are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/why-biden-delayed-offering-help-to-india-101619437331181.html
26-04-2021||Today's||Only a centralised vaccine management system will work||India’s new vaccine policy, which comes into effect from May 1, will expand the population base to be vaccinated to anyone over 18 years. With the new strains of the mutated virus proving to be equally dangerous to the younger population, this is a welcome move on the part of the government. However, from now on, 50% of the supply from Indian manufacturers is earmarked for the Centre, which will continue its existing vaccination process, which offers free vaccinations for health care workers, frontline workers and for those over 45 years.The remaining 50% of the supply is allocated for the open market that includes states, private hospitals and facilities that can administer the vaccine. Those between the ages of 18 and 45 have to get vaccinated from this lot. The central government has seemingly moved the responsibility of vaccinating the bulk of India’s young population on to the states and the private sector. The new policy has many areas that require further clarity and fine-tuning, without which our vaccination drive will not be as smooth as we want it to be. Under the new policy, various state governments and private players will be competing with each other for procurement of vaccine from a limited number of vaccine manufacturers. Serum Institute of India (SII) has priced its vaccine, Covishield, at ₹400 for states and ₹600 for private players. Meanwhile, Covaxin has equivalent prices of ₹600 and ₹1,200 respectively. With the Centre not putting in place any pricing regulations, other manufacturers, including possible new entrants, could create some amount of confusion in the market by offering a range of prices. All manufacturers will definitely be more inclined to sell to higher-paying private purchasers than to any of the state governments. The bigger states, with more purchasing power, may get preference over smaller ones. In these difficult times, everyone involved could use the time and resources spent on procurement negotiations, and processing orders on much more productive causes.Ideally, the Centre should have created a centralised vaccine procurement and management system. The cumulative purchasing power of a single buyer would have enabled the lowest possible price for our population. The Centre should also have made efforts to provide the vaccine free of cost to everyone. All states are going through a massive financial crisis. It would have been easier for the Centre to raise additional revenues as it has a lot more flexibility in taxation and borrowing. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had set aside ₹35,000 crore for vaccinations in the 2021 budget. Vaccinating the entire adult population will cost India ₹67,200 crore or 0.36 % of the Gross Domestic Product. The financial costs incurred as a result of the pandemic being prolonged have already proved to be much higher. The government will have to drastically scale up the vaccination rate. As things stand now, it could take us years to vaccinate the entire adult population. Production capacity also has to be enhanced considerably. SII produces almost 2.4 million doses a day, and Bharat Biotech will produce around two million shortly. This is not enough to vaccinate the population quickly enough. In a recent letter to Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi, former PM Manmohan Singh suggested invoking compulsory licensing of vaccine technology, similar to what Israel has done, allowing other prospective manufacturers to make the vaccines, supporting them with funds and other concessions to encourage expansion of capacity. As production increases, there will also be a greater need for storage and distribution facilities, especially as the vaccination campaign has to reach rural areas. All these will be easier and efficient to implement in a centralised system where the partnering states could work on the last-mile execution of the vaccination drive. Universal adult vaccination is the most effective means to protect our people. Getting our population inoculated against this deadly virus is the only way to recover and rebuild after this massive economic and social upheaval caused by the pandemic.Anil K Antony is the national co-coordinator of the AICC social media and digital communications department and co-founder of PIIndia.org, a Covid-national action groupThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/only-a-centralised-vaccine-management-system-will-work-101619436914092.html
