30-04-2021||Today's||At stake, a once-in-a-lifetime sporting opportunity||When her training camp in Sonepat shut down on April 19 in the wake of India’s Covid-19 surge, Paralympian archer Pooja Khanna had to return home to Rohtak. “In the camp I was safe. Here, every contact is a risk to my Olympic dream,” the 30-year-old said on the phone.The daughter of a scrap dealer, Khanna knows adversity. She has faced the challenge of being born a girl in a state with India’s worst sex ratio, being struck by polio at the age of two, exclusion as a Dalit even on the sports field, and poverty. Growing up, the sliver of hope came from watching women athletes on TV. “When I saw archer Deepika Kumari, I thought, ‘I can do that’.”“Shaadi karo, roti banao (get married, make rotis),” her father scoffed. But her mother was her secret ally. “She told me, ‘Go see the world. Don’t end up like me in the kitchen’.”In her first national competition in 2015, Khanna brought home a gold. In 2016 at Rio, she was India’s first archer to qualify for a Paralympics. Although she returned without a medal, she knew there would be another chance.With 86 days for the Olympics; 116 for Paralympics, time is running out. As cases mount at home and a new variant infects the world, there is ambiguity around the Games themselves: Will Indians be allowed to travel? Can athletes be accompanied by support teams? Would they require longer quarantines? How will they train under quarantine? There are no answers, but in Patiala, discus thrower Kamalpreet Kaur continues to train at the National Institute of Sports, even though her coach of the last seven years has not yet been allowed in. On March 19, Kaur qualified for Tokyo with her 65.06 metres throw at the 24th Federation Cup championship, breaching the Olympic qualifying mark of 63.5 metres as well as Krishna Poonia’s previous record of 64.76 metres. “I am so close to a medal,” she said. For most athletes, the Olympics is only a once, maybe twice, in a lifetime opportunity. For women, the journey battling prejudice, bullying and stereotypes about girls and sport is that much harder. “The ones who make it fight unimaginable challenges. They are role models for India,” said Deepthi Bopaiah, executive director of GoSports Foundation that prepares athletes for the Olympics and Paralympics, and is supporting 126 Olympian hopefuls, including Kaur and Khanna. Sport for most women has meant not just recognition, medals and jobs, but also freedom. “When they’re in camps, they are free from all social constraints,” said senior sports writer Sharda Ugra. But an athlete’s professional career tends to be brief, and women athletes have few job options post-retirement. “They live from cycle to cycle for as long as they can, till they slide back to marriage, motherhood and all the social rules,” said Ugra. For so many, like Khanna and Kaur, life, and the ongoing pandemic, may not offer a comeback.Namita Bhandare writes on gender The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/at-stake-a-once-in-a-lifetime-sporting-opportunity-101619788970752.html
30-04-2021||Today's||Where personal tragedy meets systemic State failure||Like an oncologist who gets cancer or a dermatologist who battles skin disease, this week, I became the story I have reported for the past fifteen months. I lost my father, Speedy Dutt, to Covid-19 and experienced every bit of the devastation, desolation, anger and anxiety that I have only so far chronicled in other families through the pandemic. My father, a former Air India official, but essentially an inventor at heart — a man who loved to sometimes break machines just so that he could have the joy of re-engineering them — was a twinkly-eyed, ever-optimistic man of science. He was an undemanding feminist father who gave my sister and me wings to fly, placing literally no demands on our time or emotion, while he spent hours crafting planes and trains built from mecanno. And he made us promise that when his time came, we would donate these to a children’s orphanage. Grief, like Covid-19, mutates and escapes the inoculation of both time and the reassurance of loving friends. It is less sledgehammer and more screwdriver, drilling little holes in your head and heart, leaving you haunted by the ifs and buts of your decisions. It’s not even been 72 hours since his death, as I write this on Friday, and every time I turn into his YouTube Channel (devoted to his meccano creations), I find myself collapsing in inconsolable tears, haunted for hours after by regret about all that was left unsaid and undone (including my failure to send Hindustan Times an article he wrote on the end of the 747 Jumbo that he was so keen to see in print).Also Read | Faster customs clearance to medical consignment to India: ChinaLike many elderly people, my father was not immediately keen to go to hospital. He dreaded not being able to see his family in what he feared might be his last few days. Initially, doctors believed that his infection was mild, his oxygen levels were stable and agreed that it was better to treat him within his comfort zone. He was home monitored by a fine team of doctors from Medanta. But when the spike came, it came suddenly, unexpectedly, both the rise in fever and the drop in oxygen levels. We panicked and organised a private ambulance in the belief that it would help us get him to hospital quicker than waiting for Medanta’s ambulance. What arrived was a broken down Maruti van with a single cylinder and a crew of one — the driver. He assured me the cylinder worked and he had the gear needed. We clambered on, me in the front seat, my father and his attendant at the back. He lay there uncomfortably on a slab for one hour as we navigated traffic. Despite pleas to the Delhi Police, there is still no green corridor for ambulances because randomly placed barricades to enforce the “curfew” are clogging up the streets. By the time we reached Medanta, his oxygen levels had fallen sharply and the emergency shift doctor believed he needed an intensive care unit (ICU) bed. It turned out that the cylinder in the van masquerading as an ambulance had faltered, and the mask he had been given was not the one meant for high-flow oxygen. Also Read | Airlines add flights out of ravaged India to bring citizens homeDespite the best possible medical care — and I am so unspeakably grateful to the team of doctors and nurses at Medanta — he did not last for more than a few days, spending the last two days of his life on a ventilator. When we went to cremate him at the grounds closest to the hospital, I witnessed, as I have in multiple reports I have filed from funeral sites, the scrum for space. At least three other families had been given the same token number for a cremation at the same time. An argument ensued, a fight erupted, my sister had to call the police for help. As a journalist, I have often raised these questions; today they consume me as a daughter. Had the vaccination programme rolled out earlier, might my father have had a better chance at being alive? He had taken one shot and was due for his second the week he got Covid. Had I chosen a different ambulance or waited a bit longer, might he still be alive today? But I am also aware of my privilege through my crushing loss. At least he had a chance to fight for his life — unlike the thousands of Indians whose stories I tell everyday, who are dying at the gates of shut hospitals who have no space or oxygen for them. I am orphaned today, but still luckier than those who have been orphaned by the Indian State. Barkha Dutt is an award-winning journalistThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/where-personal-tragedy-meets-systemic-state-failure-101619778648354.html
