21-04-2021||News||In the climate battle, focus on the high-emitters||When President Joe Biden convenes 40 Climate Leaders Summit on April 22 and 23, he will bring together some 85% of carbon-emitting nations.There is immense pressure on countries to go big in their climate ambitions. The problem is that we are using similar framings across countries. Instead, we need universal but different action. Asking all countries to bring emissions to zero in, say, 30 years, is both too liberal for high-emitters and too constraining for low-emitters.On average, the world has, at most, only a few years before it has to start a dramatic move towards zero-emissions. But this average figure is misleading. If we split countries around the average 2019 fossil CO2 emissions — 4.43 tonnes CO2 per capita — the high-emitters, with less than 42% of the global population, emitted 78% of global emissions.The problem is that we mix up the poor with low-emitters. China likes to count itself as a developing country when it comes to carbon, but it emits 50% more than the world average per capita. South Africa’s emissions are even higher. India is below half the world average. Emissions from the poorest of the poor are a rounding error in global emissions. And that is why if the world needs to reach zero-emission level, everyone need not reach zero in similar timeframes.Also Read | Xi, Modi among 40 leaders at Biden-led climate summit starting on ThursdayDeveloped countries, rather, the high-emitters, need to come down dramatically and immediately, while low-emission developing countries have to first slow down their emissions growth and avoid fossil fuel lock-ins. The real problem isn’t rising emissions from the poor. It’s the lack of sufficient action by the high-emitters. While their share is declining, their absolute emissions are still rising by 0.79% annually averaged over 2017-2019.The counterargument is that developing regions are where the emissions growth will come from. Canadian politician Peter Mackay stated, “What about China and India? They are far worse than us. Why should we do anything when China and India’s greenhouse gas emissions are growing?” Such statements are common, but conveniently ignore not just per capita emissions but also historical emissions. Growth in emissions from low-emission countries has been less than the failure to reduce emissions by high-emission countries.In a rush to show strong action, the world is pushing three narratives that are a distraction from the more equitable but still low-carbon futures for developing countries. First, the focus on decarbonisation risks distracting us from the real need for very low-emission countries — access to electricity. If we give a billion people who lack electricity or quality supply entirely coal-based electricity, and they consume 35 kilowatt-hours/month per home, enough for a fridge, fan, and TV, they would only emit about 0.25% of global CO2 emissions today. Restrictions based on the incoming fuel amount to putting the cart before the horse. The good news for electricity is that it’s easy to decarbonise, especially because of falling renewable energy prices. Second, the push to end coal, while important because coal is the dirtiest of fossil fuels, masks high consumptions of other fossil fuels. Most coal is consumed in 10 countries, and China consumes over half the world’s total coal. India is the second largest consumer in total, predominantly for electricity production. But if we consider per capita consumption, not total, and normalise for the low coal quality (low energy content also means low emissions per tonne), India consumed half the world’s average coal in 2019. In countries such as Germany and the United States, not only was the per capita coal consumption much higher, their share of energy coming from coal was close to just one-sixth, instead of about 50% in India. This is because they use a lot of other fossil fuels, namely, oil and gas, whose use isn’t anywhere near plateauing globally. Also Read | European Union seeks deal on climate change law, ahead of global summitThird, announcements of zero are actually “net-zero”, with not just sequestration plans, but relying on offsetting emissions by high-emitters against avoided emissions from low-emission countries. Unfortunately, many such plans are accounting tricks, and sometimes not incremental, permanent reductions. The fact that developing regions are at a lower point on their emissions trajectory shouldn’t be taken advantage of by the high-emitters, who will claim all CO2 is equal. But the economics is not equal. High-emitters should move to true zero, which is expensive, instead of using up some of the carbon space of developing regions. The challenge is large enough that developing regions also have to be ambitious. “Not my fault” shouldn’t become “not my problem” — in part because the impact of the climate crisis on them will be disproportionately higher. They should also introspect whether their carbon space should be used up by their elites.But it would be impractical and unrealistic to expect them to dramatically shift their emissions trajectories downwards without immense global support, both for finance and technology. Much of what passes as climate finance (such as debt-funding for solar projects) fails to pass the test of additionality, and thus shouldn’t count towards the $100 billion of support to developed regions by 2022 pledged at COP15 in Copenhagen. We need collective action, but let’s not make developing countries a distraction, perhaps a convenient distraction, in the fight against the climate crisis.Rahul Tongia is a Senior Fellow at the Centre for Social and Economic Progress (CSEP) The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/in-the-climate-battle-focus-on-the-highemitters-101619002722928.html
21-04-2021||News||How the 2nd Covid wave is different and why the next 4 weeks are crucial||The second surge of coronavirus sweeping the country is frightening. There is an unprecedented surge in new infections, more and more deaths are being reported and the healthcare system is caving under the pressure of patients lining up even as essentials like medicines, oxygen, ICU beds are in short supply. Tragic stories of long queues outside hospitals, medical stores and overflowing crematoriums are not just limited to a few hotspots anymore as the disease seems to be spreading at a faster pace than any time before in the last one year.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 hereHere’s a brief look at some top line numbers with some perspective to understand how this second wave is different and the manner it is affecting India.DAILY CASELOADEven as several states have imposed curfews and lockdowns hoping to break the transmission chain, India witnessed a fresh high of 2.95 lakh new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours. To put that number in perspective, till about a fortnight ago, the number of people infected was just about a third of this figure at 1 lakh cases per day. Till two months ago India was recording just 10,000 fresh cases per day. That’s the speed with which new infections are growing.India’s total active caseload crossed the 2 million mark earlier this week with a mammoth surge in new infections. This number has doubled dramatically in barely 10 days. It was only on April 10 that active cases in the country had crossed the 1 million mark.POSITIVITY RATEAnother remarkable feature about this second wave in India is the very high positivity rate or the number of people infected versus total tests conducted. India’s daily positivity rate has doubled from 8% to 16.7% in the last 12 days according to health ministry data – a grim milestone, reinforcing the view that the virus has spread at a much faster rate during the last month.“The numbers are likely to go up further in the coming days. The healthcare system is already on the verge of collapse,” says Dr. Rommel Tickoo, Director of Internal Medicine at Max Healthcare who believes that the more virulent mutant strains could be behind this second surge. “It is quite common for viruses such as these to mutate and stronger mutated variant virus will spread faster,” adds Dr Tickoo.India announced detection of the new "double mutant" variant of the coronavirus in March. Termed B.1.617, this variant carries markings of two virus mutations - E484Q and L452R – and experts believe it to be more infective and faster spreading. “In this second surge, we see that transmission is faster. If one person in a household is getting infected, the whole family gets the virus, including the staff,” says Dr Tickoo.“This time around we are not seeing many asymptomatic positives. Every person has some or other mild symptoms. The disease is spreading faster than before. Lung condition is also deteriorating a little earlier than before,” says Dr Amit Thadani, Director, Niramaya Hospital in Navi Mumbai.CASE FATALITY RATETake a look at the case fatality rate or the percentage of Covid-positive patients who did not survive and the situation looks grim again. In the six months before the start of the second wave, India’s CFR was only 1.1%.But if we look at the number of deaths in the last week then this number is rising. According to an HT Analysis - which accounts for a two-week lag in deaths occurring on average since infection - 1.6% of the people who got infected in the week ending April 4 are dead.The percentage may appear small but look at absolute numbers and you realize that even a slight uptick in fatality rate means hundreds of additional deaths. In fact, the death toll in the last 24-hours has crossed 2,000 for the first time since the pandemic's outbreak.India’s health infrastructure is already overwhelmed with the second surge and the steep spike in cases. Doctors believe that the next three to four weeks are absolutely critical in terms of the spread of the infection. “We need people to take all necessary precautions and abandon all carelessness. Wear double masks, wash hands frequently and maintain social distancing,” they urge unanimously, adding that everyone eligible should immediately get vaccinated.And with faster-transmitting variants of the virus at play in this second wave, that may well be the right way forward.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/how-the-2nd-covid-wave-is-different-and-why-the-next-4-weeks-are-crucial-101618985790591.html
21-04-2021||News||What do Indian voters want?||What is it that voters want? My seven years of conducting electoral surveys across India have given me a crystal clear answer — what matters is “delivery” of promises by the incumbent government. Election after election, this remains the single message from the voter.Repeat governments are the best examples of this. Prime Minister Narendra Modi came back with a bigger mandate in 2019 because of his pro-poor schemes such as Ujjwala Yojana, Jan Dhan accounts, Ayushman Bharat. Naveen Patnaik is the longest serving chief minister of Odisha, re-elected each time for his good governance. The 2020 Delhi assembly elections gave Arvind Kejriwal a third win, and a thumping majority for the second time because of his school reforms, mohalla clinics, free buses to women, among other steps — just eight months after the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) lost all seven seats in Delhi in the general elections.Most other factors play a very limited role in election outcomes. Yes, elections are being held against a backdrop of extreme polarisation. But I don’t believe it swings votes.Also Read | BJP, TMC scale down campaigns amid spikeThe Delhi assembly polls 2020 were held in the backdrop of sharp polarisation following the Citizenship (Amendment) Act protests and the Shaheen Bagh sit-in. But people chose AAP. In the Bihar 2015 polls, the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) ran a highly polarised campaign but the Mahagathbandhan of Nitish Kumar-Lalu Prasad won. Voters continue to judge their representatives on the basis of how their lives have improved.The rural and poor vote comprise 80% of the total electorate. Their expectations from their government are different from the urban and rich. They vote more than the urban and rich, as they are heavily dependent on the government for their livelihood. And they almost always throw their weight behind a trusted pro-poor candidate (or party) who will look after their basic needs.Voters, in fact, sometimes tend to believe pro-poor promises and give parties a chance to deliver. Remember the Congress’s promise of loan waivers for farmers and new minimum support price rates that became the gamechanger ahead of the Chhattisgarh polls in December 2018 ? In the 2019 general polls, I believe that Congress mishandled its Nyuntam Aay Yojana (Nyay) plank — that could have been decisive, not their Rafale allegations.Also Read | Election Commission announces re-election in 4 polling booths in AssamFinally, Indian electoral patterns are changing because women voters have emerged as a crucial votebank. Successive governments have tried to empower this electorate through welfare schemes and with direct transfer to their accounts. Whenever I have called an election wrong — most recently in the Bihar 2020 assembly polls — it’s because we didn’t have the exact male-female voter turnout data. In the recent case of Bihar, overall female turnout was 5.13% more than men and they voted in favour of NDA.These are broad-brushed observations. Of course, actual poll predictions are more complex. But these are the insights that have come up time and time again in our numerous conversations with voters.Voters have also helped me see through some popular preconceptions. For instance, there is a belief that the attendance at rallies tells us which direction the wind is blowing. While the crowds at any rally point towards the strength of that political party’s organisation, it is no measure of that party’s poll prospects. In the Bihar assembly polls last year amidst the pandemic, Tejashwi Yadav managed to draw huge crowds despite the Covid-19 scare but that did not get him votes. It was the same for the NDA in Bihar in 2015 —NDA leaders drew crowds but Mahagathbandhan won.The media peddles yet another myth that incumbent governments are judged on the state of the economy, which is essentially GDP growth and stock market. Nothing can be farther from the truth. Take Bihar again. The NDA won a narrow but clear victory in 2020 in an environment of economic gloom. Their pro-poor schemes such as prohibition and five kg food grains as ration turned out to be the determining factors.Also Read | Single-phase, decisive Tamil Nadu election on Tuesday: All you need to knowPsephology remains a tricky science — a combination of psychology and sociology. Increasingly though, in India, it will become more rigorous and scientific. While I rely on my understanding of human psychology to get to the bottom of voter preferences, I feel there is absolutely no alternative to an exhaustive field survey, reaching out to the last voter on the ground.We cannot afford, for example, the polling approach of phone calls as practised in the United States. Here, each state has different regional parties apart from the national parties, language is different, there are different caste equations at play and literacy levels differ. Hence, it is not possible to communicate with them over the phone.Nor do we expect our respondents to tell us what is on their mind immediately. In a state such as Bengal that sees a great deal of violence, it is particularly tricky to get the subjects to speak openly. We have to spend a lot of time assuring our respondents that their answers will remain confidential, women surveyors are sent to talk to women voters as much as possible, and we also create incentive schemes such as lucky draws.This is why psephology is so complex and so exhilarating — we need both rigour and empathy, to work with numbers and our gut. Even as poll work becomes more scientific, this will remain.Pradeep Gupta is the founder of Axis My India and author of How India Votes and What it MeansThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/what-do-indian-voters-want-101618910438266.html
