03 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Free vaccination first for three crore health, frontline workers||Free COVID-19 vaccination will be provided to three crore healthcare and frontline workers in the first phase of vaccination, Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Saturday while taking stock of the nation-wide vaccination dry run conducted in 286 session sites spread across 125 districts. The Minister added that details of 27 crore priority beneficiaries — those above 50 years of age and those below it having co-morbidities — is also being finalised. “The objective of the drive is to gear up for the rollout of the COVID-19 vaccine across the country. The run will also assess operational feasibility in the use of Co-WIN application in the field environment and to identify the challenges,” he said. Speaking about vaccine hesitancy, the Minister said that it wasn’t a new phenomenon. “It was there even when we started the polio immunisation drive but we must remember its success. I appeal to the people not to be misguided by rumours regarding safety and efficacy of the COVID-19 vaccine. We will not compromise on any protocol before approving a vaccine. The planning for the vaccine introduction will be as per the Operational Guidelines issued by the Ministry,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/free-vaccination-first-for-three-crore-health-frontline-workers/article33484175.ece
03 January 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,||Historic Ramateertham temple turns into a political war zone||The historic Ramateertham temple turned into a political war zone on Saturday with a triangular fight among the leaders and activists of the Telugu Desam Party, Bharatiya Janata Party and ruling YSR Congress Party, who tried to get maximum political mileage with regard to vandalism of Lord Rama’s idol in Kodandarama Swamy temple believed to be constructed in 16th century. Political heat reached a peak with the sudden tour of Rajya Sabha MP Vijaya Sai Reddy when the former Chief Minister N.Chandrababu Naidu was scheduled to visit the temple at around 12.30 p.m. The TDP and BJP strongly opposed Mr. Vijaya Sai and ruling party leaders’ visit to the temple with YSRCP flags. The TDP leaders and cadre allegedly threw stones, chappals and damaged vehicles in his convoy. The sudden violence from TDP led to further tension on the temple premises, located nearly 12 km from Vizianagaram district. The police had a difficult time following a clash between TDP and YSRCP cadre. Even as tension was continuing, Mr. Vijaya Sai visited the temple premises and inquired about the incident and progress in police investigation. The police did not allow BJP MLC P.V.N. Madhav and other leaders to visit the temple on Bodikonda hill saying that the leaders of other parties would be allowed only after completion of YSRCP leaders’ visit. With the tussle continuing, BJP Vizianagaram Parliamentary Party President Reddi Pavani fainted and was shifted to a private hospital in Vizianagaram. Naidu stopped Meanwhile, Mr. Naidu was stopped at Rajapulova junction, Railway Bridge in Vizianagaram, Kothapeta water tank and Ramateertham village. The police personnel tried in vain to convince that he was not given immediate permission, to avoid tension at the temple premises. They assured that he would be allowed only after the return of Mr.Vijaya Sai. Mr. Naidu had strongly reacted over the “detention” of his convoy at various places although he had obtained permission from the government on Friday. Finally, Mr. Naidu reached the temple premises at around 2.30 p.m. and expressed concern over the vandalism. Former Union Minister P. Ashok Gajapathi Raju, TDP State unit president K. Atchannaidu and other leaders accompanied him and explained the history. The police heaved a sigh of relief with the completion of Mr. Naidu’s tour in the evening. The entire Ramateertham-Nellimarla-Vizianagaram-Visakhapatnam stretch witnessed the deployment of huge security forces throughout the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/political-battle-begins-over-ramateertham/article33484104.ece
03 January 2021||KOTTAYAM,||Tussle over Pala intensifies||Another Assembly polls, another episode of party infighting and the controversy over Pala continues. The tussle over the Assembly seat, which began during the byelection last year and was revived once again with the abrupt entry of the Kerala Congress (M) into the Left Democratic Front, is raging despite denial by the front leadership. The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leadership also appears divided over the issue. Addressing mediapersons on Saturday, Mani C. Kappan, the sitting legislator of Pala, asserted that the KC(M) had lost the Assembly bypolls last year and its leader Jose K. Mani had no authority to claim the seat. “From various development projects to welfare measures, including free ration kit to nuns, I have done so much for Pala over the past year. There is no question of giving up the seat to anyone for anything,” he said. On Minister’s suggestion When asked about a statement by NCP leader and Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran that concessions would have to be made for the coalition’s sake, Mr. Kappan said it would be ideal for him (Saseendran) to vacate his seat for accommodating the new partner. Despite the differences of opinion, both Mr.Kappan and Mr. Saseendran, besides NCP State president T.P. Peethambaran, maintained that the NCP would remain with the LDF. Official sources, however, said the party would soon convene meetings at the district committee level to discuss its position in case the LDF decide to take over the Pala and Kuttanad Assembly seats. Meanwhile, speculation is rife about Mr. Mani resigning from the Rajya Sabha and contesting from Pala in the Assembly elections. The United Democratic Front (UDF), on the other hand, is learnt to have approached the disgruntled faction of the NCP with an offer to field Mr.Kappan from Pala as its candidate. The ‘I’ group in the Congress, which has a set of leaders aspiring for the Pala seat, however, appears not keen on welcoming Mr.Kappan to the UDF. Despite this, UDF leader P.J. Joseph on Saturday reiterated his willingness to field Mr.Kappan as the UDF candidate from the constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tussle-over-pala-intensifies/article33484384.ece
03 January 2021||Mumbai,||3,218 new COVID-19 cases in Maharashtra, 51 deaths||Maharashtra’s COVID-19 tally on Saturday rose to 19,38,854 with 3,218 fresh cases being recorded, a health department official said. With 51 fatalities being reported during the day, the overall death toll reached 49,631, he said. A total of 2,110 patients were discharged after treatment, taking the tally of recoveries to 18,34,935. The State now has 53,137 active coronavirus cases. With 66,607 new tests, the number of tests conducted in Maharashtra has gone up to 1,28,90,441, the official said. Mumbai city reported 593 new cases during the day, which pushed its case count to 2,94,660, while its death toll rose to 11,132 with seven patients dying. The Mumbai division, which consists of Mumbai city and satellite towns, reported 1,083 new coronavirus positive cases, raising the total count to 6,63,147. A total of 19,131 people have died so far in the region, the official said. Nashik division’s cumulative case tally stood at 2,65,228 and death toll at 4,917. The number of cases in the Pune division stood at 4,82,000 and deaths at 11,301, the official said. Kolhapur division has reported 1,16,575 cases and 3,968 fatalities until now, while Aurangabad division’’s case tally is 72,681 and death count 1,936. Latur division has reported 78,808 cases until now and 2,408 fatalities. Akola division has 65,344 cases while 1,496 people have succumbed to COVID-19 so far. Nagpur division has 1,94,216 infections and 4,405 fatalities, the official informed. Dummy vaccinations Meanwhile, Nagpur Municipal Corporation conducted a vaccination dry run with 25 “beneficiaries” in three centres in the city, according to a civic official said. The exercise was conducted under the supervision of commissioner Radhakrishnan B who spoke to the staff and those who were given dummy vaccinations. “The exercise was done in a proper manner and we will be sending a report soon,” he said. A dry run to assess the readiness of the mechanism laid out for the immunisation drive, which is expected to begin soon, was conducted in four districts during the day at identified health centres in Nagpur, Jalna, Pune and Nandurbar districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/3218-new-covid-19-cases-in-maharashtra-51-deaths/article33485091.ece
03 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||LeT leader held ahead of FATF meet||Nearly five years after he was released on bail in the 26/11 Mumbai attacks case, Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) operations commander Zaki-ur-Rahman Lakhvi was arrested in Pakistan by its Counter Terrorism Department (CTD) on charges of using terror funds. The timing of the arrest is significant as it comes ahead of meetings of the global watchdog Financial Action Task Force (FATF) and its Asia Pacific Joint Group (APJG) in the next few weeks, which will consider Pakistan’s “greylist” status, meant for countries “under increased monitoring”. “[Lakhvi] is accused of running a dispensary using funds collected for terrorism financing. He and others also collected funds from this dispensary and used them for further terrorism financing and for personal expenses,” said the CTD police spokesperson of the Pakistani province of Punjab. The statement added that Lakhvi’s offences were compounded by the fact that he is on the United Nation’s Security Council list of banned terrorists, and thus cannot have recourse to any funds without special clearance. The case is expected to be heard by the Anti-Terrorism court in Lahore, it said. However, Indian officials questioned the seriousness of the action, saying it had become routine for Pakistan to showcase arrests of key terrorist figures just before FATF meetings. The arrest of LeT founder Hafiz Saeed in July 2019 came three months before an FATF plenary session was due to decide on downgrading Pakistan to the ‘blacklist’ or “High Risk Jurisdictions” that face severe financial sanctions. Pakistan has been retained on the greylist, but faces blacklisting if it fails to complete a 27-point action plan to curb terror financing and money laundering.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ahead-of-fatf-meet-pak-arrests-let-leader-lakhvi/article33484168.ece
03 January 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,||Jagan government failed to protect temples, alleges Naidu||Former Chief Minister and Telugu Desam Party national president N. Chandrababu Naidu on Saturday alleged that the Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy government failed completely in protecting Hindu temples in the State, and desecration of Lord Rama’s idol at the Sri Kodandapani temple on Ramateertham hill was one more example for the continuation of attacks on the places of worship. Speaking to mediapersons after his visit to the temple, Mr. Naidu claimed that there were no attacks and vandalism of idols during the TDP regime, but it had been happening only during the YSRCP rule. “Sri Kodandapani temple has a great history. It was built by the Pusapati family in the 16th century. It is called as the Ayodhya of the North Andhra region. Vandalism of the idol has hurt the sentiments of the Hindus. The people who vandalised the idol and those who protect the culprits will face the wrath of the God,” Mr. Naidu said. “The Home Minister and the Endowments Ministers have failed to protect the temples in the State. The police department, which failed to identify the real culprits, has been harassing innocent people under the guise of investigation. They should be released immediately,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jagan-government-failed-to-protect-temples-naidu/article33484172.ece
03 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Anganwadi workers among first ‘beneficiaries’ in Delhi’s dry run||At Daryaganj’s Urban Public Health Centre, anganwadi workers were called for the COVID-19 vaccination dry run and government schoolteachers were present to take care of those vaccinated at the centre. At the entry of the health centre, 25 ‘beneficiaries’ waited for their turn. Among them was Qamar Sultana, 54, who has been an Anganwadi worker for 20 years. Her name first was checked in a list with the dispensary staff, then her identity verified,  hands sanitised and temperature checked. A second round of sanitisation and temperature checking was carried out inside the centre. At the registration desk, a vaccination officer sat with a government schoolteacher, who reverified Ms. Sultana’s identity and entered her details in the computer. A slip was handed out to Ms. Sultana on which her name and a phone number were written. Ms. Sultana was a little apprehensive before the next step. She had to enter the vaccination room where the injection was to be filled, placed on her forearm and then disposed of. She knew it was a dry run but felt nervous nonetheless. “You have been vaccinated. If you feel something, call on this number. Wear mask and maintain social distancing,” the auxiliary nurse midwife said after writing the centre’s fixed line number on the slip. Ms. Sultana was then sent to the observation area where two teachers attended to the ‘beneficiaries’ who were to remain seated there for the next 30 minutes. Simple Gulati, a teacher at a north Delhi school, asked Ms. Sultana if she felt okay. “If you feel uneasy, please let me know,” she said. After half an hour, Ms. Sultana was asked to go home. “While leaving for the health centre in the morning, I was really scared. Hope God keeps us well as He has so far,” she smiled. Reaction fear For Manju Prasad, 47, another anganwadi worker, the fear is of reaction to the actual vaccine. “The anxiety is because it is a new drug. What if something wrong happens?” she said. Ms. Gulati said she was aware that schoolteachers would not be among the first ‘beneficiaries’. “We are proud that we are a part of the process and are able to serve the ‘beneficiaries’. These are the people who have been saving us. They deserve it,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/anganwadi-workers-among-first-beneficiaries-in-delhi/article33484585.ece
03 January 2021||Ahmedabad,||4 in Gujarat detected with new virus strain||Four people who recently returned to Gujarat from the United Kingdom (UK) have tested positive for the new strain of coronavirus, a top state health department official said on Saturday. Samples of 15 people, who tested corona positive on arrival in Ahmedabad from the U.K., are currently pending with the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune, the official added. “All the passengers who had reached Ahmedabad from the U.K. were screened, and the positive samples were sent to NIV. We have received intimation that the new strain has been detected in four such cases,” Principal Secretary (Health), Jayanti Ravi told reporters. She said all four patients have been kept in “special isolators” at the SVP Hospital in Ahmedabad as per the Centre’s guidelines. “Results of the 15 samples tested positive for coronavirus on arrival in Ahmedabad are pending with the NIV,” she added. Ms. Ravi further said the treatment protocol for patients detected with the new strain and other positive patients is similar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/4-in-gujarat-detected-with-new-virus-strain/article33485090.ece
03 January 2021||CHENNAI,||VCK also wants to contest on own symbol||After MDMK general secretary Vaiko, Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK) president Thol. Thirumavalavan on Saturday spoke in favour of parties contesting on their own symbols in the 2021 Assembly election. Both are allies of the DMK. In the 2019 Lok Sabha election, the VCK was allotted two seats. In one of the seats, Villupuram, it contested on the DMK’s ‘Rising Sun’ symbol. Smaller parties are keen on contesting on their own symbols in pursuit of recognition from the Election Commission. For a party to be recognised, it has to poll a certain percentage of votes and win in a specified number of seats in a general election. However, parties leading alliances want smaller allies to contest on their symbols to improve their prospects. Another advantage is that in the absence of a majority after the election, the party’s whip will be binding on these MLAs. “Contesting on a popular symbol has its advantages. But it is the aspiration of all parties to contest on their own symbols as their objective is to get recognition from the Election Commission,” Mr. Thirumavalavan said. “A party’s vote share, especially that of a party resorting to identity politics, will come down by at least 10% when it contests on a non-popular symbol, as in the case of Mr. Thirumavalavan [in 2019, he won by a narrow margin]. But the VCK’s other candidate, Ravikumar, won with a huge margin in Villupuram because he contested on the DMK’s symbol,” political commentator Raveendran Duraisamy said. He, however, pointed out that contesting on their own symbols would free smaller parties from the clutches of alliance leaders. “They need not behave like a slave to the alliance leader and can take an independent stand on issues. It also prevents the alliance leader from taking credit for their victory.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vck-also-wants-to-contest-on-own-symbol/article33484958.ece
03 January 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi sees lowest daily count in seven months||The national capital recorded 494 new COVID-19 cases over 24 hours — the lowest in over seven months — taking the total to 6,26,448, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Saturday. This is the lowest number of new cases since May 26, when the city witnessed 412 positive cases. Also, 14 more deaths were reported over the same period, pushing the toll to 10,571. As per the bulletin, the death rate in the past 10 days was 3.28%. Despite new cases and active cases falling in the city, the death rate has been showing an upward trend. Of the total cases, 6,10,535 people have recovered and there are 5,342 active cases. 0.73% positivity “First time less than 500 cases in 7 months (since 17May). Positivity reduced to 0.73% from15.26% on 7 Nov. Positivity less than 1% for last 11 days. Active cases reduced to 5342 from 44456 on 13 Nov. Though 3rd wave is going down, be careful and observe all precautions (sic),” Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said in a tweet. A total of 67,364 tests were done over a 24-hour period. Saturday’s positivity rate of 0.73% was much less than the average daily positivity recorded in November at 11.65%. The overall positivity rate was 7.11%, as per the bulletin. Of the total 15,121 beds available for COVID-19 treatment in the city, 86.7% were vacant. There were 3,751 containment zones in the city as of Saturday. As many as 2,005 people were admitted to hospitals and 2,752 patients were under home isolation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/capital-sees-lowest-covid-19-cases-in-over-seven-months/article33484583.ece
03 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Vaccine dry run held across State||The Department of Health has successfully conducted the dry run for the COVID-19 vaccination roll-out across the State, administrating mock vaccines to 954 persons at 39 session sites on Saturday. As per the guidelines of the Centre, the State took part in the dry run aimed at evaluating the efficacy of the vaccine distribution mechanism. As many as 975 healthcare workers registered for the drive through the Central government’s application called Co-WIN. Due to some issues, 21 persons were not given the vaccine. During the process, 323 minor events and 26 major events of Adverse Events Following Immunisation were reported and healthcare professionals resolved them. The State had earlier conducted a dry run along with three other States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vaccine-dry-run-held-across-state/article33485173.ece
03 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Ashok sacked as head of three temples||The government on Saturday removed former MP P. Ashok Gajapathi Raju from the post of chairman/founder family member of the trust board of Sri Rama Swamy Devasthanam at Ramatheertham in Nellimarla mandal of Vizianagaram district, accusing him of failing to take steps that could have prevented the destruction of the idol. Mr. Gajapathi Raju was also expelled from the chairmanship of the trust boards and as the founder-family member of Sri Pyditalli Ammavari Devasthanam in Vizianagaram town and Sri Mandeswara Swamy temple at Mandapalli in East Godavari district, according to a memo circulated by Secretary (Revenue - Endowments) M. Girija Sankar. It was stated that Mr. Gajapati Raju failed in discharging his legitimate duties, addressing the issues relating to the security aspects of the Ramateertham temple and in taking steps that would prevent the incident which happened on December 28. The former Union minister has, therefore, been removed from the chairmanship of the trust board of Ramateertham temple and also the other two temples in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 28 of Andhra Pradesh Charitable and Hindu Religious Institutions and the Endowments Act 30/87.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ashok-sacked-as-temple-head/article33484181.ece
03 January 2021||Kolkata,||Sabooj Sathi to feature in R Day parade||The West Bengal government will showcase its popular Sabooj Sathi scheme of giving bicycles to students of Classes IX to XII in its tableau at the Republic Day parade in Delhi, an official said on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sabooj-sathi-to-feature-in-r-day-parade/article33484422.ece
03 January 2021||CHENNAI,||Acting CJ of Madras HC transferred to Gujarat HC||The Madras High Court’s Acting Chief Justice (ACJ) Vineet Kothari on Saturday bid adieu to the Bench and the Bar here following his transfer to the Gujarat High Court. He commended the competence of the lawyers here and said his stint of a little over two years at the Madras High Court had provided him with a great learning curve. He said the Madras Bar was very strong, especially on the civil side, and issues revolving around complex cases on direct as well as indirect taxes. “I have enjoyed every day here and there was not a single instance of a bitter experience. Even during COVID-19, the court hearings through video conference were enjoyable.” Justice Kothari recalled the achievements of the Tamil Nadu State Legal Services Authority and the Tamil Nadu Mediation and Conciliation Centre during his tenure as their executive head. He said that a public interest litigation petition heard by him for beautification of the Marina beach and its loop road in Chennai gave him utmost work satisfaction. Reminding lawyers of their duties, he said members of the legal profession should strive to uphold the rule of law and must see that no citizen was subjected to harassment. In his farewell address, Advocate General Vijay Narayan pointed out that the ACJ hailed from a family of accountants. Justice Kothari himself had practised as a chartered accountant for two years before entering the legal profession. He had been elevated as a judge of the Rajasthan High Court in 2005 and was transferred to Karnataka in 2016. The ACJ had assumed charge as the senior-most judge of the Madras High Court on November 23, 2018, and had served as ACJ immediately after former Chief Justice Vijaya Kamlesh Tahilramani resigned in September 2019 and once again now after the retirement of Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/acting-chief-justice-of-madras-high-court-transferred-to-gujarat-high-court/article33484946.ece
03 January 2021||Lucknow,||Trust scientists but not BJP, says Akhilesh||Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday said he would not take the shot for COVID-19 as he did not trust the “BJP’s vaccine”. However, he later issued a clarification saying that he had faith in the scientists but not in the medical system under the BJP government. “We will not get the BJP’s political vaccine. The SP government will provide free vaccine,” Mr. Yadav said. “ Mein toh nahi lagwaunga abhi vaccine (I will not get a vaccination shot now),” Mr. Yadav had said here at a press conference. “ Aur woh bhi BJP lagaegi , uska bharosa karunga mein ? Arey jao bhai (And that too the BJP will provide us the shots, will I trust them?)” Mr. Yadav took a dig at the BJP government for imposing restrictions on Opposition parties citing COVID-19 norms. “The government says there is COVID-19 only when Opposition parties organise events,” the SP chief said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/i-trust-scientists-but-not-bjp-says-akhilesh/article33484591.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||For the dream house||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/for-the-dream-house/article33485176.ece
03 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Farmers warn of parallel tractor parade||Thousands of protesting farmers will march into Delhi on Republic Day and hold their own parallel tractor parade if their demands are not met by then, Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leaders said on Saturday. After more than a month of camping on the borders of Delhi, farmers groups issued an ultimatum to the Centre ahead of the next round of talks on Monday. “If the government does not accede to our demands on January 4, we will hold a tractor rally on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal expressway on January 6. That will be our rehearsal for Republic Day,” said Darshan Pal, Punjab president for the Kisan Krantikari Union. “They only have to issue in-principle statements that they will repeal the three laws, and promise a legal guarantee for MSP. But if this is not done by January 26, we will enter Delhi peacefully, with our tractors, for our own kisan parade,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/farmers-warn-of-parallel-tractor-parade/article33484182.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Thanking the saviours||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/thanking-the-saviours/article33484184.ece
03 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Farmers warn of parallel tractor parade||Thousands of protesting farmers will march into Delhi on Republic Day and hold their parallel tractor parade if their demands are not met by then, Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leaders said on Saturday. After over a month of camping at several points on the borders of Delhi, farmers groups issued an ultimatum to the Centre ahead of the next round of talks on Monday. “If the government does not accede to our demands on January 4, we will hold a tractor rally on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal expressway on January 6. That will be our rehearsal for Republic Day,” said Darshan Pal, Punjab president for the Kisan Krantikari Union. “They only have to issue in-principle statements that they will repeal the laws, and promise a legal guarantee for minimum support prices (MSP). But if this is not done by January 26, we will enter Delhi peacefully, with our tractors, trolleys and farm vehicles, for our own kisan parade,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/farmers-warn-of-parallel-tractor-parade/article33484193.ece
03 January 2021||New Delhi,||Trade deficit grows to $15 bn in Dec.||Contracting for the third straight month, India’s exports slipped marginally by 0.8% in December 2020 even as the trade deficit widened to $15.71 billion due to the rise in imports. Exports in December 2020 stood at $26.89 billion, as compared to $27.11 in the same month of 2019, according to the preliminary data released by the Commerce Ministry on Saturday. The rate of contraction in the country’s outbound shipments has improved against a decline of 8.74% in November, mainly due to the increase in shipments of certain sectors such as gems and jewellery, engineering and chemicals. After a gap of nine months, imports in December recorded a positive growth of 7.6% at $42.6 billion. In February 2020, it had registered a rise of 2.48%. “India is thus a net importer in December 2020, with a trade deficit of $15.71 billion, as compared to a trade deficit of $12.49 billion, widened by 25.78%,” the Ministry said in a statement. The trade deficit (the difference between imports and exports) at $15.71 billion was highest since July 2020. The country had witnessed trade surplus in June 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/trade-deficit-grows-to-15-bn-as-exports-dip-further-in-dec/article33484177.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Covaxin gets clearance for emergency use||India’s first indigenously developed COVID-19 vaccine, Covaxin, was on Saturday recommended for “restricted use in emergency situation, subject to multiple regulatory conditionalties” by the Subject Expert Committee of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation.Page 11||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covaxin-gets-clearance-for-emergency-use/article33484931.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||India cultures new strain of coronavirus||India has successfully cultured the new coronavirus strain, which was first reported in the U.K., the Indian Council of Medical Research said on Saturday. In a tweet, it claimed that no country had yet reported successful isolation and culture of the new variant.Page 11||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-cultures-new-strain-of-coronavirus/article33484932.ece
03 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Farmers warn of parallel tractor parade on R-Day||Thousands of protesting farmers will march into Delhi on Republic Day and hold their own parallel tractor parade if their demands are not met by then, Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leaders said on Saturday. After over a month of camping on the borders of Delhi, farmer groups issued an ultimatum to the Centre ahead of the next round of talks on Monday. “If the government does not accede to our demands on January 4, we will hold a tractor rally on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal expressway on January 6. That will be our rehearsal for Republic Day,” said Darshan Pal, Punjab president for the Kisan Krantikari Union. “They only have to issue in-principle statements that they will repeal the laws, and promise a legal guarantee for MSP. But if this is not done by January 26, we will enter Delhi peacefully, with our tractors, trolleys and farm vehicles, for our own kisan parade,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/farmers-warn-of-parallel-tractor-parade-on-r-day/article33485172.ece
03 January 2021||Chennai,||Each centre can vaccinate 100 persons a day||With the dry run for COVID-19 vaccines being simultaneously held at 17 health facilities in the State on Saturday, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said each vaccine centre will have the capacity to vaccinate 100 persons a day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/each-centre-can-vaccinate-100-persons-a-day/article33484309.ece
03 January 2021||Kolkata,||Experts suggest ways to reduce bird strikes||Habitat management of birds, preventing breeding on airport premises and discouraging people from dumping waste nears airports and airfields can reduce hazards posed by birds to aircraft, a publication by the Salim Ali Centre For Ornithology and Natural History has said. “Best Practices for Mitigation of the Hazards Posed by Birds to Aircraft”, was made public a few weeks ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/experts-suggest-ways-to-reduce-bird-strikes/article33484423.ece
03 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||DDA launches new housing scheme||The Delhi Development Authority on Saturday launched its new housing scheme with around 1,354 flats on offer. These flats are located across Jasola, Vasant Kunj, Rohini and Dwarka. Eligible applicants would be considered for allotment through a computerised draw.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dda-launches-new-housing-scheme/article33484589.ece
03 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Another possible hike in electricity tariff||As consumers are getting used to the idea of paying more for electricity in a pandemic-hit scenario, they will have to brace for one more possible hike. Bescom has set the ball rolling for another revision in tariff for the coming financial year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/another-possible-hike-in-electricity-tariff/article33484873.ece
03 January 2021||Chandigarh,||‘Governor should discuss State matters with me’||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday took exception to Governor V.P. Singh Badnore summo-ning the State’s administra-tive brass instead of seeking a report directly from him, as Home Minister, on the law-and-order situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/governor-should-discuss-state-matters-with-me/article33484587.ece
03 January 2021||Indore,||Comedian among 5 held for ‘remarks’ on deities||Munawar Faruqui, a stand-up comedian from Gujarat, was on Saturday arrested along with four others after the son of a BJP MLA filed a complaint accusing them of passing “indecent remarks about Hindu deities and Union Home Minister Amit Shah” during a show here. A local court rejected their bail pleas and sent them to judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/comedian-among-5-held-for-remarks-on-deities/article33484588.ece
03 January 2021||MANGALURU,||Modi to dedicate LNG pipeline to the nation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will dedicate the 450-km long Kochi-Koottanad-Mangaluru natural gas pipeline built and operated by GAIL India Ltd., to the nation on Tuesday, according to GAIL Chairman and MD Manoj Jain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/modi-to-dedicate-lng-pipeline-to-the-nation/article33485065.ece
03 January 2021||BENGALURU,||Cabinet expansion likely after Sankranti||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa is learnt to have made a strong pitch for Cabinet expansion/reshuffle with BJP national general secretary Arun Singh, who is on a three-day trip to the State, arguing that it will put to rest speculations over leadership change.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cabinet-expansion-likely-after-sankranti/article33484340.ece
03 January 2021||Chennai,||Just a courtesy call on Owaisi, says DMK leader||DMK minorities wing secretary Masthan reiterated on Saturday that he had only paid a courtesy call on AIMIM leader Asaduddin Owaisi and no decision was taken about inviting him to the party’s public meeting scheduled here for January 6.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/just-a-courtesy-call-on-owaisi-says-dmk-leader/article33484204.ece
03 January 2021||Coimbatore/Erode,||Will prove charges against Velumani: Stalin||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Saturday said he would prove that the corruption charges against Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani were true while addressing a ‘makkal gram sabha’ in Thondamuthur constituency in Coimbatore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/will-prove-charges-against-velumani-stalin/article33484207.ece
03 January 2021||CHENNAI,||COVID-19 testing begins in luxury hotels||The Greater Chennai Corporation has ordered COVID-19 testing of all employees of luxury hotels, following reports of a cluster at ITC Grand Chola.The civic body would complete the testing of more than 25 luxury hotels in two days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-testing-begins-in-luxury-hotels/article33485159.ece
03 January 2021||Ramanathapuram,||Minorities need not feel insecure, says CM||In a new twist in the Ashwini Bidre murder trial, the Navi Mumbai Police have sent a letter to Public Prosecutor Pradeep Gharat asking him to prove his attendance at each hearing in court. Mr. Gharat said the police have asked him to furnish the details of his attendance even as half of his bill is still awaiting clearance. He further said he is paid for each appearance and not according to what transpires in court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/minorities-need-not-feel-insecure-says-cm/article33484213.ece
03 January 2021||Chennai,||Three districts report no new COVID-19 case||As Maharashtra stares at the upcoming civic polls, a row has erupted over renaming Aurangabad as Sambhajinagar, with the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) partner Congress opposing the move. The party has said that instead of focussing on emotional issues, matters concerned with people’s livelihood and development should be discussed. The stand taken by the Congress has made the opposition BJP happy, with all its leaders calling out Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to fulfill the Shiv Sena’s promise to rename the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/three-districts-report-no-new-covid-19-case/article33484216.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||After the rise, rift reigns among the Communists||The abrupt decision by Nepal Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli to get Parliament dissolved by the President Bidhya Devi Bhandari (a former party colleague of Mr. Oli) before its five-year term came as a jolt of surprise. The ruling Nepal Communist Party (NCP) enjoys a two-thirds majority in the House of Representatives of the federal Parliament and controls two-thirds or more seats in six of the seven provincial assemblies. This act of brinkmanship by Mr. Oli came about as a reaction to the internal strife within the NCP, which was formed in 2018 after the merger of the Communist Party of Nepal (Unified Marxist-Leninist) — of which Mr. Oli was a prominent leader — and the Communist Party of Nepal (Maoist-Centre), led by Pushpa Kumar Dahal alias Prachanda. Mr. Oli was under pressure from the faction led by Mr. Dahal to resign from his posts as chairman of the NCP and Prime Minister, ostensibly for his poor performance. With a majority of the nine-member secretariat siding with Mr. Dahal, Mr. Oli decided to recommend the dissolution of Parliament as a means to stall any change in leadership within the party. As things stand, the NCP is functioning as two separate factions. The Dahal-led faction has named senior leader Madhav Kumar Nepal as co-chairman and expelled Mr. Oli from his post in the party. The Dahal-Nepal faction has also led street protests calling the decision to dissolve Parliament “unconstitutional” even as the Supreme Court is hearing the case. While Mr. Oli and Mr. Dahal are the key leaders in their respective factions, the divisions are not on the lines of the former UML and Maoist parties. Mr. Dahal is supported by Mr. Nepal and Jhalanath Khanal, both former Prime Ministers, who had been senior leaders in the UML, while Mr. Oli, for now, retains the support of Ram Bahadur Thapa, currently the Minister for Home Affairs and a former Maoist leader. Domino effect The domino effect of Mr. Oli’s decision seems to be interminably pushing the NCP into a split. Even the Communist Party of China got into the act — the Vice-President of its International Department, Guo Yezhou, who had last visited Kathmandu before the unification of the two communist parties into the NCP, visited the country with a delegation to assess the post-dissolution scenario and to explore the possibility of keeping the NCP united. The Indian establishment, known in the past to have extensive parleys with various political forces in Nepal, chose to remain “hands-off” this time. The intrigue in the NCP is not surprising. The communist movement in Nepal had undergone several splits and mergers in the past. The Communist Party of Nepal was officially established in 1949 in Calcutta and with the active support of the Indian communists. The party was banned from 1952 to 1956 during what was an interim democratic period, before general elections were held in 1959. The communists won only four out of the 109 seats in Parliament. Following the dissolution of the Nepali Congress government by King Mahendra in 1960, Nepal reverted to a “Panchayat system” under absolute monarchy and remained so until 1990. In this period, the communist movement underwent several splits into factions and parties. In the aftermath of the Naxalite movement in Nepal, a set of radical leftists sought to bring about violent actions in the eastern district of Jhapa — Mr. Oli was one of those who were part of the “Jhapeli movement” and was later arrested for his role. The former members of the Jhapeli group went on to set up the Communist Party of Nepal (Marxist-Leninist) in 1978. During the same time, another set of radical communists, inspired by Maoist ideology, formed the Fourth Convention group in 1974, and was led by Mohan Bikram Singh. The CPN (ML) had emerged as the largest communist party in Nepal in 1990 and after having participated prominently in the first Jan Andolan — the movement that led to the institution of constitutional monarchy — it became the leading opposition party. The CPN (ML) had by now become the CPN (UML), after merging with the CPN-Marxist. The UML formed a minority government under Manmohan Adhikari in 1994 that lasted only nine months and later underwent another split, with senior leader Bamdev Gautam breaking away in 1998. Mr. Gautam is now part of the NCP and is aligned with Mr. Dahal. The Maoist Fourth Convention also underwent splits — with one group termed CPN-Mashal led by Mr. Dahal and another, CPN-Masal, led by Baburam Bhattarai. Besides, the CPN-Fourth Congress had been led by Nirmal Lama till 1990. These parties came together and formed the CPN-Unity Centre whose political front, the United People’s Front Nepal (UPFN), was led by Mr. Bhattarai. Unlike the UML, which accepted parliamentary democracy and constitutional monarchy, the UPFN still retained a line striving for “people’s democracy” — electoral democracy leading to communist rule — and came up with a list of 40 demands that included a federal restructuring of Nepal and a secular state. They also issued an ultimatum that the party will initiate insurgency if the demands were not met. This led to the Maoist insurgency with Mr. Dahal at the helm. It lasted a decade before the Maoists joined hands with the parliamentary forces — the Nepali Congress, the UML and others to form an eight-party alliance that repudiated the monarchy. The Jan-Andolan of 2007 led to the formation of a newly elected Constituent Assembly (CA) and later the transition into a constitutional republic. State restructuring The post-CA polity underwent a clear demarcation on the question of state restructuring with the Nepali Congress and the UML firmly opposed to a federal republic that had provinces delineated on the basis of identity. The Maoists and Terai-based (Madhesi) parties were in favour of it. But in the second CA elections, following a protracted stalemate on this issue, the UML and the Congress emerged victorious with Mr. Oli coming out as a major voice of the status quo against ethnic federalism. Mr. Oli managed to portray Madhesis’ struggle for ethnic determination as Indian interference and won power in 2017 by positioning himself as a nationalist and having aligned with Mr. Dahal’s Maoist faction that had significantly weakened in the 2010s (and had dropped its insistence on ethnic determination of federal boundaries). Mr. Oli, however, retained both the post of party chairman (shared with Mr. Dahal) and the premiership following the merger. Unlike the major twists and turns in the communist movement in Nepal, which were driven by ideological positions of the leftists who were mostly in opposition, this split in the NCP seems to be driven more by a clash of egos and ambitions. The NCP has emerged over time as a major dispenser of patronage by controlling NGOs that receive international aid for development work. For leaders, being in power is key to maintaining their networks of support which explains the shifts in loyalty bereft of any ideological difference in the party that is now headed to a clear split.  In Focus  The Communist Party of Nepal was officially established in 1949 in Calcutta with the active support of the Indian communists  After the Naxalite movement in Nepal, a set of radical leftists went on to set up the Communist Party of Nepal (ML) in 1978. During the same time, another group of Communists formed the Maoist Fourth Convention  In 2018, Oli’s UML and the Maoist faction, led by Prachanda, merged to form the Nepal Communist Party. The NCP is now headed towards a split after PM Oli dissolved Parliament   The divisions within Nepal’s ruling party, which has a huge majority, seem to be driven more by a clash of ego and ambitions than ideological differences||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/after-the-rise-rift-reigns-among-the-communists/article33484151.ece
03 January 2021||Hyderabad,||Harassed by online loan apps, defaulter ends life in Telangana||Undeterred by the police probe into app-based loan finance companies, loan recovery calls made to customers are eventually forcing them to end their lives. On Saturday, G. Chandra Mohan, 36, supervisor of a private warehouse, committed suicide at his residence at Gundla Pochamma village of Pet-Basheerabad in Medchal-Malkajgiri district, about 30 km from Hyderabad. This is the fifth “forced suicide” by these companies existing only as mobile applications. Cyberabad Commissioner of Police V.C. Sajjanar said that the victim took a loan from one such company a few weeks ago and to repay the amount before the deadline of one week, he took loans from other unauthorised app available on Google Playstore. “He took around Rs. 70,000 from at least nine such apps and failed to repay. As a result, the lenders branded him a defaulter and began calling him over phone and threatening him repeatedly,” he said. The firms also phoned and sent messages to his relatives and friends to defame him, forcing Chandra Mohan to take the extreme step. The Telangana police have identified at least 180 ‘unauthorised’ instant loan apps and at least 30 people, including four Chinese nationals. They have been arrested from the Hyderabad, Cyberabad, Rachakonda and Warangal Commissionerates. Two sons of a police officer in Kurnool were said to be kingpins in floating a few of these apps at the behest of Chinese entrepreneurs. “We wrote to Google to take down the apps whose operations are illegal,” Mr. Sajjanar said. Identified Hyderabad Additional Commissioner of Police (Crimes and SIT) Shikha Goel said that so far they have identified four companies which are operating at least 30 apps with a whopping Rs. 21,000 crore (4.57 billion dollars) volume in over 1.40 crore transactions. “This was the number given by us by RazorPay payment gateway, and it is still under investigation,” she said. With bases at Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Gurugram, the business has flourished thanks to COVID pandemic that drove thousands of people to penury. “These companies’ establishment almost coincided with the pandemic and we have frozen around Rs. 80 crore in 10 bank accounts,” Ms.Goel said. The financial stringency in the system that resulted in lowering of credit card limits, the loss of jobs or slashing of take home salaries has forced unwary people to turn to drawing loans from these apps-based companies at very high interest rates.  (Hyderabad-based suicide intervention centre Roshni cab be reached at +914066202000 or 6666 1117)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/harassed-by-online-loan-apps-defaulter-ends-life-in-telangana/article33484114.ece
03 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Farmers plan a series of events||As the farmers’ protest demanding a repeal of the three agriculture marketing laws has gone into the second month, the farmers’ unions have announced a series of protests with several thousand farmers camped at various border points outside Delhi. The protests will culminate in a parallel tractor parade on Republic Day if the government does not withdraw the three laws. The festival of Lohri, on January 13, will be marked as Kisan Sankalp Diwas by burning the copies of the three laws. January 18 will be celebrated as Mahila Kisan Diwas to underline the role of women farmers. On Subhash Chandra Bose’s birth anniversary on January 23, farmers will protest at the Raj Bhawans in all State capitals. “We have been peacefully protesting for so long. But this government has an ego problem. We have always told the government that it has only two options — to either repeal the three laws or use force on us to evict us,” said Balbir Singh Rajewal, a Punjab farmer leader who heads his own faction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union. “We intend to stay peaceful, we will not engage in any confrontation. But if the government chooses to use the police, that is their choice,” he added. The announcement of the scaled up protests was made by leaders of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Saturday. The leaders are part of the seven-member coordination committee of the SKM, an umbrella platform for the diverse coalition of farmers groups gathered at the border. They were speaking to journalists at their first press conference in the capital since the protest began.  The movement has no current plans to request police permission for their planned parade in Delhi. “Are we farmers not citizens of the Republic? We have every right to celebrate Republic Day without needing any police permission,” said Darshan Pal, Punjab president for the Kisan Krantikari Union. Similar parades would also be held in state capitals and district headquarters, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farmers-plan-a-series-of-events/article33484126.ece
03 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Covaxin gets expert panel nod||Indigenous COVID-19 vaccine candidate, Covaxin, developed by Bharat Biotech, was on Saturday recommended for “restricted use in emergency situation, subject to multiple regulatory conditionalties” by the Subject Expert Committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) will take a final call on approving the roll-out of the vaccine in the country. The recommendation was made following a two-day meeting , which earlier saw the panel sending Covishield, the vaccine developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University and manufactured by Pune’s Serum Institute of India (SII), for the DCGI approval on Friday. The Health Ministry, in a statement, said the SEC had made three recommendations for the consideration and the final decision of the DCGI. The recommendations are for the grant of permission for restricted emergency use of the vaccine, subject to multiple regulatory conditionalities, to SII; grant of permission for restricted use in emergency situation in public interest as an abundant precaution, in clinical trial mode, specially in the context of infection by mutant strains, to Bharat Biotech; and the grant of permission to Cadila Healthcare to conduct Phase-3 clinical trials. Rahul Pandit, member of the COVID-19 task force in Maharashtra, welcomed the developments. He added that vaccinating such a huge population would be a challenge. “The Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine is vector-based which has gone through three significant trial stages with 70% efficacy rate. While the vaccine is safe, however, there are some people who have severe drug allergies (leading to anaphylaxis reaction) and those with compromised immune systems who need to first take approval from their doctors before they take the vaccine shot. With the doctor’s go-ahead, these two groups should certainly get the vaccine,” he said. He added that as of now, no data was available for the vaccination of children and pregnant patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/expert-panel-clears-the-way-for-covaxin/article33484134.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||The corridor of uncertainty||On December 25, officials from China and Pakistan met in Urumqi, the capital of China’s far western Xinjiang region, for the second meeting of the Joint Working Group on International Cooperation and Coordination (JWG) under the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC). Attended by China’s Vice Foreign Minister Luo Zhaohui and Pakistan’s Foreign Secretary Sohail Mahmood, the meeting was aimed at taking stock of the CPEC as it turns five. Both sides hailed the progress of the plan despite the pandemic, declaring that both countries’ “close cooperation and mutual support amid COVID-19 has laid the foundation for economic recovery” and “injected new momentum into the construction of the CPEC”. The same statement did, however, also betray that below the surface, not everything was well. The viability of some of the CPEC’s projects, and how they were going to be paid for in a pandemic-hit economy, had come under renewed attention in Pakistan. On the very same day of the meeting, the Express Tribune newspaper reported that China had sought additional guarantees before sanctioning a $6 billion loan for the Main Line-1 (ML-1) project, which includes upgrading a 1,872 km rail line from Peshawar to Karachi, due to the “weakening financial position of Pakistan” and had “proposed a mix of commercial and concessional loans against Islamabad’s desire to secure the cheapest lending”. This was raised, the paper said, at the third joint ML-1 financing committee meeting held in December. The Chinese Foreign Ministry in Beijing was quick to reject the report as “baseless”. Among the takeaways from the JWG meeting was an agreement “to continue to publicise the positive role of the CPEC in improving local livelihoods” and “to clarify inaccurate reports about the CPEC in a timely manner”. Both sides, it was decided, would “encourage the media, film and television, and publishing sectors of the two countries to strengthen cooperation on the CPEC-related topics”. Whether that does the trick remains uncertain, because the debate about ML-1 is, in some sense, emblematic of the doubts that have plagued the CPEC since its inception. As it turns five, the picture is mixed. The CPEC hasn’t been the cure-all for Pakistan’s economy that was promised. Neither has it been a monumental disaster that brought financial ruin. A victim of hype The CPEC, to some degree, has been a victim of its own hype. Fanciful figures of $62 billion may never materialise — around one-third of that, estimates suggest, reflects the current scope of the plan — and as Andrew Small, the author of The China Pakistan Axis and a research fellow at the German Marshall Fund put it in a September paper, the plan has been “considerably slimmed-down” from the sweeping scope that was first imagined. Under the original Long-Term Plan (LTP) for the CPEC (2017-2030) signed off by both governments, the plan was built around a “1+4” model of the CPEC as the core while prioritising four areas: Gwadar, where China is expanding a port on the Arabian Sea and has ambitious plans for a Free Trade Zone, Energy, Transport Infrastructure and Industrial Cooperation. Until late 2017, as Mr. Small writes, it was anticipated that “a far more expansive array of projects would be in motion” but signs are that the CPEC will “fall far short of its transformative intentions”. That, in itself, may not be an entirely bad thing as “the shrinkage of the CPEC means that the financial risks — which many other BRI countries face — have been diminished for Pakistan” so “while the CPEC will not be the game-changer for the Pakistani economy that its supporters once hailed, it is not a debt trap either”. Signs are that the building of the CPEC is already driving a change in China’s positions on issues such as the Kashmir dispute, with the corridor passing through Pakistan-occupied Kashmir — a reason why India has opposed it. Indeed, the official LTP describes the region as belonging to Pakistan, and even uses Pakistan’s favoured term of “AJK” for the region. Regardless of the CPEC's limitations, one enduring legacy of the plan that India will have to contend with is how it has deepened the China-Pakistan ties, adding heavy economic stakes to an already close military partnership.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-corridor-of-uncertainty/article33484145.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||The activist behind bars||My sister is not a terrorist, she is an activist, said Lina al-Hathloul, sister of Loujain al-Hathloul, the Saudi human rights activist who was sentenced to prison by an anti-terrorism court on Monday. “To be sentenced for her activism for the very reforms that MBS so proudly tout is the ultimate hypocrisy,” she said in a statement, referring to the Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman by his initials. Ms. Loujain, a prominent advocate for women’s rights in the conservative kingdom, was arrested in May 2018 along with others who campaigned for lifting a ban on women driving, a few weeks before the ban was actually lifted. She was later charged for contacting organisations and diplomats that are hostile to Saudi Arabia. The arrest had gained international attention with rights groups asking the Saudi authorities to release her. But the kingdom did not relent. Ms. Loujain’s case was transferred to an anti-terrorism court in November last year, and on Monday, the judge found her guilty of various charges including trying to harm Saudi Arabia’s national security and advance foreign agenda. Ms. Loujain, 31, had been a relentless presence in Saudi Arabia’s limited public sphere until her arrest in 2018. Before MBS lifted the ban, Saudi Arabia was the only country that had banned women from driving. And many women like Ms. Loujain had raised voices against this state-driven discrimination. She was arrested for the first time in 2014 December while trying to drive to Saudi Arabia from the UAE. She was detained for over 70 days. But the detention did not deter Ms. Loujain, a University of British Columbia graduate, from continuing with her activism. In 2015, when Saudi women were allowed to vote and stand in elections at the municipal level for the first time, Ms. Loujain wanted to contest. But the authorities barred her. Guardianship system A year later, Ms. Loujain, along with 14,000 others, signed a petition to King Salman, demanding the male guardianship system be abolished. Under Saudi law, all women were required to have a male guardian. As part of the reforms initiated by the Crown Prince, the guardianship laws were partially amended in 2019, excluding women over 21 years old from the guardian system. The authorities, however, did not spare those who campaigned for abolishing the system. In 2017, a year after the petition was submitted to the King, Ms. Loujain was arrested again. After that, Ms. Loujain moved to the UAE and joined Sorbonne University’s Abu Dhabi campus for a master's degree programme in applied sociological research. But things didn’t go ahead as she planned. In March 2018, she was stopped by security officials while driving in Abu Dhabi. They forcibly put her on a plane and transferred her to a prison in Riyadh, the Saudi capital, according to an account by Alia al-Hathloul, another sister of Ms. Loujain. She was released after a few days but barred from travelling abroad and warned against using social media. In May, she was formally arrested and ever since she has been in prison. Ms. Alia, who is living in Brussels, wrote an Op-Ed in The New York Times in January 2019, alleging that her sister was tortured in prison. When her parents visited Ms. Loujain in Jeddah’s Dhahban prison in August 2018, she was “shaking uncontrollably, unable to hold her grip”. In December, she told her parents that she was tortured between May and August — she had been put in “solitary confinement, beaten, waterboarded, given electric shocks, sexually harassed and threatened with rape and murder” — according to Ms. Alia. The imprisonment, trial and allegations of torture of one of the most famous activists in the Kingdom, who was one of TIME magazine’s ‘100 most influential people’ in 2019, has heaped pressure on Crown Prince MBS, who is promoted by the kingdom as a man of reforms. But the Saudi authorities are also wary of dissent, which could breed more dissent. The judge who sentenced Ms. Loujain to five years and eight months, has suspended two years and 10 months of the sentence, which means, given the time she has already spent in prison, she could be released in a few months. But freedom comes with riders. she would be placed on probation for three years and barred from travelling abroad for five years, says her family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-activist-behind-bars/article33484147.ece
03 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Multiple venues for film festival trigger row||The Kerala State Chalachitra Academy’s decision to organise the 25th edition of the International Film Festival of Kerala (IFFK) in four phases in four regions of the State has kicked up a storm. Many, including Shashi Tharoor, MP, K.S. Sabarinadhan, MLA, and some capital-based social media groups, have alleged that this is part of an attempt to eventually move the festival out of Thiruvananthapuram, even as the academy and Culture Minister A.K. Balan have asserted that the capital would continue to be the permanent venue of the festival and that this is a stop-gap arrangement in view of the COVID-19 situation. In a post, Mr. Tharoor said, “This is deplorable. Thiruvananthapuram offers IFFK not just a great venue, but tradition, facilities and above all a passionate population of knowledgeable cinephiles.” Mr. Sabarinadhan said it was “unfortunate that the government is organising the festival partially in four districts.... This decision will destroy the Thiruvananthapuram brand that we built up over 25 years on the global cinema map.” FIAPF norm Speaking to The Hindu , academy chairperson Kamal said as a festival accredited by the International Federation of Film Producers Associations (FIAPF), the IFFK should have a permanent venue, which would always be Thiruvananthapuram. “This time, we wrote to the FIAPF first for permission to shift the dates of the festival considering the pandemic. Later, we also wrote with this proposal to spread it out in four regions, to reduce the crowd, which also they permitted. The FIAPF also appreciated us for taking these efforts to organise the festiva, at a time when many others were cancelled. In its permission, it has mentioned clearly that this arrangement is only for this year. It was the State government that asked the academy to find an alternate way this year to organise the festival by ensuring that large crowds do not gather,” said Mr. Kamal.  “One of the facts that they do not mention is that we are organising the entire festival in Thiruvananthapuram first, and is repeating the same programme in four other regions. It is for the convenience of people from all those places who cannot travel to the capital during this pandemic period. We have to reduce the crowd.... We have got a lot of appreciation from people in these regions after this decision,” he said. On the arguments regarding cancellation of the festival, he said that the academy did not want to do that on the 25th anniversary of the festival. Also, many filmmakers who had put out their works this year would lose an opportunity to screen it if the festival was cancelled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/multiple-venues-for-film-festival-trigger-row/article33484113.ece
03 January 2021||New Delhi,||Congress veteran Buta Singh passes away||Senior Congress leader and former Home Minister Buta Singh died at AIIMS, Delhi early on Saturday morning. He was 86 and had been in coma since October last year after he suffered a brain haemorrhage. He is survived by a daughter and two sons. Mr. Singh, started out as a Communist before switching to the Shiromani Akali Dal for a short stint and then joined the Congress in the early 1960s. A prominent Dalit leader in the Congress, he was convenor of the All India Congress Committee''s (AICC) Harijan cell in 1973-74, after which he became the AICC general secretary in 1978. An eight time Lok Sabha MP, he entered Parliament in 1962 from the Moga Lok Sabha constituency in Punjab. In 1974, Prime Minister Indira Gandhi elevated him to the post of Deputy Minister for Railways. He was considered her close confidante and was involved in Operation Blue Star, which led to much outrage among the Sikh community. Later, as a Union Minister, he was also involved in reconstruction of the Golden Temple. But his real career high came during his working with Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi. In 1981, he was made the Chairperson of the Organising Committee for Asian Games, the first major international games to come to India. Under Rajiv Gandhi, Mr. Singh became the country’s Home Minister leaving a legacy of imposing President’s Rule on many State governments. In February 2005, as the Governor of Bihar, Mr. Singh had recommended dissolution of Bihar Assembly, hoping to stall a JD(U)-BJP government in the State. But within six-months, fresh elections gave a clear majority to the JD(U)-BJP combine. Under PM P.V. Narasimha Rao, Mr Buta Singh held the portfolio of Union Minister of Civil Supplies, Consumer Affairs and Public Distribution from 1995 to 1996. He was appointed the chairman of the National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) by Prime Minister Manmohan Singh in 2007. He held that post till 2010. His demise was announced by his son Arvinder Singh Lovely Sidhu on Facebook. “My father, Buta Singh, passed away today morning. May Waheguru bless his soul,” read the post in Hindi. President Ramnath Kovind led the nation in offering condolences. “In the passing of Shri Buta Singh, the country has lost one of the longest serving parliamentarians with rich administrative experience. He championed the cause of the oppressed and marginalized. Condolences to his family and supporters,” he tweeted. Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that with Mr Singh’s death the country has lost a voice for the poor and downtrodden. He tweeted, “Shri Buta Singh Ji was an experienced administrator and effective voice for the welfare of the poor as well as downtrodden. Saddened by his passing away. My condolences to his family and supporters.” Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi tweeting in Hindi said: “The country has lost a true public servant and a loyal leader with the death of Sardar Buta Singh Ji. He devoted his entire life to service to the country and people’s well-being. For this, he will always be remembered. My condolences to his family members during this difficult time.” Congress general secretary in-charge of communications, Randeep Surjewala said Mr. Singh’s death was a personal loss for him. “He always fought for the exploited and deprived sections of the society. I personally received his affection and guidance for years,” he tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-veteran-buta-singh-passes-away/article33484130.ece
03 January 2021||BENGALURU,||Karnataka Cabinet expansion likely only after Sankranti||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa is learnt to have made a strong pitch for Cabinet expansion/reshuffle with BJP national general secretary Arun Singh, who is on a three-day trip to the State for the party’s State Executive meet in Shivamogga, arguing that it would put to rest speculations over leadership change. A call on the exercise, however, will be taken only after Sankranti by Union Home Minister Amit Shah who is scheduled to visit the State around the festival, sources in the party said. Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, lobbying hard to get ministerial berth for all defectors, said in Belagavi on Saturday that though their demand was to take up Cabinet expansion on Sunday itself, they had now accepted the decision of “higher-ups” that it was possible only after Sankranti on January 14. “It is believed to be an inauspicious season till then,” he said. Mr. Yediyurappa met Mr. Singh with senior Ministers Govind M. Karjol and Basavaraj Bommai in the city on Saturday and flew to Shivamogga together. The Chief Minister is learnt to have also expressed dissatisfaction over the party’s silence on the issue of dissenter MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal making repeated statements alluding to leadership change in the State. “Mr. Singh is expected to make a statement in the State Executive meet to give out a message to such dissenting voices to not make such public comments,” a close associate of the Chief Minister said. However, given dissatisfaction and factionalism is a reality in the State unit, the Chief Minister’s camp may not push hard for disciplinary action against Mr. Yatnal, sources said. “There is a danger that such action may emerge to be a rallying point to those with some dissatisfaction,” a party strategist said. Awaiting green signal The Chief Minister is instead keen on securing a green signal for Cabinet expansion/reshuffle, which he believes will make “talk of leadership change irrelevant at least for now”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/karnataka-cabinet-expansion-likely-only-after-sankranti/article33484100.ece
03 January 2021||MYSURU,||Community farming to augment villagers’ income||The Forest Department has launched a pilot project to encourage community farming and help augment farm income of local villagers on the outskirts of M.M. Hills Wildlife Sanctuary. It was launched last week at Tulsikere village bordering M.M. Hills range and 12 families, who were keen to be part of the pilot project and displayed active interest in the scheme, are part of it. The concept entails providing incentives to beneficiaries to cultivate vegetables and add value to the agricultural products for which the department will network with buyers. “We will provide an assured market for agricultural produce of the farmers most of whom are tribals, though there are non-tribal families also in the scheme,” explained Y. Yedukondalu, Deputy Conservator of Forests, M.M. Hills Wildlife Sanctuary. No chemical fertilizers The farmers have been instructed not to use chemical fertilizers and pesticides and instead harness cattle dung that is available in plenty but which used to go underutilised. The dung will serve as manure and the idea is to go organic or take up natural farming, said Mr. Yedukondalu. The ban on use of insecticides and pesticides will reduce the cost of cultivation, he added. There are nearly 150 to 200 cows in the village and the milk produced by them will be used for making ghee and sweets, which will be sold through farmers’ producers company. Though the community is traditionally dependent on agriculture for their livelihood, it is unsustainable and also lacks a commercial component. This is because agriculture takes place under rain-fed conditions in the hilly terrain and the food cultivated is consumed locally. “The Forest Department will provide solar-powered drip or sprinkler irrigation system at a cost of Rs. 3 lakh so as to ensure that agriculture could be taken up on a commercial scale,” said Mr. Yedukondalu. There is money earmarked for projects of the eco-development committees of the villages and this amount will be utilised for funding the project. “Vegetables are in perennial demand and we will take up the last-mile networking and marketing and have also involved a farmers producers company which has assured to purchase the produce in bulk,” he added. A portion of the land will be developed as a grassland so as to ensure fodder for the cows. The authorities aver this will also reduce the practice of letting cattle inside the forest for grazing which tends to degrade the jungles. If successful, the template will be replicated in other villages too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/community-farming-launched-to-augment-villagers-income/article33484366.ece
03 January 2021||SIDDIPET,||Song of sorrow of displaced villagers||Leaving home or native place is very difficult as most people have a physical and emotional attachment to their homes. The attachment is stronger and more visible in rural areas than in urban environment. The emotional bonds are not only with the place but also with the fellow residents who address each other as kin — Anna or Tammudu (brother), Bava or Bavamaridi (brother-in-law), Mama (uncle), Tata or Maama (grandparents) — and the exceptions being the occasional visitors who maybe called by their name. When it is very difficult and heart breaking for an individual to leave such relationships and leave the village is heart breaking, how can it be easy when the entire village has to be evacuated. No one knows where the other person would be and where they will settle down. The bigger question that haunts everyone is employment, there is no assurance of even getting labour work. Pouring out the sorrow and angst of the villagers being displaced by the natives of Erravalli village in Kondapaka mandal, which would be totally submerged under the Mallannasagar, a song video was captured by a resident of the village Bhaskar Perla. Incidentally the village falls in Gajwel constituency represented by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. “I have grown up in the village and lived in it all along. Now my heart become heavy while leaving the village. The tank in our neighbourhood and the dappu (a traditional percussion instrument) in the hand of a villager are asking me how I am vacating the village. The village loves us very much like our mother and father and showers the same affection. Even the animals in our village treat us fondly. We are filled with joy when swimming in agriculture well, going to fields and plucking fruits without informing mother. I forget all my problems when I return to the village from any place,” go the lyrics of the 12.11 minute song ‘Mana Village Erravally’ written by P. Nagaraju. The video produced by Vinay Kumar the entire village was covered and the team made sure that they did not miss any nook or cranny. “Our village is totally disturbed and going to submerge in Mallannasagar. The house we have built, the walls and the path we walked are coming to mind and my heart becomes heavy. The land has been acquired forcibly and we are being sent away from our village. Can not the Chief Minister speak with those losing their lands and do justice?” asks the singer and music composer Indrajit. The video can be accessed at https://youtu.be/ fiB9JRqwjy0||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/song-of-sorrow-of-displaced-villagers/article33485094.ece
03 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||PM has got a global thumbs-up: Nadda||BJP president J.P. Nadda on Saturday said it was a matter of pride for all Indians that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s approval rating had been the highest among global leaders, referring to the U.S.-based data firm Morning Consult’s latest report that put Mr. Modi at 55% approval. In a tweet, Mr. Nadda said Mr. Modi’s popularity had not only increased in “all demographic groups and geographic regions of the country”, but he also got “a thumbs up globally for his dedication to his country”. The PM ranked number one among “all global leaders” in these challenging times, he said. “Ever since the Modi-led government came into power, people’s trust in the government and the faith that the nation is progressing in the right direction has risen drastically. This rating is testimony of his able leadership and hard work and is a thing of pride for all Indians,” Mr. Nadda said in a tweet. Union Minister and BJP leader Prakash Javadekar later addressed a press conference at the party headquarters to highlight Mr. Modi’s ratings and awards over the years. ‘Rare phenomenon’ He said it was a ‘rare phenomenon’ that Mr. Modi’s ratings had been increasing over the years. The Morning Consult Global Leader Approval Rating Tracker, last updated on December 23, 2020, includes ratings of the leaders of governments of 13 countries, including the U.S., Australia, Brazil, Germany and India. With a sample size of 2,126 in India, the tracker showed 75% approved of Mr. Modi and 20% disapproved, putting his net approval at 55%.  People’s trust in the government and the faith that the nation is progressing in the right direction has risen drastically J.P. Nadda BJP president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-has-got-a-global-thumbs-up-nadda/article33484120.ece
03 January 2021||New Delhi,||Gen. Rawat meets soldiers in forward areas of Arunachal||Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Gen. Bipin Rawat on Saturday visited the forward Air Force bases in Arunachal Pradesh and interacted with troops deployed including those from the secretive Special Frontier Force (SFF). “CDS, on completion of one year in office, Gen. Bipin Rawat visited the bases in the eastern sector and interacted with the Army, the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) and the SFF soldiers deployed at the forwardmost air-maintained post in Dibang Valley and Lohit Sector of Arunachal Pradesh,” the Army said in a statement. He complimented the soldiers for the innovative measures adopted to maintain effective surveillance and enhanced operational readiness, the Army said. Gen. Rawat took over as the first CDS on January 1, 2020. There has been high alert and massive deployment of troops and equipment along the LAC since the standoff with China in the eastern Ladakh began in early May. The SFF, whose actions have rarely been acknowledged officially, had recently been deployed during the standoff. On the nights of September 29 and 30, the SFF troops were employed to dominate the peaks in Chushul sector on the Indian side of the LAC pre-empting a similar move by China.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gen-rawat-meets-soldiers-in-forward-areas-of-arunachal/article33484122.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Experts suggest ways to reduce hazards posed by birds to flights||Habitat management of birds, preventing breeding on airport premises and discouraging people from dumping waste nears airports and airfields can reduce hazards posed by birds to aircraft, a publication by the Salim Ali Centre For Ornithology and Natural History (SACON) points out. The document, “Best Practices for Mitigation of the Hazards Posed by Birds to Aircraft”, made public by SACON a few weeks ago, emphasises on habitat management at airfields. Various measures “Location specific habitat management information is needed to reduce the number of bird-aircraft conflicts. The habitat management is aimed at reducing the attractiveness of sites for challenging bird species by reducing the availability of food, water, cover and roosting sites,” it says The advisory — running into 19 pages and prepared by scientists P. Pramod and P.V. Karunakaran — points out that a systematic study of birdlife at an airfield and understanding the bird community structure and its changes are essential for mitigating the dangers posed by birds to flights. Create database The document states that water flows related to irrigation and water stagnation of any type should be prevented. It says that ornithological training for the Air Traffic Control ( ATC) staff focussing on problematic birds would help them take adequate decision. The experts also recommend that a database be prepared of all bird species in the 10 km radius of airports. They suggest that there is a need for awareness creation and public participation in reducing the hazards posed by birds to aircraft. “Feeding of birds by people close to airports (within a radius of 2 km) should be discouraged and stopped,” the document states. The scientists also call for discouraging slaughterhouses and dumping of waste very close to airports to avoid carnivorous birds such as kites. Species-wise suggestion There are also species-wise recommendation for minimising hazards. The document suggests that to discourage black kites, which are high soarers and pose danger during landing and take-off, airfields must be clear of any animal or bird carcasses. To discourage lapwing activity, appropriate short grass cover should be developed and maintained preferably at less than 15 cm height inside the airfield. The document suggests that to stop crows, food waste dumping areas around the airport must be relocated, while water stagnation should be cleared to keep away pigeons. To keep water fowls and water birds away from airports, the document calls for filing areas near the runway where water stagnates with earth and cover the banks of water bodies with nets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/experts-suggest-ways-to-reduce-hazards-posed-by-birds-to-flights/article33484136.ece
03 January 2021||New Delhi,||IIMs can build on innovations pioneered during pandemic: PM||Management schools and students can play a key role in building on the innovations pioneered during the COVID-19 pandemic, turning start-ups into multinationals and taking Indian products to a global audience, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday. Mr. Modi was speaking after laying the foundation stone of the permanent campus of the Indian Institute of Management, Sambalpur. The institution has been functioning from a temporary campus since 2015. The Prime Minister urged the IIMs across the country to document the innovations adopted during the pandemic and study how they could be scaled up and incorporated even after the pandemic is over. They needed to grapple with real life problems in a country like India, he said. Mr. Modi said that despite the COVID-19 crisis, India had produced a large number of unicorns, or start-up companies valued at more than a billion dollars, over the course of 2020. “The start-ups of today are the multinationals of tomorrow. These start-ups need managers,” Mr. Modi said, adding that most of the new start-ups were starting in Tier-2 and Tier-3 cities, and would need managers from a range of backgrounds and experiences. The change in the nature of work also needed a new kind of manager, he said, noting that the world had changed from a “global village to a global workplace”. ‘Turn local into global’ The Prime Minister also urged IIM students to take the lead in “turning local into global”. Citing the examples of Odisha’s rich heritage of Sambalpuri and Ikat textiles, Mr. Modi said the new IIM could play an important role in giving them a global identity. This would also help in achieving the mission of a self-reliant India or Atmanirbhar Bharat, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/iims-can-build-on-innovations-pioneered-during-pandemic-pm/article33484138.ece
03 January 2021||HYDERABAD,||HC directs varsity to admit NRI student||Telangana High Court has directed Kaloji Narayana Rao University of Health Sciences to give admission in M.B.B.S. course to a foreign national of Indian origin who was denied medical seat stating that she had no proof of study of biological sciences in her qualifying examination. A bench of Justices M.S. Ramachandra Rao and T. Amarnath Goud, pronouncing judgment, said the student P. Srikerti Reddy should be given medical seat forthwith without insisting for proof that she studied biological sciences in qualifying exam. The judgment also declared the university’s action of treating the student ineligible for admission as arbitrary and illegal. All India rank The student, whose father is of Indian origin, completed 12th standard at Conrad high school under West Hartford Board Education, Connecticut in the US. She appeared for National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) under graduate exam in foreign national category. Her all India rank was 4,82,207. On December 12, 2020, the university said she was ineligible for admission in MBBS course as she had no proof of studying biological sciences in the qualifying examination (for Indians it is Intermediate or CBSE plus two). She moved the HC challenging the university’s decision. The petitioner’s counsel presented to the court that School Counsellor of Conard high school issued a certificate on December 11, 2020 stating that the student had appeared for Advanced Placement Biology course. Subjects of bio-chemistry, cellular biology, organism biology, population biology, Evolution, Genetics and Ecology were covered in deep in that course. She also presented a certificate issued by Consulate General of India, New York, endorsing that her 12-year high school diploma in the US was recognised in India as equivalent to two-year Pre University Course (present Intermediate programme). Another certificate issued by Telangana State Board of Intermediate Education confirming the 12th class/senior secondary examination of West Hartford Board of Education, Connecticut, USA, was equivalent to Intermediate course. University notification As per the university’s notification for admissions, the student had uploaded the equivalent certificate issued by Intermediate Board. Additional Advocate General J. Ramchandra Rao contended that the student had not studied biological sciences, physics and chemistry in 11th and 12th standards as required. She studied biological sciences only in tenth standard, Mr. Rao argued. The certificate issued by Intermediate Board did not specifically say that she studied those subjects in 11th and 12th standards, he told the court. The bench noted that the university did not cite this as reason making her ineligible for admission. It only stated that there was “no proof of study of biological sciences subject in qualifying examinations”. The validity of the equivalence certificate issued by the Intermediate Board was also not mentioned. The university cannot improve and add new grounds to make her ineligible for admission, the bench said.  The university cannot improve and add new grounds to make the student ineligible for admission. Telangana High Court||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-directs-varsity-on-nri-admission/article33484096.ece
03 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Trial data submitted to DCGI: Bharat Biotech||Bharat Biotech on Saturday said the publication of the Phase-2 trial data of its COVID-19 vaccine candidate, Covaxin, was undergoing the peer review process. It added that as a part of the regulatory guidelines all data had been submitted to the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation and the Drugs Controller General of India. The firm, in a statement, said that the product development and clinical trial data for Covaxin had so far generated five publications, four of which had been accepted by international peer reviewed journals and would be published soon. “Bharat Biotech has announced successful recruitment of 23,000 volunteers, and continued progress towards achieving the goal of 26,000 participants for Phase-3 clinical trial of COVAXIN across multiple sites in India. The Phase-3 human clinical trials began in mid-November and is targeted to be done in 26,000 volunteers across India,” the company said. It added that this would be the first and only Phase-3 efficacy study conducted so far for a COVID-19 vaccine in India. It would also be the largest Phase-3 efficacy trial ever conducted for any vaccine in India. Covaxin had been evaluated in 1,000 subjects in the Phase-1 and Phase-2 trials, with promising safety and immunogenicity results, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trial-data-submitted-to-dcgi-bharat-biotech/article33484868.ece
03 January 2021||New Delhi,||India cultures new coronavirus strain||India has successfully cultured the new coronavirus strain, which was first reported in the U.K., the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Saturday. In a tweet, the ICMR claimed that no country had yet reported successful isolation and culture of the new variant of SARS-CoV-2. Culture is the process by which cells are grown under controlled conditions, generally outside their natural environment. “The U.K.-variant of the virus, with all signature changes, is now successfully isolated and cultured at the National Institute of Virology (NIV) from the clinical specimens collected from U.K.-returnees,” the ICMR said. The research body said vero cell lines were used by the scientists of ICMR-NIV to culture the U.K.-variant of the virus. A total of 29 people have tested positive for the new variant in India so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-cultures-new-coronavirus-strain/article33484143.ece
03 January 2021||Hyderabad,||‘PCC chief only after Nagarjunasagar bypoll’||Congress MLA from Sangareddy T. Jayaprakash Reddy has appealed to AICC president Sonia Gandhi and MP Rahul Gandhi to delay the decision on the new PCC chief till the Nagarjunasagar byelection is completed to avoid groupism in the party. In a letter to Ms. Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi, Mr. Reddy said instead of focussing on the new PCC chief the party should constitute a committee to strengthen the financial position of the party since success in elections is now linked to funds availability, apart from the schemes announced in the manifesto. Congress has a great chance of coming back to power in 2023 as Telangana Rashtra Samithi was beginning to face anti-incumbency and it is increasing at a greater pace. At this time, the effort should be keep the party intact and involve all the party leaders in the party affairs. For this Mr. Reddy suggested that the party should identify leaders with strong financial background and give them the responsibility of five constituencies each — to fight on public issues. Separate committees on farmers, minorities, socially backward sections and women should be constituted to keep the heat on the government. Such a person should be appointed PCC president who can coordinate with all these committees to put up a united fight against the government. Mr. Reddy suggested that while effort is on to constitute these committees the party can fight the Nagarjunasagar bypoll. With the coordination of senior and strong leaders like Mr. Uttam Kumar Reddy and Komatireddy Venkata Reddy the party can win the bypoll easily if Mr. K. Jana Reddy is the candidate. The MLA said since he had worked in both the BJP and TRS earlier he understands their politics better and the intention of the letter was only to highlight the need for a combined fight against them. “I don’t have any personal interests and I am taking this liberty to write to you in the interests of the party,” he said. Mr. Reddy also argued that the people had faith in Ms. Sonia Gandhi’s selfless service to the country and they understand how she was not power-hungry. “People respect yours and Rahul Gandhi’s decision not to take up any post despite having every chance to become the Prime Minister,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pcc-chief-only-after-nagarjunasagar-bypoll/article33484102.ece
03 January 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam gives a lifeline to its only Ramsar site||The Kamrup (Metropolitan) district administration has prohibited community fishing in Deepor Beel, a wetland on the south-western edge of Guwahati and Assam’s only Ramsar site. The prohibition order under Section 144 of the Cr.P.C. underlines the possibility of community fishing on January 3 and will remain beyond the mid-January Magh or Bhogali Bihu that is preceded by mass fishing in many parts of the State. “Some people from the villages around and adjoining Deepor Beel Wildlife Sanctuary such as Keotpara, Mikirpara, Paspara, Azara, Tetelia, in tandem with people from various fringe parts of Guwahati city are likely to venture out to organise community fishing on January 3, 2021 and even after that also,” said an order from Deputy Commissioner of Police (West), Guwahati. “And whereas such ventures are absolutely illegal under the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972, which will also cause irreparable as well as irretrievable damage to the ecosystem of the sanctuary as presented by the divisional forest officer (Guwahati Wildlife Division),” said the order effective from January 1-31. Officials said the order was necessary to prevent fishing, excavation and construction in and around the wetland that has been shrinking over the years. Shrinking in size Deepor Beel was designated a Ramsar site in 2002 for sustaining a range of aquatic life forms besides 219 species of birds. A Ramsar site is a wetland designated to be of international importance under the Convention on Wetlands on February 2, 1971, in the Iranian city of Ramsar on the Caspian Sea shore. According to hydrological experts, the area of the wetland was about 6,000 hectares in the late 1980s. Satellite imagery has revealed that its area has shrunk by at least 35% since 1991. “One of the reasons is that it is losing connectivity with small rivers such as Kalmoni, Khonajan and Basistha that used to flow via the Mora Bharalu channel through Guwahati,” said Bibhav Talukdar of green group Aaranyak. Expansion of the city, encroachment upon the natural channels through Guwahati and from the hills around, and a municipal waste dump at Boragaon almost on the edge of the wetland were the other factors, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-gives-a-lifeline-to-its-only-ramsar-site/article33484142.ece
03 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Shops in Karnataka can remain open 24x7||The State government has permitted all shops and establishments employing 10 or more persons to be open round the clock on all days for the next three years under the provisions of the Karnataka Shops and Commercial Establishments Act, 1961. This is expected to help shops and establishments to recover from the financial difficulties they faced during COVID-19-induced lockdown and slowdown in the economy. The new rules notified by the Labour Department have barred working of women employees beyond 8 p.m. on any day in normal circumstances. An employer can allow a woman employee to work between 8 p.m. and 6 a.m. only after obtaining a written consent, subject to providing adequate protection to her dignity, honour, and safety, the notification said. It said that the employer should hire additional staff to allow every employee to avail of one day holiday in a week on rotation. Details of every employee should be exhibited by the employer at a prominent place in the shop or establishment. Every employer should exhibit details of the employees who are on holiday and leave on a daily basis at clearly visible places in the shop or establishment. Wages, including overtime wages, of the employees should be credited to the savings bank account as per the Karnataka Payment of Wages Act, 1963, the notification said. Working hours have been limited to eight hours a day and 48 hours a week, the notification said.  The period of work, including overtime, should not exceed 10 hours on any day and 50 hours in a period of three continuous months. It said penal action would be initiated against the employer or the manager of the shop or establishment if an employee is found working on any holiday or after normal duty hours without proper indent of overtime. It said transport facilities should be provided for women employees who work in shifts and notice to this effect should be exhibited at the main entrance of the shop or establishment, indicating the availability of the transport. The notification said employees should be provided with restrooms, washrooms, safety lockers, and other basic amenities. Every employer employing women workers should constitute internal complaints committee against sexual harassment of women under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013, and the committee should be operative. The notification said owners of shops and establishments should implement all terms and conditions specified in the Karnataka Shops and Establishments Act and the Workmen’s Compensation Act, 1923. Penal action would be taken against employers or managers if they are found violating any statutory provisions of the Acts, the notification said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/shops-can-now-be-open-24x7/article33484338.ece
03 January 2021||RAHUL KARMAKAR GUWAHATI,||Assam’s doubtful citizens learn their rights||Aditpur is not known for academics. But this village, about 20 km from western Assam’s Barpeta town, is teaching the Constitution of India to “doubtful” Indians who are unlikely to have heard of it. Local activists and youth had on December 20 opened a Sambidhan Kendra (Constitution Centre) at Aditpur’s TND Bazaar. Scores of people marked ‘D’ (doubtful voters) and facing citizenship issues have since been trooping to this two-room centre to know where they stand, what they need to do and how they can fight a system that makes them “victims” of the very Constitution that they are a part of. “Assam has over 5 lakh people who are being deprived of their citizenship rights because of having been struck off voters’ list and being slapped with notices as suspected foreigners,” said Mahiuddin Siddique, a teacher of a private college who conceptualised the centre that took six months to plan. “The Sambidhan Kendra , probably the first of its kind in India, is an effort to make such people aware of their citizenship rights,” he told The Hindu . Simplifying the Constitution for the mostly poor and illiterate or barely literate people struggling to prove their citizenship, is not the only objective of the centre run by about 100 sevak s (volunteers). The centre with enough space for 30 people also organises an assembly of advocates and aspiring lawyers to update on cases of D-voters and suspected foreigners being handled, and motivate each other to help “victims of the system” get justice. “The only condition for being a part of the Kendra is to offer free service unconditionally,” Mr. Siddique said. . While the advocates associated with the centre offer free legal service, the sevak s assist them in making documents ready and running other errands. “It is sad that most people are not aware of even the fundamentals of the Constitution, particularly the poor who need constitutional protection more than others. Our aim is to take the spirit of this holy book — as our Prime Minister refers to it — to the common man and woman so that no one is at the mercy of those who misinterpret the laws,” Mr. Siddique said.  Assam has over 5 lakh people who are being deprived of their citizenship rights because of having been struck off voters’ list Mahiuddin Siddique A teacher of a private college who conceptualised the centre||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assams-doubtful-citizens-get-a-centre-to-learn-their-rights/article33484166.ece
03 January 2021||MANGALURU,||LNG in major cities in Karnataka soon||Manoj Jain, Chairman and MD, GAIL India Ltd., on Saturday said that as many as 28 cities and towns in Karnataka will get liquefied natural gas (LNG) for domestic, industrial and automobile consumption through the city gas distribution system in about a year. He was speaking at a virtual press conference to announce the inauguration of the 450-km Kochi-Kottanad-Mangaluru LNG pipeline on January 5 at the hands of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Cities around Bengaluru and Mangaluru would first get LNG through CGD followed by other cities and towns. Work on CGD has already commenced in many of these localities, he added. Bengaluru would also get LNG from Kochi terminal from Kottanad via Tamil Nadu, he added. Mr. Jain said LNG would be cheaper, safer and cleaner compared to other sources of energy. There would be considerable reduction in cost when LNG was used for domestic, automobile and industrial purposes. The fuel was less polluting too thereby contributing to environment conservation, he added. Allying fears among public that transporting LNG through pipelines would be dangerous, Mr. Jain said pipelines were constructed according to international safety standards and there were few chances of gas leakage. Moreover, LNG was lighter than air and dissolved immediately if it comes out in to the open and as such, there was no threat even if there were leaks, he said. GAIL Directors E.S. Ranganathan (Marketing) and M.V. Iyer (Business Development) were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/major-cities-in-state-to-get-lng-distribution-system-soon/article33484383.ece
03 January 2021||MANGALURU,||LNG pipeline to be dedicated on Tuesday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will dedicate the 450-km long Kochi-Koottanad-Mangaluru natural gas pipeline built and operated by GAIL India Ltd., to the nation on Tuesday. GAIL Chairman and MD Manoj Jain at a virtual press conference on Saturday said the regasified liquefied natural gas (RLNG) has already been flowing from Kochi LNG Terminal of Petronet LNG to Mangaluru (Mangalore Chemicals and Fertilisers Ltd.) heralding a new era in clean and green energy sector. The virtual inaugural programme would also witness participation of Governors and Chief Ministers of Karnataka and Kerala as well as Union Petroleum and Natural Gas Minister Dharmendra Pradhan from 11 a.m. Work on the City Gas Distribution system for Mangaluru was under way and some areas were likely to get supply by the end of the year, he said. While MCF, the lone chemical fertiliser manufacturer in Karnataka uses about 0.85 million standard cubic metres per day (MSCMD) of LNG, Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd., and ONGC Mangalore Petrochemicals Ltd., were likely to offload another 0.6 MSCMD from the end of this month, he said. Distribution of LNG as an auto fuel was likely to coincide with the supply of city gas distribution in Mangaluru. Cost-wise, LNG would be cheaper by about 40% than fossil fuels petrol and diesel for automobiles while about 20% cheaper than LPG for domestic consumption. For industries too, the liquefied natural gas would not only be cheaper than conventional fuel, but also would be energy efficient and environment friendly, Mr. Jain said. If industries were using waste oil or Naphtha for their energy requirements, use of LNG would mean reduction in pollution by over 50%, he added. Work on the Kochi-Koottanad-Mangaluru LNG pipeline began in 2009 and was expected to be commissioned in 2014 at an estimated cost of Rs. 2,915 crore. However, delays in land acquisition following opposition from land owners and other aspects delayed construction and the line was completed on November 16, 2020. The final cost was estimated at Rs. 5,750 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/modi-to-dedicate-kochi-mangaluru-lng-pipeline-to-the-nation-on-tuesday/article33484381.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Free vaccination first for health, frontline workers||Speaking about vaccine hesitancy, the Minister said that isn’t a new phenomenon. “It was there even when we started the polio immunisation drive but we must remember its success. I appeal to the people not to be misguided by rumours regarding safety and efficacy of the COVID-19 vaccine. We will not compromise on any protocol before approving a vaccine. The planning for the vaccine introduction will be as per the Operational Guidelines issued by the Ministry,” he said. Calling the digital platform, Co-WIN, repurposed from the e-VIN platform to be a real game changer, the Minister also explained that this platform will provide real time information of vaccine stocks, their storage temperature and individualized tracking of beneficiaries of the COVID-19 vaccine. He added that this platform will assist the programme managers across all levels through automated session allocation for pre-registered beneficiaries, their verification and for generating a digital certificate upon successful completion of the vaccine schedule. “More than 75 lakh beneficiaries have been registered on Co-WIN platform till date,” Dr Vardhan said while stressing India’s preparedness for ensuring that the vaccine reaches even the remotest corner of the country. “The country’s cold chain infrastructure has been sufficiently upgraded to ensure last mile delivery. Adequate supplies of syringes and other logistics have also been provided for. India has conducted several successful immunization drives with respect to polio, rubella and measles,’’ he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/free-vaccination-first-for-health-frontline-workers/article33484105.ece
03 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Man, his two children found dead in Kerala||The bodies of a 35-year-old autorickshaw driver and his two sons were found in Navaikulam on Saturday. The Kallambalam police identified the deceased as Safeer of Nainamkonam, near Navaikulam, and his sons, Althaf, 11, and Anshad, 8. The search for the trio began after a few people found Safeer’s autorickshaw abandoned near the pond attached to the Sree Sankaranarayana Swamy temple with slippers and masks lying nearby around 5 a.m. They also spotted a note inside the vehicle stating that Althaf was dead in the house, around one kilometre from the pond. The police rushed to the house to find the boy dead with his hands and legs tied. Safeer’s body was soon retrieved from the pond. The police and Fire and Rescue Services personnel launched the rescue operation for Anshad. The boy’s body was recovered from the pond around 1 p.m. The police suspect Safeer to have murdered Althaf, before drowning Anshad in the pond, and committing suicide. Depression According to the police, Safeer’s wife Rejina had been living separately for four months, accusing him of torturing her. However, their children continued to stay with their father. Safeer purportedly used to undergo treatment for depression. Althaf and Anshad were Class 6 and Class 4 students respectively of Government Higher Secondary School, Navaikulam. The results of the post-mortem examination are awaited. (Suicide prevention helpline: DISHA – 1056, 0471-2552056)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/man-his-two-children-found-dead-in-kerala/article33484109.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||LeT leader held ahead of FATF meet||In its previous plenary session in October 2020, the 39-member FATF had decided to give Pakistan three months more to complete the action plan, in which it has cleared 21 of the 27 points, with six outstanding. In particular, the FATF plenary outcomes had told Pakistan’s government that it must demonstrate “effective implementation of targeted financial sanctions against all [UNSC] 1267 and 1373 designated terrorists and those acting for or on their behalf, preventing the raising and moving of funds, identifying and freezing assets, and prohibiting access to funds and financial services” and show effective prosecution against them as well. At least 146 U.N. banned terrorists are Pakistani citizens, but India has been closely pursuing the prosecution of Hafiz Saeed, Zaki-ur-Rahman Lakhvi and Jaish-e-Mohammad chief Masood Azhar through international channels like FATF for their role in continuing terror attacks. “Action against Lakhvi is long overdue. Had Pakistan acted against Lakhvi and Azhar last year, they would have been near a conviction, like Hafiz Saeed who has now been convicted. With this ‘one-by-one’ prolonged approach, Pakistan is harming its own strategic interests, and delaying completing the action plan it has been given,” explained an official who asked not to be identified. Lakhvi was designated a terrorist on December 10, 2008 by the U.N. Security Council Sanctions committee (QDi.264) for directing the LeT operations in Chechnya, Bosnia, Iraq, Afghanistan and south-east Asia. Under pressure after the Mumbai attacks on November 26-28, 2008, Pakistani authorities had arrested Lakhvi, who was accused of training the 10 gunmen in Pakistan and directing their brutal actions in Mumbai that left 166 people dead, from a control room in Karachi. He was held at Rawalpindi’s Adiala jail until he was granted bail, and released by the Lahore High Court in April 2015. India and the U.S. had protested the release, especially since Lakhvi was able to pay Pakistan Rs. 2 million (Rs. 20 lakhs) as his bail amount, without providing evidence of his sources. Since then, officials had maintained that he was untraceable. Last year, the government had even removed Lakhvi’s name along with thousands of others from its own list of terrorists, an action that was subsequently reversed after it was raised at the FATF proceedings. The action against Lakhvi now is therefore understood to be ahead of the Asia-Pacific Joint Group later this month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ahead-of-fatf-meet-pak-arrests-let-leader-lakhvi/article33484118.ece
03 January 2021||Chandigarh,||Governor should take up matters with me: Punjab CM||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday took exception to Governor V.P. Singh Badnore’s summoning of the State’s top administrative brass instead of seeking a report directly from him, as Home Minister, on the law and order situation. The Chief Minister said the propaganda of the Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) on the collapse of law and order in the State was nothing more than a tactic to divert attention from the farm laws issue. If the Governor had any concerns on the situation, he should have taken up the matter directly with him, the Chief Minister, as he was the custodian of the Home portfolio. Capt. Amarinder was reacting to the Governor summoning the Punjab Chief Secretary and Director General of Police (DGP) to question them on the alleged law and order problems in the State amid sporadic incidents of damage to some mobile towers. Capt. Amarinder accused the State BJP leadership of “adding fuel to the fire with their irresponsible statements”. He termed it a vicious game plan of the BJP to undermine the farmers’ peaceful agitation by terming “a few minor incidents of damage to some mobile towers as a law and order problem”. “These damaged towers can be and are being repaired, but what about the lives of the farmers lost in the bitter cold at the Delhi borders, where they continue to fight for their rights amid total apathy from the BJP-led government at the Centre?” asked the Chief Minister. He expressed shock over the fact that not a single BJP leader had expressed concern over the deaths of protesting farmers, including some by suicide. “The lost lives cannot be recovered,” he pointed out, asking Punjab BJP leaders to stop politicising a peaceful agitation with their comments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/governor-should-take-up-matters-with-me-punjab-cm/article33484125.ece
03 January 2021||New Delhi,||Centre showing gross insensitivity: Priyanka||The Congress on Saturday urged the Central government to abandon its “obstinate attitude” and agree to the demands of the farmers protesting against the new farm laws. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said reports of deaths of farmers while protesting at the Delhi border amid harsh winter conditions are “disturbing”. “According to media reports, 57 farmers have lost their lives while scores are unwell. The government is showing gross insensitivity by not acceding to the demands of the protesting farmers,” said the Congress general secretary. Reacting to a media report that a farmer had committed suicide, Congress’ chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala tweeted, “After Sant Baba Ram Singh from Karnal (Haryana) and Amarjeet Singh from Fazlika (Punjab), the news of Kashmir Singh from Bilaspur (Uttarakhand) sacrificing life in the farmers’ movement is very distressing.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-showing-gross-insensitivity-priyanka/article33484127.ece
03 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Work from home’ part of draft service norms||The Union Labour and Employment Ministry has sought comments and objections on the draft Model Standing Orders, which are the legally-binding documents that govern service conditions of workers, for the service, manufacturing and mining sectors, a Ministry statement said on Saturday. The Ministry published the drafts on December 31, 2020, inviting comments from stakeholders for 30 days. “Keeping in view the needs of the services sector, a separate Model Standing Orders for Services Sector has been prepared first time,” the statement said. The Ministry said when an employer adopts the order relevant to their establishment it would be deemed to have been certified. “All the three Model Standing Orders encourage employers for use of information technology in dissemination of information to the workers through electronic mode... The concept of ‘work from home’ has been formalised for the service sector,” the statement said. Working hours In case of the IT sector, the order says the working hours would be decided after an agreement between the employee and employer or as per the conditions of appointment. Labour Minister Santosh Kumar Gangwar said: “The orders will pave the way for the industry harmony as they aim at formalising the service-related matters in an amicable manner.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/work-from-home-part-of-new-service-norms/article33484135.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Trade deficit grows to $15 bn in December||“India is thus a net importer in December 2020, with a trade deficit of $15.71 billion, as compared to a trade deficit of $12.49 billion, widened by 25.78%,” the Ministry said in a statement. The trade deficit (the difference between imports and exports) at $15.71 billion was highest since July 2020. The country had witnessed trade surplus in June 2020. In April-December 2020-21, the country''s merchandise exports contracted by 15.8% to $200.55 billion, as compared to $238.27 billion in the same period last fiscal. Imports during the nine months of the current fiscal declined by 29.08% to $258.29 billion. It was $364.18 billion in April-December 2019-20. In December 2020, oil imports declined by 10.37% to $9.61 billion. During April-December, the imports dipped by 44.46% to $53.71 billion, the Ministry said. Major commodities which have recorded positive growth in exports during the month under review include oil meals (192.60%), iron ore (69.26%), carpets (21.12%), pharmaceuticals (17.44%), spices (17.06%), electronic goods (16.44%), fruits and vegetables (12.82%), and chemicals (10.73%). Sectors that registered negative growth include petroleum products (-40.47%), oil Seeds (-31.80%), leather and leather manufactures (-17.74%), coffee (-16.39 %), ready-made garments of all textiles (-15.07%), man-made yarn/fabrics/made-ups (-14.61 per cent), marine products (-14.27%), cashew (-12.04%), plastic and linoleum (-7.43 %), and tobacco (-4.95%). The major commodities imported with positive growth in December 2020 include pulses (245.15%), gold (81.82%), vegetable oil (43.50%), chemicals (23.30%), electronic goods (20.90%), machine tools (13.46%), pearls, precious and semi-precious stones (7.81%), and fertilisers (1.42%). Sectors which recorded negative growth in December 2020 were silver, newsprint, transport equipment, cotton raw and waste, coal, coke and briquettes. Commenting on the data, Federation of Indian Export Organisations (FIEO) President Sharad Kumar Saraf said the marginal decline of just 0.8%is showing signs of revival as order booking positions have continuously improved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trade-deficit-widens-to-15-bn-exports-dip/article33484106.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Row breaks out over renaming of Aurangabad||As Maharashtra stares at the upcoming civic polls, a row has erupted over renaming Aurangabad as Sambhajinagar, with the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) partner Congress opposing the move. The party has said that instead of focussing on emotional issues, matters concerning people’s livelihood and development should be discussed. The stand taken by the Congress has made the opposition BJP happy, with all its leaders calling out Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to fulfil the Shiv Sena’s promise to rename the city. C.T. Ravi, BJP national general secretary and Maharashtra in-charge, tweeted on Saturday, “Shiv Sena says its leader, Late Balasaheb Thackeray renamed Aurangabad as Sambhajinagar 25 years ago. Its partner in the “Maharashtra Vinashak Aghadi”, CONgress is opposing renaming of Aurangabad. Will CM @OfficeofUT compromise on his father’s legacy again to remain in power?”   State Congress president and Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat said the party’s opposition to renaming the city is based on principle. “Renaming a city does not bring development or progress,” he said, adding that the Common Minimum Programme of the government does not include this.  The Sena said the Congress’s move would not affect the stability of the government. “The Congress has opposed the proposal of renaming Aurangabad to Sambhajinagar. It has made the BJP happy. But the opposition to the proposal is not new and therefore, linking it to the MVA government is foolishness,” said an editorial in the Sena mouthpiece Saamna .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/row-breaks-out-over-renaming-of-aurangabad/article33484139.ece
03 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Debts incurred over online game drives man to suicide||A youth allegedly committed suicide in Kuttichal a few days ago after his addiction to an online game left him with huge debts. The deceased was identified as Vineeth, 28, who was a contract worker in the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO), according to the Neyyar Dam police. He was found hanging near his house on December 31. According to the Vineeth’s father Velayudhan Pillai, his son was addicted to an online rummy game for close to a year. He had borrowed over Rs. 20 lakh from his friends and others to play the game. The family tried to stop him from playing the game, but Vineeth did not heed their advice, he said.  Faced with mounting debts, the youth made an attempt to flee the locality a month ago. The police traced him and brought him back. The family had offered to help him repay loans by selling their property. They said they did not know whether he had received threats. (Suicide prevention helpline: DISHA – 1056, 0471-2552056)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/debts-incurred-over-online-game-drives-man-to-suicide/article33484108.ece
03 January 2021||HYDERABAD,||Poola Anthony to take charge as Archbishop of Hyderabad||The installation ceremony of Most. Rev. Poola Anthony as Metropolitan Archbishop of Hyderabad will be conducted on Sunday at St Mary’s High School Grounds in Secunderabad. On occasion, a Pontifical High Mass will be celebrated by 12 bishops from the two Telugu States. Clergy and faithful of Hyderabad will receive Bishop Poola Anthony from the outskirts of Hyderabad as he enters the city from Kurnool. The Holy Mass will begin at 4.30 p.m. on Sunday at St Mary’s High School Grounds in Secunderabad, according to a release issued here on Saturday. The outgoing Archbishop Thumma Bala will be part of the Pontifical High Mass to be celebrated by Bishops from Andhra and Telangana and will formally hand over the key of St. Joseph’s Cathedral to the new Archbishop. Most. Rev. Poola Anthony will take over the leadership of Catholic Church in the Metropolitan Archdiocese of Hyderabad as Fifth Archbishop. On transfer from Kurnool, where he served for 12 years, he was named as Archbishop of Hyderabad by the Vatican. Pope Francis accepted the outgoing Archbishop Thumma Bala'’ resignation, as he reached the retirement age of 75 by April 2019. Fifth nine-year-old Bishop Poola Anthony, who was born in Chindhur in Kurnool, was ordained a priest on February 20, 1992. He was appointed Bishop of Kurnool in February 2008. The ceremony will be conducted by observing all COVID precautions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/poola-anthony-to-take-charge-as-archbishop-of-hyderabad-today/article33485024.ece
03 January 2021||Srinagar,||8 civilians injured in grenade blast||Eight civilians were injured in a grenade explosion in south Kashmir’s Pulwama on Saturday noon. A police spokesman said around noon unidentified militants threw a grenade at the Bus Stand Tral area in Pulwama’s Awantipora. “Preliminary investigation revealed that terrorists hurled a grenade upon vehicle of 3rd Bn of the ITBP. However, the grenade missed the intended target and exploded on the road. In this incident, eight civilians received splinter injuries,” the police spokesman said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/8-civilians-injured-in-grenade-blast/article33484123.ece
03 January 2021||Srinagar,||Army sets up helpline in Valley||The Army on Saturday set up a feedback and grievances helpline in the Kashmir Valley as part of its efforts to strengthen its bond with the people. The helpline (94841 01010) has been set up under the aegis of the Chinar Corps or 15 Corps – responsible for guarding the Line of Control in the region. Contact can be made via the Telegram app as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/army-sets-up-helpline-in-valley/article33484128.ece
03 January 2021||Lucknow,||Trust scientists but not BJP, says Akhilesh||Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday said he would not take the shot for COVID-19 as he did not trust the “BJP’s vaccine”. However, Mr. Yadav later issued a clarification saying that he had faith in the scientists but not in the medical system under the BJP government. “We will not get the BJP’s political vaccine. The SP government will provide free vaccine,” Mr. Yadav said. “ Mein toh nahi lagwaunga abhi vaccine (I will not get a vaccination shot now),” Mr. Yadav had said here at a press conference. “ Aur woh bhi BJP lagaegi , uska bharosa karunga mein ? Arey jao bhai (And that too the BJP will provide us the shots, will I trust them?)”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trust-scientists-but-not-bjp-says-akhilesh/article33484866.ece
03 January 2021||Shahjahanpur,||Jail officials found guilty of holding event on Asaram||Two senior officials of Shahjahanpur jail have been found guilty of facilitating an event inside the prison glorifying rape convict Asaram by the distribution of blankets by some followers of the self-styled godman last month, an official said on Saturday. Besides the Shahjahanpur jail superintendent and jailor, a prison security guard too has been found guilty, said Deputy Inspector-General (Jails) R.N. Pandey, who conducted the probe into the December 21 episode. He said the probe report against the jail superintendent and the jailor has been sent to the DG (Prison) for further action. Meanwhile, a departmental action has been initiated against a prison guard, while three others have been issued showcause notices to explain their involvement in the event. It was found in the probe that three people had come for the event from the godman’s ashram, the DIG said, adding that the two people who were mentioned to have conducted the programme in the jail in the press release issued by the jail superintendent, did not attend it. On checking the entry register, it was found that there was no entry of the names of those who conducted the programme, the DIG said, adding that departmental action has been initiated against the guards on duty at the gate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jail-officials-found-guilty-of-holding-event-on-asaram/article33484132.ece
03 January 2021||Indore,||Comedian among 5 held for remarks on deities||Munawar Faruqui, a stand-up comedian from Gujarat, was on Saturday arrested along with four others after the son of a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA filed a complaint accusing them of passing “indecent remarks about Hindu deities and Union Home Minister Amit Shah” during a show here. A local court rejected their bail pleas and sent them to judicial custody. The comedy show was held at a cafe here on Friday, the police said. Eklavya Singh Gaur, 36, son of local BJP MLA Malini Laxman Singh Gaur, had filed a complaint about the show. Mr. Gaur said that he and his associates had gone to watch the show. When they heard the “indecent” comments, they forced the organisers to stop the programme. “A case was filed late on Friday night against Munawar Faruqui, a resident of Junagadh in Gujarat, and four Indore-based persons, based on a written complaint filed by Gaur,” said Kamlesh Sharma, Tukoganj police station in-charge. Mr. Gaur had also submitted video footage of the show, he added.  The other arrested persons were identified as Edwin Anthony, Prakhar Vyas, Priyam Vyas and Nalin Yadav.  Section 269 was invoked for allegedly ignoring COVID- 19 safety protocol, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/comedian-among-5-held-for-remarks-on-deities/article33484133.ece
03 January 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Vigilance dept. detects Rs. 124 cr. in illegal assets||Odisha’s Vigilance Directorate had detected disproportionate assets (DA) worth Rs. 124 crore from government employees and private personnel in the State last year. According to the Vigilance Directorate, as many as 245 cases of corruption were registered in 2020. Of those, 93 cases pertained to acquisition of disproportionate assets against 93 public servants and 45 private persons. “The total disproportionate assets in all the 93 cases stand at Rs. 123.91 crore. In 36 cases, value of DA is more than Rs. 1 crore ,” said the Directorate. As many as 24 disproportionate asset cases were registered against Class-I officers and 19 DA cases were registered against Class-II officers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vigilance-dept-detects-rs-124-cr-in-illegal-assets/article33484976.ece
03 January 2021||KOCHI,||Big movies only by April||The chances of a steady release of new Malayalam films remain unlikely despite the government permitting reopening of cinemas with 50% occupancy on January 5. An initial assessment by the Kerala Film Producers' Association (KFPA) reveals that big-budget movies will reach the cinemas only in April. Increase in footfall “Even the producers of small budget movies are hesitant to release their works now, considering the fact that only half of the seats will be occupied in a show. They are expecting an increase in footfall after the government permits further relaxations following the arrival of the COVID-19 vaccine,” says KFPA president M. Renjith. As per KFPA’s estimates, nearly 80 movies have completed censor formalities since March while the pre- and post-production of another 40 movies are progressing. Forty-two movies were released between January and March last year. The theatre owners are meeting on Tuesday amidst the apprehensions over screening movies with 50% occupancy. Plea to reduce tax “We hope that the government would accept our request to reduce the tax burden on tickets and waive off the fixed electricity charges for the period in which the theatres have remained closed,” says M. C Bobby, general secretary, Film Exhibitors' United Organisation of Kerala. The exhibitors point out that their overhead expenses would go up in the wake of a low audience turnout even with the permitted 50% occupancy level. K. Vijayakumar, president, Kerala Film Chamber, says a joint meeting of film trade bodies will be held on Wednesday to discuss the way forward. “The possibilities of theatres reopening on January 5 stand remote as we have to bring clarity on various issues, which will be discussed at the meeting,” he says. The chamber has urged the government to announce a relief package for the Malayalam film industry in view of the financial crisis induced by the pandemic crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/big-movies-only-by-april/article33484117.ece
03 January 2021||New Delhi,||Flyers from U.K. to be tested on arrival||All passengers coming from the U.K. between January 8 and January 30 would be subjected to self-paid COVID-19 tests on arrival, the Health ministry said in a standard operating procedure (SOP) issued on Saturday. Moreover, each passenger would have to bring his or her COVID-19 negative report from a test done 72 hours prior to the journey, the SOP stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/flyers-from-uk-to-be-tested-on-arrival/article33484131.ece
03 January 2021||Aruppukottai,TAMIL NADU||Retired HM killed in accident||S. Palraj, 63, of EB Colony here, a retired headmaster, was killed when the car in which he was travelling collided with another car on Aruppukottai-Thoothukudi highway near Pandalgudi on Saturday. The police said Fazil (53) of Kayalpattinam in Thoothukudi district was proceeding towards Madurai airport to send off his daughter-in-law. When the car was crossing Koppuchithampatti junction on the highway, the driver, Abubakkar Kabir, lost control of the vehicle as one of its tyre burst. After jumping the median, the car came on to the opposite lane. Meanwhile, the car in which Palraj was travelling hit the car. In the impact, Palraj was killed on the spot. The car was driven by his son-in-law, Harish. Five persons, including two women were injured. They were given first aid at the Government hospital in Aruppukottai and then taken to a private hospital in Madurai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/retired-hm-killed-in-accident/article33484301.ece
03 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Each centre can vaccinate 100 persons a day’||With the dry run for COVID-19 vaccines being simultaneously held at 17 health facilities in the State on Saturday, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said each vaccine centre will have the capacity to vaccinate 100 persons a day. “The Centre had instructed that the dry run should be held at three sites in the State’s capital. In TN, we are holding the dry run in five districts that includes places such as The Nilgiris, which is a hilly region, Tirunelveli district in the south, and Coimbatore and Tiruvallur. We are conducting the trial simultaneously in 17 places,” he told reporters at Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, one of the three dry run sites in Chennai. The dry run is being held at three sites each in Chennai, The Nilgiris, Tirunelveli Health Unit District (HUD), Poonamallee HUD, and five sites in Coimbatore HUD. Nearly 2,000 staff are engaged in the dry run for the COVID-19 vaccine, and two hours were allotted to cover 25 persons at each site. Not more than 100 persons would be covered at each site and physical distancing norms would be followed due to COVID-19, he said. Apart from 25 to 30 enlisted participants, each centre has five staff members such as vaccinators, and doctors as supervisors. Teams headed by the Joint Commissioner (Health) of the Corporation, Collectors at the district-level and the Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine at the State-level were formed. Mr. Radhakrishnan said that nearly six lakh healthcare workers were registered for the vaccine in the first phase. This would be followed by frontline workers, and later, the elderly. Persons aged less than 50 with co-morbidities, and the general public would follow. The official said work to register the details of healthcare workers was 95% completed. Healthcare workers in all healthcare facilities -- government, private and armed forces -- were being registered. “Each vaccine centre will have a capacity for 100 persons a day. There will be separate entry and exit points. Staff at the centre will check if the person’s name is on the registered list of beneficiaries in the CoWin app. We have a registered list of beneficiaries and are checking if the software is running well,” he said. From the waiting room, the person would move to the vaccine room once their identity is confirmed. Once he/she receives the vaccine, ‘yes’ would be clicked on the application following which they would receive an SMS on their mobile phone. This was also tested during the dry run. “We have an observation room to check if the person experiences any changes after the vaccination. We also checked if all kinds of drugs are kept ready in the room. The initial learning is to create more space for the vaccine room,” he said. Officials from the World Health Organisation and UNICEF were observing the dry run. During the dry run, Internet connections at these places was also being checked. “The observations from the dry run will be communicated to the Centre,” the Health Secretary said. Arrangements made “We have 51 cold storage facilities at the State-level and big cities, and 2,600 points in second-level areas. We are checking if the cooling is sufficient in the vaccine boxes as they will have to reach remote areas. At Corporations, zone-level teams were formed for monitoring, while block-level teams were formed by district Collectors,” he said. As of date, 46,200 vaccine sites are readied. “We have readied walk-in coolers that have the capacity to store 2.5 crore vaccines,” Mr. Radhakrishnan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/each-centre-can-vaccinate-100-persons-a-day-health-secy/article33484333.ece
03 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tasmac staff to be penalised for charging customers in excess of MRP||For every one rupee charged in excess of the maximum retail price on liquor bottles, the Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation (Tasmac) will impose a penalty of Rs. 1,000 plus GST on its sales staff. This was informed to a petitioner A.S.B. Vignesh of Villupuram, who sought to know under the Right to Information (RTI) Act why [a section of] salespersons were charging Rs. 5, Rs. 10 and Rs. 20 above the fixed retail price on quarter (180 ml), half (360 ml) and full (720 ml) liquor bottles respectively and Rs. 10 for beer bottles. He wanted to know whether the employees at the State-owned liquor outlets were authorised to charge more than the fixed retail price and if so where the excess money was going. The Public Information Officer informed the petitioner that selling liquor above the price fixed by the State government was not permitted and any violations were being viewed seriously. While sharing the contact details of the officials who could be contacted for lodging complaints in such cases, the PIO said a penalty of Rs. 1,000 for every Rs. 1 charged extra plus GST will be levied on the salesperson. For instance, if Rs. Rs. 10 charged extra, a fine of Rs. 10,900 would be imposed on the official responsible who would have to deposit the same in the Tasmac’s bank account and then face disciplinary action. Responding to other queries, the public authority said firm action was being taken on illegal bars and sale of liquor in black. The flying squad of Tasmac and special teams of Excise and Enforcement were deployed to check violations and take appropriate action. In recent weeks, unaccounted cash was seized in Tasmac outlets during searches by the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption. For instance, between October 1 and December 14, 2020, DVAC teams seized unaccounted cash of Rs. 3.05 lakh from a liquor shop in Nagapattinam, Rs. 69,180 from an Elite liquor shop in Anna Nagar, Chennai, Rs. 1.13 lakh from four liquor shops in Cuddalore, Rs. 60,990 in three liquor shops in Vellore and Pennathur and Rs. 1.21 lakh from the office of the District Manager, Tasmac, Salem. On their part, investigators in the agency register a case under the provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, and refer the proceedings to the Tasmac for action against the suspect staff. Investigators said efforts were on to get the rate card displayed at all liquor outlets to bring about transparency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tasmac-employees-to-be-penalised-for-charging-customers-in-excess-of-mrp/article33485119.ece
03 January 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 testing begins in luxury hotels||The Greater Chennai Corporation has ordered COVID-19 testing of all employees of luxury hotels, following reports of a cluster at ITC Grand Chola. Chennai Corporation Deputy Commissioner (Health) S. Divyadharshini said the civic body would complete the testing of more than 25 luxury hotels in two days. The civic body started testing at all luxury hotels on Saturday. So the process will be completed by Sunday. The Corporation has tested 609 employees of ITC Grand Chola and 85 of them tested positive for COVID-19. “We have directed ITC Grand Chola to cancel all banquets for 10 days. We will do saturation testing at all luxury hotels,” Ms. Divyadharshini said. The civic body has issued an advisory to all luxury hotels to maintain physical distancing norms as per standard operating procedure. Corporation officials in all the 15 zones have directed hotels to follow the regulations pertaining to the number of persons permitted for events. According to officials, this number should not exceed 50% of the seating capacity of the hall. The normal seating capacity of a 9,000 sq ft hall is estimated at 1,000, with each individual getting 9 sq.ft. of space. Owing to COVID-19 restrictions, event organisers have been asked to permit only 500 persons in a 9,000 sq.ft. hall, instead of 1,000. Officials will collect a fine of Rs. 5,000 from event organisers and hall owners who are in violation of the norm. The fine amount for individual violators at such events is Rs. 500.  Meanwhile, ITC Grand Chola sources said in a statement: “The health and safety of our guests and associates is of paramount importance. The property has been practising the necessary SOPs laid down by the authorities, along with its own accredited stringent sanitisation and hygiene protocol. From social distancing at public areas to rigorous kitchen hygiene, and regular health checks of associates, all safety and preventive measures are being meticulously followed. Every member of the team is trained and sensitised on following the prescribed prevention protocol, in the interest of their safety and that of guests.” The hotel said while the Corporation had classified some of the hotel’s associates as asymptomatic and mild, a majority of them had been working from home and were absent from the property. Thus, they have had no contact with other associates and guests. The hotel said: “All events at the property have been conducted in adherence to the norms mandated by the authorities. Additionally, Only 50% capacity of the hall is used to ensure maximum distancing and safety. All associates are regularly tested and monitored. It is an ongoing process and part of our hygiene protocol. Extreme care and diligence continues to be followed at all touch points. All necessary information has been shared with the authorities.” When contacted, T. Natarajan, Secretary, South India Hotels and Restaurants Association, said they had advised all hotels to ensure that protocols were followed. “We have had several online training sessions for hotels on the protocols. We are telling them to let staff isolate themselves if they have the slightest of symptoms. Most hotels are providing isolation facilities for their staffers. We are getting employees tested by the Corporation on a regular basis,” he said. A hotelier said in many cases, wedding parties book multiple halls and though they invite a limited number of guests, more people turn up. “The host of the event cannot turn people away, and neither can we. Hotels instead are asking them to spread people in the halls or stagger timings so that they are not bunched together,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-testing-begins-in-luxury-hotels/article33484944.ece
03 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Three districts report no new case||Three districts — Ariyalur, Kallakurichi and Perambalur — reported no new COVID-19 case, and 11 districts saw less than 10 infections each on Saturday, as 910 more persons tested positive in Tamil Nadu. The new cases took the State’s tally to 8,19,845. Another 1,007 persons were discharged, taking the total number of persons discharged so far to 7,99,427. The State recorded 11 more deaths, taking its toll to 12,146. Presently, 8,272 persons, including 2,462 in Chennai and 779 in Coimbatore, are under treatment for COVID-19. In Chennai, 246 persons tested positive, while Coimbatore and Chengalpattu saw 78 and 64 cases each respectively. There were 43 cases in Tiruvallur and 42 in Tiruppur. Erode and Thanjavur reported 36 and 35 cases respectively, while in Kancheepuram saw 34 and Salem 31. Among the 11 districts that recorded under 10 cases each were Ramanathapuram (4), Ranipet (7) and Virudhunagar (6). Four persons in Chennai, three in Nagapattinam, two in Tiruppur and one each in Ramanathapuram and Salem died of the infection. Two of them did not have co-morbidities. A 47-year-old woman from Salem, who tested positive for COVID-19 on December 24 and 29, was admitted to a private hospital on December 23 with complaints of fever, cough and difficulty in breathing for four days. She died on January 2 due to acute respiratory distress syndrome and COVID-19 pneumonia. Another woman, also aged 47, died a day after admission at the Tiruvarur Medical College Hospital, due to COVID-19 pneumonia, acute respiratory distress syndrome, mesenteric panniculitis, acute kidney injury and haematological malignancy on December 31. As many as 62,401 samples were tested in the last 24 hours. Till date, 1,43,21,046 samples have been tested in the State. One more private laboratory — Clinical Laboratory Services, Gleneagles Global Health City in Chennai — was approved for COVID-19 testing. There are a total of 238 testing facilities in the State. Of the nearly 2,300 passengers who travelled from the U.K., between November 25 and December 23, 2,131 have been traced and tested, so far. Of them, 24 persons have tested positive for COVID-19 and 2,079 negative. The results of 28 persons are awaited. Though 2,079 persons tested negative, 2,005 of their contacts have been traced and tested as a precautionary measure. All of their results have returned negative for the infection, according to a health bulletin. Puducherry’s tally The Union Territory on Saturday registered 10 new cases, after testing 2,378 persons. Six new cases were reported in Puducherry, three in Mahe and one in Karaikal. Thirty patients got discharged on Saturday. The recovery rate has increased to 97.44%. The Union Territory’s tally touched 38,174.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-districts-report-no-new-case/article33484283.ece
03 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM’s campaign has party’s full backing: senior leaders||The AIADMK is “solidly behind” Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, who is now undertaking an intensive campaign in the run up to the Assembly election, according to senior party leaders. To query on whether the perception in certain quarters that Mr. Palaniswami was on a “solo campaign” was valid, AIADMK’s minorities wing secretary and former Ramanathapuram MP, A. Anwhar Raajhaa, dismissed it. “Wherever the Chief Minister goes, he is accompanied by Ministers hailing from the districts concerned, point persons in charge of the respective area and secretaries of the party district units. He enjoys full backing of the rank and file of the party,” Mr. Raajhaa said. He said Mr. Palansiwami’s visit to Ramanathapuram district was overseen by Revenue Minister R.B. Udhayakumar, also the point person for the zone concerned. K.P. Munusamy, deputy coordinator of the party, said the Chief Minister’s campaign was going on, as per the script. “This is how it has been planned. Every other leader has his or her own programme to do, apart from looking after Mr. Palaniswami’s visit in his or her district,” he said. Joint campaigns Asked whether Deputy Chief Minister and coordinator of the party, O. Panneerselvam, was not part of the campaign, Mr. Munusamy said he would join the Chief Minister later. “When the poll schedule is announced, the two leaders will take out joint campaigns,” he said.  Wherever the Chief Minister goes, he is accompanied by Ministers hailing from the districts concerned, point persons in charge of the respective area and secretaries of the party district units A. Anwhar Raajhaa Minorities wing secretary, AIADMK||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cms-campaign-has-partys-full-backing-senior-leaders/article33484276.ece
03 January 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Two Chinese nationals held||The Central Crime Branch of the Chennai city police has arrested two Chinese nationals in Bengaluru for operating predatory instant loan apps illegally. They were accused of collecting exorbitant rates of interest by threatening and harassing those who had taken loans. The police also arrested two Indians who were operating a call centre and abetting the Chinese nationals in collecting the money from their debtors. The action was taken on a complaint of harassment filed by a Chennai resident. Ganesan, 35, said he had availed himself of Rs. 5,000 from a loan app. However, only Rs. 3,500 was credited into his bank account. Within a week, he was asked to pay the full amount. When he was unable to pay up, the staff handling the app asked him to download another predatory loan app to get the cash, he said. Over time, he had taken loans from 45 app-based companies, and his dues had gone up to Rs. 4.5 lakh. A special team of personnel drawn from the Cyber Crime Wing and the usury and chit fund wing was formed to trace the suspects. Commissioner of Police Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal said, “After working on certain leads, the team found that the addresses of these loan apps were mostly in Bengaluru. Some were in Maharashtra, Gurgaon and Hyderabad. Commissioner of Police Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal said, “After working on certain leads, the team found that the addresses of these loan apps were mostly in Bengaluru. Some were in Maharashtra, Gurgaon and Hyderabad. The team analysed the complainant’s bank account in which he had received the loan amount and the accounts into which he had repaid the sum. It then raided a call centre functioning under the name, True Kindle Technology, at HSR Layout, Bengaluru.” Directors of the company — Promoda, 28 of Indira Nagar, Bengaluru South, and C.P. Pavan, 27, of Tumkur district — were arrested. As many as 21 laptops, 20 mobile phones and documents were seized from them. “They revealed the involvement of three Chinese nationals. Two of them — Xioa Yamao, 38, and Wu Yuanlun, 28, of Guangdong — were operating from Bengaluru. They were arrested and brought to the city,” Mr. Aggarwal said. “The prime accused Hong has been operating from China using the DingTalk app, while Xioa and Wu were staying at Haralur, Bengaluru, receiving instructions from China. The Chinese nationals were operating the call centre, engaging about 110 locals as tele-callers,” he said. From the Chinese nationals, the police seized two laptops, six mobile phones, two Chinese passports and ATM cards. They were found using apps such as MyCash, Aurora Loan, Quick Loan, Dmoney, Rapid Loans, Eazy Cash and New Rupee. They were booked for criminal intimidation, extortion and harassment under the Indian Penal Code and the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Charging Exorbitant Interest Act, 2003. Mr. Aggarwal said the preliminary investigation indicated that the Chinese nationals had cheated and extorted money from over 25,000 persons. “Definitely more persons are involved in this offence. After taking the accused into our custody, we will thoroughly investigate the destination of the proceeds and the persons involved. We may collect inputs from other States as well,” he said. Central Crime Branch sources said another associate, Dandis, used to visit the call centre. Now, he is in Singapore. He was getting bank account details from Xioa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-chinese-nationals-held-for-operating-illegal-online-loan-apps/article33484202.ece
03 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Two more samples of returnees have returned negative’||Two more samples of COVID-19 positive UK returnees sent by Tamil Nadu for genomic analysis have returned negative for the new coronavirus variant. To date, one UK returnee in Chennai had tested positive for the UK variant of COVID-19 and three persons have tested negative, according to Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan. “Till date, 24 UK returnees and 20 of their contacts have tested positive for COVID-19 in the State. We had sent all samples for genomic analysis. Till now, we have one confirmed case of the UK variant. We are expecting the remaining results,” he told reporters on Saturday. “The condition of the patient who had tested positive for the UK variant is stable. The earlier discharge policy of discharging a patient if he/she has no fever will not apply for this patient. He will be tested for COVID-19 twice within a gap of 24 hours after 14 days. He will be discharged after testing negative twice. The remaining persons are being monitored by senior doctors and nurses in separate rooms,” he said. The Health Secretary said more than being worried about the UK variant, the public should bring about a change in their behaviour. “People still do not wear masks. Gated communities are organising programmes and it is important for all to wear masks. Wherever more than 20 persons converge, mask wearing is must,” he said. The Health Secretary said a cluster had emerged at a star hotel in the city after the infection spread from a chef on December 15. “It had gradually increased to five and then 10 persons. Our policy is to chase and catch the virus. The Greater Chennai Corporation had held camps at the workplace and residential areas of the employees. From December 15 to till date, 609 samples were tested of which 85 persons were found to be infected,” he said. A majority of them had mild symptoms, and some of them have returned home after treatment, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-more-samples-of-uk-returnees-have-returned-negative/article33484330.ece
03 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 600 cr. input relief for cyclone-hit farmers||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Saturday announced Rs. 600 crore in input relief for farmers affected by Cyclone Nivar and Burevi. “The relief is meant for agricultural and horticultural crops raised on 3,10,589.63 hectares and five lakh farmers. The amount will be credited into their accounts from January 7,” he said in a release. NDRF guidelines The relief has been announced in accordance with the guidelines of the National Disaster Relief Fund. It has been increased from Rs. 13,500 to Rs. 20,000 per hectare for the damage to paddy cultivated in areas with irrigation facilities and in dry areas. As for the crops other than paddy grown in  dry areas, the relief has been increased from Rs. 7,410 to Rs. 10,000. In the case of perennial crops, the relief has been increased from Rs. 18,000 to Rs. 25,000. “The State government will give the increased relief amount. Though input relief can be given for only up to two acres, I have ordered relief for the entire areas damaged by the cyclones,” he said.  Centre’s help sought Mr. Palaniswami said the State had sought Rs. 641.93 crore from the Centre for temporary repairs and Rs. 3,108.55 crore for permanent restoration of the areas damaged by Cyclone Nivar. For the damage caused by Cyclone Burevi, the State had asked Rs. 485 crore for temporary repairs and Rs. 1,092 crore for permanent restoration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-600-cr-input-relief-for-cyclone-hit-farmers/article33484270.ece
03 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Congress releases a long list of office-bearers||All India Congress Committee (AICC) on Saturday announced a whopping list of 32 vice-presidents, 57 general secretaries, 104 secretaries, 56 executive committee members, 5 ex-officio members, 32 district committee presidents and many other posts for the Tamil Nadu Congress Committee (TNCC). The list has accommodated almost all leaders—P. Chidambaram, TNCC president K.S. Alagiri, former TNCC presidents EVKS Elangovan, K.V. Thangkabalu, Su. Thirunavukkarasar, Kumari Anandan, M Krishnaswamy, former MPs R. Prabhu, E.M. Sudarasana Natchiappan and their supporters. However, Congress MP Karti Chidambaram expressed his displeasure. “These jumbo committees serve no purpose. None will have any authority which means no accountability,” he tweeted. Rejecting his opinion, senior leader A. Gopanna, who has been appointed as one of the vice-presidents, said such a big list was necessary to accommodate as many leaders as possible since the Congress was out of power for 50 years. “We are not in a position to give them posts in government. Offering a position in the party will encourage them to do the election work. “The list was finalised after many rounds of consultations with senior leaders,” he said. Mr Gopanna said Mr Karti could question the appointments if he has worked well to expand the party base. “Can he take credit for any work outside his Sivaganga Lok Sabha constituency,” he asked. ‘An achievement’ A senior leader said it was a great achievement because after the tenure of B.S. Gnanadesikan as the president of the TNCC, the Congress high-command was able to appoint office-bearers now. “Leaders like Karti Chidambaram have family and social status. They have already tasted power as MPs, MLAs and Ministers. But we have ordinary people in the committee and their position will get them recognition in their area,” he said.  We are not in a position to give them posts in government. Offering a position in the party will encourage them to do the election work A. Gopanna, Senior leader||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/congress-releases-a-long-list-of-office-bearers/article33484956.ece
03 January 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Tasmac employees to be penalised for charging customers in excess of MRP||For every one rupee charged in excess of the maximum retail price on liquor bottles, the Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation (Tasmac) will impose a penalty of Rs. 1,000 plus GST on its sales staff. This was informed to a petitioner A.S.B Vignesh of Villupuram who sought to know under the Right to Information (RTI) Act why [a section of] salespersons were charging Rs. 5, Rs. 10 and Rs. 20 above the fixed retail price on quarter (180 ml), half (360 ml) and full (720 ml) liquor bottles and Rs. 10 for beer bottles. He wanted to know whether the employees at the State-owned liquor outlets were authorised to charge more than the fixed retail price and if so where the excess money was going. The Public Information Officer informed the petitioner that selling liquor above the price fixed by the State Government was not permitted and any violations were being viewed seriously. While sharing the contact details of the officials who could be contacted for lodging complaints in such cases, the PIO said a penalty of Rs. 1000 for every Rs. 1 charged extra plus GST will be levied on the salesperson. For instance, if a sum of Rs. 10 was found to have been charged extra, a fine of Rs. 10,900 would be imposed on the suspect official who would have to same in the Tasmac’s bank account and then face disciplinary action. In recent weeks, unaccounted cash was seized in Tasmac outlets during searches by the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption. For instance, between October 1 and December 14, 2020, DVAC teams seized unaccounted cash to the tune of Rs. 3.05 lakh from a liquor shop in Nagapattinam, Rs. 69,180 from an Elite liquor shop in Anna Nagar, Chennai, Rs. 60,990 in three liquor shops in Vellore and Pennathur and Rs. 1.21 lakh from the office of the District Manager, Tasmac, Salem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tasmac-employees-to-be-penalised-for-charging-customers-in-excess-of-mrp/article33484329.ece
03 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai to get flood forecasting system by February 2022||Chennai and its suburbs will get real time flood forecasting system by February 2022. According to official sources, the forecasting system will cover waterbodies in 4,974 sq km of area in the limits of Greater Chennai Corporation and other local bodies. The consultant has submitted the hydrology report for six river basins in Chennai and its neighbouring districts. At a meeting of officials to discuss key aspects of the hydrology report, civic agencies have been asked to take efforts to integrate their own eco restoration projects with the flood forecasting system. At present, eco restoration projects in rivers such as the Cooum and the Adyar are under way. Cameras at 150 spots After the launch of the real time flood forecasting system, residents will get information about floods through the control centres in Ripon Buildings, Ezhilagam, district headquarters in Kancheepuram, Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur. The work on installation of infrastructure such as pole mounted cameras at 150 locations and real time data acquisition systems at 388 locations for rivers and lakes will be taken up this year. “Most of the infrastructure will be ready before this year’s northeast monsoon,” said an official. The consultant has proposed a new link between the Buckingham Canal and Eranavur to drain water during floods. Similarly, a new link between Buckingham Canal and the sea near Okkiyam Maduvu will be created this year for flood diversion, said the official.  Most of the infrastructure will be ready before this year’s northeast monsoon||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennai-to-get-flood-forecasting-system-by-february-2022/article33485115.ece
03 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||One more arrested in Bengaluru for defrauding hospital owners of Rs. 45 cr.||The Central Crime Branch on Saturday arrested a 54-year-old person who was wanted for defrauding the owners of a Kerala hospital to the tune of Rs. 45 crore on the pretext of arranging foreign funds to expand their operations. Zacharia Paul, of Mavelikara, had lodged a complaint with the Central Crime Branch in 2018. He alleged that his father Kurien Paulose had transferred a sum of Rs. 45 crore to P.L. Jayaraj from Officers’ Colony, Anna Nagar, between the years 2009 and 2017. Foreign loan The transfers had been done as he had promised them that he would be able to procure at least Rs. 5,000 crore of foreign funds as loan for the expansion and development of the Central Travancore Specialist Hospital, owned by the victims. Thereafter, Jayaraj failed to arrange the promised funds and also did not refund the original amount. The CCB arrested Jayaraj on July 6, 2018, and was on the lookout for his accomplice, Aswin Rao, since the Rs. 45 crore transfers were done using his account credentials, the police said. Following information about his whereabouts, a special team led by Inspector Menaga arrested Aswin Rao in Bengaluru and brought him to the city. He was remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-more-arrested-in-bengaluru-for-defrauding-hospital-owners-of-rs-45-cr/article33484940.ece
03 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Over 30 lakh people travelled by Metro in the last 3 months||In the last three months, 31.5 lakh people have used the Metro. The trains used to transport over 30 lakh passengers a month before the lockdown was implemented and commuter traffic plummeted, with a majority of the workforce still continuing to work from home. But the number of travellers has been consistently increasing month after month. In December, 12.3 lakh people used the service, a 43% increase compared to 8.58 lakh in November, according to a press release. On December 21, 47,214 passengers took the Metro, the highest number recorded in a day that month. But this was not even half of what the service witnessed early last year, with nearly 1.2 lakh people using the system each day. “We do not expect to see the IT sector getting back to their workplaces any time soon. They were our most frequent commuters. But thankfully, we are seeing a good improvement in ridership each month. In about six months, we should be able to touch a lakh,” an official of the Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL) said. In September and October, 3.6 lakh and 7.03 lakh passengers took the Metro respectively, the release said. “A total of 83,813 passengers have utilised the recently launched QR code ticketing system from September 2020 to December 2020 and 18,49,944 passengers have used the Travel Card Ticketing System between September 2020 and December 2020,” the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-31-lakh-people-travelled-by-metro-in-the-last-3-months/article33484935.ece
03 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu to experience wet weather till mid-January||The State is likely to experience wet weather till Pongal as the northeast monsoon spills over to January. After a slight lull on Monday, rainfall activity is likely to cover more places from January 5, according to the Meteorological Department. On Saturday, sudden showers came down over various places in and around Chennai. The automatic rain gauges in Nungambakkam, West Tambaram, Taramani, Villivakkam, Chembarambakkam and Meenambakkam recorded nearly 1 cm of rainfall till 3.30 p.m. It also rained in several places in Villupuram, Vellore and Tiruvannamalai. Puducherry and Karaikal too experienced light rain till Saturday evening. Officials of the Meteorological Department said rain occurred in various coastal districts due to wind convergence. Thunderstorm activity would continue on Sunday too. N. Puviarasan, Director, Area Cyclone Warning Centre, Chennai, said an easterly trough would have its impact over the State from Sunday. Rainfall would cover more places from Tuesday with moderate intensity. “We expect heavy rain to occur in one or two places along the coastal belt, covering the delta districts and Puducherry, on January 5 and January 6. It is normal for the northeast monsoon to spill over to January. However, rainfall this month is accounted as winter rain,” he said. Chennai received nearly 104 cm of rainfall during the northeast monsoon between October and December last year. The excess monsoon rainfall pushed Chennai’s rainfall to 157.2 cm in 2020, which was 21% more than its annual normal. Intermittent light to moderate rain will continue over some areas in Chennai on Sunday as well, and rainfall may pick up pace from Tuesday. The city may enjoy a generally cloudy sky and the Meteorological Department forecasts the maximum temperature to be around 29 degrees Celsius till Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-to-experience-wet-weather-till-mid-january/article33484285.ece
03 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Just a courtesy call on Owaisi, says DMK leader||DMK minorities wing secretary Masthan said on Saturday that he had only paid a courtesy call on AIMIM leader Asaduddin Owaisi and no decision was taken about inviting him to the party’s public meeting scheduled here for January 6. “We wanted to make a formal announcement only after consulting our allies. But before that, a video-recording of our meeting was released. We do not know who had done it,” Mr. Masthan, a former MP, told The Hindu . The public meeting — ‘ Ithyangalai Inaippom’ (Let us unite hearts) — is organised by minorities wing. Asked whether the Congress favoured inviting Mr. Owaisi to the meeting as his party had spoiled the chances of the grand alliance in the Bihar election, Mr. Masthan said those issues were not discussed as everything was at a preliminary stage. “The meeting will be attended only by our alliance partners,” Mr. Masthan said. When his opinion was sought on the issue, IUML leader K.M. Kader Mohideen said he was not against inviting Mr. Owaisi.  We wanted to make a formal announcement only after consulting our allies. But before that, a video-recording of our meeting was released Masthan DMK minorities wing secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/just-a-courtesy-call-on-owaisi-says-dmk-leader/article33484271.ece
03 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Singing of Tiruppavai suspended at Kanchi||Tension prevailed in Kancheepuram after the practice of singing ‘Tiruppavai’ was suspended on Saturday at the ancient Sri Varadarajaperumal temple, following a dispute between two sects of Vaishnavites. On Friday evening, officials suspended the chanting of the Nalayira Divyaprabhandham in front of the utsava idol at the ‘kannadi arai’ (mirror room) during the on-going ‘Nammalvar Moksham’ festival at the temple famous for the ‘Athi Varadhar’ festival and ‘Garuda Sevai’. A section of devotees termed the suspension of these practices by officials of the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department as unfair. “These festivals are being celebrated for several centuries now. The temple officials were unable to implement a court order that restored rights to one sect of Vaishnavites. Suspension is not the answer to any issue,” said a devotee, who did not want to be named. On Saturday afternoon, a peace committee meeting was held by the Kancheepuram district administration to ensure smooth conduct of the remaining festivities as part of the ‘Nammalvar Moksham’ festival. An official said the remaining festivities would go on as per tradition. FIR registered The Vishnu Kanchi police station registered an FIR based on a complaint filed by the executive officer of the temple against four persons, who had allegedly created a ruckus during the festivities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/singing-of-tiruppavai-suspended-at-kanchi-temple/article33484942.ece
03 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||New CJ to take charge on Monday||Governor Banwarilal Purohit is expected to administer the oath of office to Madras High Court Chief Justice designate Sanjib Banerjee at the Raj Bhavan on Monday. Immediately after the ceremony, Advocate General Vijay Narayan would accord a formal welcome on the High Court campus, according to notifications issued by its Registrar General C. Kumarappan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-cj-to-take-charge-on-monday/article33484938.ece
03 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||College given autonomous status||St. Joseph’s College of Engineering in Chennai, which is affiliated to Anna University, has been granted autonomous status by the University Grants Commission for a period of 10 years from the academic year 2020-21. Since the college’s founding in 1994, its students have secured 1,445 university ranks, including 62 gold medals. It has been accorded an A+ ranking by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/college-given-autonomous-status/article33484941.ece
03 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Full-fledged suburban services from tomorrow||To cater to increasing passenger demands, Southern Railway will operate full-fledged suburban train services from January 4, like in pre-COVID times. 660 services A press release issued by the Chennai Division of Southern Railway said a total of 660 services would be operated across all the four sections to meet the increased demand and to maintain social distancing measures. However, the common public would not be allowed to board the trains during the morning and evening peak hours. The Southern Railway has been increasing the suburban train services in phases, with the last additional services of 90 trains introduced from December 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/full-fledged-suburban-services-from-tomorrow/article33484951.ece
03 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Dentist held for forging daughter’s NEET score card||The police have arrested the father of a girl who submitted forged certificates at medical counselling. The police said Balachandran, a dentist, was arrested in Bengaluru and brought to the city. He was produced before a court and remanded in judicial custody. Balachandran and daughter N.B. Deeksha from Paramakudi, Ramanathapuram district, were found to have produced a fake NEET score card for securing MBBS admission during the medical counselling session at Jawaharlal Nehru Indoor Stadium, Periamet. On verification, the staff at the counselling hall found that the call letter and mark sheet with NEET score were fake. The candidate had scored only 27 marks in NEET but she produced a forged mark sheet with score of 610. The girl’s name was not on the MBBS rank list and she was not called for counselling. She claimed that she was eligible by producing the documents. They were let off by officials with a warning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dentist-held-for-forging-daughters-neet-score-card/article33485116.ece
03 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Protocol prescribed by WHO should be followed for vaccine: Health Minister||The dry run for the COVID-19 vaccine roll-out in Coimbatore district started at the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital here on Saturday. Municipal Administration and Rural Development Minister S.P. Velumani and Minister for Health and Family Welfare C. Vijayabaskar inspected the arrangements at the ESI Hospital and witnessed the first dummy beneficiary undergoing the mock vaccination. Mr. Velumani said that Tamil Nadu rose to the forefront in COVID-19 management in the country, receiving appreciation from Prime Minister. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami oversaw the containment works by making personal visits to affected areas, he said. Mr. Vijayabaskar said that the protocol prescribed by the World Health Organisation has to be followed for the COVID-19 vaccination. “Waiting area, vaccination room and observation room are part of a vaccination centre. We have identified 47,200 vaccination centres in the State. Training has been given for 21,200 healthworkers, who were identified for vaccination roll-out. Arrangements have been taken to provide the vaccine to 1.6 crore people in the State in the first phase. Of these, 6 lakh people, including healthcare professionals who are in the forefront of COVID-19 management will receive the vaccine first,” he said. According to the Minister, only one person from Tamil Nadu was tested positive for the UK variant of COVID-19 so far. While samples of three persons returned negative, results of other persons were under evaluation at the National Institute of Virology, Pune, he said. PSG Hospitals, Seethalakshmi Maternity Centre, Government Hospital at Sulur and Primary Health Centre at Pooluvapatty are the other vaccination centres in Coimbatore district where dry run will be conducted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/protocol-prescribed-by-who-should-be-followed-for-vaccine-health-minister/article33484969.ece
03 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore battled COVID-19 pandemic successfully, says Minister||The 13th edition of Coimbatore Vizha started on Saturday by honouring healthcare professionals who are engaged in COVID-19 management. Inaugurating the nine-day-long celebrations at the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital, Minister for Municipal Administration and Rural Development S.P. Velumani said that Coimbatore battled the pandemic successfully. Flower petals were showered from a helicopter over the hospital and healthcare professionals as a mark of gratitude. Minister for Health and Family Welfare C. Vijayabaskar said that inter-departmental co-ordination was key in COVID-19 management works in Coimbatore district that fetched appreciation state-wide. He appreciated organisers of Coimbatore Vizha for starting the celebrations by saluting COVID-19 warriors. A. Nirmala, Dean of ESI Hospital, the main centre for COVID-19 management in Coimbatore district, said that choosing ESI Hospital for the launch of Coimbatore Vizha boosted the morale of healthcare professionals. Aishwarya Arjun, former chair of Young Indians (Yi), Coimbatore chapter, said that the 13th edition of Coimbatore Vizha is not merely a celebration of the city but a celebration of COVID-19 warriors. As many as 13 individuals were recognised for their service during the pandemic. The inaugural ceremony also saw the launch Song of Coimbatore, Gratitude Wall, and Wings of Change. The Vizha team has identified conservancy workers of Coimbatore Corporation who will be taken on the helicopter rides. Some of them were taken on rides on Saturday. Some of the other virtual events of the Vizha, such as Art Street, also took off on Saturday. Due to restrictions imposed on gatherings due to COVID-19, organisers have made arrangements for virtual experience of events, details of which are available onwww.coimbatorevizha.com. MLAs Amman K. Arjunan, O.K. Chinnaraj, Ettimadai A. Shanmugam and Kasthuri Vasu, District Collector K. Rajamani, Coimbatore Corporation Commissioner P. Kumaravel Pandian and District Revenue Officer D. Ramaduraimurugan, Swathi Ananthram, Co-Chair, Coimbatore Vizha 2021, members of Yi and Confederation of Indian Industry were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-battled-covid-19-pandemic-successfully-says-minister/article33484967.ece
03 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Saplings planted at SITRA||As many as 3,351 saplings will be planted at South India Textile Research Association by Siruthuli and Indian Texpreneurs Federation (ITF). According to a press release, the sapling planting took off on Friday with members of the Siruthuli and ITF taking part. The saplings will be planted in the Miyawaki method. Prabhu Dhamodharan, convener of ITF, said that on day one, about 250 saplings were planted and the rest will be planted in three to four days. The Federation has contributed Rs. 10 lakh for the project as part of its ITF ReGreen drive. The sapling varieties were identified by Siruthuli and it will take up maintenance for three years. Drip irrigation has been installed at the site. Siruthuli has identified land across the city for sapling planted. “We, as an association, wanted to do a green activity. We want to do more in the coming days as part of ReGreen and are looking at more possibilities,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/saplings-planted-at-sitra/article33484962.ece
03 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Action will be taken against those responsible for attack on AIADMK worker: Velumani||Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani said here on Saturday night that action would be taken against those responsible for the attack on AIADMK worker Poongodi, who was attacked at the Makkal Gram Sabha meeting that the DMK had organised earlier in the day at Devarayapuram in Thondamuthur constituency. Mr. Velumani told reporters, “Be it DMK president M.K. Stalin or any of his party workers – whoever was behind the attack on Ms. Poongodi, action would be taken against them.” Mr. Stalin should stop instigating and assaulting AIADMK workers, the Minister said. It was Mr. Stalin’s hunger for power and inability to stomach the growing popularity of Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami that made him and his party behave the way they did on Saturday morning. The DMK workers had assaulted her and another worker and thrashed them. The people were witness to what happened at the meeting and Mr. Stalin was answerable to the people. Mr. Velumani also said that he was not worried about the challenge Mr. Stalin had thrown at him. Meanwhile, more than 200 DMK workers thronged Thondamuthur police station late on Saturday demanding a case be registered against Mr. Velumani and Poongodi. DMK workers led by C.R. Ramachandran alleged that Mr. Velumani instigated Ms. Poongodi to disrupt the Makkal Sabai. Minor tension prevailed on the station premises as the police tried to disperse the crowd.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/action-will-be-taken-against-those-responsible-for-attack-on-aiadmk-worker-velumani/article33484326.ece
03 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Calendar on wildlife conservation released||District Forest Officer of Coimbatore Forest Division D. Venkatesh recently released a desktop calendar brought out by NGO Nature Conservation Society to raise awareness on wildlife conservation. A press release said that the calendar for 2021 features photographs of elephants and tigers which were captured by wildlife photographer Nidhyan Maniarasu. The organisation will distribute copies of the calendar at educational institutions and to the public as part of an awareness campaign. Mr. Venkatesh released the calendar in the presence of N.I. Jalaluddin and J. Anash Ahamed, president and joint secretary of Nature Conservation Society respectively, according to the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/calendar-on-wildlife-conservation-released/article33484964.ece
03 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Opportunities high in US for apparel sector’||The Indian Texpreneurs Federation (ITF) has said that the United States market offers several opportunities for apparel exporters and India can become a major supplier of garments to the US as it is for home textile products. According to Prabhu Dhamodharan, convener of ITF, free trade agreement between the European Union and Vietnam will intensify competition for India in the European Union. However, the US offers a level-playing field in terms of duty structure for the top three competing countries. “We need to intensify efforts and focus at all levels, including Government, cluster, and firm-level, to grab our share in US market in apparels,” he said. Apparel manufacturers should go in for capital investments across the value chain with a focus on value addition. Indian Apparel sector should use the forthcoming PLI scheme as the stepping stone for much-needed product diversification and innovation in the MMF space and build scale to attract global buyers.  The industry is able to manage the trade with sufficient liquidity due to infusion of funds in the system with Central Govt’s ECLGS scheme. The sector needs to use the opportunity to maintain the financial discipline to work on shorter credit terms across the value chain, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/opportunities-high-in-us-for-apparel-sector/article33484310.ece
03 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Woman held for stealing jewellery||The Ukkadam police on Friday arrested a 40-year-old woman on charges of stealing a gold ring from a jewellery showroom in the city. The police said that K. Pandimeena, a native of Karaikudi, was arrested for stealing a 6.8 g gold ring from a jewellery showroom on Oppanakara Street. The theft came to light when salespersons counted the ornaments before closing the showroom on the day. The police identified the accused from visuals of the surveillance cameras in the showroom. The woman was produced before a magistrate and remanded in judicial custody. Fire in hospital A minor fire was reported at private hospital at Dharapuram in Tiruppur district on Saturday morning. According to the Fire and Rescue Services, the fire reported at Ramana Hospital around 5.30 a.m. was brought under control in 30 minutes. According to Fire and Rescue Services, no person was injured or suffered burns in the fire.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-held-for-stealing-jewellery/article33484970.ece
03 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||FIEO seeks early announcement of rates for RoDTEP||The Federation of Indian Export Organisations (FIEO), Southern Region, has welcomed the announcement on the RoDTEP Scheme effective from January 1 for all export products. However, exporters are in the dark on how to compute the benefits of the scheme in the new orders as the rates are yet to be notified, said Israr Ahmed, regional chairman of the Federation. Exporters face some key issues, including inadequate availability of containers, freight charges, release of the required MEIS benefits, etc. These are adding to the operational costs of exporters. “As the rates are yet to be notified, exporters are in dark on how they compute the benefit of the Scheme for quoting for new orders. Hence, he requested the government for announcement of all the RoDTEP rates as soon as possible. Considering the herculean task faced by the RODTEP committee of going through the calculation for each product segment by HS code, the FIEO Regional Chairman also suggested for rates to be notified at four digits, which will also reduce the time and any classification disputes,” said a press release from the Federation. He also sought extending the RoDTEP benefit to those operating under Advance Authorisation and to export oriented units and job working units for export orders. These units too procure other domestic inputs and bear taxes in transportation of goods both, for imports and exports. Therefore, exporters operating under such schemes should not be deprived of the benefit of RoDTEP, he said. The FIEO sought clarification on the guidelines of the scheme. Mr. Ahmend appealed to the government for special focus on the MSMEs and said the government should allow automatic approval of RoDTEP for MSME thereby simplifying the application procedures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fieo-seeks-early-announcement-of-rates-for-rodtep/article33484328.ece
03 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Spiritual discourses under way||Sri Krishna Sweets, Coimbatore, has organised spiritual discourses for 10 days ( Eppo Varuvaro 2021 ) from January 1. The first day discourse began with speaker Bharathi Bhaskar speaking on Andal. Inaugurating the programme, District Collector K. Rajamani said Coimbatore always ranks first in setting an example by organising such programmes. Such religious events are the need of the hour in order to handle crisis situation. The inaugural address was given by writer Marabinmaithan Muthiah, according to a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/spiritual-discourses-under-way/article33484963.ece
03 January 2021||COIMBATORE / ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Will prove corruption charges against Velumani are true: Stalin||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Saturday said he would prove that the corruption charges against Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani were true. Addressing a ‘makkal gram sabha’ (people’s gram sabha) in Mr. Velumani’s Thondamuthur constituency in Coimbatore, he said overpriced LED bulbs had been purchased for streetlights in local bodies. “I am ready to prove that the corruption charges against you [Velumani] are true. And you cannot get away by saying that you will quit politics. After the DMK returns to power, you will be brought to justice,” he said. Mr. Stalin said that information obtained by an activist, under the RTI Act, had revealed overpricing in the purchase of several items. “I was once a proud Municipal Administration Minister, but I am now ashamed, looking at the level of corruption taking place under Mr. Velumani,” he said. “If the level of corruption in a panchayat is Rs. 1 crore, imagine what it is for the 12,000 panchayats in Tamil Nadu,” he said. ‘Ready to quit’ Responding to Mr. Stalin, Mr. Velumani said he was prepared to resign from all positions if the charges were proven true. “If the charges against me are not proven, will Mr. Stalin resign from all positions of his party?” Mr. Stalin reiterated that his party, in its manifesto, would include the promise of a thorough probe into former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s death and bring the guilty to book. At a similar meeting in Siruvalur village in Erode’s Gobichettipalayam taluk, he said the AIADMK government had failed to conduct the mandatory gram sabhas, in three years. Hence, his party was conducting ‘makkal gram sabhas’, to listen to the problems of the people, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/will-prove-corruption-charges-against-velumani-are-true-stalin/article33484280.ece
03 January 2021||COIMBATORE/ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Woman evicted from Stalin’s meet||A woman was evicted from a ‘makkal gram sabha’, addressed by DMK president M.K. Stalin, in Thondamuthur, Coimbatore, on Saturday. Mr. Stalin claimed the woman was an AIADMK functionary, sent to the meeting to create a disturbance. However, she said she had been assaulted. At the meeting, Poongodi raised a question, countering Mr. Stalin, creating a flutter. The DMK leader, immediately said she was sent by Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani to disrupt the meeting and did not have the courage to identify herself as an AIADMK worker. Party workers then handed Ms. Poongodi over to the police. She was taken away by the Coimbatore rural police to prevent her being assaulted. Mr. Velumani said on Saturday night that action would be taken against those responsible for the attack on Ms. Poongodi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-evicted-from-stalins-meet/article33484284.ece
03 January 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||‘AIADMK government will last for just 100 more days’||The AIADMK government will last for just 100 more days, said DMK MLA and senior deputy general secretary I. Periasami here on Saturday. Speaking at a meeting organised in Ambathurai, Athur Assembly Constituency, he said that the beginning of the end for the AIADMK has started with the new year. Thanking the people for waiting with patience, he said that after the election was over, M. K. Stalin will take over and there would be a change for good in the State. The meeting - titled ‘Reject AIADMK’ and ‘Makkal Sabai Kootam’ drew large numbers of womenfolk, who said that they were deprived of even basic amenities during the COVID-19 pandemic by the government. Responding to their grievances, Mr. Periasami said that the DMK government had given Old Age Pension (OAP) to senior citizens, television for the needy and so on. But, the AIADMK only claimed to have given welfare assistance, which had actually not reached the poor, he charged. The DMK would win hands down as the people were frustrated with the corruption and inefficient government led by Edappadi K Palaniswami, the DMK leader said and asked the people to get ready to cast their votes for the ‘Rising Sun’ symbol and strengthen the hands of Mr. Stalin in the formation of the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-government-will-last-for-just-100-more-days/article33484296.ece
03 January 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Naming seven sub-sections as ‘Vellalar’ condemned||Condemning the State government’s decision to recommend to the Centre to name seven sub-section of Scheduled Caste as ‘Devendrakula Vellalars’, members of Vellalar Urimai Meetpu Kuzhu staged a protest at Veerappanchatiram here on Saturday. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had recently said Scheduled Caste such as Pallar, Kudumbar, Pannadi, Kaaladi, Vadhiriyar and Devendrakulathar would be included in the ‘Devendrakula Vellalar’ community and a recommendation would be made to the Centre. But protests erupted in various parts of the district as members of the Vellalar community opposed the decision and raised voice against it. On Saturday, a protest was organised in which members raised slogans that the term ‘Vellalar’ belonged to them and opposed the move to include the seven castes with the name ‘Vellalar’. They said they were called ‘Vellalar’ for many generations and the State government’s decision would hurt their sentiments. They said it would have tremendous impact as they would lose their identity forever. They wanted the government not to play with the sentiments of the lakhs of Vellalar community members and wanted the decision withdrawn.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/naming-seven-sub-sections-as-vellalar-condemned/article33484313.ece
03 January 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||CM to inaugurate water scheme in Erode on Jan. 7||The Rs. 484.45-crore Dedicated Water Supply Scheme (DWSS) that ensures 135 litres per capita per day for the residents in the Corporation limits will be inaugurated by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami during his visit to the district on January 7. Under the State Annual Action Plan 2015-16 of the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation of Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, the scheme is implemented with the Government of India’s share of Rs. 242.23 crore, State government’s Rs. 96.89 core and Rs. 145.33 crore from the Smart City funds. The scheme aims at supplying 81.10 million litres (MLD) of water a day to all the 60 wards in the Corporation limits and is being executed by the Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board (TWAD). Raw water is drawn from the River Cauvery at Varadanallur village at Uratchikottai in Bhavani Town and pumped to the treatment plant with 120 MLD capacity after which clean water is collected in a water sump of 52 lakh litre capacity. Later, water is pumped to sumps at Suriyampalayam and VOC Park from where it will be distributed to 46 existing and 21 newly constructed reservoirs. Water will be distributed to households in the existing 67.209 km pipelines and to the 1.05 lakh new house service connections through 731.82 km pipelines. A senior TWAD Board engineer said the trail run commenced in October and water supply was given to all the new house service connections and tested. Though the project was scheduled to be completed in June 2019, COVID-19 pandemic and other issues delayed the completion. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan told The Hindu 40 MLD water drawn from the existing water scheme would be delinked and 81.10 MLD water would be supplied to all the 60 wards from January 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-to-inaugurate-dedicated-water-scheme-in-erode-on-january-7/article33484315.ece
03 January 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Villagers demand free house site pattas||Stating that free house site pattas were not given to them despite submitting applications many times, women from Kongarpalayam village in T.N. Palayam raised slogans at an event in which School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan took part on Saturday. The Minister was on the stage at the Kongarpalayam Government Higher Secondary School to distribute assistance to beneficiaries when over 15 women raised slogans. Officials held talks with them and assured them to provide pattas within 15 days, after which they left.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/villagers-demand-free-house-site-pattas/article33484311.ece
03 January 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Distribution of Pongal hampers from Jan. 4||Over 5,13,318 family cardholders in the district will receive Pongal hampers as announced by the government from January 4. The hamper consisting of one kg each of rice and sugar, one whole sugarcane, 20g cashewnuts, raisins, 5g cardamom, and Rs. 2,500 in cash per card will be distributed to each cardholder. The distribution of hampers will commence on Monday (January 4) and will continue up to January 12. Those who are left out can collect the hamper on January 13. For details, contact 04343-234677. Dharmapuri In Dharmapuri district, the hampers will be distributed to 4,36,839 cardholders through the 1,071 fair price shops. Earlier, Collector S.P. Kathika conducted a review of the arrangements made for the disbursement. According to the administration, priority based disbursement will be made to differently-abled and elderly family cardholders. Separate queues for men and women will be arranged and distribution will be made in turns. The hampers will be distributed to not less than 200 cardholders a day, keeping safety protocols in place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/distribution-of-pongal-hampers-from-jan-4/article33484316.ece
03 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||E-assessment proves beneficial to income tax payers: official||Introduction of e-assessment had been highly beneficial for income tax payers, said Rajiv Vijay Nabar, Chief Commissioner of Income Tax, Madurai and Coimbatore (in charge). Speaking at the executive committee meeting of Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry here on Friday, Mr. Nabar said that through e-assessment, the department was trying to usher in transparency in taxation. In the present system, an assessee from one State would be assessed only by officials from another State. Only after approval The officials have to prepare a questionnaire and submit it for approval to the Additional Commissioner. They would also have to submit reasons for conducting an assessment for taxpayers, he said. “Unlike earlier, the taxpayers need not waste their time by coming in person to submit their documents. The assessees can e-mail their replies,” he said. “Unlike earlier, assessing officers do not have the whole authority to conduct surveys. They must get the approval of the Commissioner. The Commissioner will have to forward the survey approval to the investigation wing and only the Central team will conduct the survey,” he added. On jewellery Speaking on releasing jewellery seized during surveys, Mr. Nabar said that jewellery would be returned to the taxpayers when there were no appeals or taxes that were due to be paid by the taxpayers. He said the department was taking all measures to ensure that jewellery was returned to those taxpayers who did not have any appeals or pending taxes. Mr. Nabar said Open House meetings were being held to listen to the grievance of taxpayers. “We ensure that most of the grievances are addressed before the next meeting,” he added. Chamber president N. Jegatheesan, senior president S. Rethinavelu and secretary J. Selvam were present at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/e-assessment-proves-beneficial-to-income-tax-payers-official/article33484298.ece
03 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||200 tricycles distributed to conservancy workers||Cooperation Minister Sellur K. Raju distributed 200 tricycles worth Rs. 55 lakh, donated by Tamilnad Mercantile Bank, to conservancy workers of Madurai Corporation here on Saturday. The bank donated the vehicles as part of its Corporate Social Responsibility initiatives. The corporation has 154 vehicles for garbage collection. Apart from the tricycles, the bank has contributed for the construction of bathrooms and toilets at Meenakshi Park and Jhansi Rani Park at a cost of Rs. 70 lakh, said K.V. Ramamurthi, Managing Director of the bank. Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan and bank officials were present at the event. The Minister told reporters that the Mullaperiyar drinking water project, which would ensure round-the-clock supply of drinking water to the residents, will be completed in 30 months. Under the Smart Cities Mission, a retaining wall was being constructed on either side of the Vaigai and a two-lane road was being laid from Arapalayam to Viraganoor. A sewage treatment plant was being constructed on Panthalkudi channel to tackle the issue of discharge of sewage water into the Vaigai. “All these measures will help in rejuvenation of the Vaigai,” he said. The Minister urged the public to refrain from dumping garbage into waterbodies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/200-tricycles-distributed-to-conservancy-workers/article33485063.ece
03 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||MP’s novel gets award from literary forum in Malaysia||Noted author and Madurai MP’s novel ‘Veerayuga Nayagan Velpaari’ has bagged the best international Tamil work award constituted by Malaysia-based Tan Sri K.R. Soma Language and Literary Foundation. The biennial award carries a citation and a purse of US$ 10,000. The novel, based on Tamil Sangam literature, revolves around a tribal king, popularly known as ‘Mullaikku Ther kodutha Paari.’ “The novel speaks about the early conflict between nature and man’s greed which still continues,” Mr. Venkatesan said. The king, known for his valour, could not be defeated by any individual ore even collective efforts of Cheras, Cholas and Pandiyas, but only through conspiracy. The novel, published in 2019, has been included in the syllabus in Malaysia University. The author, who won Sahitya Akademi award for his novel ‘Kaaval Kottam,’ said that he was happy for the latest international recognition for his work. “This award will help attract more readers to the novel,” he said. The award ceremony could not be held due to the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mps-novel-gets-award-from-literary-forum-in-malaysia/article33485058.ece
03 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Clean-up drive conducted||The All India Coordinated Research Project on Home Science, functioning at the Community Science College and Research Institute, Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, observed ‘Swachhta Pakhwada’ from December 16 to 31, to create awareness of sanitation and cleanliness. A press release from the college said the programme was initiated by Community Science College and Research Institute Dean S. Amutha. Students and staff took the pledge to keep their premises clean. Ms. Amutha inaugurated an awareness rally to sensitise the residents about water conservation. Saplings were planted on the college premises. Cleaning works were undertaken in adopted villages such as Periya Ilanthaikulam and Mariammalkulam of Alanganallur block. A. Janaki Rani, Head, Extension Education and Communication Management, explained the importance of the integrated farming system to earn sustainable income. P. Parimalam, Head, Department of Family Resource Management, spoke on how advanced agricultural tools would help reduce drudgery for women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/clean-up-drive-conducted/article33485061.ece
03 January 2021||P.A. NarayaniMadurai,TAMIL NADU||10 OHTs coming up under Mullaperiyar water project||Overhead tanks are being constructed at 10 places in the city for the Rs. 1,295.76-crore Mullaperiyar drinking water project. The project, being executed under Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation, presently has four components. In the first component, a 96-km-long pipeline will be laid to transport water from Lower Camp to Pannaipatti. Construction of a water treatment plant with a capacity of 125 MLD at Pannaipatti forms the second component. In the third component, a 54-km-long pipeline will be laid from Pannaipatti to Madurai city. Construction of 38 overhead tanks forms part of this component. Establishment of a new water distribution system in 28 wards that were annexed to Madurai Corporation in 2011 is the fourth component. The Corporation has also submitted a proposal to Asian Development Bank for an additional component where a new water distribution system for 57 old wards will be established. Separate project “The Corporation is laying new drinking water pipelines in the remaining 15 wards around Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple through a separate project under the Smart Cities Mission. The completion of these components will ensure round-the-clock drinking water supply to the residents,” said City Engineer S. Arasu. A senior Corporation official said the overhead tanks were being constructed at Tirunagar, Tirupparankundram, Palanganatham, Tiruppalai, Mattuthavani, Kochadai, TVS Nagar, near the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court, Vellaikkal and MMC Colony. “The work started a month back. Construction of the remaining OHTs will be taken up in the next phase,” he said. Mostly in new wards Most of these OHTs would be constructed at the newly added wards. The capacity of the tanks would be different from one another, the maximum being 30 lakh litres, the official said. Mr. Arasu said all the components of the drinking water project, right from drawing water from Lower Camp to the distribution of drinking water to the households, would be monitored through SCADA, an advanced supervisory and management system. A centralised control room would be constructed and a dedicated team will monitor it. “The two existing water treatment plants at Pannaipatti will also be connected to the system. So, if there is any issue, say with an overhead tank, the problem can be immediately identified and addressed,” he said. Currently, only 10 old OHTs are functional in the city. More than 20 OHTs are defunct. “All these tanks will be repaired and integrated with the SCADA system,” said Mr. Arasu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/10-ohts-coming-up-under-water-project/article33484972.ece
03 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Vaccine dry run conducted in U.T.||The Union Territory on Saturday joined rest of the country in conducting dry run for COVID-19 vaccine. The dry run was held at the Government General Hospital, Rajiv Gandhi Women and Child Hospital, Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Research Institute, Employees State Insurance Hospital, Gorimedu, Karaikal GH, Tirunallar Community Health Centre, Nedungadu Primary Health Centre, Mahe GH and Yanam GH. Twenty-five healthcare workers, including doctors, were administered the vaccine at each of the nine centres and kept under observation for 30 minutes. Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy inspected the Government General Hospital to oversee the dry run programme. Whenever the Centre rolled out the vaccination programme, around 13,000 healthcare workers in Union Territory would be the first beneficiaries, an official in the Health Department told The Hindu . 10 new COVID-19 cases The Union Territory on Saturday registered 10 new COVID-19 cases from screening 2,378 persons. Statistics released by the Health Department revealed six new cases were reported in Puducherry, three in Mahe and one in Karaikal. Thirty patients got discharged on Saturday. The recovery rate has increased to 97.44 %. The overall tally in the Union Territory now is 38,174 cases with 346 active cases and 37,195 persons treated and discharged. The death toll stood at 633.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccine-dry-run-conducted-in-ut/article33485121.ece
03 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Don’t mislead the public, L-G urges CM||Lieutenant Governor Kiran Bedi on Saturday urged Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy to refrain from misleading the public about the Centre and her office. Responding to the allegations levelled against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and herself, Ms. Bedi said the Chief Minister appeared to have forgotten the assistance received from the Centre. “He forgets how much U.T. has been provided all along. Be it the number of centrally sponsored schemes or free rice distributed to lakhs of families in times of crisis, particularly the direct benefit transfer under which thousands of crores of rupees was transferred directly to the bank accounts of beneficiaries without any tender, contract, commission agents, middlemen and leak. It has eliminated corruption in a big way,” she said in a WhatsApp message to reporters. The efforts by the Centre had increased the purchasing power of people in U.T., the Lt. Governor said. L-G’s powers The responsibilities of the Lt. Governor have been “reaffirmed and endorsed” by the courts and the Centre, she said. “I quite understand the anguish and disappointment daily expressed by the CM against the functioning of the Lt. Governor’s office. I feel that this is perhaps due to the diligent and sustained care exercised by the Lt. Governor’s Secretariat for over four years in ensuring just, fair and accessible administration following the laws and rules of business scrupulously.” The Lt. Governor said she was here to execute duties as an administrator. “I request the CM to refrain from misleading the people of Puducherry against the Lt. Governor’s office and Prime Minister as well,” Ms. Bedi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dont-mislead-the-public-l-g-urges-cm/article33485125.ece
03 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Bedi sanctions funds for Pongal gifts||Lieutenant Governor Kiran Bedi on Saturday gave expenditure sanction of Rs. 3.49 crore towards the grant of festival items to around 1.75 lakh below poverty line cardholders by the Direct Benefit Transfer mode. Accordingly, the Civil Supplies Department will release Rs. 200 directly to the bank accounts of each of the BPL cardholders shortly, a press release from Raj Nivas said. In the release, Raj Nivas officials said the Lt. Governor had directed the Chief Secretary to coordinate with the authorities concerned to obtain necessary details to update the above poverty line (APL) beneficiaries for obtaining free rice. The Lt. Governor wanted the list to be updated in eight weeks. The department was excluding income tax payees, GST assesses and Union government employees from getting the rice benefit. Untill the list of beneficiaries gets updated, the Lt. Governor asked the department to release Rs. 1,000 each to the APL cardholders as per the available data in lieu of the rice for three months under the Union Territory’s scheme of free distribution of the grain, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bedi-sanctions-funds-for-pongal-gifts/article33485117.ece
03 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Nod to upgrade law college into national university||The Cabinet has approved the Bill to convert Ambedkar Government Law College into national university, Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy said here on Saturday. Launching “Litigation Free Village,” a pilot programme through alternative dispute resolution mechanism at the Government Law College, the Chief Minister said the upgrade of the institute had been given priority. The Cabinet had approved the Bill to convert the college into a university. He informed the government’s decision to provide a monthly stipend of Rs. 9,000 to selected students for internship with the Law Department. Lauding the Union Territory of Puducherry and Legal Services Authority and the law college for taking up the pilot project at Kalapet, he said resolving cases through mediation would be the right step towards reducing pendency of cases. The Chief Minister also inaugurated Legal Services Clinic-cum-Conciliation Centre at the law college. As per the plan, a professor and students of the college would visit Kalapet once a month and enquire with the public about existing disputes. They would be informed about the date of sitting at the college to resolve the issue through alternative dispute resolution system. Justices R. Subramanian and R. Suresh Kumar of the Madras High Court, Minister for Revenue M.O.H. F Shahjahan, Justice (retired) K. Kannan, Member Secretary/District Judge U.T. of Puducherry Legal Services Authority, V. Sofana Devi and Principal of College S. Srinivasan were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cabinet-gives-nod-to-upgrade-law-college-into-national-university/article33485123.ece
03 January 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||‘Minorities need not be insecure about AIADMK allying with BJP’||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Saturday said minorities need not feel insecure about the AIADMK’s alliance with the BJP. As part of his campaign in Ramanathapuram district, addressing a gathering with a large number of Muslims, he said the AIADMK and the BJP had come together only for the election. “Minorities should not feel insecure or apprehensive in any way. The AIADMK is a party that is friendly with every community. Every party has its policies and ideologies. For elections, some come together, on a common minimum programme. It does not mean that they will bury or forget their principles,” he said. He said the DMK, too, had allied with the BJP earlier. Mr. Palaniswami said the Centre, within a month, would issue appropriate orders based on the State’s recommendations to classify seven Scheduled Caste sub-sects — Pallar, Kudumbar, Pannadi, Kaaladi, Kadayar, Devendrakulathar and Vadhiriyar — as the Devendrakula Vellalar community. He said he had spoken about this with Union Ministers. Earlier, he said when the Cauvery-Gundar river linking project was fully implemented, Ramanathapuram would be the biggest beneficiary, with about one lakh acres of land getting irrigated. The three-phase project involved an outlay of Rs. 14,000 crore, and Rs. 700 had been allotted this year. Ramanathapuram, once a water-starved region, had transformed due to the kudimaramathu projects, he said. Countering DMK president M.K. Stalin’s prediction of a split in the AIADMK, he said that nobody could dare to touch even one AIADMK cadre. Investment proposals Mr. Palaniswami said the State had attracted Rs. 60,000 crore-worth investment proposals, during the pandemic. The government was focusing on overall growth, he said. At Paramakudi, he interacted with small traders, vendors, farmers and cottage unit owners. At Parthibanoor, he said after his visit to the U.S., the State had proposed to establish an international livestock research and animal sciences centre in Thalaivasal, Salem district, and it would be the biggest in Asia. This would enable farmers to reap benefits. Milch animals, which can produce 65 l of milk a day, would become a reality in Tamil Nadu too, he said, adding that works were on. The government had laid the stone for it in February 2020, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minorities-need-not-be-insecure-about-aiadmk-allying-with-bjp/article33484278.ece
03 January 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Recovery rate of stolen properties improves in Salem||The Salem district police have recovered 95% of stolen properties worth Rs. 4.09 crore in cases registered in 2020. Salem District Police Superintendent S. Deepa Ganiger said in a press release that among the cases registered in 2020, accused were arrested in 85% of them and 95% of stolen goods in these cases worth Rs. 4,09,83,360 were recovered and returned to rightful owners. Thirteen repeat offenders and 10 persons involved in prohibition cases were detained under the Goondas Act in 2020. The district police claimed that illicit liquor has been eliminated in district limits and 6,912 cases were registered in 2020, while it was 6,930 cases in 2019. Fatalities due to road accidents in Salem district reduced to 286 in 2020, from 316 deaths the previous year. In Namakkal, Superintendent of Police S.Sakthi Ganesan said in a release that of the 183 theft cases registered in the district, stolen properties worth Rs. 80.81 lakh were recovered and returned to owners in 75% cases. Thirty persons who were involved in illegal sand mining, robbery, murder, crime against children and others were detained under Goondas Act in 2020 in the district. A many as seven persons were sentenced to 10 years of imprisonment in various cases registered under the POCSO Act. According to police, as many as 237 deaths related to road accidents were recorded in 2020, while it was 351 in 2019. Driving licence of 9,624 persons were suspended with the help of Motor Vehicle Department and fines to the tune of Rs. 3.65 crore was collected for various traffic rule violations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/recovery-rate-of-stolen-properties-improves-in-salem/article33484325.ece
03 January 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Separate ward in Salem GH for foreign returnees with COVID-19||A separate ward has been set up at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital here to treat persons affected with COVID-19 among foreign returnees and patients from United Kingdom. Following reports of a new variant of COVID-19 in U.K., measures are being taken to monitor returnees from U.K. and other foreign countries to identify patients affected with the variant. According to health officials, no person affected with the new COVID-19 variant has been reported in Salem till date. R. Balajinathan, Dean of the Hospital, said, “following guidelines from the State government, a separate ward has been set up in the Hospital, away from the existing COVID-19 ward. The ward had 29 beds including nine intensive care beds. Four doctor teams had been formed to work in rotational basis in four shifts. Each team comprised a doctor, staff nurse and a health worker.” Dr. Balajinathan said there were only 54 COVID-19 positive cases on treatment in the hospital at present. R. Selvakumar, Deputy Director of Health Services, said that all the 74 persons, who returned from foreign countries to Salem tested negative.  Home quarantine “Around 170 contacts of the returnees have also been tested and they have also tested negative. However, they have been advised home quarantine for 14 days and health staff are following up with them regularly,” he said. There was sufficient bed strength in the district in case of a surge in cases, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/separate-ward-in-salem-gh-for-foreign-returnees-with-covid-19/article33484320.ece
03 January 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Plogging event organised||The Salem Corporation organised a plogging event as part of ‘Salem plogging’ here on Saturday. Resident associations and Salem Corporation officials took part in it at various places. Corporation Commissioner N. Ravichandran and other senior officials took part in Rangapuram. According to a release, plogging was conducted at Abirami garden, Anna Nagar, Mullai Nagar, Ayanthirumaligai, Thiru Nagar, Pachudaiyar Road, Thyagi Natesan Street, Mariappan Nagar and Thathampatti. As many as 550 volunteers took part in the event and 615 kg of plastic was cleared on the day. Mr. Ravichandran appealed to the public to extend cooperation for the plogging event and keep the city litter free.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plogging-event-organised/article33484318.ece
03 January 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Swimmers permitted to use pool||The district administration has permitted swimmers to use the swimming pool on the premises of Mahatma Gandhi stadium here for training. According to a release, swimmers undergoing training for International, National and State level competitions have been permitted to undergo training at the pool maintained by the Sports Development Authority of Tamil Nadu here. Swimmers aged above 12 years can use the facility. The public are not allowed to use the pool at the moment. Swimmers have to submit an application form with the District Sports Officer and get his permission. The pool will be available for use from January 4, the release says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/swimmers-permitted-to-use-pool/article33484321.ece
03 January 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||33 persons injured in accident||Thirty-three persons suffered injuries in a road accident near Attur here on Saturday. According to the police, they were travelling by a tractor to work at a private firm in Ammapalayam from Attur here. While the vehicle was moving near Thoolakunur, the driver lost control over it and the tractor slipped into a trench on the roadside. Passers-by and the police rescued the injured and they were rushed to Attur Government Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/33-persons-injured-in-accident/article33484317.ece
03 January 2021||Sivaganga,TAMIL NADU||Sivaganga district to get 36 Amma Mini Clinics in first phase||With the establishment of Chief Minister’s ‘Amma Mini-Clinics,’ the AIADMK government has taken healthcare experts to the doorsteps of needy people in remote villages in the State, said Khadi and Village Industries Minister G. Baskaran here on Saturday. Speaking after inaugurating a ‘Amma Mini-Clinic’ here at Ulangampatti near Singampunari, he said that the innovative idea would benefit not only the economically weaker sections but also aged persons, who could not travel to urban locations for health check-up. The CM had ordered opening of 2,000 clinics in the State and Sivaganga district would get 36 clinics in the first phase, the Minister added.  Depending on the requirement in the district, the clinics would be opened, Mr. Baskaran said and added that it reflected the commitment of the government to the people. The newly elected district panchayat council chairman Pon. Manibaskaran, while offering felicitation, said that the AIADMK government had laid a road along the Ulangampatti-Mattangadu stretch. However, the DMK MLA from Tirupattur and former minister KR Periakaruppan, intervened and attempted to correct him by saying that the road was laid during the DMK regime and he was instrumental in getting the road laid. The heated argument appeared to slip further into chaos as the two persons started shouting at each other. Witnessing the fiasco, a few police personnel tried to calm, but the functionaries did not relent . They were in no mood to give up. As a result, the meeting was abruptly wound up and the officials hurriedly distributed health kits to pregnant mothers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sivaganga-district-to-get-36-amma-mini-clinics-in-first-phase/article33484303.ece
03 January 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Three killed||Three persons travelling on a motorcycle died after an overhead television network cable snapped and fell on them on Thanajvur-Ariyalur Road at Arasur near Thanjavur on Saturday afternoon. According to police, the motorcycle was driven by Manikandan (32). In all four persons were said to have been riding on the motorcycle. Manikandan was accompanied by Chakkubai (70), Akilesh (12) and Bharani (10) of Thiruvaiyaru Melavattam. The cable was cut after getting entangled in a sugarcane-laden tractor trailers proceeding in front of the motorcycle, police said. While Manikandan, Chakkubai and Akilesh died on the spot, Bharani was rushed to the GH, Thiruvaiyaru. Police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-killed/article33484241.ece
03 January 2021||Theni,TAMIL NADU||Councillor ends life||A ward councillor Tamilselvan (38) of the AIADMK here in Mayilai & Kadamalai union representing ward 8, in Andipatti taluk, allegedly ended his life by suicide. The functionary had recently joined the AIADMK from the DMK in the presence of Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam. After the elections, both the AIADMK and the DMK had won seven wards each. After hectic behind the scene parleys, Tamilselvan switched his loyalty to the AIADMK, following which the ruling party won the Union president post. Under such circumstances, police said that three days ago Tamilselvan had reportedly consumed poison. He was rushed to the Government Medical College Hospital, but died today. A senior officer, who was investigating the case said that the victim had huge debts and as he was unable to repay them, he may have ended his life. Other angles were also being probed, he added. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ward-councillor-ends-life/article33484293.ece
03 January 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Fire accident at defunct thermal power station||Fire broke out at a private defunct thermal power station near here on Saturday. Though no casualty was reported, the mishap destroyed equipment worth a few lakh rupees at the thermal power station that was inoperative for the past five years. Police said the fire reportedly broke out in a transformer on Saturday afternoon and spread to other parts of the power station at Velayuthapuram near here. On information from the power station authorities, Fire and Rescue Services personnel from SIPCOT rushed to the spot and commenced fire-fighting operations. Fire tenders from Thoothukudi Fire Station also arrived at the spot to intensify the operations that came to an end in the evening. Fumes engulf areas Materials worth a few lakh rupees were destroyed and thick fumes engulfed Keezha Velayuthapuram, Mela Velayuthapuram and Pudur Pandiapuram areas. Puthiyamputhur police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fire-accident-at-defunct-thermal-power-station/article33484300.ece
03 January 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Three held for murder||The police have picked up three persons for allegedly murdering their friend on Friday night. Police said A. Clinton, 25, a fisherman from Poobalarayarpuram and his friends A. Antony Raj, 22, of Poobalarayarpuram, M. Daniel Raj, 20, of adjacent Samuelpuram and J. Santhanaraj, 40, of Matha Kovil Street were celebrating new year by drinking liquor at ‘Mottai Gopuram’ near Siluvaipatti on Friday night. An altercation broke out among them and the trio stabbed Clinton with broken beer bottles and the victim died on the spot. Though Antony Raj, Santhanaraj and Daniel Raj fled the spot, Daniel Raj, out of fear, informed the police over phone that they had murdered their friend.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-held-for-murder/article33484304.ece
03 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Training to new mothers at GH through ICDS||The Special Newborn Care Unit at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital and the Integrated Child Development Services have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to provide home-based newborn care for babies born at the hospital. The project, which was inaugurated on Friday, aims to give guidance to new mothers on how to care for the infant at home after discharge from the hospital. Under the initiative, christened 'Chellapillai,' counselling would be given to at least 50 to 60 mothers in a day, said T. Bhuvaneshwari, District Project Officer, Integrated Child Development Services. The ICDS had been providing nutrition counselling, training on child development, feeding, etc at the 1850 anganwadis in the district. Anganwadi workers and child development project officers present in each block would go door-to-door and visit new mothers and their babies to provide antenatal and post-natal care for up to five years. Nutrition counselling, iron-rich food to prevent anaemia, training on how to breastfeed, how to hold the infant while breastfeeding is taught to the mothers. An important aspect of personal hygiene of the mother and the baby is explained in detail, Dr. Bhuvaneshwari said. "The first two years of the child are very important. We make sure to monitor the health and well-being of the child, including immunisation and other needs carefully," she said. Now, through the SNCU, these efforts can be made at the MGMGH itself, Dr. Bhuvaneshwari said. At the SNCU of the MGMGH, Anganwadi workers would provide the necessary training and hand over the nutritious food. "This way, we can meet a large number of mothers in one go, and would be able to conduct door-to-door surveillance easily," she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/training-to-new-mothers-at-gh-through-icds/article33484288.ece
03 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Overgrown plants, shrubs on median threaten motorists||The thick growth of plants and shrubs on the median and large potholes on the stretch of Sivaprakasam Salai (also known as Anna Nagar Main Road) between Ukkira Kaliamman Street and the Uyyakondan canal bridge has put motorists into severe hardship in the city. The plants were grown as part of the beautification drive taken up on the centre median on the stretch by Tiruchi Chapter of the Confederation of the Real Estate Developers Associations of India (CREDAI) in 2018 at the behest of the then Corporation Commissioner. The median was given a facelift and tree saplings were planted over it. Following the lush growth of the plants and trees, their branches now extend beyond the centre median, obstructing the vision of motorists, especially at times of rain and strong winds.  Often stray cattle attracted by the greenery enter the carriageway suddenly catching motorists off guard. Motorists demand that the plants and shrubs be pruned before a major accident takes place. When contacted I.Shajahan, president, CREDAI, Tiruchi, assured to take steps to prune the trees and shrubs in the next few days. P.Ravichandran, former president, CREDAI, Tiruchi, under whose tenure the initiative was taken up, suggested that the centre median could be fenced and split into segments and handed over to CREDAI members or private agencies for maintenance. Motorists also complain over the poor condition of the road stretch. The carriageways on both sides of the road stretch have been heavily damaged following the recent spells of rain. Huge potholes have been come up along the road stretch making it a back breaking ride for motorists. the Corporation attempts to cover the potholes with construction debris has caused more problems with the rubble getting spread across the road. “The road, which is supposed to be one of the arterial roads, is in a pathetic condition,” regretted Sakunthala Srinivasan, president, Payaneetalar Iyakkam and a resident of Anna Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/overgrown-plants-shrubs-on-median-threaten-motorists/article33484291.ece
03 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Less than 100 fresh cases for second day||The central districts recorded less than 100 fresh cases of COVID 19 for the second consecutive day with 97 patients tested positive for the virus on Saturday. Ariyalur and Perambalur districts recorded no fresh cases for the viral infection on Saturday. Three deaths, all from Nagapattinam district, were reported in the region, according to the Health Department bulletin. A 47-year-old woman with a history of haematological malignancy and acute kidney injury, a 70-year-old man who suffered from renal sepsis and a 71-year-old man with a history of chronic kidney disease all died of COVID-19 in Nagapattinam. Thanjavur district reported a slight spike since Friday with 35 fresh cases. All other districts in the region reported less than 20 new cases. Nagapattinam reported 18 cases, while Tiruchi was close with 17 cases reported. Among the patients who tested positive were primary contacts and local cases with no travel or contact history. Some patients with Influenza-Like Illnesses and asymptomatic patients also tested positive. Meanwhile, eight patients were discharged from the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital after recovering from the viral infection. Among the 13 patients who tested positive in Karur were residents of Anna Nagar, Kulithalai Mettumaruthur among other localities in the district. Tiruvarur and Pudukottai continued to report cases in a low- range. On Saturday, seven patients each tested positive in both districts. Among them were patients with a history of respiratory illnesses, local index cases and other primary contacts. Meanwhile, Perambalur and Ariyalur reported no new cases. A total of 322 throat swabs were lifted in Perambalur and 347 were lifted in Ariyalur and sent to the respective testing facilities in the district to test for COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/less-than-100-fresh-cases-for-second-day/article33484244.ece
03 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||FPOs urged to run processing centres for banana, onions||Four more primary processing centres for banana and two meant for onions in the district are to be handed over to Farmers Producers Organisations (FPOs) or joint ventures of FPOs and companies engaged in food processing business through competitive bidding. The Department of Agriculture Marketing and Agri Business had established six primary processing centres for banana and five such centres for onion in the district under the Supply Chain Management Scheme. Two of the centres meant for banana located at Manachanallur and M.Puthur have already been handed over to FPOs and are functional. Now two more centres located at Pidaramangalam and Arasalur and four primary processing centres situated at Manachanallur, Thathaiyengarpet, Uppilliyapuram (south) and P.K.Agaram are to be handed over to FPOs or food processing companies, which come forward to have joint ventures with FPOs, Collector S. Sivarasu said. The primary processing centres for banana is equipped with dryers, cold storage, ripening chambers and 60 ton weigh bridges. The Department of Agriculture Marketing and Agri Business have already called for tenders and interested FPOs or joint venture companies can bid for the same before January 20. Further details can be had by visiting the portals:www.tenders.tn.gov.inorwww.tn.gov.inorwww.tnagrisnet.tn.gov.inor from the Deputy Director of Agricultural Marketing and Agri Business, Tiruchi, Mr.Sivarasu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fpos-urged-to-run-processing-centres-for-banana-onions/article33484289.ece
03 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Man killed in wall collapse||A 60-year-old agricultural labourer was killed when the wall of his house collapsed at Maruthur near Samayapuram on Saturday. Govindan was sleeping when the incident occurred. He was trapped under the rubble and died on the spot. The wall was said to have been weakened by the recent rain, according to police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-killed-in-wall-collapse/article33484243.ece
03 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Move to file PIL petition||The Consumer Protection Council, Tamil Nadu, has decided to file public interest litigation against government officials concerned for failing to shift the Gandhi Market to the newly built Central Market for Vegetables, Fruits and Flowers at Kallikudi in Tiruchi and for not completing the Junction road overbridge, thereby wasting public money. A resolution to this effect was adopted at the annual general body meeting of the council held here on Thursday with C.T.Selvakumar, president, in the chair. S.Pushpavanam, Secretary of the Council, presenting the annual report. The council also resolved to form a road safety council with experts in traffic and safety engineering and investigation so as to suggest plans for reducing casualties.  The general body meeting was followed by a discussion on the three new farm laws brought in by the Centre with G. Ajeethan and P. Senthilnathan putting forth their views on the laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/move-to-file-pil-petition/article33484292.ece
03 January 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Road roko staged||A group of people belonging to Manpathai, Seegampatti and Pampattipatti near Vaiyampatti staged a road roko on Saturday, demanding regular work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme. After police held a negotiation with them, they gave up the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/road-roko-staged/article33484242.ece
03 January 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 vaccination trial run conducted||Dry run for the COVID-19 vaccination was conducted at three places here on Saturday to prepare the men and material for the much-awaited vaccination Even as the Union Government is working on finalising the right vaccine for shielding against SARS-CoV-2 viral infection, the Tamil Nadu Government’s Department of Public Health is gearing up for the vaccination by putting in place credible mechanism involving men and material. Since the infection was being caused by a new virus, trial run was required to ensure proper planning and rectifications, if any. After training 21,170 persons in four phases, 41,500 centres across Tamil Nadu have been identified for administering the vaccine. In the first phase of vaccination, the much-awaited injection will be administered to ‘frontline workers’ including doctors, nurses, pharmacists and other health workers. In the second phase, personnel from revenue, police and armed forces will receive the vaccine. In the third phase, citizens above the age of 50 will get the vaccine, the Public Health Department officials said after monitoring the trial run. The dry run was conducted on Saturday at Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital, where 121 active patients are undergoing treatment on Saturday for the viral infection, the Urban Primary Health Centre at Samadhanapuram and the Primary Health Centre at Reddiyarpatti on Palayamkottai outskirts to ensure vaccination of 25 persons for every two hours. After getting SMS on their mobile phone about the date, time and place of vaccination, the ‘beneficiaries’ arrived at the vaccination centre with their Aadhar card, which was checked during the dry run. After being seated in the reception hall while maintaining physical distancing, the Aadhaar information was cross-checked and the beneficiaries’ details were uploaded. Once the verification was over, the ‘vaccination’ was done in the next room and those who received the dose were asked to be in the ‘consoling room’ for about 30 minutes to monitor them for any adverse reaction, if any, or allergic reactions. In case of any undesirable reactions, they will be given immediate medical attention by the waiting team of doctors and staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-vaccination-trial-run-conducted-at-three-places-in-tirunelveli/article33484308.ece
03 January 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||TMC backs Palaniswami as AIADMK-front’s CM candidate||Tamil Maanila Congress (TMC) president G.K. Vasan on Saturday backed Edappadi K. Palaniswami as the chief ministerial candidate of the AIADMK-led front. “Mr. Palaniswami is the authorised candidate of the AIADMK-led combine. Hence, the TMC backs him,” he told reporters. The TMC is the first ally of the AIADMK to back Mr. Palaniswami. The others are yet to endorse his candidature. BJP leaders have been airing different views. The party’s State in-charge, C.T. Ravi, said a decision would be taken only by the NDA coordination committee. The PMK has not declared its stand; the party has authorised its founder S. Ramadoss to decide on electoral alliances. The DMDK has indicated that it will take a decision this month. Mr. Vasan was in Tirunelveli to participate at a meeting of the party’s southern region office-bearers to discuss election strategies. He hoped that his party would get a “good number of seats”, commensurate with its strength. The party would field “meritorious candidates” and strive to ensure the victory of the alliance in all constituencies. He backed actor Rajinikanth’s decision not to enter politics, saying his health was more important. “Since he is a very good human being, Mr. Rajinikanth should support the AIADMK-led combine, composed of good parties,” he said. The DMK’s opposition to the government’s Pongal gift of Rs. 2,500 to all rice ration cardholders had betrayed the party’s fear of defeat in the election, he said. “The DMK-led combine will suffer a crushing defeat,” he said. The former Union Minister said the TMC would organise its youth wing conference, in two places, to energise the cadre for the election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tmc-backs-palaniswami-as-aiadmk-fronts-cm-candidate/article33484272.ece
03 January 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Farmer commits suicide||Crop loss has apparently driven a farmer to end his life. Police said farmer Narayanasamy, 58, of Pillaiyaarnaththam near Kovilpatti, who was working with a spinning mill in Rajapalayam till a few years ago, took up farming on his land in his native place. As he enjoyed bumper harvest last year, he had sown maize and black gram this year. As the crops suffered extensive pest attack this year despite his best efforts to save the crops, he was reportedly depressed for the past few days. He went to the field on Saturday but did not return home. When family members went to the field, they apparently found him hanging from a tree. They found that he had written on the wall of a nearby pump room in Tamil, ‘Forgive me Mithra’, apparently apologizing to his granddaughter. The Naalaattinpudhur police registered a case and sent the body to Kovilpatti Government Hospital for a post-mortem. Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies could seek help and counselling by calling State’s health helpline 104 or Chennai-based Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmer-commits-suicide/article33484337.ece
03 January 2021||TIRUPATHUR,TAMIL NADU||Soldiers get together, renovate bus stands in Tirupathur||Soldiers of the Army and other defence forces are already risking their lives at the borders. Going beyond their call of duty, some bravehearts from Ambur have come together to improve bus stands in their villages. They are also helping persons with disabilities and the poor during the COVID-19 pandemic. Ambur Jawans-Kakkum Karangal is a group of 70 soldiers from the defence forces, including the Army, the Border Security Force, the Railway Protection Force, the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) and ex-servicemen. The group was formed in April 2020, and the members pool in money and carry out development work in the villages around Ambur. On Friday, they renovated the Devalapuram bus stand in Ambur and constructed a toilet for women adjacent to it. “We made the public inaugurate the bus stand as they will then have a responsibility to ensure it is maintained well. We have asked the panchayat staff to maintain it. It was in a poor condition for 15 years,” said 30-year-old Mouli Diwakaran, who has been a soldier for 10 years. The members of the group discuss projects on a WhatsApp group and take decisions. “Those who come on leave and the ex-servicemen co-ordinate the implementation of the work. Prior to this, we renovated the bus stand in Chinnavarigam in Ambur,” he said. A. Suresh, who serves in the Central Reserve Police Force, said that during COVID-19, they had donated dry rations to needy and disabled village residents. “We made a list of needy people in each village and handed over groceries. We also contributed money for a couple of surgeries,” he said. The group plans to carry out more development work in the future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/soldiers-get-together-renovate-bus-stands-in-tirupathur/article33485170.ece
03 January 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Don’t hesitate to help road accident victims’||“The Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act 2019 protect the Good Samaritans, who rush to help road accident victims from the unforeseen developments subsequent to the shifting of victims to hospitals.” Disclosing this to the participants of an online media workshop organised by the Citizen Consumer and Civic Action Group (CAG) in collaboration with the Tamil Nadu Consumer Protection and Environmental Research Centre (TNCPERC), Tiruvarur, recently, senior researcher, CAG, Sumana Narayanan, pointed out that in recent years a Safe Systems Approach was being adopted all over the world to achieve road safety. The SSA having ‘safe roads’, ‘safe vehicles’ and ‘safe people’ as prime components aims to reduce the death and injury in road accidents to zero. Safe roads require the roads to be designed and built to reduce the impact of crashes on humans. Similarly, safe vehicles are those that absorb the crash impact and minimize the harm to people. Finally, safe people involve ensuring people are equipped with the knowledge and ability to drive properly, she said. Stating that the government had initiated several steps to begin this process in India by amending the Motor Vehicles Act 1988 to make the road builders accountable, scientific investigation of crashes and by instituting the Road Accident Data Management System (RADMS), Ms. Sumana added that the MV (Amendment) Act, 2019 protects the Good Samaritans also. As per the amendment, such people could not be held responsible for payment of hospital bills, their information need not be shared, they need not have to appear in court and could not be blamed if the victim dies later, she pointed out. Claiming that in the past two years Tamil Nadu had made considerable improvement in road safety, the CAG senior researcher urged the people not to hesitate to help a road accident victim. The general secretary, TNCPERC, Tiruvarur, R.Ramesh, coordinated the online workshop.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dont-hesitate-to-help-road-accident-victims/article33484286.ece
03 January 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Birth anniversary of Subash Chandra Bose||The birth anniversary of Nethaji Subash Chandra Bose will be celebrated for a year from January 23 by the Nava Hindustan Peoples Movement. In a press release, the president, NHPM, S.S.Kumar, has said that a resolution in this regard was passed at the general body meeting of the movement held at Tiruvarur on Friday. Another resolution urging the Union government to initiate steps for the construction of temples for “Bharatha Matha” at Kanyakumari and in Kashmir as a symbolic representation of the nation’s integration was also passed at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/birth-anniversary-of-subash-chandra-bose/article33484287.ece
03 January 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||23 test positive in Vellore district||The COVID-19 tally in Vellore district reached 20,266 with 23 new cases reported on Saturday. In Ranipet district, seven cases were reported positive taking the total to 15,927. In Tirupathur district, the total number of COVID-19 positive cases stood at 7,464 with 13 new cases reported on Saturday. In Tiruvannamalai district, eight new cases were reported, taking the total number to 19,169.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/23-test-positive-in-vellore-district/article33485171.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore dist. registers further drop in cases||As many as 78 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Saturday. The district had 779 active cases on Saturday while 97 persons recovered from the disease and got discharged from hospitals. According to the Health Department, Coimbatore district did not report any death due to the disease on Saturday. Tiruppur district had 292 persons under institutional care on Saturday. The Health Department said that two patients from the district aged 65 and 63 succumbed to the disease on Thursday, taking the death toll to 219. While 42 persons from Tiruppur district tested positive on Saturday, 52 persons returned to their homes after recovering from the disease. Erode district reported 36 new cases taking the district’s tally to 13,756. While 25 persons were discharged, 299 persons continued to be under treatment. As many as 31 positive cases were reported in Salem on Saturday. According to health officials, 19 cases were indigenous including seven in Salem Corporation limits. 12 patients have returned from other districts like Namakkal, Tiruppur and Dharmapuri. In Namakkal, 21 cases were reported. According to officials, four patients have returned from Salem, Erode and Karur. As per bulletin, a 47-year-old woman died at private hospital in Salem. Krishnagiri recorded five new cases and 24 discharged cases on Saturday. Dharmapuri recorded 13 new cases and eight discharged cases on Saturday. This has taken the total number of cases to 92 and total number of infections to 6,435 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/further-drop-in-number-of-cases-in-coimbatore/article33484324.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Two Chinese nationals operating illegal apps held||Commissioner of Police Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal said, “After working on certain leads, the team found that the addresses of these loan apps were mostly in Bengaluru. Some were in Maharashtra, Gurgaon and Hyderabad. The team analysed the complainant’s bank account, in which he had received the loan amount and the accounts into which he had repaid the sum. It then raided a call centre functioning under the name True Kindle Technology at HSR Layout, Bengaluru." Directors of the company — Promoda, 28 of Indira Nagar, Bengaluru South, and C.P. Pavan, 27, of Tumakuru district — were arrested. As many as 21 laptops, 20 mobile phones and documents were seized from them. “They revealed the involvement of three Chinese nationals. Two of them — Xioa Yamao, 38, and Wu Yuanlun, 28, of Guangdong — were operating from Bengaluru. They were arrested and brought to the city,” Mr. Aggarwal said. Locals engaged “The prime accused Hong has been operating from China using the DingTalk app, while Xioa and Wu were staying at Haralur, Bengaluru, receiving instructions from China. The Chinese nationals were operating the call centre, engaging about 110 locals as tele-callers,” he said. From those arrested, the police seized two laptops, six mobile phones, two Chinese passports and ATM cards. They were found using apps such as MyCash, Aurora Loan, Quick Loan, Dmoney, Rapid Loans, Eazy Cash and New Rupee. They were booked for criminal intimidation, extortion and harassment under the IPC and the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Charging Exorbitant Interest Act, 2003. 25,000 persons cheated Mr. Aggarwal said preliminary investigation indicated that the Chinese nationals had cheated and extorted money from over 25,000 persons. “Definitely more persons are involved in this offence. After taking the accused into our custody, we will thoroughly investigate the destination of the proceeds and the persons involved. We may collect inputs from other States as well,” he said. Central Crime Branch sources said another associate, Dandis, used to visit the call centre. Now, he is in Singapore. He was getting bank account details from Xioa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-chinese-nationals-operating-illegal-apps-held/article33484273.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Joyous occasion||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/joyous-occasion/article33484336.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||In election mode||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/in-election-mode/article33485161.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||03-01-21-city-cinema||MUSIC DANCE DRAMA ABBAS CULTURAL WISHING YOU ALL A HAPPY, PROSPEROUS & HEALTHY NEW YEAR 2021! 29th Year - 9 Day Mega Annual Art Festival " SHRIRAM PROPERTIES-KALAI VIZHA 2021” powered by APOLLO HOSPITALS (Dedicated In Memory of Padma Bhushan Dr S.P.BALASUBRAHMANYAM) from 9th Jan to 17th Jan 2021 Daily 2 performances 4.00pm & 7.00pm at Vani Mahal, T.Nagar 9th 7.00pm YGee MAHENDRA'S KASETHAN KADAVULADA 10th 4.00pm-Keyboard SATHYA 7.00pm A Grand Cine Musical Nite by S.P.B. CHARAN in Aradhana's Band 11th 4.00pm-SAI VIGNESH 7.00pm-MAHATHI 12th 4.00pm- TRICHUR BROTHERS 7.00pm-JAYASHREE VAIDYANATHAN 13th 4.00pm-SHRAVAN 7.00pm Rafi-Kishore Classic Nite by ANIL BAJPAI & JOSYULA SEKHAR 14th 4.00pm-SUDHA RAGUNATHAN 7.00pm Devotional songs by O.S.ARUN 15th 4.00pm-ABHISHEK RAGHURAM 7.00pm-NITHYASHREE MAHADEVAN 16th 4.00pm Grand Fusion Concert by RAJHESH VAIDYA 7.00pm-Krishna-The Lord of Rhythm "Musical Discourse by VISHAKHA HARI 17th 4.00pm-SPOORTHI 7.00pm -SID SRIRAM Supported by: INDIAN BANK, DINAMALAR, BESTEN PUMPS, METAL PRODUCTS, INDIAN OIL, TVS MOTOR CO., Partly in Aid of LAKSHMI PAIN & PALLIATIVE CARETRUST. ONLINE BOOKING: abbascultural.com, bookmyshow.com 9710 633 633. Gana Mukundhapriya (regd) 98845 81501 Today 03-01-2021 (Sunday). 5.00 pm: Miss Negavarshini, B/N. 6.00 pm: Sri Kadappa Ragavendran Flute & Party. 7.00 pm Disciples of Smt. Kala Srinivasan, Sri Krishna Natyalaya B/N at D.D.Auditorium, Andhra Mahila Sabha, Mylapore 600004. Sponsorship MINISTRY OF CULTURE, GOVERNMENT OF INDIA, NEW DELHI. All are welcome. Namasankeerthana Vizha - 2020 - 21 Integrated Academy for Performing Arts, Sri Krishna Gana Sabha & Bhagavatha Seva Trust presents Namasankeerthana Vizha 2020 - 21 from 1st January 2021 to 10th January 2021. Today 8.00 am - Seetha Kalyanam by Sankeerthana Choodamani Udaiyalur Dr. K. Kalyanarama Bhagavathar 4.00 pm Sankeerthana Choodamani Udaiyalur Dr. K. Kalyanarama Bhagavathar - Divyanamasankeerthanam, Vasanthakelikai & Pavalimpu Venue: Sri Krishna Gana Sabha, T. Nagar.FREE REGISTRATIONS AVAILABLE ON FIRST COME FIRST SERVE BASIS FOR ALL PROGRAMMES AT https://namasankeerthana vizha.com.HURRY UP!! HURRY UP!! HURRY UP!! ONLY LIMITED SEATS AVAILABLE!! ENTRY FREE Programs sponsored by Integrated Enterprises (India) Pvt.Limited, Shriram Group of Companies and City Union Bank Limited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/03-01-21-city-cinema/article33484950.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore today||Religion  Thiruvenkatavan Charitable Trust: Margazhi prayers, Sri Venugopala Perumal and Sri Kalyana Venkatesa Perumal temple, Kovaipudur, 5.20 a.m. General  Alagirisamy Memorial Trust: Release of book ‘Iron Man of Coimbatore’, Hotel Radisson Blu, 11 a.m.  New Century Book House: Book festival, Nehru Stadium, 9.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-today/article33484960.ece
03 January 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||Smooth administration in Belagavi||The dry run of COVID-19 vaccine administration was completed at primary health centres in Belagavi, Hukkeri, and Kittur on Saturday. Vaccine doses, placebo, and water were not used for the experiment. The exercise was aimed at practising and repeating the process of registration, admission, administration, and follow-up of volunteers and target groups. A total of 75 randomly chosen subjects — 25 in each of these government hospitals — were called to the hospitals and the process of administration was recorded using the CoWin tracking mobile application. ‘Data collected’ M.L. Tukkar, district surveillance officer, said the dry run was a success, with doctors and staff following protocol and the SOP set down by the Union government. “We have collected all the data necessary to start a full-fledged operation of administration. We have calculated the space needed for immunisation and the time taken for each case,” he said. This is the first time the vaccination drive is being done on an digital platform, without using paper. M.G. Hiremath, Deputy Commissioner, said that the district has the cold storage and transport capacity to store and use around eight lakh doses of COVID-19 vaccine. In the first phase, as many as 28,000 corona warriors will be given the vaccine, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/smooth-administration-in-belagavi/article33484348.ece
03 January 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||Wall collapses at worksite during Shettar’s visit||A part of the mud embankment collapsed at the worksite of a railway underbridge near Krishna Mandir at Deshpande Nagar in Hubballi on Saturday. The portion collapsed at a distance from where Minister of Large and Medium Scale Industries Jagadish Shettar was standing. No one was injured. The Minister, his staff, railway andpolice officers, and local leaders who accompanied him were all safe. The officers, however, advised the Minister to leave the spot and visit another part of the worksite. Mr. Shettar said the work on connecting two important parts of the city — Deshpande Nagar and Bhavani Nagar — has been a long-pending demand. The underbridge is estimated to cost Rs. 4.5 crore. “The work needs to be sped up. I have held meetings with officers of the city corporation, Railways, PWD, Revenue, and police. We will make sure it is done on time,” he said. He expressed hope that the project would be inaugurated in a month. Suresh Angadi, former Railway Minister, had laid the foundation stone for this project and the underpass at Unakal.  Meanwhile, Mr. Shettar on Saturday dismissed as baseless rumours reports of a change in BJP leadership in the State. “Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa clarified yesterday that he would complete his term. Cabinet expansion will be done following the instructions of the party high command,” he said. He added that he had no idea about the decision on the Belagavi Lok Sabha bypoll. “But the BJP is always ready for such challenges,” he said. He also claimed that over 60% of the gram panchayat members who won recently were supported by the BJP. He said that India would prove to be a model nation in the universal administration of COVID -19 vaccine. “We have full faith that Prime Minister Narendra Modi will ensure effective vaccination.” On investments Headded that the government had cleared some industrial investment proposals for Hubballi-Dharwad and a formal announcement would be made next week. “Over 1,000 roadside vendors have been removed from the main streets of the city, but I have asked officials to relocate them properly,” Mr. Shettar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/wall-collapses-at-underbridge-worksite-during-shettars-visit/article33484350.ece
03 January 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘BJP leaders want Cabinet expansion after Sankranti’||Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi on Saturday said the BJP was a party that followed the Hindu traditions and that is why its leaders wanted the long-pending Cabinet expansion to happen after Makara Sankranti, which falls on January 14. “I want Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to expand his Cabinet tomorrow and include all the MLAs who quit other parties to join the BJP. I have made this request at all levels in the party. However, the party is following some rules and all of us have to abide by that,” he said. He added that he had met Bhupender Yadav, BJP national general secretary, for no political reasons. “I had gone to Assam to visit the Kamakhya temple and other religious places. I met him by chance in Guwahati. There is no need to attach any significance to it,” he said.  Reacting to Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar’s statement that Mr. Yediyurappa would not be Chief Minister after Sankranti, Mr. Jarkiholi said he did not believe in Mr. Shivakumar’s “astrological predictions”. He also said the BJP government would ensure that the COVID-19 vaccine would be given to every resident for free.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-leaders-want-cabinet-expansion-after-sankranti/article33484343.ece
03 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Jagdale Industries to launch five new variants of Bejois in Karnataka||Bejois, a mango beverage from the city-based Jagdale Industries, has embarked on a brand overhaul exercise to carve a niche for itself in a highly cluttered beverages market in Karnataka. Bejois, which was introduced at a time when the market barely had any packaged beverages, has become a household name in the State in the last 40 years and is now finding it tough as competition in the ready-to-drink beverages space is hotting up. Rajesh Jagdale, MD, Jagdale Industries, told The Hindu that, “Bejois has been a steady brand in the last 40 years although it has seen ups and downs in the market due to distributor discounting. We are now working on a complete brand overhaul to uniquely position the product and also to introduce five new variants in the market.” Focus on nutrition According to him, Bejois will have new corporate branding, see packaging change, without altering the existing colour scheme, and the new variants will be focussed on nutrition. The company is in the process of exploring a direct distribution channel to save on discounting, in places where it does not have a distribution network. “We are exploring a direct distribution channel to fill gaps in the market while eventually, we will have a hybrid model,” he said. On the new launches, Mr. Jagdale said, mango would be the key ingredient in three of the new five products and to make it more nutritious it would have blends of orange and apple. The other new variants of Bejois would be pomegranate and amla. “The traditional Bejois will remain untouched while we will have new products out by February/March. We will introduce Bejois in glass bottles. We are also introducing half a litre and one litre packages of Bejois as home consumption of the product has gone up significantly after the COVID-19 pandemic,” Mr. Jagdale added.  Bejois has been a steady brand in the last 40 years although it has seen ups and downs in the market due to distributor discounting. We are now working on a complete brand overhaul to uniquely position the product and also to introduce five new variants in the market.Rajesh JagdaleMD, Jagdale Industries||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jagdale-industries-to-launch-five-new-variants-of-bejois-in-karnataka/article33484369.ece
03 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Domestic consumers who use less to gain, says Bescom||The tariff revision petition of the Bangalore Electricity Supply Company (Bescom) for FY 2021-22 is touted to be favourable for two sections of consumers in particular – domestic consumers who use less electricity, and HT consumers who use more. Senior Bescom officials explained that the proposal, if given the go-ahead by the Karnataka Electricity Regulatory Commission (KERC), will introduce “non-telescopic” tariffs for domestic consumers. Officials explained that the power utility has proposed consumption-wise segregation of consumers in the domestic category as a methodology of “intra cross subsidisation” by supplying power to domestic consumers at lower tariff. The present tariff structure demands cross subsidisation to domestic consumers from other categories such as HT industries, HT commercial and LT commercial, due to which the others are leaving the grid. To retain HT consumers by avoiding cross subsidisation, they want to bring in a different structure. What this effectively means is that those who consume less than 200 units stand to benefit. “We have power surplus now, and we want to pass on the benefit to consumers. Earlier, under the telescopic tariffs, consumers were paying Rs. 4 per unit for the first 30 units, Rs. 5.45 for 31-100 units, and Rs. 7 for 101-200 units. They end up paying almost Rs. 6 per unit on an average. What we are proposing is separating 1 to 30 units, but instead of 31 to 100 units, we are segregating them as 1 to 100 units and 1 to 200 units. So from the first unit itself, per unit they are paying is Rs. 4.80 for 100 units, Rs. 3.40 for the first 30 units. Rates have been reduced for consumption up to 200 units,” explained an official. Fixed charges As for fixed charges (FC), which Bescom has said is the major component for the tariff hike, it will be increased for all as the deficit the utility is suffering due to the power purchase costs and the tariff approved by the Commission will have to be passed on to the consumers, officials said. The increase in FC will also account for the infrastructure maintenance costs that Bescom incurs despite HT consumers leaving the grid for open access. In the recent revision, FC were increased by Rs. 10 per kW/HP/kVA for all installations except irrigation pump sets. Incentive scheme On the other hand, to retain HT consumers, Bescom has proposed an incentive scheme for HT industrial, commercial, educational institutes and hospitals whose consumption exceeds 1 lakh or 2 lakh units and above. “Consumers whose consumption in a month exceeds the previous financial year’s average consumption by 10% are offered a discounted rate of Rs. 6 per unit. Through this incentive scheme, the State-run enterprise is attempting to generate additional revenue from HT consumers by encouraging them to consume over and above the average 12 months’ consumption of FY 2020-21 by offering a concessional tariff rate,” officials explained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/domestic-consumers-who-use-less-to-gain-says-bescom/article33484912.ece
03 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||RERA-K fines project promoters for not filing quarterly updates||The Real Estate Regulatory Authority-Karnataka has imposed a penalty of Rs. 50,000 on promoters of over 1,300 projects who have failed to file quarterly updates on the progress of the projects. As per the RERA Act, 2016, promoters need to file quarterly updates of the progress, which was not followed by most builders in the State. RERA-K has now decided to crack the whip – a move welcomed by homebuyers and resented by builders. Suresh Hari, chairman, Confederation of Real Estate Developers Associations of India (CREDAI), Bengaluru, said the penalties have come at a time when the industry was already hit by the pandemic and they planned to appeal to provide more time, instead of levying penalties. “The Act clearly stipulates filing of quarterly updates, but several builders have not been doing so. We have served them multiple notices, following which many did file their updates. Of the 3,800 odd projects, we have now levied penalty for over 1,300 projects, indicating good compliance after we served notices. Moreover, fines levied pertain to non-filing of quarterly updates for 2019 and not the pandemic-hit 2020,” said K.S. Latha Kumari, secretary, RERA-K. Homebuyers said it was a step in the right direction. M.S. Shankar, secretary, Forum for People’s Collective Efforts, a forum of homebuyers, welcomed the move. “Quarterly updates will help the authority and homebuyers keep track of the progress of the project. But the authority needs to publish them on its website in the interest of transparency. We need to arrive at a scenario where quarterly updates are filed in a few week’s time after the end of the quarter. Today, the authority is levying penalty for non-filing of quarterly updates for 2019 in 2021, which itself is a sad comment,” he said. Erroneous notices? However, several builders have complained that the notices levying penalty have been served erroneously. Venkatesh, liaison officer, Millennia Ventures and Projects India Pvt. Ltd., said they had already filed the quarterly update reports for their project, but ended up being fined. “We have decided to challenge this legally,” he said. K.R. Ramesh, property consultant, SecureProp said: “Notices have been served to many who have filed their quarterly updates. Technical glitches in the RERA-K website have also stalled many from filing reports and in some cases, their reports have been deleted too,” he said. Ms. Latha Kumari conceded that notices had been erroneously issued to a few builders who had filed their quarterly updates and they were being corrected. “Notices were initially issued to over 1,450 projects and after corrections, it is now over 1,300. If there are any genuine issues, builders can raise a complaint with the helpdesk. But, not all those who are now being pulled up, failed to file reports because of these issues,” she said.  Fines levied pertain to non-filing of quarterly updates for 2019 and not the pandemic-hit 2020 K.S. Latha Kumari Secretary, RERA-K   We need to arrive at a scenario where quarterly updates are filed in a few weeks after the end of the quarter. Now, the authority is levying penalty for non-filing of quarterly updates of 2019 in 2021. M.S. Shankar Secretary, Forum for People’s Collective Efforts||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rera-k-fines-project-promoters-for-not-filing-quarterly-updates/article33484360.ece
03 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Steps have been taken to double farmers’ income by 2022: CM||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Saturday said that the State government had taken a slew of measures for doubling farmers’ income by 2022 as envisaged by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Speaking after the virtual inauguration of a Horticulture Mela of the University of Horticultural Sciences, Bagalkot, Mr. Yediyurappa said Mr. Modi recently flagged off the 100th run of the Kisan Rail and the train service would bring a major change in the farm sector. It would increase the strength of the country’s cold supply chain, he said. Kisan trains During the last three months, Kisan trains transported 27,000 tonnes of cargo and the train service has enabled speedy transportation of perishable commodities such as pomegranate, apples, grapes and oranges, he said. The State was one of the front runners in horticultural produce and the government was committed to support research, extension services and other basic facilities for increasing the produce in the State, the Chief Minister said. Deputy Chief Minister Govind M. Karjol said horticultural produce has become financially viable and owing to this the area under horticultural crops has increased in the State. New seed variety He called upon scientists to introduce a new variety of seeds for increasing the farmers’ income. Horticulture Minister Narayana Gowda said the State’s export contribution in the country’s horticultural sector has increased from 2.5% to 5%. More support would be given to horticulture growers in the coming days, he said. The Central Food Technological Research Institute  and Indian Institute of Horticultural Research have jointly organised the programme for encouraging value addition in horticultural produce, branding and packaging, the release said.  The government is committed to support research, extension services, and other basic facilities for increasing horticultural produce in the State.B.S. YediyurappaChief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/steps-have-been-taken-to-double-farmers-income-by-2022-cm/article33484373.ece
03 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Vaccination to be a two-hour process||The dry run for the COVID-19 vaccination began on Saturday in three centres across the city – Kamakshipalya PHC (primary health centre), Vidyapeetha PHC and Uttarahalli PHC. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike has already identified 1.68 lakh health care workers, who will be the first to be vaccinated. The details of these workers from over 4,594 institutions, including PHCs, medical colleges and hospitals, private clinics, etc., have already been uploaded on the portal managed by the centre, said BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad.  Mr. Prasad said that beneficiaries will receive messages on the centre they will have to go for the vaccination. Healthcare workers will key in details mentioned in the SMS on the portal, which will generate an OTP that will have to be entered. The beneficiary will then be sent to the waiting room, and later to the vaccination room when their turn comes. After vaccination, they will be sent to the observation room, where they will be monitored for 30 minutes. “The whole process will take around two hours,” he said. BBMP Special Commissioner (Health) Rajendra Cholan told The Hindu that as per the Centre’s guidelines, there should be one vaccinator for every 100 beneficiaries. “We have already identified 1,550 vaccinators and an additional 10% as reserve. The details of these vaccinators have also been uploaded on the Co-WIN portal,” he said. Three rooms Since the vaccination sites have to have three rooms - waiting, vaccination and observation rooms - the BBMP is in the process of identifying schools that may be converted to vaccination sites. “We have 144 PHCs that will be converted to vaccination sites, as they have the requisite infrastructure,” he added. Mr. Prasad said that the identification of schools would be completed in a couple of days. An important criteria for identifying the schools is the proximity to cold chain and vaccine storage facilities, Mr. Cholan added.  Keeping track Total beneficiaries: 1,68,647  Total health facilities: 4,594  Total vaccinators: 1550  Total session sites: 1,506||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vaccination-to-be-a-two-hour-process/article33484928.ece
03 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Another possible hike in electricity tariff||As consumers are getting used to the idea of paying more for electricity in a pandemic-hit scenario, they will have to brace for one more possible hike. The Bescom has set the ball rolling for another revision in tariff for the coming financial year. Senior officials confirmed to The Hindu that the average hike sought for FY 2021-22 is Rs. 1.39 per unit. “Fixed charges is the main component of the hike sought. The average amount is not uniform across categories. It will primarily be more pronounced for three categories: HT connections, temporary connections and IP sets,” said an official. It was only two months ago that the Karnataka Electricity Regulatory Commission (KERC) announced an increase in tariff by an average 40 paise per unit. Given the extraordinary circumstances in 2020, the commission had decided to make the new tariffs applicable from November instead of April, when the new financial year kicks in, to “ensure that the consumers are not burdened owing to adverse economic conditions during the COVID-19 pandemic.” However, the commission had made it amply clear that Rs. 1,443 crore that would have been recovered as additional revenue towards tariff revision for seven months from April 1, 2020, to October 31, 2020, against the total revenue gap of Rs. 2,473 crore, has been kept as ‘regulatory asset’ to be recovered from the consumers in the financial years 2022 and 2023. Before COVID-19 paralysed the world, Bescom had asked for Rs. 1.96 per unit hike citing revenue deficit of Rs. 5,872.08 crore for 2020-21. The year before that, all ESCOMS had sought hikes ranging from Rs. 1 to Rs. 1.67 per unit. The KERC had then allowed a 33 paise per unit increase.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/another-possible-hike-in-electricity-tariff/article33484362.ece
03 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||One more U.K. returnee tests positive||With one more U.K. returnee testing positive for COVID-19 through RT-PCR test on Saturday, a total of 34 persons have now tested positive. Of the 2,127 who returned to Karnataka from the U.K. from December 1 to December 22, as many as 2,173 have been tested so far, according to the State’s media bulletin. So far, 10 U.K. returnees, including a primary contact of a returnee, have tested positive for the new strain in the State. Of the 33 samples received at NIMHANS for genome sequencing, the process has been completed for all except nine. Results of the nine samples are likely to be ready by Sunday. Cases in State Meanwhile, the State on Saturday reported 755 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total number of cases to 9,21,128. With three deaths, the toll rose to 12,099. This is apart from 19 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 976 persons were discharged on Saturday, taking the total number of recoveries to 8,98,176. Of the remaining 10,834 active patients, 186 are being monitored in the ICU. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.66%, the Case Fatality Rate touched 0.39%. Bengaluru Urban reported 343 cases, taking its tally to 3,89,193. With one death coming from Bengaluru, the toll in this district rose to 4,322. Active cases in Bengaluru reduced to 6,964. As many as 1,14,123 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 1,09,058 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total tests rose to 1,41,96,065. A total of 1,41,96,065 tests were conducted in the State in 2020 ever since the first case was reported on March 8. This includes 37,26,803 Rapid Antigen Tests and 1,04,69,262 RT-PCR tests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/one-more-uk-returnee-tests-positive/article33484364.ece
03 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Chitra Santhe goes online||The first Sunday of every New Year sees lakhs of people visit the Karnataka Chitrakala Parishath’s ‘Chitra Santhe’. The 18th edition of the popular street art festival begins today, but it will be held online. Instead of a day-long event, the online exhibition will be held up to February 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/chitra-santhe-goes-online/article33484917.ece
03 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CCB busts gang of burglars||The Central Crime Branch (CCB) police on Saturday caught two inter-State habitual offenders who are wanted in 40 cases of house break-ins and theft over the last two years. The police have recovered 4 kg of gold valuables valued at Rs. 2.2 crore from the accused. The prime accused, Fayum Islamuddin, 35, hails from Moradabad in Uttar Pradesh. He would allegedly come to Bengaluru with the aim of breaking into houses, said the police. A team led by Hajaresh Killedar tracked down Fayum at his hometown in U.P.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ccb-busts-gang-of-burglars/article33484921.ece
03 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Honorarium for kitchen assistants released||Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar on Saturday said that Rs. 9,345.76 lakh had been released a three-month honorarium from September to December 2020, to be paid to kitchen assistants working under the auspices of the State schools’ midday meal and Ksheera Bhagya programmes. The Minister in a statement said the three months’ salary will be given to kitchen assistants immediately and steps are being taken to release the honorarium for the January to March 2021 quarter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/honorarium-for-kitchen-assistants-released/article33484370.ece
03 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KSRTC pass for students||Following the commencement of schools and colleges for SSLC and PU students, the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) has decided to permit students to travel in KSRTC buses in all cities, suburban, and express routes on presenting the pass issued for 2019-20 along with current year fee receipt. KSRTC, in a release, said this facility will be extended upto January 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ksrtc-pass-for-students/article33484371.ece
03 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Power shutdown||There will be no power supply on January 4 between 10.30 a.m. and 6.30 p.m. in areas coming under Jayadeva substation owing to conversion and cable works. Power will also be hit in areas under Khodays and RBI substations on January 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-shutdown/article33484922.ece
03 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Security guard stab wife to death||A 50-year-old man who worked as a security guard allegedly stabbed his wife to death on Friday at their home in Horamavu. The police said Ram Bahadur was an alcoholic. On Friday, he got into a fight with Dhupi Devi Batak and stabbed her twice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/security-guard-stab-wife-to-death/article33484368.ece
03 January 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Yediyurappa will complete his term: Kateel||Bharatiya Janata Party State president Nalin Kumar Kateel has said that Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa would complete full term and the issue of change in leadership has never come up for debate in the party forum. He was speaking to presspersons at Tirthahalli on Saturday, on the way to Shivamogga to attend the party’s special meeting. The issue of change in leadership was not discussed either in the party’s meeting or the legislature party meeting. “If somebody speaks on the issue on the streets, the party has nothing to do with it,” he said. Cabinet expansion Regarding Cabinet expansion, Mr. Kateel said it would be done considering all factors, including social justice, seniority and regional representation. “The Chief Minister decides on his Cabinet. He takes the opinion of the party’s senior leaders, considering various issues. The expansion was delayed due to gram panchayat polls,” he said. Western Ghats Answering a query on the K. Kasturirangan panel report on Western Ghats, he said the Cabinet had already taken a decision to oppose the report and conveyed the same to the Centre. The previous government should have initiated a ground level survey as it was done in Kerala and Gujarat. “The Supreme Court had instructed the States to record people’s opinion through videoconference. The previous government did not do anything. It was in slumber. However, after our party came to power, the Chief Minister spoke to Union Minister Prakash Javadekar on the issue. Now, the Cabinet has taken a stand. The Centre will act after taking opinions of the States,” he said. Panchayat polls Later in the day, speaking to presspersons at Sakrebailu, Mr. Kateel said the BJP supporters had won more than 42,000 seats in the gram panchayat polls. Congress leaders Siddaramaiah and D.K. Shivakumar had been disturbed by the party’s poor performance in the election. “They are making comments on the BJP as they are frustrated with the results,” he said.  Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa will complete his term and the issue of change in leadership has never come up for debate in the party forum.Nalin Kumar KateelBharatiya Janata Party State president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/yediyurappa-will-complete-his-term-kateel/article33484379.ece
03 January 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||I am not a ticket aspirant: Vijayendra||BJP State vice-president B.Y. Vijayendra has said he was not an aspirant to contest in the byelection in Basavakalyan Assembly constituency in Bidar district. In an interaction with presspersons in Shivamogga on Saturday, he said the party would decide who should be the candidate in the by-election. “I have no ambition to contest for any seat. Being vice-president of the party’s State unit, I will take up the responsibilities assigned to me”, he said in response to a question. Further, he said the party’s meeting in Shivamogga would discuss the preparations for the by-elections in Belagavi Lok Sabha seat and Assembly seats in Maski and Basavakalyan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/i-am-not-a-ticket-aspirant-vijayendra/article33484545.ece
03 January 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||CM pat for Shivamogga unit of Rangayana||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has appreciated the activities of Rangayana in Shivamogga. “The institute has strengthened the theatre form through its activities in the district”, he said. He spoke after launching the official website of Shivamogga unit of Rangayana - http://rangayanashivamo gga.org The Rangayana unit in Shivamogga was started in 2011. “In the last 10 years, the unit has conducted many activities and attracted theatre lovers. The State government set up four units of Rangayana in the State, including one in Shivamogga”, he said. Shivamogga Rangayana director Sandesh Javali, Lok Sabha member B.Y. Raghavendra, legislators Araga Jnanendra, Ayanur Manjunath, and Rudre Gowda, Deputy Commissioner K.B. Shivakumar and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-pat-for-shivamogga-unit-of-rangayana/article33484552.ece
03 January 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Property certificates for slum-dwellers: KSE||Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj K.S. Eshwarappa has said 18,700 families of slums in Shivamogga would get certificates of the properties they own. He told presspersons in Shivamogga on Saturday that families residing in 35 slums would get the benefit. The identification of families would begin on January 3. The second phase of identification of houses would begin on January 6. The process of distributing certificates of rights would be completed in three-four months. Government officials would visit houses to collect information from the beneficiaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/property-certificates-for-slum-dwellers-kse/article33484554.ece
03 January 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||‘Disciplinary panel will act against Yatnal’||BJP State president Nalin Kumar Kateel has said the party’s disciplinary committee at the Centre will take action against Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, MLA, for his repeated recent statements questioning the leadership. Speaking to presspersons in Shivamogga on Saturday, Mr. Kateel said the MLA had been causing embarrassment to the party by his statements. The party’s disciplinary committee had been complained on this. “The committee will take appropriate action,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/disciplinary-panel-will-act-against-yatnal/article33484380.ece
03 January 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Elephant found dead||A female wild elephant was found dead near Mankanahalli in Sakleshpur taluk on Friday. It is said to have suffered a bullet injury.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/elephant-found-dead/article33484544.ece
03 January 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Deadline for Shivamogga airport work||Minister for Public Works Govind Karjol has said the contractor of the airport coming up at Sogane near Shivamogga had been told to complete the construction within a year. Speaking to presspersons after reviewing the project during his visit to Shivamogga on Saturday, Mr. Karjol said the airport would come up on 770 acres of land at a cost of Rs. 384 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/deadline-for-shivamogga-airport-work/article33484555.ece
03 January 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Villagers protest as leopard kills man||A man who was grazing his cattle at Virupapur Gaddi islet in Gangavathi taluk of Koppal district was killed by a leopard on Friday evening. The deceased has been identified as Raghavendra Venkatesh, 19, a resident of Kariammana Gaddi islet. As per information provided by the villagers, he was grazing his cattle at a desolated place between Rishimukha Betta and a private resort when he was attacked by the animal. After noticing the scared cattle dispersing just as the animal attacked, locals rushed to the spot. Forest officials also visited later. Holding forest officials responsible for the incident, the family members of the victim and villagers resorted to a protest for a while, demanding that the local MLA Paranna Manavalli and Forest Minister Anand Singh visit the spot andtake action against the “lethargic officials”. The police arrived and tried to pacify the agitating villagers, who had blocked the Anegondi-Sanapur Road and burnt tyres there. Deputy Superintendent of Police R. Ujjanikoppa managed to pacify them eventually. People do not usually go to desolated places in the area because of the presence of leopards. Recently, a priest of Durgadevi temple was also killed by a leopard. “There are many leopards and bears in the area. Two leopards were caught and released into Atal Bihari Vajpayee Zoological Park in Kamalapur. People are advised to be careful while going out into these areas. In the past, farmers would carry traditional weapons and tools such as sickles for self-protection while going to the fields. Now, people carry phones,” said G.P. Harsha Bhanu, Deputy Conservator of Forests, Koppal. Compensation Forest Minister Anand Singh visited the victim’s house and consoled the grieving kith and kin of the victim after paying homage to the dead on Saturday. He also handed over compensation of Rs. 7.5 lakh from the Forest Department and Rs. 2.5 lakh from his own pocket. Speaking to presspersons, he said that considering the recent leopard attacks on people and domestic animals, he had directed forest officials to catch the predators and release them in the zoological park.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/villagers-protest-as-leopard-kills-man/article33484352.ece
03 January 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||73 identified beneficiaries attend dry run in Kalaburagi||A dry run for COVID-19 vaccination was held at three centres in Kalaburagi, where the country recorded its first COVID-19 death on March 12 last year. Of the identified 75 test beneficiaries (health workers) identified for the dry run, only 73 reported at their respective centres. While 25 beneficiaries each were administered dummy vaccines at the Aurad (B) primary healthcare centre and the PHC at Jewargi town, 23 were administered at Ashok Nagar PHC in Kalaburagi city. Two of the registered beneficiaries did not participate here because of health issues. Earlier, the staff members at Ashok Nagar PHC welcomed the beneficiaries by offering a rose. However, Deputy Commissioner V.V. Jyothsna, who visited the centre, directed the staff not to offer roses as they staff could become primary contacts of those arriving. The District Health and Family Welfare office has uploaded the details of 17,400 beneficiaries for administering the COVID-19 vaccine during the first phase.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/73-identified-beneficiaries-attend-dry-run-in-kalaburagi/article33484354.ece
03 January 2021||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||‘Hampi will be developed as a model tourist destination’||Forest Minister and Ballari in-charge B.S. Anand Singh says he and his government plan to develop the World Heritage Site of Hampi into a model tourist destination in the State. “Hampi is one of the historical places that display the rich cultural heritage of the State. It has secured an important place in the map of world tourist destinations because of its architectural marvels. We have already been organising many events in the World Heritage Site to showcase the heritage and we will develop the site into a model tourist destination and popularise it by organising many more cultural events,” he said. He was addressing a gathering after inaugurating Samskritika Saurabha, a cultural event organised by the Department of Kannada and Culture, at Virupaksheshwar Temple in Hampi late on Friday night. He also called upon the newly elected gram panchayat members to join hands with the government in the development of Hampi. The GP members were then felicitated on the occasion. Cultural teams that arrived from different parts of the district performed, enthralling the crowd for hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hampi-will-be-developed-as-a-model-tourist-destination/article33484347.ece
03 January 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Sanitary workers in city go on strike again||A fortnight after going on strike from work, sanitary workers did so again in Mangaluru city on Saturday, hitting the collection and transport of solid waste from doorsteps. Like last time, they withdrew the strike in the afternoon and returned to work after the Commissioner of Mangaluru City Corporation, Akshy Sridhar, met them at Baikampady and promised to fulfil their two main demands through Antony Waste Handling Cell Pvt. Ltd., which handles the solid waste of the city for the corporation. Narayana Shetty, president of the Association of Safai Karmacharis of Mangaluru, said the workers had protested mainly seeking the release of salary on the 10th of every month and the release of the bonus due to them from the company. He said the Commissioner assured them that he would ask the company to release the bonus on January 4 and that he would also ensure that the company credited salary on the 10th. “Of about 600 sanitary workers, including drivers, 400 participated in the strike. About 110 vehicles did not collect waste in the afternoon. The striking workers returned to the work after having their lunch,” Mr. Shetty said. However, wet waste remained uncollected in many houses and apartments till late in the evening as the schedule of collection was affected in the forenoon. Mr. Shetty said that there were issues related to the maintenance of vehicles transporting solid waste posing a threat to the safety of drivers and workers. The repair of vehicles should be completed at the earliest, and women workers do not have proper toilet facilities yet, he said. He added that the other demands included the fixing of duty hours at eight and the payment of overtime allowance for working more than eight hours, providing earned leave to workers, providing payslips to all workers, and covering all workers under PF and ESI facility.  Of about 600 sanitary workers, including drivers, 400 participated in the strike. About 110 vehicles did not collect waste in the afternoon Narayana Shetty,president, Association of Safai Karmacharis of Mangaluru||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sanitary-workers-in-city-go-on-strike-again/article33485078.ece
03 January 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Pay compensation to anganwadi COVID-19 warriors: Association||Karnataka State Anganwadi-Midday Meal Workers Association president S. Varalakshmi on Saturday urged the government to release compensation to the families of 26 anganwadi workers who were at the forefront in the fight against COVID-19 in the State. Speaking to reporters in Udupi, Ms. Varalakshmi said in all, 113 anganwadi workers were infected with COVID-19, of which 27 workers died, including two in Udupi district. The government has released Rs. 30 lakh compensation to only one COVID-19 victim leaving the families of the remaining in distress. Apart from COVID-19 deaths, 35 anganwadi workers died due to work-related stress post March 24, 2020, she said. Meanwhile, Ms. Varalakshmi criticised the government’s reluctance in releasing funds to purchase eggs to be given to kids at anganwadis. The government should release funds in advance to buy eggs; however, anganwadi workers were buying eggs paying from their pockets. Money was not released to anganwadis since seven months in Udupi district to buy eggs, she lamented, and added henceforth, workers would not buy eggs paying from their pockets. Ms. Varalakshmi also said the association opposes the policy of opening centralised kitchens as mandated by the New Education Policy for providing food to kids. The Central government has already issued a circular this effect, following which thousands of midday meal scheme workers would lose their jobs. Urging the government to withdraw the direction, she also demanded immediate payment of wages to midday meal workers due since September 2020. The government that did not offer COVID-19 compensation, special allowance, pension, and other basic amenities to anganwadi workers, has provided 65,000 mobile phone handsets to them, which is an irony, she said. The association would hold ‘Bengaluru Chalo’ during the forthcoming budget session of the Karnataka legislature espousing all these issues. Association district president Bharathi was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pay-compensation-to-anganwadi-covid-19-warriors-association/article33485083.ece
03 January 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Two killed in road accidents in Udupi||The driver of a vegetable-laden lorry died and the cleaner was injured when the vehicle fell into a roadside ditch at Maala Ghat section, under Karkala Rural police station limits, in Udupi in the early hours of Saturday. The deceased has been identified as Annappa, 56, a resident of Chikkamagaluru, while the injured man is Ravi. The incident took place at about 2 a.m. when the lorry was on its way to Karkala from Chikkamagaluru. The police said that the vehicle fell because of brake failure. Annappa, sensing danger, urged Ravi to jump from the vehicle. Locals from Kadari area, near Maala, helped the police retrieve the body of Annappa from the lorry. A crane was used to lift the lorry from the ditch. Ravi has been admitted to a government hospital at Karkala. Man killed Isaac, 48, a resident of Hoodi died when a lorry transporting fish from the fisheries harbour at Malpe hit the scooter that he was driving on the Vadabhandeshwara-Thottam road in the early hours of Saturday. The lorry subsequently also rammed into a micro-van parked on the roadside in front of a guest house, causing extensive damage to it. Although the lorry driver panicked and fled from the scene, the police tracked him down and seized the lorry. Murder The 57-year-old Sheik Abubakkar from Hanchikatte in Karkala Kasba village, under Karkala police limits in Udupi district, died when his son-in-law, Tausif, allegedly slapped him, pushed him down to the floor, and kicked him in his private parts. The incident took place at a flat on December 31. Seriously injured, Abubakkar was admitted to a private nursing home in Karkala and later shifted to a private hospital in Manipal for advanced treatment on Friday. However, the doctors there declared him brought dead. The police have registered a case under Section 302 of the IPC (murder) against Tausif. The victim apparently suffered head injuries when pushed to the floor, the police said. Unlocked Fire and Emergency Services personnel rescued a student who had locked himself inside the bathroom of a residential flat in Manipal. The police said that irked by his mother scolding him for playing games on mobile phone and taking the phone away, the student locked himself inside overnight. Later, the mother called the emergency services, who accessed the bathroom from the terrace of the flat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-killed-in-road-accidents-in-udupi/article33485068.ece
03 January 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Rice resale racket unearthed||Officials of the Department of Food and Civil Supplies and the police in Kundapura, Udupi district, have unearthed another racket involving the purchase of rice from ration card-holders and their resale in the open market. They have arrested one person in this connection and are searching for twomore accused, who are absconding. The arrested man has been identified as Azam of Mangaluru, while the two who are absconding are Uday Kumar Shetty of Koteshwara and Rama Poojari of Udupi. The authorities have seized 25,120 kg of rice and two four-wheelers that were being used for transporting the rice. In addition, a weighing machine and a sewing machine were also seized. Acting on a tip-off, the officials raided a shed belonging to Shetty, located behind Nandi Hotel on Halady Road in Koteshwara, on Friday evening. The accused have been booked under sections 3, 6 and 7 of the Essential Commodities Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rice-resale-racket-unearthed/article33485076.ece
03 January 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||MCC council approves proposal to build multi-purpose complex at Jeppu||Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) has proposed to build a multi-purpose complex at Jeppu at an estimated cost of Rs. 37 crore. It has proposed to house its existing health centre and veterinary clinic in this complex. In addition, the complex will have a provision for offices, including the ward office of the corporation, commercial shops, and a bus stand. The corporation has proposed to get the project done under the Smart City Mission by Mangaluru Smart City Ltd. (MSCL). The council of the corporation approved the proposal when it met on Thursday. An agenda on the same tabled at the council meeting said that the civic body expected Rs. 18.5 lakh per month as rent from commercial shops that would be allowed in the complex. It said that the basement of the building would have 704 sq ft area, the ground floor 13,100 sq ft, the first floor 18,875 sq ft, and the second and third floors together an area of 37,750 sq ft. The first floor is to have offices and shops, while the second and third floors will have offices. The project would be a reality subject to the approval of the board of MSCL. The whip in the council, Premananda Shetty, said the connectivity to Jeppu area under Mangaladevi ward would be improved once the proposed railway underpass project at Mahakalipadpu and the road widening from Morgan’s Gate to Jeppinamogaru on NH-66 came through. This road already has heavy traffic movement. The bus shelter in front of Mangaladevi temple can be shifted to the area of the complex. Another proposal The council has also approved a proposal to widen the Kadri Shivabagh New Road from 9 m to 12 m, either by acquiring land or getting the land for the project under the provisions of Transferable Development Rights (TDR). It has also decided to write to the Mangaluru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) to include the road-widening proposal in its master plan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mcc-council-approves-proposal-to-build-multi-purpose-complex-at-jeppu/article33485067.ece
03 January 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Take precautions to prevent a second wave of COVID-19’||Secretary in-charge of Dakshina Kannada, V. Ponnuraj, on Saturday asked the district administration to take all precautionary measures to prevent the spread of a possible second wave of COVID-19 in the district. Presiding over a meeting to review the performance of various departments in the office of the Deputy Commissioner, he said that since many people were visiting the religious places in the district from Kerala and other places, including from abroad, there were chances of a second wave of infection. Hence, the Health Department and others should be vigilant, he said, adding that the district administration should also make preparations for administering the COVID-19 vaccine. Mr. Ponnuraj, who is also MD of Karnataka Power Corporation Ltd., asked the district administration to ensure regular drinking water supply to people, both in urban and rural areas, in the coming summer. The city corporation should also focus on having different sources of water to ensure round-the-clock water supply in the city, he said. The Secretary said that solid waste should be disposed of scientifically, both in urban and rural areas. Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra, zilla panchayat CEO R. Selvamani, and Commissioner of Mangaluru City Corporation Akshy Sridhar were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/take-precautions-to-prevent-a-second-wave-of-covid-19/article33485074.ece
03 January 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Congress’ zonal conference to be held in Bantwal on Jan. 6||The first of the four zonal conferences of the Karnataka Congress Committee (KPCC) pertaining to Mysuru division will be held in Bantwal on January 6, said former Minister B. Ramanath Rai. Speaking to reporters here on Saturday, Mr. Rai said the conference would be held at the Sagar Auditorium on B.C. Road. Representatives from Mysuru, Chamarajanagar, Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Shivamogga, Chikkamagaluru, and Kodagu districts that come under Mysuru division would attend the conference. KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar, former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah, leaders Eshwar Khandre, Satish Jarkiholi, and others would attend, Mr. Rai said. He said preparations were on at a brisk pace. KPCC working president Saleem Ahmed will arrive in Mangaluru on Sunday to examine the preparations for the conference. Mr. Shivakumar will be in Mangaluru a day before the convention and interact with party workers, Mr. Rai said. Former Minister U.T. Khader said the convention was slated to discuss modes to strengthen the party, how to expose failures of the BJP government in the State, and the future course of action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-zonal-conference-to-be-held-in-bantwal-on-jan-6/article33485081.ece
03 January 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||NEP is a revolutionary document with a vision: MAHE V-C||The Vice-Chancellor of Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE) M.D. Venkatesh has said that the New Education Policy- 2020 is a revolutionary document with a vision on bringing out qualitative changes in the education sector with extensive use of technology. Speaking after inaugurating a conclave on ‘Implementation of new education policy: a vision building’ at MGM College in Udupi on Saturday, he said that it will provide flexibility to students with multiple entry and exit options to complete his/her education during any point of time. Doors of opportunity The Vice-Chancellor said that the NEP has also opened up the doors of opportunity with the prisms of internationalisation being acknowledged in the policy. It gives a green signal for Indian universities to open their campuses abroad. The policy gives a roadmap to make youngsters to have a receptive mindset to embrace technology, he said. Stating that research intensive education is the need of the hour, he said that there will be challenges in the implementation of the policy. It has laid stress on promotion of extensive use of technology and has given importance to Indian languages and cultural diversity to bring change in the higher education system in the country. S.K. Saidapur, former Vice-Chancellor, Karnataka University, also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nep-is-a-revolutionary-document-with-a-vision-mahe-v-c/article33485085.ece
03 January 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||49 new COVID-19 cases||Dakshina Kannada district reported 37 fresh COVID-19 cases on Saturday. With 19 patients being discharged, the active cases in the district stood at 367. The district administration has so far collected Rs. 20.49 lakh as fine from people for not wearing mask. Udupi reported 12 cases, taking its active cases to 81.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/49-new-covid-19-cases/article33485071.ece
03 January 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Free tailoring training||Mangalore Institute of Fashion Technology, Attavar, in association with the Department of Handlooms and Textiles, plans to offer a 45-day free training course on tailoring. Each selected candidate will be offered Rs. 3,500 as stipend. Those who have passed class 7 and are aged under 35 can apply. For details, call 8951097991.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/free-tailoring-training/article33485073.ece
03 January 2021||mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Two tourists rescued||Lifeguards at Kaup beach in Udupi district rescued two tourists from drowning in the sea on Saturday. The rescued were identified as Rahul, 22, from Shivamooga and Tejas, 23, from Mysuru. Lifeguards Prashant Karkera and Pratham, with scuba divers Jack andPradeep Kumar, rescued them around 3.30 p.m., said Yatish Baikampady, CEOof thebeach management.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-tourists-rescued/article33484356.ece
03 January 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||BJP resorted to unfair means in panchayat polls, alleges Congress||The Dakshina Kannada district Congress on Saturday alleged that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) resorted to unfair practices to gain hold of gram panchayats. DKCC president K. Harish Kumar told reporters here that the BJP that could not face the elections in a straightforward manner resorted to several other methods to threaten candidates supported by the Congress. Issuing threats to Congress-supported candidates, preventing them from filing nomination papers, and luring them with money were some of the tactics used by the BJP to deter the Congress from gaining hold of panchayats, he said. Still, Congress-supported candidates were able to get hold of 49 panchayats. Of the 3,200 candidates supported by the Congress, 1,011 candidates won the elections, Mr. Kumar said. The party received good support in Bantwal, Moodbidri, and Mangaluru (Ullal) constituencies while its performance was not that good in Belthangady and Sullia constituencies. Speaking on the occasion, former Minister U.T. Khader chided the government for not framing proper guidelines for conducting classes despite resuming physical classes from January 1. Students and parents were confused as online as well as offline classes were in vogue. The government was yet to prescribe the syllabus for the academic years, he said. Mr. Khader wondered how the teachers could conduct both online and offline classes. The government was playing with the system, he alleged.  ‘The BJP issued threats to Congress-supported candidates and preventing them from filing nomination papers’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-resorted-to-unfair-means-in-panchayat-polls-alleges-congress/article33485082.ece
03 January 2021||mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Police book case over Facebook post||The Mangaluru cybercrime police have registered a case against a person on the charge of outraging the modesty of a woman through social media posts for writing about the BJP. Social worker Pramila, in her complaint to the police on Friday, said she had commented on a Facebook post that spoke about the alleged pro-Pakistan slogans raised by SDPI activists in Ujire in connection with the GP poll results. One person, Baburao Sirdesai, responded to the comment in vulgar language and evensaid such women “should be subjected to gang-rape”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-book-case-over-facebook-post/article33484355.ece
03 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Briefly||Some areas in the city and its outskirts will have no power supply on Sunday from 1 p.m. to 3 p.m. The areas are Baikampady, Baikampady Industrial Area, APMC Market area, Angaragundi, Preethinagara, Pragatinagara, MSEZ Colony, 62nd Thokuru, Ramanagara, Dwarakanagara, Mittottu, Kulai, and Jokatte.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/briefly/article33485070.ece
03 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 vaccine dry run in Mysuru successful||The COVID-19 Vaccine Dry Run, planned across three public healthcare centers in Mysuru district, was successfully conducted on Saturday as mandated by the Centre and the State government. The mock drill in Mysuru city was done with the help of 25 registered beneficiaries who were from the healthcare sector. The dry run was conducted across the country in select cities to check the preparedness of the district administrations and the healthcare authorities on vaccine delivery and mass immunisation. Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri monitored the procedure at the Urban Public Healthcare Centre in Jayanagar in the presence of officials from the Department of Health and Family Welfare. Likewise, the dry run was conducted at two other places - at K.R. Nagar taluk hospital and Bilikere PHC in Hunsur taluk. As many as 34,000 healthcare workers, including doctors, nursing staff, Group D employees from government and private hospitals, ASHA workers and others from the healthcare sector from Mysuru district had registered with the COVIN App, developed by the Centre, ahead of the roll out of the vaccine. The registration through the app concluded last month and a select few were told to take part in the dry run. The healthcare professionals and workers had been trained for vaccination ahead of the dry run as per the Health Ministry’s guidelines. From entry to the vaccination booth till the exit after getting the vaccine, the entire inoculation process was staged as part of the mock drill. Those who took part were intimated before the drill through SMS on their registered mobile numbers. This was again a part of the drive. The beneficiary identified to receive the first dose of the vaccine has to follow the guidelines before he or she is vaccinated. The mock drill had a waiting room, vaccination room and observation room. Authentication The Aadhaar-based authentication of the beneficiary was done with an OTP sent to the registered mobile number before he or she received the injection. After receiving the jab, the beneficiary has to remain in the observation room for nearly 30 minutes before leaving the premises.  Ambulance In case of any complications after vaccination, a health team would provide first-aid and medical care to the person. If the beneficiary required hospitalisation, he or she would be rushed to the hospital (K.R. Hospital) in an ambulance which would be parked outside each vaccination centre. The vaccine data (details of the beneficiaries and vaccine delivered) was updated on the COVIN App along with a message sent to the beneficiary upon administering the vaccine. Vaccination team District Vector Borne Diseases Control Officer Chidambar, who is among those identified to get the first dose of COVID-19 vaccine, and the 25 beneficiaries taking part in the dry run, told The Hindu that the vaccination team consists of five persons, including a doctor, which would be handling the immunisation. The vaccination process is structured and the same guidelines are supposed to be followed all over the country once the vaccine was launched. Protocols  “The vaccine delivery is Aadhaar-linked and a One-time Password is generated before the beneficiary is vaccinated. The details are updated on the COVIN software. The medical waste disposal and other protocols such as the type of syringe used for the jab for the adult dose and so on had been clearly indicated,” he said. In the mock drill, it took less than 10 minutes for the first dose of vaccination to be administered to each beneficiary. List of beneficiaries The list of beneficiaries in the first phase of vaccination from Mysuru district had been prepared and sent to the State government. Each beneficiary would get a vaccine certificate upon receiving two doses of the jab, according to the health authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-vaccine-dry-run-in-mysuru-successful/article33484547.ece
03 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Devaraj Urs Road: Police scout for alternative parking sites||Ahead of a crucial meeting with the shopkeepers of D. Devaraj Urs Road, the city’s busiest commercial hub, on the issue of vehicle parking, the Mysuru City Traffic Police will soon engage in talks with the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) on identifying alternative parking sites if parking limitations are enforced on the road to ease space crisis. The traffic police have proposed a four-hour parking limit for four-wheelers on the road as a remedy to the unending parking woes the shoppers and the public face. As the four-wheelers of shopkeepers are parked almost the entire day, depriving parking to the shoppers and causing traffic interruptions over “double parking” on the road, the police have come up with the idea of limiting parking for four hours a day to ration the “premium” parking space. If the parking time limit exceeds the time limit, the vehicle would be wheel-locked and the owner has to pay the penalty for getting it unlocked. Assistant Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Sandesh Kumar, who has proposed the idea, told The Hindu that the parking woes on D. Devaraj Urs had remained unresolved since many years despite many efforts by the police and the MCC. “The maximum use of parking space by the shopkeepers has led to the everlasting crisis and the police are now firm to resolve it, limiting parking time to four hours a day. If the parking duration is exceeded, the vehicle owner has to pay the fine as the wheel gets locked on the charge of obstruction to traffic,” he explained. The police had a round of meeting with the shopkeepers, who are said to be ‘positive’ to the idea mooted for easing the parking crisis. However, they have sought alternative parking sites for their vehicles around the road if the curbs are enforced. Another crucial meeting is expected soon besides holding talks with the MCC on the locations identified for alternative parking. “We hope to bring the rule into force taking all stakeholders into confidence,” Mr. Kumar said. According to the police, the 900-metre-long road has dedicated space for the parking of 225 four-wheelers. As per an estimate, around 90 four-wheelers of the shopkeepers are parked almost every day, eventually denying parking space to the shoppers. Besides, the four-wheelers owned by households in the vicinity of the road are also parked there. “We have information that space left for parking would be for around 15-20 cars of shoppers,” the ACP said. Explaining the plan, Mr. Kumar said the road would be divided into four units for the enforcement of the rule by the traffic police. The policeman on duty in each unit would issue a slip to the owner of the vehicle with the arrival time, indicating at what time the vehicle has to leave the parking lot along with the phone number of the police. Mr. Kumar said several alternative parking spaces had been identified. They include Gaadi Chowk and Town Hall premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/devaraj-urs-road-police-scout-for-alternative-parking-sites/article33484550.ece
03 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Wadiyars claim ownership over Lalitha Mahal helipad following court order||Claiming ownership over the Lalitha Mahal helipad and certain adjoining areas following a High Court order in their favour, the erstwhile royal family of Mysuru has erected a gate leading to the helipad and a signboard warning trespassers of legal action. Addressing a press conference here on Saturday, Pramoda Devi Wadiyar, wife of the late Srikantadatta Narasimharaja Wadiyar, said they had decided to erect the gate and put up a signboard to prevent unauthorised encroachment of the land in the light of some claimants putting up fences in the vicinity claiming ownership. She, however, said the authorities were free to use the helipad if it was needed. “Only the main entrance to the helipad has been secured with a gate and a security guard while the helipad remains unfenced and accessible,” she said and added that vehicles can go into the helipad area. The helipad was part of the several acres of land in Survey No. 41 in Alanahalli, Survey No. 4 in Kurubarahalli, and Survey No. 39 in Chowdanahalli that had been declared as B Kharab land by the Deputy Commissioner of Mysuru. However, erstwhile royal family, which had claimed ownership of the land on the basis of the 1950 treaty between the Union of India and the Maharaja of Mysore, moved the High Court, which set aside in June 2020 the Deputy Commissioner’s ruling that it was B Kharab land, Ms. Wadiyar claimed. Though the land belonging to the royal family was spread across 1,500 acres covering Lalitha Mahal Palace and surrounding areas at the time the treaty was signed, Ms. Wadiyar said the royal family was not claiming ownership of the entire area. She did not rule out some areas changing hands legally since 1950. However, she expressed concern over land grabbers encroaching property in the area. She said she has requested the Revenue Department to carry out a survey and demarcate the areas belonging to the royal family and also identify genuine owners of the land. She has also urged the Revenue Department to refer to them any claimants of the land in the area so that they can verify the claim for genuineness. Ms. Wadiyar also clarified that the State government had not gone in appeal against the High Court ruling in favour of the royal family even though the order was issued in June 2020.  A gate has been erected to prevent unauthorised encroachment of the land in the light of some claimants putting up fences in the vicinity claiming ownership. The authorities, however, are free to use the helipad if it is needed.Pramoda Devi WadiyarWife of the late Srikantadatta Narasimharaja Wadiyar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/wadiyars-claim-ownership-over-lalitha-mahal-helipad-following-court-order/article33484376.ece
03 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘Pay and park’ a non-starter||The ‘pay and park’ scheme on D. Devaraj Urs Road, which was proposed several times to ease the parking crisis, has remained a non-starter. Even the projects of building multi-level parking lots here have not seen any headway. The Mysuru City Corporation had proposed multi-level parking infrastructure at Gaadi Chowk off D. Devaraj Urs Road and on the plot in front of KSRTC mofussil bus stand on the advice of the Urban Development Department. The MCC was under pressure to focus on parking projects on priority to ready the infrastructure for the future as parking problems were on the rise. However, it did not make any progress in its plan owing to financial reasons and apparent lack of support from the elected representatives. The MCC had tried to introduce a pay and park facility on the busy road on the advice of the city police and locals to ease the parking crisis. But, on all the occasions, the proposal received a cold response. Proposals were being made for over one-and-a-half decades. The roads surrounding D. Devaraj Urs Road get clogged with vehicles parked haphazardly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pay-and-park-a-non-starter/article33484548.ece
03 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||I’m not suitable for politics, says Pramoda Devi||Pramoda Devi Wadiyar of the erstwhile royal family of Mysuru on Saturday claimed that she was not suitable for politics. Fielding reporters queries on the possibility of her entry into politics, Ms. Wadiyar said she had made it clear umpteen times that she will not enter politics. “Even though administration comes easy to me, I am not suitable for politics,” she said. “I am not fit for politics. It is not that politics does not suit me. It is the other way round. Why should I go there and trouble others, ” she said. Meanwhile, Ms. Wadiyar cited litigations involving the erstwhile royal family and the government and said successive governments have acted against the interests of the their family. Some governments troubled the family more while some others troubled less, she said. When asked for her opinion about the present government, Ms. Wadiyar said it was “neutral”. “They neither troubled us nor helped us,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/im-not-suitable-for-politics-says-pramoda-devi/article33484377.ece
03 January 2021||Special Correspondent,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 vaccine: Dry run goes on smoothly except for minor glitches||The two-hour vaccination dry run carried out on Saturday to test preparedness for the roll out of the COVID-19 vaccine went on smoothly in the State except for minor glitches. The dry run was conducted in three ‘vaccine session sites’ each in Bengaluru Urban, Kalaburagi, Shivamogga, Mysuru and Belagavi districts. Around 100 vaccinators and 375 beneficiaries were part of the exercise. According to doctors who monitored the mock drill, minor software glitches were reported from some sites. The glitches were observed by the vaccinators during beneficiary verification using the Co-WIN application. Challenges and difficulties faced at the session sites of each district will be collected and communicated to the Union government, said State Health Director Om Prakash R. Patil. 30-minute delay In Shikaripura Primary Health Centre (PHC), one of the vaccine sites in Shivamogga, the mock drill was delayed by over half an hour. Although beneficiaries had lined up at the PHC, the staff had not turned up. Shivamogga District Health Officer Rajesh Suragihalli said a dead body was brought to the centre for post-mortem at short notice and the staff had to attend to the emergency. The delay was because of this. However, the dry run started subsequently and went on smoothly, he said.  Tetanus shots At Kamakshipalya PHC, which was one of the vaccine sites in Bengaluru, two persons got a first-hand experience as they actually got an injection administered in the vaccination room. Manoranjan Hegde, BBMP West Zone Health Officer, said the two had requested for a Tetanus injection as they had a wound. “As the vaccine storage freezers also have other vaccines stored in them, Tetanus shots were available there and following a request they were administered to two persons,” he said. The dry run was an exercise for end-to-end testing of COVID-19 vaccination process, except the actual vaccination. Three rooms, a waiting area, syringes, beneficiaries, vaccinators who will administer the vaccine, adverse events following immunization (AEFI) kits which are usually kept ready during all immunisation programmes, and an observation room were kept ready at each vaccine site. Beneficiaries who participated in the exercise, said after they had enrolled on Co-WIN application, they were sent an SMS asking them to visit a particular vaccine site along with their ID proof in the two-hour time slot from 9 a.m. on Saturday. “An actual rehearsal was done. We were made to wait for our turn in a room maintaining social distance. We were let into the vaccination room one by one and from there into the observation room after which we exited through another entry,” said a beneficiary. ‘State is ready’ Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar, who visited the vaccine session site at Yelahanka General Hospital in Bengaluru said the State is ready to carry out COVID-19 vaccination. Stating that the dry run has helped provide confidence to programme managers at various levels, he said: “It is expected that a vaccine may be available in January itself and this dry run will help us to implement the vaccination drive later. We will collate feedback.” Infrastructure “The Centre will issue detailed guidelines and Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for vaccination. All necessary infrastructure like cold storage, logistics, manpower are being arranged. We will also use the existing infrastructure and Centre will augment the additional infrastructure,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-vaccine-dry-run-goes-on-smoothly-except-for-minor-glitches/article33484924.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||BDA begins ‘reconvey process’||The Bengaluru Development Authority (BDA) has begun the ‘reconvey process’ of residential developments that are older than 12 years on nearly 6,000 acres that were once notified for acquisition but have been ‘encroached’. First proposed in 2015, the State cabinet had approved the proposal in May 2020 and framed guidelines for the same. Based on applications being received, BDA revenue officers have begun issuing demand notices for such property owners. In the first phase, demand notices have been issued to 516 property owners in Pillanna Garden Phase III, 160 in RMV Layout, 41 in HRBR Layout and 113 in HSR Layout, a statement from BDA said. “Revenue officers have been issuing demand notices to property owners whose properties meet the criteria for the reconvey scheme. Other layouts will also be covered soon,” BDA said. As per the guidelines notified by the State government, properties on 20x30 sites will have to pay 10% of the guidance value of today as penalty to regularise the property. Those on 30x40 sites will have to pay 20% of guidance value and those on 40X60 and 50X80 sites, 40% of the guidance value. Property owners can apply online for the reconvey process if their building is on such land and the property was developed 12 years before government notification of the scheme on May 28, 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bda-begins-reconvey-process/article33484913.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Dry run performed at three centres in Shivamogga district||The dry run for COVID-19 vaccination was held in three centres in Shivamogga district on Saturday. Except for the centre at Shikaripur, the mock drill was held as per schedule. The dry run was held at McGann Hospital in Shivamogga, taluk hospital at Shikaripur and the primary health centre at Antaragange in Bhadravati taluk. There was a delay in starting the run at Shikaripur as a body arrived at the hospital for post-mortem. As many as 25 beneficiaries, health workers, participated in the drive at each centre. Deputy Commissioner K.B. Shivakumar and District Health Officer Rajesh Suragihalli monitored the dry run. Phone message Three separate rooms were set up in each centre and the information of participants was uploaded to the designated website. The staff members ensured that the participants receive a message on their phones. The dry run was delayed by nearly half-an-hour at Shikaripur. Dr. Rajesh Suragihalli told The Hindu that it was delayed as a body arrived for post-mortem at short notice. “As the body arrived at the hospital, the staff had to attend to the emergency. A crowd had also followed the body. Because of these developments, the procedures got delayed by half-an-hour. However, later the dry run was conducted as per the guidelines smoothly. There were three separate rooms to complete the procedure.” Further, the officer said the dry run was conducted only to study what all challenges the staff might encounter during the actual vaccination drive. “One thing we understood today is that crowd management would be one of the tasks to handle. Anyhow, during the actual drive, there would be designated staff to handle the vaccination and they need not attend to emergency cases”, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dry-run-performed-at-three-centres-in-shivamogga-district/article33484553.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||VHP holds meeting of seers of NK and Maharashtra||The Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) held a meeting of seers of North Karnataka and Maharashtra at the KLE centenary auditorium in Belagavi on Saturday, to discuss preparations for construction of the Sri Ram Mandir in Ayodhya. “The Ram Mandir will not only be a place for prayer and gathering of the faithful. It will also be a cultural centre that will help rid Hindu society of evils like untouchability, caste-based discrimination, and conversion,” said Sri Adrushya Kadasiddheshwar Swami of Kaneri Mutt. Indian society has forgotten its glorious tradition of spirituality. It needs the guidance of saints and seers to come out of the oblivion and evolve into a Vishwa Guru, the spiritual leader of the world, the seer said. The oblivion was a result of continuous attacks by the Greeks, Khalji dynasty, Mughals, and British, he reasoned. He said that successive governments had forced upon the false narrative of secularism among the people of the country, rather than training them in spirituality. Textbooks contain only the defeats that India suffered in the hands of foreigners. That led to our youth developing a slave mentality. While the invaders get several pages in history books, the Hindu kings of Vijayanagara kingdom who ruled over 300 years get only a few lines. While dynasties of Mouryas and Chaukyas had taken India to the top of the world in economy, art and education, the leftist historians who dominated text book writing deliberately hid such facts. They filled text books with false narratives that made Indians feel embarrassed about their own history. All these need to be reversed, he said. The overriding influence of leftist teachers is the reason why anti-national activities are reported from all universities, he alleged. ‘Raise funds’ He asked all seers to lead a movement to raise funds for the temple. Sri Panchamalingeshwar Swami of Nidasosi, Sri Gurusiddha Swami of Karanji Mutt, Sri Chandrashekar Shivacharya Swami of Hukkeri Mutt, Sri Sadashivananda Swami of Gadag, VHP leaders Keshav Hegde, RSS leader Raghavendra Kagawad, Ram Mandir Fund raising committee leader Manohar Mathad, Krishna Bhat, R.K. Bagi, Srikant Kadam, Dilip Vernekar, and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vhp-holds-meeting-of-seers-of-nk-and-maharashtra/article33484358.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Attendance improves on Day 2||The second day of schools and pre-university (PU) colleges opening saw attendance increase as more students physically reported to class on Saturday. This, according to Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar, was because of the confidence that parents had in the measures taken by the government for the safety of their children. Schools reopened for students of classes 10 and 12, while Vidyagama scheme was restarted for students of classes 6 to 9 on January 1. According to a press release, of the 3.3 lakh students enrolled in 5,492 PU colleges in the State, 1.09 lakh students attended physical classes on Saturday, taking the attendance percentage to 33.04. Similarly, of the 9.29 lakh students in class 10 across 16,850 schools, 4.25 lakh attended physical classes taking the attendance percentage to 45.84. The Minister reviewed the attendance and other measures taken in many schools in Ramanagaram, Magadi, and Bengaluru. He also claimed that several parents were appreciative of the SOPs in place in the schools and acknowledged that many students were following mask wearing, hand washing, and social distancing protocols. He added that the attendance percentage may increase further Monday onwards, and that there was pressure from some section of parents to reopen schools for other classes as well. The Minister said that for the SSLC and PUC board examinations, the syllabus was being revised so as to not burden students. The preparatory examination timetable will be released shortly, he said. Reopening put off With 10 teachers of different schools in Gadag district testing positive for COVID-19, the school reopening had been put off, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/attendance-improves-on-day-2/article33484361.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||5 ex-councillors yet to declare assets, liabilities||Five former councillors have reportedly not submitted statements declaring their assets and liabilities for the 2018-19 fiscal to the Lokayukta. A report on the same has been submitted to the Urban Development Department, Administrator and Commissioner of BBMP by the Lokayukta’s office for “necessary action”. Every year, councillors of the BBMP are required to submit statements declaring their assets and liabilities to the Lokayukta. This is a requirement under Section 22(2) of the Karnataka Lokayukta Act, 1984. Sources pointed out that though submission of statements is mandatory for all elected representatives, right from gram panchayat members to MLAs, the Lokayukta Act is largely silent on action to be initiated if they fail to do so. Concurring, former Opposition Leader in BBMP council M. Shivaraju said that there have been several instances when even MLAs have failed to declare their assets and liabilities, and no action was initiated against them. Former Opposition Leader Padmanabha Reddy said failure to declare assets and liabilities could lead to disqualification. S. Amaresh, managing trustee of RTI Study Centre, said ideally, there should be punitive action for failure to declare assets and liabilities. Lokayukta P. Vishwanatha Shetty admitted to lacuna in the legislation and that the consequences need to be strengthened.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/5-ex-councillors-yet-to-declare-assets-liabilities/article33484919.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||2 arrested for selling drugs||The Bandepalya police have arrested two people for allegedly peddling marijuana. A few days ago, the police arrested a drug peddler, Vishwas, in Parappana Agrahara. Though he was booked under the NDPS Act and remanded in judicial custody, he continued to peddle drugs through his wife Misba. A team raided Misba’s house and recovered 22 kg of marijuana worth Rs. 15 lakh from a wardrobe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/2-arrested-for-selling-drugs/article33484920.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Freeze mob||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/freeze-mob/article33484915.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||A life of service||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-life-of-service/article33484926.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Engagements||Udupi Yakshagana Kalaranga: Presenting Vidya Poshak assistance to economically backward students, Rajangana, Sri Krishna Mutt, 9 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/engagements/article33485072.ece
03 January 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Aswamedham to help detect leprosy cases||The Health Department is set to begin Aswamedham, a leprosy case detection drive in the district. Under the campaign, specially trained health workers will conduct house visits in the district to identify people with the symptoms of the disease. “It is a continuing programme. The campaign will be held in January and February,” said a Health Department official. In a bid to ensure public support to leprosy detection drive, a song was released by District Collector A. Alexander on Friday. In view of the pandemic, the campaign will be conducted in adherence to COVID-19 protocols. “ASHA workers and other trained volunteers will visit houses. In order to ensure the safety of people and volunteers, physical distancing will be maintained. Volunteers will not directly examine people. People should conduct a self-examination of their own body and can seek the help of family members. Those with symptoms of the disease should reveal it to the volunteers,” the official added. Free treatment Those with symptoms of the disease will be referred to hospitals for medical examination. Persons diagnosed with leprosy will be provided proper treatment. The department had earlier launched the campaign following the re-emergence of the disease in a few places in the State. In 2019-20, Aswamedham helped detect 44 new leprosy cases in the district. Back then, more than 5,000 people were referred for medical examination after they showed symptoms of the disease. The most common symptoms of leprosy include light-coloured or red skin patches with reduced sensation. The other symptoms include numbness in the hands, feet, arms, and skin lesions. According to officials, early detection and treatment are important to prevent disabilities. “Early diagnosis and treatment can also prevent the spread of leprosy. The disease can be cured through treatment lasting between six and 12 months. Treatment for leprosy is available free of cost at government hospitals in the State,” the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aswamedham-to-help-detect-leprosy-cases/article33484454.ece
03 January 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Survey at Malankara dam||The preparations for the bath metrical survey to mapping the underwater features and deepness of water in the Malankara dam that uses the tail water from the Idukki reservoir have begun. The study will be conducted by the Kerala Engineering Research Institute, Peechi, under the Water Resources Department. There will be multi-beam surveying using the multi-beam echo sounder attached to a boat to be brought from Peechi. The water in the Malankara dam will be raised to its maximum level of 42 metres. This is for the first time a survey like this is being conducted in the dam commissioned in 1994. The bath metrical survey will help in analysing the silt-up due to the floods. The mapping is being held as per a request by the authorities of the Muvattupuzha Valley Irrigation Project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/work-on-for-bath-metrical-survey-at-malankara-dam/article33484452.ece
03 January 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Vaccine dry run in Wayanad||Ahead of the rollout of the COVID vaccination programme in the country, the Health Department on Saturday organised a dry run at the primary health centre at Kurukkan Moola near Kattikulam in the district. The drill was organised to evaluate operational feasibility, to test linkages between planning and implementation, and identify challenges prior to actual implementation, said Health Department sources. As many as 25 selected health workers took part in the programme. District Collector Adeela Abdulla, District Medical Officer R. Renuka, Reproductive and Child Health Officer Shijin John, District Nodal Officer (Vaccination) T.P. Abhilash and police and Health Department officials attended the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vaccine-dry-run-in-wayanad/article33484404.ece
03 January 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||204 fresh cases in Wayanad||A total of 204 people, including two health workers, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad district on Saturday, taking the total number of active cases to 2,340. Of the new cases, 202 patients were infected through local contact and two returned from abroad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/204-fresh-cases-in-wayanad/article33484405.ece
03 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||MVD mulls utilising private yards to keep seized vehicles||ookie riders zipping around without licence taking advantage of the relatively slack enforcement in the wake of the pandemic better be on guard. It will not just burn a hole in their wallet, thanks to the rather hefty fine of Rs. 10,000 but they may even momentarily loss custody of their vehicles, forcing them to walk or hitch-hike their way back home. For, the Ernakulam Regional Transport Office is planning to move a proposal to the State government exploring the possibility of utilising private parking yards so that vehicles driven by those without a licence could be seized and kept there till the offenders pay the fine take possession of their vehicles. Hiccups in enforcement The move coincides with the district Motor Vehicles Department’s resolve to curb the accident rate, especially involving two-wheelers, in the New Year. “The hiccups in enforcement involving riders without a licence is what prompted us to think of such a proposal. “We either have to slap the fine and let them drive back home despite not having a licence or detain and keep their vehicles locked up at the nearest location and hold back the key so that they can come back with someone holding a licence and take back the vehicle on paying the fine. It is a rather tardy process wasting our time,” said a senior Motor Vehicles Department official. Though contradictory to popular perception, around 15% of the offenders were aged above 60, especially in rural areas, driving around in gearless scooters probably belonging to their children. They also pose problems to fellow motorists owing to their gingerly ways on the road, said the official. Section 206 The plan is to move the proposal before the District Road Safety Authority and get its nod before forwarding it to the government. Seizure of vehicle for driving without licence, MVD believes, presents no legal impediments as Section 206 of the Motor Vehicle Act provides room for impounding for such offences. “If space is made available for keeping the vehicles, then we can go ahead with impounding vehicles and the parking fee could also be charged from the offender along with the fine. This is a workable solution in equally serious offences like the lack of insurance and dangerous overloading and will find mention in the proposal,” said the official. Ideally, vehicles without insurance should not be allowed on roads and the Supreme Court-appointed road safety committee has also taken serious note of it. But without a definite plan for safekeeping of vehicles impounding is not feasible. Similarly, in the case of dangerously overloaded vehicles unloading the excess tonnage is such a time-consuming process for enforcement officials and hence their seizure is the ideal thing, the officer said. Overloading attracts a minimum fine of Rs. 10,000 and Rs. 1,500 for each extra ton.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mvd-mulls-utilising-private-yards-to-keep-seized-vehicles/article33485050.ece
03 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||SLMC to examine waste disposal at medical college||The State Level Monitoring Committee (SLMC) on Solid Waste Management will submit its report on shortcomings in management of biomedical and other waste at the Government Medical College Hospital, Ernakulam, before the Southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) soon. The State Pollution Control Board (PCB) has submitted a report before SLMC Chairman A.V. Ramakrishna Pillai after inspecting the hospital premises in the wake of the open burning of non-biodegradable and biomedical waste on Thursday. The committee is likely to finalise its report by the end of next week. The board’s findings revealed that biomedical waste had been mixed with food waste and dumped in pits. The health inspector at the hospital had informed the PCB team that food waste from the COVID-19 centre had been dumped in pits. Biomedical waste generated at the hospital is being disposed in line with its agreement with the Indian Medical Association Goes Eco Friendly (IMAGE) initiative. Board officials quoted violation of Rule 8 of the Biomedical Waste Management Rules, 2016, citing absence of proper segregation of biomedical, plastic and food waste. The inspection team found that biomedical waste had been stored in an open area. The incinerator at the hospital is being used for disposing paper and general waste. Food waste from the inpatient ward was seen half-burnt in aluminium foil packings in two pits. The team found the sewage treatment plant at the hospital non-functional, and it was in violation of Section 24 of the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Rules, 1976. Raw effluent is stored inside tanks without any treatment, it was found. Meanwhile, the health inspector pointed out that biomedical waste might get mixed with general waste at times. IMAGE does not collect mixed waste, and, as a result, it is dumped in the open pits. “We have different colour-coded bags for collecting various types of waste. However, the increasing pressure on the system due to the COVID-19 situation may lead to such one-off incidents,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/slmc-to-examine-waste-disposal-at-medical-college/article33485052.ece
03 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Experts bat for bus aggregation platform||The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) and the private bus sector in the State should imbibe technological changes and improve their services rather than feel threatened by the Centre’s Motor Vehicle Aggregator Guidelines, 2020, say public transport experts. The guidelines are in keeping with upgrading the quality of services. Based on the guidelines, State governments can formulate their own rules, considering the priorities of each State. The rules are only regulatory in nature, aimed at ushering in accountability in the sector where online technology service providers (aggregator) provide services to commuters, says B.J. Antony, former Senior Deputy Transport Commissioner, who played a key role in formulating policies to integrate different modes of public transport in Kochi. The State can modify the Central guidelines, even if it means keeping foreign players away. The guidelines permit States to regulate the commission charged by the aggregator. They can rein in flexi charges (like surge fee during peak hours) that different players adopt. The Centre has capped the fare at 1.5 times the regular fare. Even otherwise, the recently constituted Kochi Metropolitan Transport Authority is empowered to take a call on the issue, he adds. Many key stakeholders, including those in the State government and the Motor Vehicles Department, have expressed concerns that the new guidelines will affect the KSRTC and the private bus sector. Referring to the noticeable presence of online taxi cars in cities, Mr. Antony says: “This provided an opportunity for taxi cars. In the case of buses, the guidelines will help usher in players who can provide real-time information and other commuter-friendly tips about bus services. This will help increase patronage of buses by at least 20%. A few app-based players operate in the sector and they are high in demand.” Stiff competition KSRTC Chairman and Managing Director Biju Prabhakar spoke of how the KSRTC is already facing stiff competition from ‘aggregators’ of various types due to the pandemic situation. “They range from private vehicles, which are being shared by colleagues or those commuting on the same route, to bigger vehicles which are relied on as contract carriages by regular passengers on a route. The KSRTC can withstand the challenge if the agency improves customer service and reliability, including through automation. Employees too will stand to benefit since higher earnings will reflect in their salary as well,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/experts-bat-for-bus-aggregation-platform/article33484483.ece
03 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Land acquisition for metro picks up pace||The process to acquire over two hectares of land for the Kochi metro’s 11-km Kakkanad extension has picked up pace to adhere to the June 2021 deadline. Priority is being accorded to taking over land in areas coming under Edappally South and Kakkanad villages, from where the extension begins and ends. The preliminary stage of land acquisition from the Jawaharlal Nehru International Stadium at Kaloor to Infopark is over in areas coming under Vazhakkala village, and it will later catch up with two other villages, official sources said. The entire stretch is slated to be four-laned, including the one from Collectorate Junction on Seaport-Airport Road where widening is under way. While the State government sanctioned the Kakkanad extension, the Centre’s clearance is awaited. Among the three villages, Edappally South covers areas under the Kochi Corporation, while the other two fall under the Thrikkakara Municipality. In Edappally South, ‘award enquiry’ is over, and two dozen land owners were invited for submitting documents. The next in line is verification of documents to assess compensation. All together, 150 plots, including those with small shops, have to be acquired fully or partly in the village to widen Civil Line Road into a four-lane stretch, the sources added. Market value “Those who surrender lands will be given their market value and 100% solatium, which would mean double the market rate. The average of 10 costliest land sales recorded in the past three years will be finalised as the market value of plots in each locality. The solatium was limited to 30% earlier. Tenants and building owners too will be compensated as per the new Land Acquisition Act. A few merchants have sought more compensation, while co-owners of some lands have approached the court against surrendering their property. Kochi Metro Rail Limited [KMRL] had deposited Rs. 178 crore (the approximate fair value of land) towards expense for the preparatory work for the Kakkanad extension,” the sources said. Places like Vazhakkala are heavily encroached upon by traders, while a few dozen vendors have encroached on ‘puramboke’ land beside the road, it is learnt. Thripunithura extension On the reported lack of clarity on the extent of land that will be acquired for the metro’s S.N. Junction-Thripunithura extension, the sources said approximately six hectares would be acquired. Rajagiri Outreach is making a social impact assessment (SIA) of the stretch, and a report is expected in two months. It is not clear whether there will be a road beneath the metro viaduct, as demanded by residents associations and others in Thripunithura, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/land-acquisition-for-metro-picks-up-pace/article33485043.ece
03 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||PM to launch Kochi-Mangaluru gas pipeline on January 5||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will dedicate the Kochi-Mangaluru natural gas pipeline of GAIL (India) to the nation on January 5. The launch of the pipeline marks a milestone in popularising the use of the environment-friendly fuel in Kerala and Karnataka. Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan, Karnataka Governor Vajubhai Vala, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, Karnataka Chief Minister B.S. Yedyurappa, and Union Minister of Petroleum and Natural Gas and Steel Dharmendra Pradhan will grace the occasion. Manoj Jain, chairman and managing director, GAIL (India) Limited, announced the inauguration at a virtual press conference on Saturday, which was joined by E.S. Ranganathan, director (marketing), GAIL, and M.V. Iyer, director (business development), GAIL. The 450-km-long pipeline will carry natural gas from Kochi through Ernakulam, Thrissur, Palakkad, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Kannur and Kasaragod districts to Mangaluru in Dakshina Kannada district of Karnataka. The pipeline is a landmark example of project execution with the active support of the governments of Kerala and Karnataka. The pipeline will bring convenient and uninterrupted supply of environment-friendly and affordable fuel in the form of piped natural gas (PNG) to households and commercial units and compressed natural gas (CNG) across city gas distribution (CGD) areas in different geographical areas. The pipeline will offer clean industrial fuel and feedstock for petrochemical and fertiliser sectors and provide an opportunity for multiple gas-based industries to emerge, thus bringing about socio-economic benefits to the people of the two States and creating direct and indirect job opportunities. GAIL (India) Limited owns and operates across country natural gas pipeline network of around 12,500 km. It is working on execution of multiple pipeline projects, aggregating over 6,700 km.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kochi-mangaluru-gas-pipeline-launch-on-jan-5/article33484387.ece
03 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Milma Ernakulam region sees substantial rise in procurement||Despite restrictions and constraints imposed by the COVID-19 pandemic, the Ernakulam region of the Cooperative Milk Producers’ Union under Milma has seen procurement reaching the sales levels. Milk procurement in the Ernakulam region was to the tune of 3.5 lakh tonnes a day, almost at par with the sales levels, said Milma Chairman P.A. Balan. He said the COVID-19 lockdown and subsequent restrictions on activities had given way to increased procurement of milk in the Ernakulam region, comprising the districts of Ernakulam, Kottayam, Thrissur and Idukki. Mr. Balan said the rise in procurement had coincided with the expansion of fortified milk supplies to children in anganwadis with the support of Integrated Child Development Services. The ultra-high temperature processed milk has a shelf life of around 90 days, and Milma has been able to expand the distribution of milk with the financial backing of the State government in northern Kerala districts. The milk distribution programme was launched under the aegis of the Malabar union, where there is excess procurement when compared to sales. The milk being distributed to anganwadi children is fortified with vitamins A and D. The process was launched during the early days of COVID-19 lockdown, when there was excess procurement when compared to sales. It was decided that the excess milk would be processed to provide supplementary nutrition to children in anganwadis across the State. The Department of Women and Child Welfare and local self-government bodies were involved in providing fortified milk to children in anganwadis, added Mr. Balan. He said that while the Malabar region was producing about 1.5 lakh litres of milk per day in excess of the sales, the Thiruvananthapuram region had seen a gap in supplies. The shortage is to the tune of around 40,000 litres per day, and is met partially through supplies from Karnataka. The rest of the shortage is met through supplies from the Malabar region.  Milk procurement in the Ernakulam region is to the tune of 3.5 lakh tonnes a day, almost at par with the sales levels P.A. Balan Milma Chairman||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/milma-ernakulam-region-sees-substantial-rise-in-procurement/article33485054.ece
03 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Uninsured vehicles a major concern||Uninsured vehicles have emerged as one of the major concerns of the Motor Vehicles Department (MVD) in the district as the vehicle checking details of the enforcement wing of Ernakulam Regional Transport Office for the month of December alone seem to suggest. Apart from helmet-less riding, motorists driving uninsured vehicles stacked up the next biggest tally. While 947 riders and 664 pillion riders were booked for helmet-less riding, 237 were booked for driving uninsured vehicles. “We need not stop vehicles to generate reports on insurance as all we need is the registration number to get their status report. Wherever we detect uninsured vehicles, we ask them to park it at the nearest location and to move only after renewing the insurance, which could be even done over mobile phone wallets these days,” said Enforcement RTO (Ernakulam) Shaji Madhavan. The enforcement wing issued a total of 2,755 check reports for various offences accounting for a total compounding fee of Rs. 77.67 lakh during the month. Other cases Among the major offences were 200 cases for use of banned sun film, 192 cases each for unauthorised parking and non-payment of tax, 158 instances of licence-less driving, and 117 instances of overloading in goods vehicles. Ninety-three vehicles were booked for fancy number plates, 55 vehicles for unauthorised alterations, 36 drivers and 16 passengers for not wearing seat belts, 35 vehicles for causing air pollution, 26 motorists were booked for using mobile phones while driving, 20 for triple riding, 18 vehicles for defective brake lights, 12 vehicles for plying without fitness certificates, eight each for faulty headlights, rash and negligent driving, and for not displaying proper registration numbers, and banned air horns. While compounding fee of Rs. 16.02 lakh had been collected, Rs. 61.64 lakh remains pending and 731 check reports were disposed of and 2,024 remain pending.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/uninsured-vehicles-a-major-concern/article33485053.ece
03 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||743 fresh COVID cases in Ernakulam||Fourteen health workers were among the 743 people infected with SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Saturday. A total of 552 patients registered recovery. Karukutty topped the number of cases in the district with 40 new infections, while Kavalangad (25), Thuravur and Thrikkakara (22 each), Kizhakkambalam and Koovappady (18 each), and Parakkadavu (17) also witnessed a spike in infections. The total number of patients in the district became 9,060 and 83 new patients were admitted to FLTCs/hospitals. There are 27,637 people under surveillance for the pandemic. A new batch of 5,153 samples were sent from the district for testing on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/743-fresh-covid-cases-in-ernakulam/article33485045.ece
03 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Bus operators divided||Private bus operators who are already in the doldrums due to the fall in patronage for public transport vehicles will be further hit if bus aggregator firms from other States make inroads into Kerala, says K.B. Suneer, general secretary of the Ernakulam District Private Bus Operators Association. “We hope our State-level umbrella organisations will take a call on how to rise up to competition from outside players. The KSRTC stands to lose more since the aggregators will prefer operating on long-distance routes, eating into the main revenue chunk of the KSRTC,” he said. Sources associated with the umbrella organisation that has been mooted to merge the six private bus companies in Kochi welcome the new guidelines. “This will no doubt increase fleet utility and patronage of buses since they would cater to commuter expectations,” they say.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bus-operators-divided/article33484492.ece
03 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||KEL to roll out motor units for electric vehicles||The public sector Kerala Electrical and Allied Engineering Company (KEL) will begin production of motors for electric vehicles, and the State government has extended an assistance of Rs. 3 crore to the project. Company sources said the project requirement was to the tune of Rs. 10 crore, and the Rs. 3-crore support extended by the government now will be utilised for launching initial work. The launch of the motor production unit for electric vehicles is expected to take up the total turnover of the company to around Rs. 40 crore. The company expects a total profit of nearly Rs. 1.5 crore during the financial year. The public sector has also recorded a profitable year after 2007-2008 with delivery of orders that included Rs. 111 crore order from the Tamil Nadu Electricity Board. KEL had achieved a total turnover of more than Rs. 129 crore during the last financial year, and so far, the company has made a profit of Rs. 70 lakh during the current year. The fulfilment of delivery from Tamil Nadu played a major role in the performance of the company this year. The total business turnover of the company at its Mamala unit has gone up to Rs. 77 crore. The State government has provided a support of Rs. 18 crore for the modernisation of facilities at the Mamala unit. Besides orders from Tamil Nadu, KEL has been delivering distribution transformers for other State electricity utilities as well as alternators for the Indian Railways. KEL has also taken up civil construction projects, including those for the Tourism Department. The company has been accredited as an agency for taking up civil construction activities that have helped it take up projects under the MLAs’ Local Development Fund, tourism infrastructure development work as well as work on improving facilities for residential colonies for SC/ST communities. The company had received a sanction of Rs. 12.5 crore for launching power transformer production in 2013, and commercial production is expected to begin now. The launch of the production unit is expected to add up to Rs. 47 crore to the total turnover and substantially increase the net profit of the company.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kel-to-roll-out-motor-units-for-electric-vehicles/article33485048.ece
03 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Demand to augment ro-ro ferry service||The Vypeen Janakeeya Kootayma, an NGO, has submitted a memorandum to Mayor M. Anilkumar, demanding round-the-clock operation of the roll-on roll-off service in the Fort Kochi-Vypeen corridor. A pair of ro-ro vessels must operate from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m., at 10 minutes frequency, followed by one every 20 minutes from 10 p.m. to 6 a.m. The Corporation must commission a third ro-ro vessel so that there is uninterrupted service even if an existing vessel is pulled out of service. Three jankars operated in the busy route four decades ago, said Johney Vypeen, the NGO’s convener.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/call-to-augment-ro-ro-service/article33485041.ece
03 January 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||No proper care at ESI Model Hospital: KSCDC chairman||ESI Model Hospital, Asramam, the only super-specialty hospital run by the Employees State Insurance (ESI) Corporation in the State, is denying proper treatment and medicines to the beneficiaries, said Kerala State Cashew Development Corporation (KSCDC) chairman S. Jayamohan at a press meet here on Saturday. “With neurology, oncology, endocrinology, and urology departments, the hospital is expected to provide integrated health care, but the patients are unable to avail themselves of some services owing to privatisation,” he said. Pointing out that more than one department in the hospital has been privatised as part of public-private partnership (PPP), he added that shortage of staff in some sections are causing great difficulty to the patients. “The private group, who has taken over the ICU, is not willing to hire the required manpower or provide medicines to the patients,” he said. ICU services hit Alleging that service of specialist doctors are not available in many shifts, Mr. Jaymohan said privatisation of the hospital has put the heath of its beneficiaries at risk. “Sheel Nursing Home Private Ltd., a Bareilly-based company, has been operating ICU services in the hospital and the company is responsible for ensuring all the medical facilities, including those of the staff. As per the agreement the service of specialised doctors should be made available in the ICU 24 hours, but the company is yet to employ them. In absence In their absence, ESI doctors have been attending the patients, but Sheel Group is not even willing to provide the emergency medicines. The ESI is paying Rs. 4,481 for each patient in the ICU and so far, ESI Corporation has handed over crores of rupees to the group. Demanding a probe into the allegations, he said that wide protests would be launched if the issue was not addressed. “Kerala has around 40 lakh ESI beneficiaries and steps should be taken to ensure them quality treatment,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-proper-care-at-esi-model-hospital-kscdc-chairman/article33484444.ece
03 January 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Interview for appointing ayahs||The Samagra Shiksha Kerala will conduct an interview for appointing ayahs at its autism centres functioning in the Chadayamangalam, Kulakkada, Sasthamcotta, and Veliyam block resource centres (BRC) on January 4. Mothers of differently abled children will be considered for the post and those from underprivileged families will be given priority. The interview will be held at the SSK Kollam office from 10 a.m. Interested persons can walk in with original certificates and copies. For details, contact 0474-2794098.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/interview-for-appointing-ayahs/article33484445.ece
03 January 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Laptops distributed to SC students||Mayor Prasanna Earnest inaugurated the laptop distribution for Scheduled Caste students attending degree courses as part of 2019-20 People’s Plan project. Deputy Mayor Kollam Madhu presided over the function held at C. Kesavan Memorial Town Hall on Friday. Seventy-five students who are permanent residents of the Corporation were provided laptops on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/laptops-distributed-to-sc-students/article33484446.ece
03 January 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||540 fresh cases in Kottayam||As many as 540 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Saturday Of the fresh cases, 527 persons contracted the virus through local contact. The fresh cases also included 75 children and 80 persons aged above 60. With 77 cases, Kottayam municipality led the tally, followed by Ettumanur with 44 cases. With 893 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 6,492 active cases. Pathanamthitta As many as 452 persons tested positive in the district on Saturday. Of the fresh cases, 435 persons contracted the virus through local contact and among these, the contact source of 36 cases are yet to be identified. Among the local bodies, Thiruvalla reported 33 cases, followed by Pathanamthitta with 24 cases. Meanwhile, the disease claimed six more lives in the district. The victims were identified as 81-year-old Vadasserikkara native, 65-year-old from Erathu, 68-year-old woman from Mallapuzhassery, 80-year-old Puramattom native, 30-year-old woman from Thiruvalla, and 58-year-old Kadapra native. With 181 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 5,914 active cases. Alappuzha The district logged 382 COVID-19 cases on Saturday. It also recorded two COVID-19-related deaths, taking the official death toll to 239. Of the fresh cases, as many as 372 patients contracted the virus through local transmission. The source of infection of another five persons remains unknown. Four persons who came from other States and one from abroad also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The 382 new cases include 37 reported from Alappuzha, 28 from Chennithala, 19 from Mararikulam South, 16 from Aroor, 15 from Chengannur, 12 each from Mannancherry and Budhanoor, 11 from Mavelikara and 10 each from Kanjikuzhy and Mararikulam North. Meanwhile, 346 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district recovered. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district stands at 4,472. The police have registered 13 cases and arrested eight people for violating the restrictions imposed to check the spread of COVID-19 in the district. Action was also taken against 64 people for not wearing face masks and 164 for not violating physical distancing norms.  Kollam The district reported 384 new cases and 361 recoveries on Saturday. While 376 patients contracted the infection through contact, others include one NRI, one person from another State, four health workers, and two cases with no known source. Cases with no known source include a 23-year-old Thenmala resident and a 22-year-old Pattazhy resident. The health workers who contracted the infection are from Kavanad, Saktikulangara and Asramam. The district currently has 9,953 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 5,99,818. While 2,521 persons completed home quarantine on Saturday, the Health Department has traced 1,40,636 primary and 13,059 secondary contacts of the positive cases. At present the number of active cases in Kollam is 5,244.   (With inputs from Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, and Kollam bureaus.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/540-fresh-cases-in-kottayam/article33484440.ece
03 January 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Certificate courses at Rubber Training institute||Taking a cue from the success of its earlier training programmes, the Rubber Board is all set to commence its certificate courses at its Rubber Training institute here. The courses in Molecular Biology & Biotechnology Techniques (MBBT) and Rubber Products Manufacture (RPM), having a duration of three months each, will begin on January 20. The number of seats is limited to 15 and the fee per participant will be Rs. 21,000 with 18% GST extra. The certificate course in Molecular Biology and Biotechnology Techniques, to be conducted with the infrastructure and expertise of the Advanced Centre for Molecular Biology and Biotechnology, is designed for fresh graduates, postgraduates, and research scholars in any branch of biological science and also for those looking for academic and industrial careers. The certificate course in Rubber Products Manufacture is designed for graduates, diploma holders, engineers, research scholars, and technical personnel from the rubber industry. For more details on the courses, contact: MBBT course, Phone 0481- 2351313/WhatsApp 7994650941 and RPM Course- 0481- 2353325/WhatsApp 04812353325. E-mail: training@rubberboard.org.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/certificate-courses-at-rubber-training-institute/article33484438.ece
03 January 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||144th Mannam Jayanthi observed across State||The Nair Service Society (NSS) on Saturday observed the 144th Mannam Jayanthi of its founding leader Mannathu Padmanabhan. As against the previous year, the celebration this year was confined to floral offerings in front of the Mannam Samadhi Mandapam at the NSS headquarters at Perunna. Opening the function, NSS general secretary G. Sukumaran Nair emphasised on sticking to the ideals of Mannathu Padmanabhan, who had worked for society while uplifting his own community till his death. Besides community members, an array of political leaders, including former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy, Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala, United Democratic Front convener M.M.Hasan, Kerala Congress (M) chairman Jose K. Mani, MP, visited the samadhi mandapam and offered floral tributes. The entire event was conducted in compliance with the COVID-19 protocol, sources said. Besides at the NSS headquarters, observance wa held across taluk union offices, Karayogam units and various NSS institutions across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/144th-mannam-jayanthi-observed-across-state/article33484484.ece
03 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Tender work for Corpn. sewage treatment plants completed||After three failed attempts, the latest bid to find a suitable company to take up work on the two sewage treatment plants (STPs) of the Kozhikode Corporation has succeeded. Four companies responded to a tender floated recently, of which two have been selected. Further proceedings will be carried out after approval by the council and government sanction. The STPs are being constructed at Kothi and Thoppayil under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (Amrut) scheme. The estimated cost of the two projects, based on the detailed project report prepared by Ram Biologicals, is Rs. 116 crore. There had been no response to the tenders floated the first two times. The only company that responded the third time had pointed out flaws in the DPR and demanded Rs. 179 crore for the project. Though the Corporation Council approved it, the project failed to gain government approval. A high-level committee headed by the Chief Secretary had asked the Corporation to re-tender the project. Four separate tenders were floated for the STPs this time, separately for the plants and collection network. Zimak Hi-tech Productions from Maharashtra has won the tender for the two plants, a 7 MLD plant at Thoppayil and a 6 MLD plant at Kothi, for Rs. 20.50 crore and Rs. 17.11 crore respectively. Ahmedabad-based Nasit Infrastructure has won the tender for the collection network (drains through which the sewage will be taken to the plants) for both the plants at Rs. 51.86 crore and Rs. 52.97 crore respectively. The total expense for both the plants and the collection network comes to Rs. 142.44 crore, much lesser than the amount quoted in the earlier tender. The plants are expected to benefit around 90,000 people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tender-work-for-corpn-sewage-treatment-plants-completed/article33484388.ece
03 January 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Ensure voting rights to all NRIs: IUML||The Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) national secretariat has demanded that all Non-Resident Indians (NRIs) across the world should be allowed to cast their votes in the country. A resolution adopted by the secretariat, which met here on Saturday, demanded that voting rights be ensured to all NRIs living in all continents. The secretariat alleged that there was an effort behind the curtains to offer discriminatory voting rights to overseas voters that would deny the NRIs in the Gulf countries of the right to vote. Ramzan fast The secretariat demanded that the upcoming Assembly elections in West Bengal, Assam, Tamil Nadu and Kerala should be scheduled in such a way as to avoid poll dates clashing with the fasting month of Ramzan. The party would submit a representation to the Election Commission of India in this regard. The secretariat endorsed the party State unit's decision for P.K. Kunhalikutty's return to State politics and for his resignation as MP. The meeting evaluated that the party showed good performance in the local body polls. The party decided to launch a nation-wide membership campaign from June this year. The schedule for reconstituting party committees from local to the national level would kick-start after the Assembly elections. The meeting demanded withdrawal of the controversial farm laws. The special Statehood status of Jammu and Kashmir should be restored. The Assam government's decision for the closure of madrasas was an attempt to shun a section of the people from the mainstream, it said and added that the Uttar Pradesh government's 'anti-love jihad' law was denial of citizen's right to accept a religious faith of his or her choice. The party national secretariat called for ensuring that democratic secular parties come to power in the five States that are going to polls in few months. The meeting appraised that the fronts supported by the IUML have chance of electoral victory in both Kerala and Tamil Nadu. Burial protocol The IUML national secretariat also called for amending the dead body burial protocol being enforced by some States, including Kerala. The activities of the Lawyers' Forum, a feeder organisation of the IUML, would be streamlined. IUML political affairs committee president Panakkad Syed Hyderali Shihab Thangal inaugurated the meeting. IUML president K.M. Kader Mohideen presided. Senior party leaders P.K. Kunhalikutty, E.T. Mohammed Basheer, P.V. Abdul Wahab and Abdussamad Samadani were among those present at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ensure-voting-rights-to-all-nris-iuml/article33484489.ece
03 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Driver killed as pick-up van overturns||A pick-up van loaded with chicken from a local hatchery overturned at Koombara on Saturday morning. Nishad Vavad who reportedly drove the vehicle died in the accident. Two autorickshaws and several lamp posts were damaged by the vehicle which stopped after ramming a shop. A full load of chicken also perished in the accident that took place around 5 a.m. Another person who was in the vehicle escaped with minor injuries. The police said the impact of the accident would have been unpredictable had it happened after a few hours at the usually busy spot. Power supply and television cable services were disrupted for hours in the locality. In a similar incident, a lorry driver was killed near Pookkad in Koyilandy after the vehicle overturned on the highway. The victim is a native of Maharashtra. He had been discharged from the Medical College Hospital after treatment but died after a few hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/driver-killed-as-pick-up-van-overturns/article33484406.ece
03 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Work on Beypore Marina to begin on January 5||Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran will open the first phase of construction work of the Beypore Marina tourism project on January 5. The Tourism Department will spend Rs. 5.9 crore for the mega project, which involves improving all basic amenities at the popular beach tourism destination. The construction of a curved designer wall along the coastline for safety and beautification will be one of the major undertakings in the first phase. It will be built to house a history museum and a mini shopping mall for craft items. According to District Tourism Promotion Council (DTPC) officials, the work is likely to be completed in nine months. The project has been allotted to a leading contracting firm, and they are confident of executing it in time, they said. “It will be the first phase of the project, though all basic amenities have been included in it. In the next phase, we will have a completely renovated and beautified beach tourism destination,” said DTPC Secretary Beena Madhusoodanan. She added that it would be one of the major undertakings in the district in 2021. The first phase also includes tiled pavements, stone benches, and better comfort stations. Suggestions given by people’s representatives and local tourism stakeholders have also been taken into account. Second phase For the second phase, there are proposals to develop Beypore into a tourism circuit linking all nearby tourist attractions. According to officials, facilities to watch dhow making will be set up. Besides, there will be outlets selling craft items made by local craftsmen. Considering the historical significance of Beypore, traders have been demanding a tourism vessel service connecting Beypore with international destinations. A maritime academy and a history museum have also been proposed for consideration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/work-on-beypore-marina-to-begin-on-jan-5/article33484393.ece
03 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Empty deo cans may have triggered fire at scrap unit||Air freshener cans, perfume or deodorant bottles and cigarette lighters that are not really empty could have been the trigger for the fire mishap at a scrap collection unit at Cheruvannur here on Tuesday. The report submitted to the District Collector by the District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) said such items could have been submerged in the heap of plastic that had gone up to 10 metres, and that they could have exploded under pressure. The report was submitted on Friday. It negated the possibility of mishap due to leakage of cooking gas, while the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) had earlier written off the possibility of short circuit as being the reason for the fire. However, someone setting the scrap on fire is still not discounted. The scrap consisted of a large number of footwear, diapers and other plastic materials that were not segregated, and that could have been the reason for the fast spread of the fire, the report said. Closure notice The scrap collection unit functions from a makeshift building that was rented out by one Sajin C.P. from Moozhikkal in the city. The Kozhikode Corporation had found that the unit had no licence and had served a closure notice the very day of the mishap. Six other scrap units found in unmanageable condition were also ordered to be to shut down following the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/empty-deo-cans-may-have-triggered-fire-at-scrap-unit/article33484390.ece
03 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||IUML workers suspended for ‘anti-party activities’||The Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) has initiated disciplinary action against local party leaders and workers, holding them responsible for the defeat or poor performance of party candidates in their respective areas. Among those who have been suspended from the IUML by the party State committee for allegedly taking part in anti-party activities during the local body election campaign include Thiruvananthapuram district party treasurer Gulam Muhammad. IUML Thiruvananthapuram Central Assembly constituency committee was also disbanded, according to a press release issued by the party State committee office here. Two party workers, C.P. Hussain and C.P. Ashraf, were suspended for “working against the United Democratic Front candidate” in the Mayanad Division of the Kozhikode Corporation. Three party workers from Omassery panchayat in Kozhikode were also suspended pending inquiry for violating party discipline. ‘Violating discipline’ The State committee also removed IUML Kozhikode district secretary B.A. Gafoor from the party post for violating party discipline. The committee also suspended two party workers in Kodikkulam panchayat in Thodupuzha Assembly constituency and four workers in Kasaragod for their alleged stand against official UDF candidates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/iuml-workers-suspended-for-anti-party-activities/article33484397.ece
03 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode farmers to hold rally||Expressing solidarity with the farmers’ protests in New Delhi, Kozhikode Citizens’ Forum, comprising various farm organisation leaders, will take out a rally in the city on January 10. The protest rally will be organised by obtaining permission from the police and by complying with the COVID-19 protocol. Organisers said efforts were on to draw the participation of maximum number of farmers. Many regional protests had been held in different parts of the district to draw attention to the issue, they said. On Sunday, a vehicle rally would be held to mobilise public support for the protest. The number of vehicles would be limited, following the directive of the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kozhikode-farmers-to-hold-rally/article33484391.ece
03 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||596 test positive in Kozhikode||Kozhikode recorded 596 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday, of which 583 were cases of local transmission. Among the new patients, two had returned from abroad while the source of infection is unknown in 11 cases. Five health workers are among the infected. As many as 445 people who were under treatment at various COVID treatment centres in the district have been discharged. At present, there are 5,923 people under treatment in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/596-test-positive-in-kozhikode/article33484402.ece
03 January 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Ex-Minister calls for more autonomy to local bodies||K. Kutty Ahamed Kutty, former Minister for Local Administration, has called upon the government to initiate moves to take decentralisation of powers to “a more expanded and defined level”. “A quarter of a century has passed since Panchayat Raj was introduced through a Constitutional amendment. “We have achieved a lot of developments by decentralising governance. But conceptually, we continue to remain where we were in 1994,” Mr. Kutty said here. An avid supporter of the concept of decentralisation, Mr. Kutty said it was time the State initiated some meaningful legislation with the objective of furthering the brilliant idea of Panchayat Raj. “In decentralisation, we are still where we were 25 years ago. Now, the onus is on the State to steer the vessel ahead. Kerala is, in fact, ahead of other States in implementing decentralisation of powers. Kerala is perhaps the only State that has transferred the powers and responsibilities to the local self government institutions in accordance with the relevant constitutional amendments,” he said. According to Mr. Kutty, who retired from active politics following critical injuries he suffered in a car accident at Chavara in 2005, the Constitution did not define the extent and role of powers to be given to panchayats and municipalities as the third tier of government. “This is where the onus now lies on our Assembly to expand the horizons of the Panchayat Raj,” he said, adding that the panchayats and municipalities were functioning as mere development agencies for the past quarter of a century. According to Mr. Kutty, the State imbibing great democratic values should march forward to higher levels of governance. “Unfortunately, we are getting tied to our achievements in the past. We have no competitors. But we have to compete with our own achievements,” he said. He suggested that more autonomy be granted to panchayats and municipalities through legislative moves. “It is the need of the hour”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ex-minister-calls-for-more-autonomy-to-local-bodies/article33484412.ece
03 January 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Ecosystem restoration drive at Kadalundi||The Kadalundi Vallikkunnu Community Reserve management committee organised a nature lovers’ collective at the reserve on Saturday as part of initiating the United Nations Decade on Ecosystem Restoration programme. Kadalundi panchayat president V. Anusha inaugurated the camp organised in association with Friends of Nature and Bhumitra Sena Club of PSMO College, Tirurangadi. Councillor M. Sati Devi presided. Community reserve managing committee chairman P. Sivadas and secretary M.C. Vijayakumar, and section forest officer T.P. Manoj led a cleaning drive. The participants collected one tonne of waste in less than three hours. Friends of Nature general secretary M.S. Rafeek Babu, birdwatcher P.K. Sujesh, and PSMO College assistant professor P. Kabeer Ali led different sessions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ecosystem-restoration-drive-at-kadalundi/article33484401.ece
03 January 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||AVS ties up with CCMB||Kottakkal Arya Vaidya Sala has signed an agreement with the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) in Hyderabad as part of its ongoing research on the efficacy of Ayurvedic drugs in the fight against COVID-19. The CCMB, one of the premier life science research institutes engaged in testing, sequencing and growing novel coronavirus strains in their laboratories, will test Arya Vaidya Sala’s (AVS) standardised Ayurveda formulations on the lab-grown coronavirus strains in cell culture system, and check for their anti-viral efficacy. If the new move gives positive results, it will be a big thrust to the country’s pharmaceutical industry. “Arya Vaidya Sala has joined hands with the CCMB with an objective of validating classical knowledge of Ayurveda within the ambit of modern science,” said Indira Balachandran, director of the Centre for Medicinal Plants Research (CMPR) at Arya Vaidya Sala, Kottakkal. C.T. Sulaiman, senior scientist at the CMPR, said the findings of the collaborative study would be a game changer in the fight against COVID-19. “The chemical evaluation of the selected formulations showed presence of potent molecules; and they will be investigated further,” said Dr. Sulaiman. According to Rakesh Mishra, director of the CCMB, Hyderabad, the project can lead to a major progress in the country’s pharmaceutical industry. “While India possesses a lot of ancient wisdom, it has lacked defined regulatory protocols for testing the efficacy of formulations that are based on the ancient texts.” “In the ongoing fight against the coronavirus, it has become imperative to rigorously test the different treatment possibilities before they are used by the public,” Dr. Mishra said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/avs-ties-up-with-ccmb/article33484480.ece
03 January 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||COVID-19 vaccine dry run at Nemmara||The health authorities successfully conducted a dry run or mock drill of COVID-19 vaccine administration at Community Health Centre, Nemmara, on Saturday. Twenty-five persons could be administered the vaccine within two hours from 9 a.m. during the dry run.  A success Health officials said that they could complete the stipulated number in time during the mock drill held at the old out-patient wing of the Community Centre. Health workers who registered online for vaccination attended the dry run. Those who registered reached the centre and stood in a queue keeping a specified distance before sharing personal details to a police team. They were given vaccine after cross-checking their personal information given earlier.  Observation room They would be under observation for about half-an-hour in another room in order to ensure that there is no immediate reaction or side-effects from the vaccine. There will be a vaccine officer to observe them. An ambulance was ready to shift them to hospital if they developed any symptoms of reaction. District Medical Officer K.P. Reetha said that all health centres and private hospitals with basic facilities would offer vaccines against COVID-19. Apart from Dr. Reetha, K. Babu, MLA, Deputy District Medical Officer K.A. Nasar, Reproductive and Child Health (RCH) nodal officer T.K. Jayanthi, World Health Organisation consultant Santhosh Rajagopal, and Community Health Centre Medical Superintendent M. Haseena attended the dry run.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-19-vaccine-dry-run-at-nemmara/article33485155.ece
03 January 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Palakkad municipality to seek Vigilance office||The Palakkad municipality will seek setting up of an office of the Vigilance and Anti Corruption Bureau (VACB) at the municipal building as part of erasing the bad name it earned over the years for corruption. “We want to erase and correct that image. We want to prove that everything is transparent in the Palakkad municipality,” said newly elected chairperson K. Priya Ajayan and vice chairperson E. Krishnadas here on Friday. Addressing a meet-the-press at the Palakkad Press Club, they said they would write to the government asking for a Vigilance office to be set up at the municipal building. “We will provide them an air-conditioned room and furniture,” they said. They said they would conduct social audits in all 52 wards. The municipality would spend extra time to complete the ongoing projects before the end of the financial year.   Mr. Krishnadas said that top priority would be given to waste management. “Waste management has been Palakkad’s curse for long. We are taking some safeguards against frequent fires at the dump yard. New pipelines are being laid and surveillance cameras being installed to prevent man-made fires at the dump yard,” he said. Ms. Priya and Mr. Krishnadas wondered why quality was not being given to public works. “The Palakkad-Ottappalam road stands out for its good quality. Why cannot we build roads like that? We will try to plug in leakages in all public works that destroy the credibility,” they said. Mr. Krishnadas is also district president of the Bharatiya Janata Party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/palakkad-municipality-to-seek-vigilance-office/article33485153.ece
03 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State takes part in nationwide COVID vaccine dry run||Kerala participated in the nationwide dry run for COVID-19 vaccine administration on Saturday by conducting the mock drill at six sites in four districts. Senior health officials said the dry run, essentially a mock drill of beneficiary vaccination and end-to-end reporting of the entire vaccination process, went off smoothly in all six sites. The dry run was held at three sites in the capital district — the Poozhanad primary health centre, Peroorkada district model hospital, and KIMS hospital in the private sector. The same was held at the Vazhathoppu public health centre (PHC) at Idukki, Nenmara community health centre at Palakkad, and the Kurukkamoola PHC in Wayanad district also. Health Minister K.K. Shylaja, V.K. Prasanth, MLA, District Collector Navjot Khosa, and senior health officials were present at the Peroorkada district model hospital to witness and oversee the the dry run for COVID-19 vaccine administration. At each site, 25 health-care workers, participating in the dry run, were identified by the medical officer concerned and their data were uploaded on the test link of CoWIN, (COVID-19 Vaccine Intelligence Network), an electronic platform readied by the Centre for the smooth and seamless facilitation of the entire vaccination process. To test linkages The dry run was thus an exercise to test the CoWIN platform’s functionality and efficiency and to test linkages between planning, implementation, and reporting mechanisms, apart from assessing the State’s cold-chain preparedness, alternative vaccine delivery logistics, and most importantly, proper reporting of any adverse events following vaccination. Officials said the call centre/helpline query and adverse events reporting were also tested. Talking to media persons, Ms. Shylaja said while there was no official intimation yet regarding when the State should expect the arrival of COVID-19 vaccines, it was expected to reach the State soon. All districts were fully prepared to administer the vaccine as and when it arrived and that the registration of the priority group of front-line health-care workers was almost complete in the State. Till now, 3.13 lakh health-care workers — 1.59 lakh in the government sector and 1.54 lakh in the private sector — had registered their names and this was expected to go up to 3.5 lakh. Ms. Shylaja added that there was no need for any anxiety regarding the vaccine’s safety as the reports of the safety profile till now had been excellent. Priority list  The State expected to put over 50 lakh of the elderly in the State on the priority list for the second phase and hoped that the Centre would provide adequate vaccine stock to cover this vulnerable population. Apart from the State’s vast cold-chain arrangements, including three walk-in-coolers, 521 ice-lined refrigerators (ILRs) in districts, 69 large ILRs, and another 1,589 ILRs in primary health centres, the Centre has provided 14 lakh auto-disabled disposable needles and syringes, 20 more ILRs, 1,800 vaccine carriers, 100 large and small cold boxes, and 12,000 ice packs to the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-takes-part-in-nationwide-covid-vaccine-dry-run/article33484476.ece
03 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Furore at EICL over worker’s death||Tension prevailed at the English Indian Clays Ltd. (EICL) at Kochu Veli for several hours on Saturday after an employee was found dead on the company premises. The deceased was identified as Prafullakumar, 50, of Madhavapuram, Veli, a contract employee at the EICL. Angered over the death, EICL employees prevented the police from shifting his body from the premises. The EICL has been the venue of a protracted labour struggle after the company halted operations on August 10, 2020, citing losses. Employees have been staging an indefinite protest outside the company gates ever since. ‘Act against company’ Prafullakumar’s body was found hanging on the company premises around 6.30 a.m. on Saturday. After an alarm was raised, employees gathered in large numbers and demanded the presence of the District Collector and action against the company management. The Pettah police have registered a case for unnatural death and launched an investigation. A section of employees have raised suspicions about the death and demanded an investigation. According to them, Prafullakumar had visited the protesters’ pavilion on Friday, but was missing in the evening. A complaint had been lodged with the police on Friday in this regard. Prafullakumar’s wife Maheswari said he was upset over the lockout at the EICL, but she could not believe that he would take such an extreme step. Discussions with staff Later in the day, Subcollector M.S. Madhavikutty and senior police officials held discussions with the employees. Minister for Cooperation Kadakampally Surendran also visited the EICL and spoke to the employees. Subsequently, the body was shifted to the Government Medical College Hospital by 3.30 p.m. for autopsy after Prafullakumar’s family also demanded that the body be released. Raw material shortage The EICL, which is part of the Thapar Group of companies, had halted operations at its units at Kochu Veli and Thonnackal on August 10, 2020, citing mounting losses and shortage of raw material Kaolin. Prafullakumar leaves behind his wife Maheswari, son Alan, and daughter Aleena.  Employees have been staging protest outside the company since August 10, 2020, when the company halted operations citing losses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/furore-at-eicl-over-workers-death/article33484409.ece
03 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CPI(M) appears keen to build bridges with NSS||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] appears to have leaned on the occasion of the 144th birth anniversary of Mannathu Padmanabhan, the founder of the Nair Service Society (NSS), to reach out to the organisation in the election year. An article in the Deshabhimani , the party's newspaper, said Mannam's role in the so-called “Liberation Struggle” against the first Communist government headed by E.M.S. Namboodiripad did not rob him of his sheen as a civil rights torchbearer. The article sought to make light of Mannam's helmsmanship of the agitation that unseated the EMS government. Mannam might have overlooked the fact that the land reforms enacted by the EMS government had benefited lakhs of Nair leaseholders hugely. The prospect of big landowners losing huge swathes of their property to the government had perturbed him and occupied his mind more,” the article in the newspaper said. It also reminisced about Mannam's leadership of the Vaikom Satyagraha against caste discrimination and untouchability. No one caste could truly claim Mannam's political legacy. He had fought for the emancipation of marginalised sections, including backward classes and Dalits. The newspaper also carried an article on Mannam by NSS general secretary Sukumaran Nair. Reservation The Left Democratic Front (LDF) government recently extended 10% reservation in government jobs for economically disadvantaged persons from socially and educationally privileged forward communities. In the process, it risked the ire of the Kerala Pulayar Maha Sabha (KPMS) and Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana (SNDP) Yogam. The social organisations that formed the traditional base of the CPI(M) opposed the move vehemently alongside the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML). The NSS and CPI(M) relations had appeared to sour with Mr. Nair's demanding retrospective effect in implementing the Travancore Devaswom Board reservation ahead of the local body polls. The NSS had also held back from attending the social outreach programme led by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and rejected his invitation to be part of the Renaissance Protection Committee in 2019. Strain The perceived strain seemed reflected in Mr. Nair's statement on polling day that the voters were distraught. The political importance of Mannam Jayanthi was also not lost on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted: “Generations to come will be grateful to Sree Mannathu Padmanabhan Ji for his pioneering contribution towards community service, social justice and cultural regeneration. His was a life fully devoted to the betterment of others. I pay my humblest tributes to him on his Jayanti.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-appears-keen-to-build-bridges-with-nss/article33484486.ece
03 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||5,328 new cases in the State||Kerala reported 5,328 new cases of COVID-19 on Saturday when 54,098 samples were tested in the past 24 hours, taking the State’s cumulative case burden to 7,71,252 cases. The test positivity rate remains firmly at 9.85 %, the State maintaining a TPR of 9-11% steadily for the past several weeks. Active cases The active case pool in the State climbed to 65,374 cases on Saturday. With 4,985 persons reported to have recovered on the day, the cumulative recoveries reported in the State ever since the pandemic began has crossed the seven lakh mark to reach 7,02,576. The addition of 21 more deaths in the past few days to the official list of COVID fatalities on Saturday has taken the State’s COVID toll till date to 3,116. Thrissur reported four of these deaths, Pathanamthitta three, Thiruvananthapuram, Alappuzha, Ernakulam, Palakkad and Malappuram reported two deaths each while Kollam, Kozhikode, Wayanad, and Kasaragod reported one death each. Official reports put the number of critically ill patients at 825 . Of the 5,328 cases reported on Saturday, the Health Department has reported a history of travel outside the State in 78 cases while 5,250 are locally acquired infections. Amongst the locally acquired infections, in 392 cases the source of infection remains untraced while the number of healthcare workers who acquired the infection is 57. Among districts, Ernakulam reported 743 cases, Kozhikode 596, Malappuram 580, Kottayam 540, Pathanamthitta 452, Thrissur 414, Kollam 384, Alappuzha 382, Thiruvananthapuram 290, Palakkad 240, Idukki 223, Wayanad 204, Kannur 197, and Kasaragod 83 cases. U.K. variant No new samples of U.K. travellers to Kerala who reached the State between December 9 and 23 tested positive for COVID-19 in the past 24 hours. Till now, 37 of the 1,609 U.K. returnees who reached the State during this period have tested positive and their samples have been sent to the NIV Pune for genome sequencing to assess if these samples could be the new SARS-CoV-2 virus variant B.1.1.7. The results of 11 samples have not found the presence of the mutant virus, while the results of others are awaited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/5328-new-cases-in-the-state/article33484474.ece
03 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Vaccine dry run problem-free in capital||The dry run for COVID-19 vaccine administration was successful in the district on Saturday. The dry run, being held as part of a nationwide initiative, was held at Poozhanad primary health centre, Peroorkada district model hospital, and KIMS Hospital. Twenty-five health workers took part in the dry run in each centre. From vaccine registration to observation, all processes in the vaccine administration were followed. The participating health workers were monitored for half an hour in the observation room before being allowed to go home. Minister for Health K.K. Shylaja reached the Peroorkada district model hospital to review the mock drill. The Minister later declared the dry run successful, adding that the State was fully geared up for vaccine distribution. 14 lakh syringes Fourteen lakh auto-disable disposable syringes for administration of the vaccine reached the collection centre in the city on Saturday. Twenty large ice-lined refrigerators, 1,800 vaccine carriers, 50 large cold boxes, 50 small boxes, and 12,000 ice packs had reached earlier. Precise preparations had been made for vaccine procurement and distribution, she said. V.K. Prashanth, MLA; District Collector Navjot Khosa; Director of Health Services R.L. Saritha; District Medical Officer K.S. Shinu were among those present at the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vaccine-dry-run-problem-free-in-capital/article33485144.ece
03 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Kerala varsity colleges set to reopen tomorrow||Preparations are in its last phase for the reopening of colleges affiliated to the University of Kerala on Monday. For over a week, college managements have been preparing the institutions to receive students after nine months. Multiple rounds of review meetings, including those chaired by Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel, have been held to assess the arrangements. Classes for the final-year undergraduate (UG) batches and all postgraduate (PG) batches will resume in 182 colleges affiliated to Kerala University and its 44 teaching departments. As part of adhering to the COVID-19 protocol, college councils have been mandated with deciding the class and work schedules between 8.30 a.m. and 5.30 p.m. in such a way that there is not more than 50% attendance in a classroom. Besides sanitising the classrooms, thermal screeners have been readied for use in these institutions. Pro Vice Chancellor P.P. Ajayakumar said colleges may decide whether to conduct sessions on a shift basis. With student strength for PG courses being relatively low, i.e., roughly 15 students for science and 30 for arts programmes, enforcing physical distancing is not likely to pose problems. However, classes will have to be split for the UG courses that usually have nearly 50 students. Transportation troubles COVID-19 protocol committees, comprising teachers and students, have been formed in many colleges to regulate student movement on campuses. While many day scholars are likely to face transportation woes, large sections could also be affected by the lack of hostel facilities. The university has only commenced its allotment process to its hostels for PG freshers.  Classes for the final-year UG batches and all PG batches will resume in 182 colleges||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kerala-varsity-colleges-set-to-reopen-tomorrow/article33484407.ece
03 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Messages on buses to promote Nirbhaya Cell||The Women and Child Development Department, in association with the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation, has taken up double-decker bus branding to take the activities of the State Nirbhaya Cell to the people. The initiative has been taken up in connection with Nirbhaya Day observance. Minister for Women and Child Development K.K. Shylaja flagged off the bus branding in front of the Assembly complex on Saturday. The messages put up pertain to the Mitra helpline number (181) for women. They speak against against gender-based discrimination and root for safe families, mental health support and so on.  In capital, Ernakulam The Minister said the awareness messages had first been put up on double-decker buses in Thiruvananthapuram and Ernakulam. Everyone should be vigilant to ensure there were no more Nirbhayas. The departments, she said, had been implementing the Nirbhaya project to prevent sexual abuse of women and children, violence against them, and exploitation. Intervention The State Nirbhaya Cell intervened in the areas of prevention, protection, implementation of law, and rehabilitation. Social Justice Secretary Biju Prabhakar, Women and Child Development Director T.V. Anupama, and State Nirbhaya Cell State coordinator Sabeena Begum were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/messages-on-buses-to-promote-nirbhaya-cell/article33484395.ece
03 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Project to make State child-friendly||The Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights is set to launch a project for making the State child-friendly. The project will be launched at Puthussery grama panchayat in Palakkad district on Monday. Minister for Women and Child Development K.K. Shylaja will inaugurate the project online and make an announcement pertaining to observing 2021 as ‘child-friendly year.’ Focus of ‘Chase’ The project named ‘Chase’ (Child Health and Safety Empowerment) recognises the need for concerted efforts to ensure children are safe in home, school, play areas, and vehicles and prevent crimes against them. ‘Engage, explain, educate, and enforce’ will form the core of the project. Through the project, the commission aims at protecting child rights, keeping children safe from sexual crimes, rescuing them from alcoholism and drug abuse, protecting them from cybercrime, preventing child labour and beggary, ensuring gender quality, and improving child rights literacy. Panchayat-ward level awareness campaigns will be organised by the commission. Child protection committees will be strengthened. Training will be given to people working in the health and education sectors, besides police personnel. Training for trainers In the first phase, awareness workshops will be held in one select panchayat in each district for a month from Monday. Next, training will be held for trainers in two regions in February. Ten persons will be included from each district for the training to be held in Thiruvananthapuram and Kozhikode. They will monitor awareness activities pertaining to child rights literacy and creating a child-friendly State. They will also be equipped to strengthen child protection committees at the ward level. In March, a magic, arts, and theatre tour will be organised across the State for creating awareness of child rights protection. In July, awareness campaigns will be held at the district and block levels. Then, action plans to implement the child-friendly State project in each panchayat will be prepared. Areas that are educationally backward will be selected and the importance of the Right to Education Act communicated. Activities to prevent school dropout will be taken up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-project-to-make-state-child-friendly/article33484396.ece
03 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KSEB, NTPC settle dispute over fixed charge||The Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) has settled a drawn-out dispute with the National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) over annual fixed charges payable with respect to NTPC’s Rajiv Gandhi Combined Cycle Power Plant (RGCCP), Kayamkulam.  ‘Equal loss-sharing’  The fixed charge has been reduced from Rs. 298 crore per year to Rs. 100 crore. It will be applicable for the period pertaining to the power purchase agreement (PPA) signed by the two entities from April 1, 2019, to February 28, 2025. As part of the agreement, the KSEB will purchase power from the NTPC till March 2021, or until the Naphtha stocks at NTPC Kayamkulam are exhausted. Any loss incurred in this regard will be shared equally by the NTPC and the KSEB, a government order on the settlement dated January 1 said. In case another customer requires power from NTPC Kayamkulam, the KSEB will permit it without levying State Transmission Utility charges. However, if the other customer avails power continuously for more than a month, then the charges would be levied. Also, in such a scenario, the fixed charges of Rs. 100 crore payable by the KSEB will be reduced proportionate to the period the power is supplied by the NTPC to the other customer. Notice last year On February 22, 2020, the NTPC had issued a notice regulating power supply from other thermal stations under it to the KSEB citing the arrears in fixed charges payable by the latter in respect of NTPC Kayamkulam. At a meeting conducted on November 12, 2020, the officials of the KSEB and the NTPC had agreed to re-fix the fixed power charges at Rs. 100 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kseb-ntpc-settle-dispute-over-fixed-charge/article33484453.ece
03 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Engineering colleges in State set to reopen tomorrow||As many as 145 engineering colleges affiliated to APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University are set to resume offline classes on Monday. While the institutions have been directed to maintain less than 50% attendance, they will function primarily for project, practicals, and discussions of core subjects. The classes of third-semester MTech, MArch, MPlan, fifth-semester MCA, ninth-semester Integrated MCA, ninth-semester BArch, and seventh-semester BTech will commence initially. According to the Vice Chancellor Rajasree M.S. colleges have been asked to prepare class schedules taking into consideration the pending portions. The institutions can also look into portions covered online to ensure that students have a clear understanding of such topics. The colleges have been told to ensure maximum utilisation of their campuses to ensure physical distancing. She expressed the confidence that the COVID-19 norms can be strictly enforced with the scheduling of classes. One-fourth strength In a circular, the university instructed the colleges to conduct lab and practical sessions with one-fourth of the student strength at a time. Nodal officers have been entrusted with overseeing the COVID-19 precautionary steps in each institution. The academic calendar envisages completing the final-year examinations of each programme by February 15. The decision to conclude online classes was made against the backdrop of several students, especially from Jammu and Kashmir and north-eastern States, claiming poor or restricted Internet connectivity, difficulty in conducting practical classes, and concerns raised by both teachers and students regarding inefficacy of online classes for quantitative or numerical-oriented subjects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/engineering-colleges-in-state-set-to-reopen-tomorrow/article33484487.ece
03 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Labour dispute will be solved soon: Minister||The State government would urgently intervene and take steps to resolve the labour dispute at the English Indian Clays Ltd. (EICL), Minister for Cooperation Kadakampally Surendran said after holding talks with the employees on Saturday. The Minister, who met the employees, was critical of the EICL management’s stand on the lockout. He said the management was being unfair to the employees. The Minister he would take up the issue with Labour Minister T. P. Ramakrishnan. Meeting on Jan. 12 Mr. Ramakrishnan is scheduled to convene a meeting on January 12 with representatives of the EICL management and the family Prafullakumar. N.K. Premachandran, MP, has demanded an investigation into the death. Anti-labour measures Prafullakumar was a victim of the anti-labour measures initiated by the EICL management with the connivance of the State government, he alleged. The AITUC district committee blamed the authorities for the death. The government and the management failed to discuss and resolve the labour disputes, the AITUC said. Company’s reaction The EICL management, expressing grief over Prafullakumar’s death, said its units in Thiruvananthapuram were closed due to the ‘ongoing Covid crisis and issues related to product distribution, among others.’ In a statement, the management extended condolences to his family, friends and co-workers. During the past one year, the company’s market share and operations have suffered losses. ‘The situation has greatly affected our employees as well,” the statement said.   Other moves Labour Minister T.P. Ramakrishnan scheduled to convene a meeting on January 12  N.K. Premachandran, MP, has demanded an investigation into the death||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/labour-dispute-will-be-solved-soon-minister/article33484410.ece
03 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Deceased couple’s sons refuse offer of disputed plot||The children of the couple who died allegedly of self-immolation while thwarting a bid to evict them in Neyyattinkara refused an offer by businessman Bobby Chemmanur to provide them possession of the disputed land. While visiting Rahul and Renjith in their home in Lakshamveedu Colony in Pongil on Saturday, Mr. Chemmanur claimed to have purchased the disputed plot of three cents from Vasantha who had moved the Neyyattinkara munsiff court to evict Rajan, his wife Ambili, and their children. While the petitioner claimed the land to be hers, Rajan maintained till his death that she was not the owner of the plot and that they were residing on a puramboke land. “We are grateful for your kind gesture. But, it is up to the government to provide us this land, considering it is a subject of dispute. Vasantha has clearly misguided you using fake documents. We request you to get your money back and use it to support homeless people who languish on the streets,” the youngsters told Mr. Chemmanur. Citing documents obtained through the Right to Information Act, they claimed only four people possessed pattayams (title deed) in the colony and that land could not be sold or bought there.  Businessman claims he bought land from owner to hand it over to the youngsters||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/deceased-couples-sons-refuse-offer-of-disputed-plot/article33484442.ece
03 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Train commuters hit by restrictions||Restrictions on issuing online train tickets to daily commuters and delay in commencing ordinary and Mainline Electric Multiple Unit (MEMU) train services in the State are affecting the patronage and causing huge revenue loss to Railways. Commuting in short distance in the railway network has also turned costly for daily commuters like office-goers and students as only fully reserved special trains and festival specials are now plying in the State. The commuters are put to hardship and overcrowding is seen in front of counters at railway stations to take tickets as only six tickets are being issued monthly through the official website managed by the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC).  Maximum tickets For an Aadhaar-verified commuter, the maximum tickets that can be issued monthly is 12. Even if a person is travelling for a shorter distance, the full address has to be entered into the system in view of the pandemic. This consumes time and office-goers and students will have to reach one hour before boarding to get their tickets. Travelling has become dearer for those booking tickets online and choosing special trains for travelling. As normal trains are yet to commence operating, the daily commuters are the worst hit. Compared to the Rs. 145 for a sleeper ticket on a normal train, those travelling on special trains will have to shell out Rs. 385. For a sitting ticket on mail and express trains in the 64-km Thiruvananthapuram-Kollam corridor booked online, one has to pay Rs. 55 as fare and Rs. 17.70 as convenience charge to the IRCTC. The same is the fare and convenience charge for travelling on the 90-km Kozhikode-Kannur stretch. If one decides to travel by super express, the fare will go up by another Rs. 15. CM asked to intervene P. Krishnakumar, general secretary, Thrissur Railway Passengers Association, has said the State should take the initiative to commence ordinary and MEMU trains that did not need advance reservation. “Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan should intervene and ask the Chief Secretary to give the nod to Railways to put an end to the hardship of daily commuters,” he said. Railway sources said the restrictions on booking tickets online for Aadhaar-verified commuters should be lifted soon to ease the hardships faced by the commuters as the normal trains are unlikely for a few months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/train-commuters-hit-by-restrictions/article33484469.ece
03 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||First Bell classes from tomorrow||The telecast of First Bell digital classes on the KITE VICTERS channel for Class I upwards will begin on Monday. Sessions for Class X will be telecast from 5.30 p.m. to 7 p.m. from Monday. The re-telecast will be from 6.30 a.m. to 8 a.m. the next day. Classes for Plus Two will be telecast from 8 a.m. to 11 a.m. and 3 p.m. to 5.30 p.m. The repeat will be shown in the same order from 7 p.m. the same day. Plus One classes will be telecast from 11 a.m. to 12 noon and sessions for Classes VIII and IX at 2 p.m. and 2.30 p.m. Session for Classes I to VII will be telecast from 12 noon to 2 p.m. as had been done in the second week of December. As much as 90% of focus areas for Class X and 80% for Class XII had been telecast, said KITE chief executive officer K. Anvar Sadath on Saturday. The remaining portions too will be telecast with least difficulties for students. If need be, arrangements will be made for students to view the digital classes in school itself. Available on portal All digital classes will be available onfirstbell.kite.kerala.gov.in. The telecast schedule will also be available on the portal.  90% of focus areas for Class X and 80% for Class XII have been telecast K. Anvar Sadath KITE chief executive officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/first-bell-classes-from-tomorrow/article33484470.ece
03 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||290 people test positive||The district recorded 290 COVID-19 cases and 355 recoveries as the active caseload fell to 3,473 on Saturday. With 4,389 people being tested during the last 24 hours, the test positivity rate stood at 6.6. While there were six imported cases, all of the other newly diagnosed cases were attributed to local transmission. Three health care workers also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. With two more deaths being attributed to the disease, the pandemic has claimed 662 lives in the district. The district administration placed 1,059 people under quarantine. The number of people being monitored for COVID-19 symptoms is 19,052 in houses, while 64 people have been isolated in various institutions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/290-people-test-positive/article33485146.ece
03 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||RTC student concession||The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation’s (KSRTC) student concession counters will start functioning from Monday in view of the reopening of schools and colleges. The KSRTC has said that concession will be provided as per existing regulations to students of Classes 10 and 12 and final year graduate and postgraduate students (for government/ aided college students on producing semester certificate) and as per the permission from chief office for private and self-financing college students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rtc-student-concession/article33485150.ece
03 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||225 held for violating protocol||As many as 255 persons across the State were arrested and 586 booked by the police for violation of the COVID-19 protocols. The police also seized 29 vehicles. Action was taken against 2,144 citizens for not wearing masks. Two cases were registered separately for violating quarantine regulations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/225-held-for-violating-protocol/article33484472.ece
03 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Murder bid: youth arrested||The Vizhinjam police have arrested a youth for alleged attempt to murder a restaurant employee in Venganoor. The accused was identified as Sooraj, 19, of Venganoor. He was allegedly part of a three-member gang that barged into a restaurant near the Amarivila junction in Venganoor and assaulted the employee after raising complaints about the food served. Efforts were on to nab the two other accused in the case, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/murder-bid-youth-arrested/article33485147.ece
03 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Role of NSS founder hailed||Deputy Mayor P.K. Raju said here on Saturday that the younger generation needed to study the life of social reformer and founder of the Nair Service Society (NSS) Mannathu Padmanabhan in detail. Addressing a function organised by the Pattom NSS Karayogam to mark the 144th birth anniversary of Mannathu Padmanabhan, he said the leader had set a model through his tireless efforts to erase religious and social disparities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/contributions-of-nss-founder-hailed/article33484443.ece
03 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KU told to give maternity benefits to contract staff||The Kerala State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has ordered the University of Kerala to adopt necessary steps to permit maternity leave for its contract employees. Commission chairman Antony Dominic, who issued the order on the basis of a petition submitted by women employees of the University College of Engineering that functions under the university, pointed out the denial of maternity benefits amounted to violations of human rights. Claiming denial of maternity benefits, the petitioners said they were refused wage hike since the leave taken was not considered as service period. Citing a High Court order, the university interpreted that it did not come under the purview of the Maternity Benefit Act 1961. However, the Commission stated that the law was applicable to all contract workers. Besides, it does not discriminate between permanent and contract workers. Noting that a Syndicate subcommittee had presented its recommendations in the issue on July 3, the Commission ordered the Syndicate to adopt a decision without any delay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ku-told-to-give-maternity-benefits-to-contract-staff/article33484411.ece
03 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Neelamperoor Madhusoodanan Nair dead||Poet Neelamperoor Madhusoodanan Nair, who has been associated with the progressive movements in the State, passed away at a private hospital here on Saturday. He was 84. Born at Neelamperoor in Kuttanad, he lived much of his life in Thiruvananthapuram, where he worked as a research officer in the Industries Department. The poet in him emerged in the public sphere around the 1960s, when he along with writer P.K. Balakrishnan, E.N. Muralidharan Nair and others launched the Navadhara Co-operative Society to promote modernist, progressive writings. Over the decades that followed, he wrote more than 30 books, including poetry collection and children’s literature. Though an atheist, his deep knowledge of the Mahabharatha came through in much appreciated works like Mousalaparvam . Later, he became associated with the Purogamana Kalasahithya Sangham, and served as its office-bearer in various positions. In 2000, his poetry collection Chamatha won the Kerala Sahithya Akademi Award. He served as the editor of the children’s magazine Thathamma . Major works The other major works include Urangum Munbu , Amaran, Eettilam, Ithile Varika, Sooryanil Ninnoral, Kiliyum Mozhiyum, Ambilippoookkal, Edisonte Katha and Phalitha Chinthakal . He also wrote lyrics for a few Malayalam film songs. Condoling his death, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said Neelamperoor was a poet who gave valuable contributions to the progressive literary movement in the State through his poems as well as cultural interventions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/neelamperoor-madhusoodanan-nair-dead/article33484482.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||A warm welcome||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-warm-welcome/article33484449.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Remembering a legend||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/remembering-a-legend/article33484451.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Solidarity on wheels||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/solidarity-on-wheels/article33484479.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Birds of a feather||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/birds-of-a-feather/article33484399.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||The show must go on||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/the-show-must-go-on/article33485047.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Remembering a reformer||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/remembering-a-reformer/article33485149.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Beyond borders||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/beyond-borders/article33485157.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Voices of support||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/voices-of-support/article33484460.ece
03 January 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Diwakar urges elderly residents of Amaravati to join fast-unto-death||Former Anantapur Member of Parliament and TDP leader J.C. Diwakar Reddy on Saturday called on senior citizens living in Amaravati to go on a fast-unto-death in order to realise their dream of establishing the State capital in the town, promising that he would also join them in their fast if invited, so that the issue is taken to the notice of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. At a press conference here on Saturday, Mr. Diwakar Reddy took exception to the State government and the Centre allegedly behaving in an equally ‘irresponsible’ manner with regard to the development of the region, which was agreed to as the State capital. “Let all people in the region, who are above 70 years of age, come forward and sit on a fast-unto-death so that their sacrifice will be beneficial for their children and grandchildren. I am 76 and I am ready to sacrifice my life for their cause,” the former MP said. Terming all police actions against his family in Tadipatri in the past 19 months as a political vendetta, Mr. Diwakar Reddy questioned as to why no chargesheet was filed even after two years of the Prabhodananda Ashram incident on September 15, 2018. “They will take up the case just before elections and put us behind bars for a month so that we are not able to file nominations. The recent cases against my brother J.C. Prabhakar and his son Ashmit under SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act, 1989 are also politically motivated,” he alleged. Listing the cases against his family that he alleged were politically motivated, Mr. Diwakar Reddy announced that he will sit on an indefinite fast at Tadipatri from Monday, January 4, seeking dropping of all cases in which the police are unable to find any evidence or file a chargesheet immediately. TDP Anantapur Parliamentary Constituency candidate J.C. Pavan Kumar addressing the reporters, alleged that ineligible persons too were being sanctioned financial assistance under Navaratnalu without any verification, while payment of honorarium to imams and muezzins of mosques is pending for a long time. Mr. Pavan Kumar also took exception to no arrests being made in the 121 cases filed so far with regard to desecration or damage of Hindu religious places in the State ever since the YSRCP came to power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/diwakar-urges-elderly-residents-of-amaravati-to-join-fast-unto-death/article33485105.ece
03 January 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Unable to steal money, two youth set fire to ATM||Two youth hailing from Hindupur allegedly tried to steal money from an ATM at Kodigennahalli in Parigi Mandal and even broke it open, but failed to retrieve money, in the early hours of Friday. Peeved at their failure, the duo poured petrol on the machine and set it on fire. Both of them suffered burns in the process and returned home in Hindupur. When the Parigi police got the news, they went to the ATM kiosk and found currency notes valued at Rs. 6,07,400 reduced to ashes along with the kiosk. The CCTV camera and its drive too were burnt, leaving no clues for the police. The police, however, found a mobile phone on the spot. Even as they were making their own investigation, a call from mother of one of the accused youth Manoj Kumar, 21, provided them a clue. She had returned on Friday evening from Penukonda to Hindupur and the youth supposed to be alone at home, did not open the door. When the neighbours broke open the door, they found Manoj hanging and severe burn injuries were found on his body. The Hidupur I Town police registered a suicide case unaware of his role in the alleged ATM kiosk incident. When his mother called his number, Parigi Sub-Inspector P. Sreenivasulu posed as a local, who had found the phone and asked for their address to return it. By the time Parigi police landed in Hindupur, they saw the body being examined by the Hindupur police and the entire incident fell in place. The other accused, Naveen, reportedly left for Bengaluru for better treatment for his burn injuries and is said to be stable as of Saturday afternoon. The police have registered a case and are waiting for Naveen, 23, to get discharged from the hospital for further investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/unable-to-steal-money-two-youth-set-fire-to-atm/article33484098.ece
03 January 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Rabid dog’ creates panic||A dog, suspected to be rabid, created a flutter on Saturday by biting 21 sheep at Jogyanur village of Gudupalle mandal, 100 km from here. According to information, a dog entered the village and attacked the sheep secured outside the houses from midnight till early hours. While six sheep died, 15 were rushed to the local veterinary hospital for treatment. When some youth tried to kill the dog, it disappeared into the thickets nearby. In another incident, 15 sheep were run over by a train at Tummanagunta village of B. Kotha Kota mandal, 40 km from Madanapalle, on Saturday. Some shepherds were herding the cattle close to the railway track on Dharmavaram-Pakala section. When the train was nearing, the sheep suddenly jumped into the middle of the track and were run over.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rabid-dog-creates-panic/article33484190.ece
03 January 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lucky escape for a couple||A couple from Chennai had a miraculous escape when the car in which they were travelling skidded off the road and caught fire at Gundlakattamanchi of Bangarupalem mandal, 20 km from here, on Saturday. The vehicle apparently lost control and jumped the road, before hitting a concrete block and ramming an electrical pole, and caught fire. The couple jumped out of the vehicle to safety. In a few minutes, the vehicle was gutted. The couple said Rs. 2 lakh cash and some gold ornaments were lost in the fire.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lucky-escape-for-a-couple/article33485095.ece
03 January 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chennai youth dies while taking law exam||A youth, Balamurugan of Tambaram in Chennai, died after he took ill while writing an examination at a local law college in Tirupati on Saturday. According to information, the law student was attending an examination at the college, when he suddenly developed convulsions and collapsed. He died while being rushed to the SVRR Hospital. His family members were informed about the incident. Second incident In another incident, an unidentified woman reportedly committed suicide by jumping before a running train near Cotton Mill junction on Tirupati-Renigunta section. According to information, the woman was seen moving suspiciously along the track, and all of a sudden threw herself on the track. The area railway police registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chennai-youth-dies-while-taking-law-exam/article33484189.ece
03 January 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19 vaccine dry run held in Guntur||District Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar said that a dry run for the COVID-19 vaccination drive is being conducted in the district ahead of the actual roll-out of the vaccine. The Collector inspected the arrangements on Saturday here at SKBM Municipal High School at Agraharam and the Nursing College on the premises of Fever Hospital at Amravati Road, and vaccination centres at Vedanta Hospital, Mangalagiri Road and the Guntur Government Hospital. He inspected the arrangements made for a cold chain management, registration room, vaccination rooms and observation rooms at the vaccination centres. He observed the AEFI management room at GGH and enquired the medical services that will be provided in case of an adverse reaction to the vaccine, and enquired with doctors about the necessary medical equipment available. Mr. Ananda Kumar said that the vaccination and dry run are being conducted in three areas in Guntur city. The dry run will take place at the Fever Hospital premises on Amravati Road, which is affiliated to Guntur Medical College, at the Vedanta Hospital on Mangalagiri Road in the private hospital section, and at the vaccination centres set up at the SKBM Municipal High School in Yeti Agraharam in the outreach site section. He said 25 people would be vaccinated at each vaccination centre, and added that their details have already been registered. Those who come for vaccination will be sent to the centre one by one after their details are confirmed online, and then sent to the vaccination room. Vaccination will take place there, and those who have been vaccinated will be kept under observation for half an hour in the adjoining Adverse Event Following Immunization (AEFI) room. If there is no reaction for half an hour after taking the vaccine, they will be sent home immediately as per the instructions of the doctor there. They will be provided with the details to contact for medical attention as soon as any adverse symptoms appear after going home. If there is a slight reaction during the observation to those who have been vaccinated, the doctors there will treat them. If there is an adverse reaction, they will be immediately moved to the AEFI management centre. The AEFI management centre will be set up at GGH, where a cardiologist, neurologist, pulmonologist and anesthesiologist will be available. They will immediately alert the AEFI management centre at the vaccination centre to provide details of those who have had a severe reaction and move those who have had a reaction to the management centre. An ambulance has been stationed at the vaccination centre. Similarly, the AEFI management centres set up at the time of the original vaccination will be examined in the dry run. Senior officials from the district administration and health department and paramedics were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-19-vaccine-dry-run-held-in-guntur/article33485179.ece
03 January 2021||Harish Gilai,ANDHRA PRADESH||Slight decline in cyber crimes in city||Though Visakhapatnam city topped the State in registering most number of cyber crimes in 2020, but compared to 2019, there was a slight decline in the total cases by 4 %. In the year 2020, the total number of cases registered in the city was 353, while in 2019 it was 368. Among the cases reported, social media frauds, e-mail hacking and fake websites have increased, while other cases have seen a decline. According to the statistics from the cyber crime police, the number of social media frauds reported during 2020 was 54, while it was 45 in 2019. Similarly, online frauds like e-mail hacking and fake websites cases reported were 122 in 2020, as against 93 in 2019. One Time Password (OTP) cases registered during 2020 were 47, as against 41 in 2019. As many as 26 Nigerian frauds, matrimonial frauds and lottery frauds were reported in 2020, as against 34 in 2019. Online marketing and pension frauds had reduced from 146 in 2019 to 106 in 2020. Police said that people generally receive fake e-mails from unknown persons seeking money claiming that they are facing financial problems. The cyber crime police appealed to the public not to react to them. Police also urged citizens to check the authenticity of advertisements posted in these online sites. They also urged people not to send money to people without checking the equipment or vehicles they see in online sites. “Internet usage was high due to the lockdown. Even elderly persons started using digital wallet platforms in place of currency. Anticipating spurt in cyber crime cases, e-Rakshabandhan was also organised. Fortunately, not many cases were reported,” said a senior police officer from the city. Inspector of Police, Cyber Crimes police station, R.V.R.K Chowdhary, said that during the year 2020, property worth about Rs. 6.12 crore was lost, while in 2019, it was about Rs. 7.8 crore. Police concentrated on conducting awareness campaigns, both online and offline. Such programmes have really helped in reducing number of frauds, he said. “Even educated people also becoming victims. Why will someone just give money as gift or lottery? Why will someone offer a job which is more than your educational qualification? People should think twice before responding to such fake messages and can approach police in case of any issue,” said Mr. Chowdhary. Assistant Commissioner of Police, (Central Crime Station), Sravan Kumar, said that in December, the cyber crime police had started an initiative ‘Browse Safe- Be Safe.’ As part of the programme, awareness would be created about fake social media accounts among teens and young adults through videos and other social media platforms, about safe browsing and how to protect them from cyber stalking, safely utilising services of banks, he said. “Meetings will be conducted in colleges, institutions, government offices, apartments/group houses/ gated community associations,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/slight-decline-in-cyber-crimes-in-vizag/article33485131.ece
03 January 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||34 red sanders smugglers nabbed in Kadapa||The Kadapa police on Saturday nabbed 34 red sanders smuggling operatives, including a kingpin, during a series of raids in the district on Friday. According to Superintendent of Police K.K.N. Anburajan, Eragamreddi Naga Dastagiri Reddy of Kadapa district and others from Chittoor and Kadapa districts and Karnataka and Tamil Nadu were arrested and red sanders logs weighing 1.5 tonnes and six cars were seized during the raids. Six cases were registered and the accused were sent in remand. The SP said that the raids were conducted by four special teams under the supervision of senior police officials of Kadapa, Mydukur and Rayachoti sub-divisions. The most wanted Naga Dastagiri Reddy was involved in 65 cases pertaining to red sanders smuggling. His aide Gummalla Venkata Subbaiah of Kadapa district was wanted in 16 cases. Based on information that the two smugglers with the help of woodcutters from T.N. were cutting the trees and selling the logs to a smugglers’ network at Katigenahalli in Karnataka, a hideout in Lingalakunta village of Atlur mandal was raided. Similar raids were conducted at Polukunta check-post of Gopavaram mandal, Settipalle cross of Sambepalle mandal, Vangimalla forest location of Veeraballi mandal and Bidiki village of Ramapuram mandal in Kadapa district. Eleven grams of gold and 29 grams of silver were also seized from the operatives. Special teams were sent to Tamil Nadu and Karnataka to nab the other wanted accused in the latest operations. Dastagiri Reddy and Venkata Subbaiah would be booked under the PD Act, the SP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/34-red-sanders-smugglers-nabbed-in-kadapa/article33484101.ece
03 January 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||200 centres choosen for COVID-19 vaccination in East Godavari||East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy has said 200 centres have been identified for administering COVID-19 vaccine across the district. On Saturday, a dry run was conducted in three centres, Recharlapeta Primary Health Centre, Apollo Hospital and Ramanayyapeta, where the preparedness of the vaccination exercise was assessed by district officials. In an official release, Mr. Muralidhar Reddy said, “The COVID-19 vaccination drive will focus on three stages such as transportation of the vaccine from the storage source to the vaccination centre, administering it and observation of recipients for any health issues.” “The recipients will be allowed to leave the vaccination centre only when they show no health complication. In the post-vaccination stage, a team of doctors will observe the condition of the recipients for half an hour,” said Mr. Muralidhar Reddy. The district authorities have made preparations to cover nearly 40,000 front-line staff, including doctors in both public and private sectors in the first stage of the vaccination drive. Joint Collector Ch. Kirthi, District Medical and Health Officer K.V.S. Gowareeswara Rao and other officials were present during the dry run.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/200-centres-choosen-for-covid-19-vaccination-in-east-godavari/article33485134.ece
03 January 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three killed in road mishap on NH||Three youths died as a two-wheeler they were riding was hit by a mini-van while they were crossing the national highway at Gopalapuram village under Ravulapalem police limits in East Godavari district on the midnight of Friday. The lorry was transporting tomatoes from Kadapa to Kakinada city in East Godavari district. Investigation on “The incident had occurred while the trio was crossing the highway on the midnight of Friday. The deceased have been identified as K. Sateesh Kumar and K. Lokesh from Gopalapuram village and V. Surendra of Kothapeta mandal in East Godavari district,” Ravulapalem Circle Inspector V.Krishna told The Hindu . Mr. Surendra died on the spot while the two others succumbed to their injuries while undergoing medical treatment at the government hospital in Tanuku, said Mr.Krishna. Police sent the bodies to the government hospital at Tanuku for post-mortem and launched an investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-killed-in-road-mishap-on-nh/article33485133.ece
03 January 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kurnool DIG cautions people on rumours||Kurnool Range Deputy Inspector General of Police P. Venkatarami Reddy on Saturday warned people against spreading rumours and misinformation on temples. At a press conference here on Saturday evening, Mr. Venkatarami Reddy said that parts of cement idols on the top of the gopuram arch of Sri Anjaneyaswamy temple had fallen off due to weathering, and refuted claims that some people were behind the damage. Temple priest Sriramulu told reporters that while erecting lights atop of the temple, someone had hit a nail on the arch which led to some cement pieces falling off the statue of Lord Rama. This was noticed on Saturday morning and the police were immediately called, who also inspected the area and determined that no mischief had taken place, the DIG said. He asked people not to believe rumours being spread via social media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kurnool-dig-cautions-people-on-rumours/article33484185.ece
03 January 2021||KURNOOL/CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dry run for COVID vaccination begins||The trial run for COVID-19 vaccination programme, likely to be scheduled from January-end or early February, was launched at Sriram Nagar Municipal Primary School by District Collector G. Veerapandian on Saturday morning where he said that the administration was ready for vaccinating 6 lakh people in the first phase. Those who have registered on COVID-19 Vaccine Intelligence Network (Co-WIN) portal would only be allowed into the centres, Mr. Veerapandian said. Only 25 persons would be asked to come to the centre every two hours through SMS. As many as 100 persons would be vaccinated every day at each centre. The priority would be given to health care workers, police personnel, municipal staff, those aged above 50 and those below 50 but with co-morbidity. Totally 15,030 vaccination session sites have been established in Kurnool district. Regional Vaccination Storage Unit at Kurnool will store are all the vials. The second dose will be given after month on the same day. Municipal Commissioner D.K. Balaji, Joint Collector Ramsundar Reddy and Joint Collector Welfare Sayyed Khaja along with Trainee IAS officer Nidhi Meena attended the programme. In Chittoor district, the dry run was held at Chittoor, Madanapalle and Tirupati. Speaking to mediapersons here, Collector Narayana Bharat Gupta, who inspected the programme at the urban primary health centre at Satyanarayapuram locality, said that the medical and health wing was fully prepared for the vaccination drive at any time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dry-run-for-covid-vaccination-begins/article33484187.ece
03 January 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Book those responsible for idol desecration’||Activists of the BJP staged a demonstration outside Prakasam Bhavan here on Saturday condemning the desecration of an idol of Lord Rama at the Ramateerthan temple in Vizianagaram district recently. The activists, led by BJP Ongole Lok Sabha unit president S. Srinivasulu, came in a big procession to the Church centre with a portrait of Lord Rama. The activists also blocked traffic on the arterial Trunk Road demanding swift action against the culprits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/book-those-responsible-for-idol-desecration/article33485096.ece
03 January 2021||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vaccination dry run passes off smoothly in South Coastal A.P.||COVID-19 vaccination dry run was conducted successfully in six selected places in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh on Saturday even as fresh coronavirus cases declined in the region. The participation of the beneficiaries was 100% in the three health centres in SPSR Nellore district held under the overall supervision of District Collector K.V.N.Chakradhar Babu. Minute details were taken care of during the trial run at the Varikunta Public Health Centre, Krantinagar Urban Health Centre and Narayana Medical College Hospital to ensure an error-free vaccination programme later this month, said SPSR Nellore Medical and Health Officer S.Rajyalakshmi told The Hindu . But for one person who could not make it during the dry run, other selected beneficiaries took part in the programme held in Prakasam in three selected vaccination sites of Government General Hospital, Ongole, Ramesh Sanghamitra Hospital and Maddipadu Public Health Centre in Prakasam district under the supervision of District Collector Pola Bhaskar. Meanwhile, fresh cases dipped to a new low of 10 in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative confirmed tally to 1,24,152 in the two districts. The caseload dipped further to 550 as 26 patients got cured during the period. So far, 1,22,518 patients have been recuperated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vaccination-dry-run-passes-off-smoothly-in-south-coastal-ap/article33485098.ece
03 January 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sarva darshan tokens||After a brief hiatus, the TTD has resolved to resume issuance of ‘Sarva darshan’ tokens at Tirumala. The tokens will be made available one day in advance at its counters in Tirupati. The issuance of tokens was temporarily suspended following extension of the Vaikunta Dwara Darshan for a 10-day period, which would come to an end on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sarva-darshan-tokens/article33484107.ece
03 January 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||8th edition of Sundarakanda Parayanam held||The eighth edition of Sundarakanda Parayanam was organised at the TTD Nada Neerajana Mandapam here on Saturday. About 200 Vedic scholars recited a total of 195 slokas. Hundreds of devotees took part in the event to listen to the sonorous articulation of the sacred extracts by principal of Veda Vignana Peetam Sri K.S.S. Avadhani. The event began with Annamacharya Sankeertanas and culminated with Hanuman bhajan by TTD artists. With an intention to save the mankind from the pandemic, the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams(TTD) has been organizing the parayanam since last June and has completed about seven editions so far. Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy, Vice-Chancellor of National Sanskrit University Muralidhar Sharma and Director of TTD Annamacharya project Dakshinamurthy were prominent among others who took part in the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/8th-edition-of-sundarakanda-parayanam-held/article33485099.ece
03 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Varla blames DGP for Ramateertham trouble||TDP national General Secretary and Polit Bureau member Varla Ramaiah on Saturday accused DGP D. Gautam Sawang of dancing to the YSR Congress Party tunes. At a press conference here, Mr. Ramaiah alleged that Mr. Sawang had ‘designed’ the YSRCP leader Vijaya Sai Reddy’s visit to Ramateertham temple as a ‘counter’ to TDP president Chandrababu Naidu’s visit to the place. He said the Ramateertham incident was yet another example of ‘total breakdown of law and order’ in the State. Finding fault with the police department for obstructing the convoy of Mr. Naidu though he had taken prior permission for the visit, Mr. Ramaiah wondered about the reason behind Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy’s interest in the Ramateertham issue. “In what capacity did he say that the culprits were being brought to book?” he questioned. The TDP leader alleged that the DGP was tasked with obstructing Mr. Naidu wherever he went. Reminding that the DGP was questioned by the High Court in the past for obstructing Mr. Naidu’s convoy in Visakhapatnam, Mr. Ramaiah said the police officer, who was close to his retirement, should watch his behaviour in such a responsible post. Mr. Ramaiah said the developments at the Ramateertham temple on Saturday were ‘premeditated’. He said if the head of the police department was ‘biased’ what could one expect from the department officials. Mr. Sawang should do some soul-searching, he said. The TDP leader said the culture of ‘counter-agitations’ and ‘counter-visits’ being encouraged in the State was against the spirit of the Constitution. Alleging that attacks on temples in the State were part of a larger plan, Mr. Ramaiah urged the DGP to curb such attacks and restore harmony in the State. House arrests flayed The TDP condemned the house arrests of its leaders ahead of Mr. Naidu’s visit to the Ramateertham temple where Lord Rama’s idol was vandalised five days ago. The party alleged that a local person, Suribabu, was being forced to accept the crime. TDP senior leaders Aditi Gajapathi Raju and I.V.P. Raju asked SP B. Rajakumari ‘not to harass its leaders and try to divert the attention from the failure of the police department in the Ramateertham issue’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/varla-blames-dgp-for-ramateertham-trouble/article33485110.ece
03 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three deaths, 238 new infections registered in State||The State reported three new COVID-19 deaths and 238 infections in the 24 hours ending Saturday morning. As a result, the toll rose to 7,111 and the tally increased to 8,82,850. The number of recoveries increased to 8,72,545 with 279 more patients recovering during the period, taking the recovery rate to 98.83%. This apart, 3,194 patients were undergoing treatment. The positivity rate of the 48,518 samples tested in the last one day was 0.49%, the lowest in months, and the overall positivity rate of the 1.19 crore samples tested was 7.40%. The tests per million ratio increased to 2.23 lakh. Two of the new deaths were reported in West Godavari and one in Chittoor district, which had the highest number of fatalities (841) in the State. Chittoor also reported the highest number of infections in the last one day. The district-wise tally of new infections was as follows: Chittoor (59), Guntur (32), Krishna (32), West Godavari (22), Visakhpatnam (21), Kadapa (16), East Godavari (15), Anantapur (11), Kurnool (11), Prakasam (6), Vizianagaram (5), Nellore (4) and Srikakulam (4). The overall tallies were as follows: East Godavari (1,23,755), West Godavari (93,893), Chittoor (86,248), Guntur (74,830), Anantapur (67,374), Nellore (62,110), Prakasam (62,042), Kurnool (60,582), Visakhapatnam (59,228), Kadapa (55,024), Krishna (47,871), Srikakulam (45,963) and Vizianagaram (41,035). Active cases The district-wise active cases were as follows: Vizianagaram (37), Kurnool (65), Srikakulam (80), Prakasam (90), Anantapur (136), West Godavari (160), Kadapa (196), Visakhapatnam (238), Chittoor (319), East Godavari (372), Nellore (460), Nellore (460), Guntur (506) and Krishna (535).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-deaths-238-new-infections-registered-in-state/article33485102.ece
03 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Opposition behind incident: Minister||Describing the Ramateertham temple incident as unfortunate and saying that stringent action would be taken against the culprits, Endowments Minister Velampalli Srinivas said people were suspecting the role of Opposition behind the incident. It was evident from the fact that TDP leader P. Ashok Gajapati Raju was the chairman of the temple trust board, he said. He alleged that vandalising of the idol was an attempt to destabilise the government by creating a rift among religions. Addressing reporters here on Saturday, Mr. Srinivas said many temples on the Krishna river front in Vijayawada were demolished during the TDP regime and that only Mr. Chandrababu Naidu could do such heinous acts. He also alleged that Mr. Chandrababu Naidu sold off the lands belonging to Sadavarti choultry and it was during his regime that ‘tantric rituals’ were performed in various Hindu temples.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/opposition-behind-incident-minister/article33485112.ece
03 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Housing scheme implemented despite hurdles: Minister||Minister for Transport and Information and Public Relations Perni Venkataramaiah on Saturday said despite many hurdles the Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had fulfilled the dream of 3.5 lakh poor families of owning a home. Speaking after distributing house pattas to the beneficiaries of the government-sponsored housing scheme at Krishnaveni School campus in Vijyayawada East constituency limits, he said Mr. Jagan had promised during his 2017 padayatra that he would provide houses to all the poor when he comes to power. Now that he was at the helm, he was fulfilling the dream of the poor. He said land pattas were being distributed to 28,000 beneficiaries in the Vijayawada East segment besides providing TIDCO houses to 2,000 more.  Transparency He said the government had purchased valuable lands in Penamaluru and a few other mandals and would provide basic amenities. He had asked the authorities to provide city bus services from the places allocated to the housing scheme beneficiaries. In the next three years, the government would create more housing colonies, he added. Joint Collector (Aasara) K. Mohan Kumar said transparency was given utmost importance in grant of house pattas and the decision to register the pattas in the name of women was a step towards women empowerment. He said the beneficiaries were being given three options with regard to construction of the house. Vijayawada East constituency in charge Devineni Avinash and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/housing-scheme-implemented-despite-hurdles-minister/article33485181.ece
03 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP flays ‘high-handed’ behaviour of police||BJP State general secretary S. Vishnuvardhan Reddy has condemned the alleged rude behaviour of the police with his party’s Vizianagaram district president Reddy Pavani during the agitation against the vandalising of the idol of Lord Rama at Ramateertham, on Saturday. He stated in a press release that Ms. Pavani was slightly injured as the police knocked her away and took many protesters into custody. The BJP leader alleged that the government was maintaining a stoic silence even as the Hindu temples were attacked. If such incidents recurred, the BJP would organise State-wide agitations, he warned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-flays-high-handed-behaviour-of-police/article33485177.ece
03 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||L.Vannamei broodstock to be imported from U.S.||Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Aquaculture (RGCA), a research and development arm of the Marine Products Export Development Authority (MPEDA), has inked a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Oceanic Institute of Hawaii Pacific University, U.S.A., for supply of L. Vannamei Parent Post Larvae (PPL) to farmers in Andhra Pradesh. After an eight-month gap caused due to the pandemic, MPEDA is supplying L.Vannamei (LV) brooders from its Broodstock Multiplication Centre (BMC) at Chepalauppada village in Bheemunipatnam mandal of Visakhapatnam district, said MPEDA Chairman K.S. Srinivas. Order booking He launched booking of the fresh stock of Specific Pathogen Free (SPF) L.V brooders (mother prawns) from the BMC on January 1, during his two-day tour in the State. “Hatchery owners can confirm their bookings immediately. MPEDA is offering an early bird scheme with one-plus-one offer, for the first 10 days (for bookings made from January 1 to 10). The first batch of 25,000 SPF L.V brooders will be ready by January end,” he told The Hindu . The RGCA will acquire Parent Post Larvae (PPL) from the Oceanic Institute of Hawaii Pacific University, which was a pioneer in producing SPF L.V. brooders. “Brooders are raised under strict biosecurity and certified as SPF by Aquaculture Pathology Lab, University of Arizona, USA, and Central Aquaculture Pathology Lab, RGCA. The mother prawns are acclimatized to Indian weather and environmental conditions,” said RGCA Director S. Kandan. L. Vannamei brooders supplied by RGCA will have faster growth with high survival percentage. They have passed multiple-level disease tests. The mortality of MPEDA supplied brooders during transportation will be less than 2%, said its Director M. Karthikeyan. BMC project in charge and Assistant Project Manager (APM) D.V.S.N. Raju said that hatchery operators could book (the brooders) through mobile 91-9491910529, Whatsapp 91-6300747049, landline 08933-224104 or by email atrgcavannameibmc @gmail.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lvannamei-broodstock-to-be-imported-from-us/article33485182.ece
03 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Discrepancies found in Amma Vodi data||Certain discrepancies found in the data pertaining to a few students in the eligibility list of the second phase of the Jagananna Amma Vodi scheme has necessitated reverification. In an order issued on Saturday, Director, School Education, Vadrevu Chinaveerabhadrudu, said that during the process of identifying the eligible mothers, it was observed that the data pertaining to a few students in the eligibility list did not match with the details of their mothers, calling for reverification. He asked the headmasters / principals to constitute a three-member committee, comprising the headmaster / principal, a representative of the village / ward secretariat and a representative of the Parents’ Committee, to verify if the student was properly mapped to his/her mother. After the reverification process, the headmasters should upload the confirmed list. Since the number of children needing reverification was not more than 4 or 5 per school, the headmasters should attend on it on January 4, said the order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/discrepancies-found-in-amma-vodi-data/article33485111.ece
03 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Solve farmers’ issues, Maoists demand Centre||The CPI-Maoist demanded that the Centre address the farmers’ problems, for which they were on an agitation for the past one month in New Delhi. The Maoist leaders criticised the government for trying to dilute the agitation which was being supported by various sections of society. CPI-Maoist Andhra Odisha Border Special Zonal Committee (AOBSZC) secretary Ganesh released a letter extending support to the farmers’ movement. He said the farmers’ issues could be solved only through people’s revolution. Farmers were facing severe hardships due to the anti-people policies being implemented by the State and Central governments, Mr. Ganesh said, and accused the government of not implementing the loan waiver scheme and Minimum Support Prices. Mr. Ganesh said the new farm laws would only benefit the corporate sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/solve-farmers-issues-maoists-demand-centre/article33485103.ece
03 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vaccine dry run conducted without any hitch in district||The dry run for the COVID-19 vaccine was conducted according to the protocol without any issues here in the district on Saturday. Addressing the media after the successful completion of the dry run held between 9 a.m. and 11 a.m., District Collector V. Vinay Chand said that all protocols were followed and it concluded successfully. The dry run was held in three hospitals in the city — Government ENT Hospital, Pradhama Hospital and the Regional Health Centre at Simhachalam. According to the District Collector, 34,761 health workers, including doctors, nurses, paramedic staff, lab assistants, ministerial staff, ANM, Aasha workers and anganwadi workers, will be vaccinated in the first phase, which is scheduled to begin shortly.  Disposable syringes According to the directions from the Union government, each person will be administered 0.5 ml of dosage and twice within 28 days or three weeks. Disposable syringes will be used and a system is in place to dispose them of scientifically, said Mr. Vinay Chand. According to the process, an SMS will be sent to the mobile phone of each of the person to be vaccinated, indicated the date, time and place of vaccination. Each centre or session site will have three rooms. One is a waiting room where their identity will be checked, the second is the vaccination room and the third will be the observation room, where they will be kept under observation for 30 minutes. In case of any adverse effect, they will be shifted in the waiting ambulance to the nearest bigger hospital, which will be tagged to the session site for treatment. The district has also constituted a AEFI (Adverse Event Following Immunisation) committee, comprising a cardiologist, neurologist, neuro surgeon, general physician and anaesthesiologist. “Every hospital will have such a team and they will monitor the condition of the patient in case of any adverse event,” said Mr. Vinay Chand. He also informed the media that a special software Co-Win has been developed to handle the vaccination programme, and everything will be fed into it, including the details of the people. In the second phase, frontline workers will be vaccinated and in the third phase, people above 50 years with or without comorbidities will be administered. Regional store point Mr. Vinay Chand informed that the vaccines will be delivered from the manufacturers through special refrigerated vehicles and Visakhapatnam has been made the regional store point for the districts of Vizianagaram, Srikakulam and East Godavari. “All the vaccines will arrive in Visakhapatnam and stored in freezers that have been built specifically for this purpose in 2° to 6° Celsius. We can store at a time close to 17 lakh vaccines,” he said. From the storage points the vaccines will be sent to the cold chain points in the districts, which will be the CHCs, area hospitals and district hospitals. From the cold chain points, the vaccines will be shifted in freezer boxes to the session centres, where it will be administered to the people, as per the listing. In Visakha agency, where villages are inaccessible, the 44 shandy points (weekly market points) are being targeted to host the session centres, said Mr. Vinay Chand. Each session centre will work from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. and each will be equipped to administer at least 100 vaccines, per day, he added. On which vaccine will be given, he said that at least three, including the Covishield, have been approved and it depends, which one will be sent. He also said that there is no cost component involved and will be given free of cost. He also said that the staff and vaccinators have been trained and are in sufficient numbers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vaccine-dry-run-conducted-without-any-hitch-in-district/article33485193.ece
03 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP decries Vijaya Sai’s sudden trip to temple||The TDP leaders on Saturday criticised YSRCP Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy for choosing to visit Ramateertham, where the idol of Lord Sri Rama at the 400-year-old temple was desecrated a few days ago, on a day when their national president N. Chandrababu Naidu too was scheduled to visit the temple. “Where was the need for Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy to all of a sudden cancel his scheduled patta distribution programme at Pendurthi suddenly and head towards Ramateertham at a time when the Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Assembly was visiting the place,” questioned TDP State president K. Atchannaidu. The TDP further alleged that Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy’s move was intentional. Meanwhile, a large number of TDP workers reached the airport here to welcome Mr. Naidu, who made a transit halt here in the morning on his way to Ramateertham in Vizianagaram district. Senior leader Ch. Ayyanna Patrudu and party leaders such as V. Anitha and Palla Srinivasa Rao were among others who were present. Later, Mr. Naidu left for Vizinagaram along with Mr. Atchannaidu and others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-decries-vijaya-sais-sudden-trip-to-temple/article33485114.ece
03 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees 21 new cases||The district reported 21 fresh COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours taking the cumulative tally to 59,740 as on Saturday. Twenty-six persons, who were undergoing treatment, had also recovered from the coronavirus. The toll stands at 523 since no deaths were reported in the last 48 hours. The active cases and discharges stand at 238 and 58,979 respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-sees-21-new-cases/article33485190.ece
03 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||RPF installs biometric token machines, drone at rail station||To regulate the flow of passengers and boost security, the Waltair Division of East Coast Railway has installed two biometric token machines at Visakhapatnam railway station and also commissioned drone camera for surveillance of the railway assets. Divisional Railway Manager Chetan Kumar Shrivastava commissioned these facilities at the Visakhapatnam railway station on Saturday. Both the security gadgets are introduced for the first time in the East Coast Railway at Visakhapatnam, the officials said. According to the officials, the objective of the system is to regulate crowd in the general compartments and prevent stampede on platforms, while the passengers board unreserved coaches. “The passenger purchasing the tickets for general coaches will have to get their fingerprints scanned at biometric machine, after which a token will be generated with the number of seats in a particular general class coach. The passenger can then assemble in queue as per their serial number on the token a few minutes before the rake is placed on platform,” said Senior Divisional Security Commissioner, RPF, Visakhapatnam, Jitendra Srivastava He said that the RPF staff at the entry point of general class coach verifies the token serial number and allows the passengers to board the coach in an orderly manner. This system will be implemented in eight originating trains like Godavari, Ratnachal, Janmabhoomi, Simhadri, Tirumala and Korba Express. Meanwhile as part of conducting surveillance against criminals, patrolling of yard, vital installations, railways tracks and accident sites, a drone was procured by the RPF. About 10 RPF personnel had already undergone drone pilot training to operate the equipment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rpf-installs-biometric-token-machines-drone-at-rail-station/article33485186.ece
03 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fulfil promises made during gas leak, CPI(M) urges State govt.||Members of the CPI(M) on Saturday staged a protest demanding that the State government implement the recommendations suggested by the high power committee, after the LG Polymers gas leak incident at Gopalapatnam in the district on May 7, 2020. They alleged that even after seven months, the promises given by the State government were not fulfilled. Party secretary B. Ganga Rao said the government had promised to build a super speciality hospital at R.R Venkatapuram. Initially a hospital was set up at the locality and a doctor used to be available. But now, except ASHA workers and nurses, there are no doctors, he said. To monitor health of the locals and also improve medical facilities at the locality, the government had constituted a health committee with a doctor from KGH Purushottam, Mr. Ganga Rao said. Unfortunately Purushottam died due to COVID-19 a few months ago and the government has to reconstitute the committee, he said. He alleged that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had announced that the company would be shifted from the locality. However, no steps were taken in this regard, Mr. Ganga Rao said. Mr. Ganga Rao also alleged that the government had given compensation of Rs. 1 crore each to the families of 12 victims. But three more persons had died while undergoing treatment, their family members should also be paid compensation, the CPI(M) leader said. He alleged that a number of victims who had undergone treatment were also not paid compensation. Party senior leader Ch Narasinga Rao and a few others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fulfil-promises-made-during-gas-leak-cpim-urges-state-govt/article33485187.ece
03 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three held for ‘assault, robbery’||The city police on Saturday arrested a 20-year-old youth and also took two minor boys of 17 and 16 years of age into their custody for allegedly assaulting a person for money near Daspalla Hills on January 1. The police found that the trio were addicted to ganja and had committed the offence to get some money to buy ganja. The arrested was identified as S. Kundan (20), a resident of Maharanipeta. Addressing a press conference here on Saturday, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crimes) V. Suresh Babu said that Kundan completed Intermediate, while the first juvenile completed Class X and second juvenile is in Class IX. Mr. Suresh Babu said the three accused used to meet daily and smoke the weed at an isolated place near Governor’s Bungalow. Since they ran out of cash to buy ganja, the trio decided to rob a motorist, he said. On January 1, the accused reportedly assaulted a man with a button knife and took gold ornaments and cash worth Rs. 31,450 from him. Based on the complaint and acting on a tip-off, the police nabbed the accused. ACP (Central Crime Station) Sravan Kumar and a few others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-held-for-assault-robbery/article33485188.ece
03 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Seer unhappy over attacks on temples||The seer of Sri Sarada Peetam Swaroopanandendra Saraswati expressed unhappiness over the recent attacks on temples in the State, here on Saturday. Swaroopanandendra Saraswati asked Endowments Minister Velamapalli Srinivas to initiate stringent action to control such attacks by anti-social elements. He held discussions with the Endowments Minister before he held a meeting with other officials. He emphasised on the need to protect the government’s image and also stop the acts that hurt Hindu devotees. Swaroopanandendra Saraswati asked the Minister to enhance security at the temples. The seer said that the State government should send a clear message to the people that it is serious about protecting the temples.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/seer-unhappy-over-attacks-on-temples/article33485194.ece
03 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man ‘killed’ after row over relationship||A 62-year-old man was allegedly murdered at Nakkapalle in Visakhapatnam district on Friday night. The deceased was identified as Y. Ramana, a resident of Nakkapalle. According to the police, Ramana had been reportedly living with a 55-year- old woman for the last 10 years. Recently, the woman had allegedly developed relationship with another person Vasu (30). Ramana reportedly questioned the woman about the relationship. Police said that there was reportedly a heated argument followed by a fight between Ramana and Vasu on Friday night about the issue. Later, Ramana was allegedly beaten by Vasu with a stick. Ramana received severe head injuries and died. Vasu also received injuries and is currently undergoing treatment in a hospital. A case has been registered and investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/62-year-old-murdered-over-relationship-row/article33485135.ece
03 January 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ministers to visit site||Tension is expected to continue at Ramateertham temple on Sunday too, with the “Chalo Ramateertham” call being given by Hindava Sanghala Ikya Vedika, a confederation of Hindu religious organisations. The police decided to intensify the security on the temple premises. Minister for Endowments Vellampalli Srinivasa Rao and Minister for Municipal Administration Botcha Satyanarayana will visit the temple and inquire about the incident and progress of the investigation being conducted by five special teams of police department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ministers-to-visit-site/article33485106.ece
03 January 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pak. better at protecting temples, says Pawan Kalyan||Jana Sena Party president Pawan Kalyan on Saturday said that Pakistan was better at protecting Hindu temples than the Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy government in Andhra Pradesh. ‘The Pakistan government has arrested 45 persons who were responsible for demolishing temples in their country. However, in Andhra Pradesh, there have been many attacks on Hindu temples. Recent incidents in Ramateertham, Rajamahendravaram and Kurnool have left every Hindu devotee in the State shocked. There is no inquiry over any such incident that has occurred in the last one-and-a-half years,” Mr. Pawan Kalyan said in a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pak-better-at-protecting-temples-says-pawan-kalyan/article33485108.ece
03 January 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Naidu’s bid to tarnish CM’s image’||V. Vijaya Sai Reddy on Saturday accused the TDP of trying to divert the attention of the people by highlighting the Ramateertham issue as it was fearful about its political existence with the effective implementation of welfare schemes in the State. Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy alleged that N. Chandrababu Naidu and his son Lokesh were conspiring against the government to tarnish the image of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. “Mr. Naidu was responsible for the demolition of many temples, including in Vijayawada. People will not believe his crocodile tears,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidus-bid-to-tarnish-cms-image/article33485109.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Reality check||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/reality-check/article33485138.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Seven in all!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/seven-in-all/article33485184.ece
03 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Vaccine doses might be issued to Telangana in instalments||The COVID-19 vaccination dry run was conducted at four sites in Hyderabad and three sites in Mahbubnagar on Saturday. No vaccine was administered during the drill. Senior officials in the Telangana Health department had earlier said that the COVID-19 vaccine would be available by mid-January. According to the ‘COVID-19 Vaccines Operational Guidelines’ issued by Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, the objectives of the dry run include assessment of operational feasibility of using CoWIN application in field environment, test linkages between planning, implementation and reporting mechanisms, identifying challenges and guiding the way forward prior to actual implementation, and providing confidence to programme managers at various levels. In the first phase of vaccination, around 80 lakh beneficiaries have been identified in Telangana. They include healthcare workers, frontline workers such as municipal and sanitation workers, people above the age of 50 years irrespective of their medical condition, and people under the age of 50 years with co-morbidities. The vaccination is, however, not mandatory. Telangana Health Minister Eatala Rajender said there are indications that the Central government would issue five lakh doses after the dry run. It would be followed by 10 lakh doses, and then one crore doses. Senior officials from the department have said the vaccine would be given in two doses. To vaccinate around 80 lakh beneficiaries in the first phase, around 1.6 crore doses would be required. In Hyderabad, the dry run was conducted in Area Hospital at Nampally, Gandhi Hospital, Urban Primary Health Centre in Tilaknagar, and at a corporate hospital. The vaccination process involves three steps; the first is registration or verification. ID cards of beneficiary is cross-checked in the CoWIN software. After confirming the details, the beneficiary will be administered the vaccine. Thereafter, their health condition will be monitored for half hour in observation room. At the Area Hospital in Nampally, a ward was divided into three sections — verification counter, vaccination counter, and observation room. Around 25 staff nurses, Class-IV employees, and others in the Area Hospital were listed as beneficiaries in the dry run. The staff nurses said that they were asked to bring their Health department ID card, and Aadhaar card. The entire drill included staying in the observation room for half hour though a vaccine was not administered. A staff nurse, Roja, said that she was keen to take the vaccine when it arrives to beat the constant worry of contracting the novel coronavirus while on duty. “My family and I will be safe,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vaccine-doses-might-be-issued-to-telangana-in-instalments/article33485017.ece
03 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Police helping TRS leaders in vindictive politics’||Tension prevailed on the Warangal highway after Congress activists clashed with the police removing the barricades put up by the police to stop the Congress leaders from going to meet Jangaon District Congress president Janga Raghava Reddy, who is in the Warangal prison. Police tried to stop the vehicles of TPCC president, N. Uttam Kumar Reddy, Bhongir MP Komatireddy Venkatreddy, MLAs Sridhar Babu and Seetakka and others who were on their way to meet Mr. Raghava Reddy. After some heated arguments police allowed them to go to Warangal. After meeting Mr. Raghava Reddy, the TPCC chief accused the TRS government of implicating Congress leaders in false cases and he also alleged that a few officials of Telangana police were behaving as TRS activists and helping ruling party leaders pursue vindictive politics. He accused Panchayat Raj Minister Errabelli Dayakar Rao of resorting to vindictive politics and alleged that Mr. Janga Raghava Reddy was arrested by the Kazipet police based on a false complaint lodged by T. Samaiah around two months ago. He said although the complainant had realised his mistake and wanted to compromise, Mr Dayakar Rao, in connivance with some local police officials, re-opened the case and got Raghava Reddy arrested. He said that the charges levelled against Ragahva Reddy were totally baseless and politically motivated and the TRS was trying to weaken the Congress by putting its senior leaders in jail in false cases. He said the Congress was all set to return to power in next elections and it would take action against all such officials who implicated Congress leaders and cadre in false cases. Other leaders who were present included Mr. Komatireddy Venkatreddy, MLAs Sridhar Babu and Sitakka, former union minister Balram Nayak, ex-minister Konda Surekha, ex-MLA Gaddam Vinod, ex-MLC Konda Muralidhar Rao, DCC presidents Naini Rajender Reddy and Rajaiah.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/police-helping-trs-leaders-in-vindictive-politics-tpcc-chief/article33484342.ece
03 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||305 days of pandemic, more than 2.86 lakh infections||On the first day of 2021, Telangana recorded 293 COVID-19 cases and two more deaths due to the infection that has made its presence felt in the State for 300-plus days.  69 lakh samples tested The first case here was detected on March 2 last year. A total of 69,24,707 samples have been put to test and over 2.86 lakh people have been diagnosed with the virus. The death toll stood at 1,546 as on Friday. The month-wise cases which increased gradually from March, started to show a downward trend from October onwards. When 10 months of the pandemic in the last year is considered, the highest tests and cases in a month were recorded in September. Of 16,26,598 samples tested that month alone, a whopping 65,903 cases were detected. However, in terms of fatality, it was August that saw the maximum deaths at 306 people followed by September with 299 deaths. New cases in new year While 26,590 samples were put to test on Friday, 293 samples were found to be positive for coronavirus and results of 658 persons were awaited. The new cases include 72 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region followed by 34 from Rangareddy, 26 from Medchal-Malkajgiri and 22 from Karimnagar. The lowest of one case each was detected in Narayanpet, Nirmal, and Kamareddy districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/305-days-of-pandemic-more-than-286-lakh-infections/article33485020.ece
03 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Dry run successful in Mahabubnagar||The dry run for COVID-19 vaccination was successfully carried out at three locations in Mahabubnagar district on Saturday. A total of 75 volunteers from among the frontline workers were administered ‘model vaccine’ in the dry run. According to District Collector S. Venkata Rao, the dry run was conducted at the district headquarters hospital, primary health centre at Janampet and a private hospital in Mahabubnagar – Neha Sunshine, where the ‘model vaccine’ was administered to 25 volunteers each. Mr Venkata Rao went around the district hospital and Neha Sunshine hospital and observed the exercise. He stated that mandated arrangements such as enrolment counter/room, vaccination room and rest room for keeping those who would be administered vaccine in observation for half hour after administering the vaccine were made on Friday itself and the volunteers selected for administration of the ‘model vaccine’ were also intimated in advance. Besides, thermal scanners for recording the body temperature of volunteers selected for ‘vaccination’, computer operators for uploading the details of those getting the ‘vaccine administered’, sanitisers, masks and others were also arranged for the exercise. Speaking after examining the dry run, the Collector stated that the exercise was smooth. Additional Collector (Local Bodies) Tejas Nandlal Pawar, Director of Government Medical College P. Srinivas, District Medical & Health Officer Krishna, Deputy DM&HO Shashikanth, Vijaykanth of Neha Sunshine hospital were also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dry-run-successful-in-mahabubnagar/article33485018.ece
03 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Waste-lifting resumes from transfer stations||After a day’s uncertainty, garbage lifting has resumed from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC)’s transfer stations through hired vehicles whose services were stopped on Friday owing to termination of contract. Contractors of hired vehicles have been reportedly asked by the GHMC’s Transport wing officials to resume operations, pending extension of agreement with them. “They have said nothing about extension of agreement, but merely asked us to resume operations. We have started plying vehicles upon oral commitment by the officials that it was GHMC’s responsibility to pay us for the services rendered. They said our demand for extension of agreement was under consideration,” a contractor informed. Earlier, intending to hand over the garbage transportation component to Ramky Enviro Engineers Limited (REEL), the concessionaire partner of the Solid Waste Management project for the city, GHMC had refrained from extending the agreement with the operators of hired vehicles which ended on December 31, 2020. Talks fail However, it turned out that the agency did not have sufficient fleet to completely undertake the operations all by itself. It sought the services of the hired vehicles eased out from GHMC. A round of deliberations was conducted with the contractors of these vehicles towards signing an agreement with REEL. The talks, mediated by GHMC Transport wing, failed to reach a conclusion, with the contractors unwilling to sign an agreement with REEL on the latter’s terms. As a result, the city ushered in the first day of the New Year, with garbage piled up in its 17 transfer stations, forcing the authorities to resort to hired vehicles yet again from the next day. As per the Public-Private-Partnership agreement for Solid Waste Management signed in 2008-09, REEL has to undertake all operations right from door-to-door collection up to the waste treatment and management at the land-fill site. However, the agency has since been restricted to the operations at the Jawahar Nagar dump yard, owing to strident protests by workers’ unions who decried loss of jobs for drivers and labourers. GHMC has, however, gradually brought the number of its own vehicles to a bare minimum, by condemning majority of them in the name of age and condition. Instead, they began to hire vehicles from outside, to run the garbage clearance operations from the transfer stations. REEL had launched its own fleet of vehicles in November last year, through the hands of the Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development K.T.Rama Rao. A total of 55 Benz vehicles, touted as equipped with the most modern technology, were flagged off for stench-free and secure waste transportation. The vehicles had fully integrated IOT sensors, telemetry and advanced safety systems such as Driver Awareness System and other safety and efficiency innovations, a statement had said. A dedicated Command & Control Centre remotely tracks and reports on the performance of this smart waste collection and transport system round the clock, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/waste-lifting-resumes-from-transfer-stations/article33485026.ece
03 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||CM’s sudden love for employees is due to MLC polls: Jeevan Reddy||Accusing the government of neglecting the education sector and government employees totally, the Congress MLC, T. Jeevan Reddy has said the sudden love of Chief Minister, K. Chandrashekhar Rao was directly related to the ensuing Graduate MLC elections. At a press conference here, he said the Chief Minister was referring to filling the job vacancies and promotions to employees as he was afraid of losing the MLC elections. Mr. Reddy said employee unions under the earlier governments used to demand their rights but now they were begging for even small decisions from the government. Mr. Srinivas Goud had become a Minister compromising the interests of the employees and he was busy saving his position. Union leaders were happy with the lunch hosted by the Chief Miister whenever there was an uproar from the employees, he said. ‘No post created’ Questioning the sincerity of the Chief Minister on the vacancies, he said not a single post had been created though new districts were created. Not even a attender post hds been created while sweepers who worked at a meagre salary of Rs. 2,500 had been removed. He demanded that the government announce a calendar for recruitments and promotions. Stating that education sector was in bad shape due to the continuous neglect by the Chief Minister, he said 4,000 Head Master posts, 50% of the DEO posts and 92% of the MEO positions were vacant.  Reacting to Congress MLA Komtireddy Rajagopal Reddy’s controversial statement on moving to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), he said those who wished to leave the party could do so after resigning from the post gained on a Congress symbol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cms-sudden-love-for-employees-is-due-to-mlc-polls-jeevan-reddy/article33485031.ece
03 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Governor urges people not to be vaccine-hesitant||Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan visited the Urban Primary Health Centre, Tilaknagar, which was one of the four sites in Hyderabad where COVID-19 vaccine dry run was conducted on Saturday. She appealed to people to not be ‘vaccine-hesitant’. Terming 2020 as the year of pandemic, she said the world is transitioning into the ‘year of protection’. At the UPHC, she interacted with the health staff and vaccine beneficiaries. She also inspected the cold chain system, vaccination rooms, and observed when a couple of beneficiaries at the centre participated in the dry run. “The vaccine is safe. People all over the world are taking it. There is not even a single incident of fatality due to the vaccination till now. I am concerned that some surveys indicated 40% of healthcare workers have shown vaccine hesitation. We all must take the vaccine and be safe,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dont-be-vaccine-hesitant-governor-urges-citizens/article33485022.ece
03 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||RTC revenue improving, making Rs. 10 cr. per day||The Telangana State Road Transport Corporation revenues are increasing as it is now making around Rs. 10 crore per day, Transport Minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar said on Saturday. The Minister was interacting with TSRTC staff and conveyed to them new year greetings. Mr Kumar also said that apart from an increase in revenue, the TSRTC buses were not recorded an occupancy ratio on a par with previous figures. He pointed out that the transport juggernaut’s parcel, cargo and courier service was generating revenues of Rs. 15 lakh per day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rtc-revenue-improving-making-rs-10-cr-per-day/article33485038.ece
03 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Probe into removal of beneficiary names urged’||The Centre for Peace Studies, a group which seeks to uphold rights of excluded communities, conducted a sample survey across five cities and concluded that a lack of preparedness ahead of the lockdown had led to untold hardship to families living in poor neighbourhoods. The CPS, in an email, stated that this survey was conducted in Hyderabad, Delhi, Hospet, Jaipur and Bhopal and covered over 500 households. It observed that the lockdown took several people by surprise. Interventions like free distribution of essentials at PDS shops and Rs. 500 instalments in Jan Dhan accounts among others could not be accessed by several families. The organisation claimed to have found that a large number of respondents stated that their names had been deleted from ration card lists and that applications for fresh cards was pending. Several respondents also stated that they were unaware of social security pensions. The CPS demanded restoration of cancelled ration cards, appointment of inquiry commissioners to probe the removal of duplication of cards process and proper implementation of social security pension schemes across the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/probe-into-removal-of-beneficiary-names-urged/article33485037.ece
03 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Pits dug for Secretariat||Roads and Buildings Minister V. Prashant Reddy said that pits for construction of about 200 footings for the main building of the new Secretariat complex were being dug up now. During a surprise visit to the site on Saturday, Mr. Reddy said the contracting firm Shapoorji Pallonji had speeded up works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pits-dug-for-secretariat/article33485030.ece
03 January 2021||HYDERABAD:,TELANGANA||Step up tax collection, CS tells officials||Chief Secretary to the State government Somesh Kumar has asked the officials of Excise and Commercial Taxes departments to put in more efforts during the last three months of the current financial years in order to achieve greater tax revenue. Speaking to employees of the two departments who met him in his office here on Saturday to extend the new year greetings, the Chief Secretary complimented their efforts for working together as a cohesive and well- knit team for helping the government secure higher revenues. He appealed to them to work even harder in the coming year towards ensuring economic buoyancy.. He told them that the government had decided to create 131 new posts in different categories and sanctioned 14-new Prohibition and Excise stations in the Excise Department. Similarly, 161 new posts were created in different categories and sanctioned 18 new Commercial Taxes Circles in the Commercial Taxes department. Besides, several posts were upgraded increasing the promotional avenues. He hoped that reorganisation shall help secure career progression for the employees thereby bringing them greater job satisfaction. Consequently, the process to give promotions in the two departments had already been initiated, he noted. Meanwhile, the Chief Secretary extended greetings to All India Service officers and all the employees of the State government. He participated in the New Year celebrations at BRKR Bhavan attended by AIS officers and other employees. Speaking on the occasion, he appealed all the employees to work with more enthusiasm to achieve the goals set by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao for the welfare of people and development of the State. He asked the Secretaries of all departments to take up the process for promotion of all cadres in the Secretariat, Heads of Department offices and districts and completed the exercise by the month-end.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/step-up-tax-collection-cs-tells-officials/article33485029.ece
03 January 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Former MLA dead||Former MLA of the CPI (M) Katta Venkata Narsaiah, who represented the Madhira Assembly constituency twice, died at the age of 87 at a hospital in Hyderabad in the wee hours of Saturday after battling multiple age-related health issues. Narsaiah breathed his last at around 3 am while undergoing treatment at a private hospital, source said. He is survived by wife, two sons and a daughter. He was cremated at his native village Pocharam in Kalluru mandal on Saturday afternoon in adherence to the COVID-19 protocols in the presence of some family members, close relatives and a host of leaders of various political parties, sources added. Sattupalli MLA Sandra Venkata Veeraiah, CPI (M) State committee member Ponnam Venkateshwara Rao, Madhira town committee secretary S Narasimha Rao and Annam Seva Foundation founder Annam Srinivas Rao were among those who paid their last respects to the departed leader. The mourners bid an emotional adieu to Narsaiah whose body was draped in the red flag during the cremation. Transport Minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar, Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader and Madhira MLA Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka were among those who expressed their condolences to the bereaved family. Leaders across the political spectrum condoled the death and hailed him as a man of unblemished integrity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/former-mla-dead/article33485036.ece
03 January 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Ryot KCR calls up Ranzole potato farmer||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has called up N. Nagi Reddy of Ranzole village and enquired about his potato crop. The conversation is reported to have continued for about five minutes. Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao asked Mr. Nagi Reddy whether the cultivated area has remained the same or had come down. The farmer replied that compared with previous years it was reduced but by and large remained at about 2000 acres whereas it used to be about 3,000 acres in that area. “The seed is called Pokaraj–166 variety. As we felt this is good we went for this crop in Zaheerabad area. Each plant yields about eight to 10 potatoes which weighs nearly a kilogram. Per acre yield will be 15 to 16 bags. The crop growth is very impressive. It is some 45 days since the crop was sown. Jahangeer is speaking with me once in a while,” said the farmer adding that they never counted on how many plants there are per acre and added that the total yield was estimated to be between 12 and 15 tonnes. The farmer explained that while potato in white colour which is cultivated in black soil will fetch a better price of Rs. 200 per quintal, the crop grown in red soil commands a lower price of about Rs. 175 per quintal. Mr. Nagi Reddy also informed the Chief Minister that the yield would begin in 85 days and water should be stopped to the crop 15 days before harvest. The Chief Minister has invited the farmer to meet him next week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ryot-kcr-calls-up-ranzole-potato-farmer/article33485035.ece
03 January 2021||siddipet,TELANGANA||‘New diagnostic centre in a month’||Finance Minister T Harish Rao said that a new diagnostic centre at an estimated cost of Rs. 2.52 crore would be established in the district headquarters within one month. He was addressing a gathering after distributing house certificates for double bedroom beneficiaries on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/new-diagnostic-centre-in-a-month/article33485141.ece
03 January 2021||SURYAPET:,TELANGANA||Newborn girl found dead||A just-born baby girl, visibly with a bandage around her hand and a pacifier nipple in the mouth, was found dead on the outskirts of Kondapuram village of Chilkur on Saturday. The baby, loosely wrapped in a towel, was found by agriculture workers who reached the fields early in the morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/newborn-girl-found-dead/article33485140.ece
03 January 2021||YADADRI-BHUVANAGIRI,TELANGANA||Bhongir market committee constituted||The State Agriculture and Cooperation Department on Saturday notified the constitution of Agriculture Market Committee (AMC) of Bhongir. The AMC comprises chairman N. Ramesh Goud, vice-chairman A. Mohan Reddy and12 other members. The committee will be holding office for a period of one year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bhongir-market-committee-constituted/article33485033.ece
03 January 2021||GURUGRAM,||Millennium City gets smart eyes in the sky||Around three years after the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) mooted a project for a closed-circuit television cameras-based Surveillance and Adaptive Traffic Management System for the Millennium City, its first phase is expected to be completed by March this year with the installation of around 1,200 CCTV cameras. It will have artificial intelligence and features such as traffic signal violation detection, overspeeding detection, face recognition and reading of number plates at 200-odd places, including major intersections. Another 800 cameras would be installed during the Phase-II of the project. P.K. Aggarwal, adviser, Smart City, GMDA, told The Hindu that the agency proposed to instal around 1,200 cameras by March this year in Gurugram and Manesar falling under its jurisdiction and already 700 cameras were installed covering 160 places. “We hope to instal the remaining 500 cameras, covering around 60 places in another three months,” he said. The laying of captive optical fibre for the project began in 2018 and the work of camera installation started last year. “We have a captive optical fibre network of around 400 km. It is our own network. We have not hired it from anyone. It connects all these cameras to the GMDA’s Integrated Command and Control Centre (ICCC), monitored by our Smart City team. It is also used by many other agencies, including the police,” said Mr. Aggarwal. Other functions These cameras with artificial intelligence are not only used for surveillance and traffic monitoring, but are also capable of other functions such as crowd detection, detection of unidentified objects and face recognition of criminals. It helps the police in detecting violation of traffic signal, overspeeding and driving without a helmet. “It also helps in tracking of vehicles with a particular colour and registration number. The police have provided us the registration number of stolen vehicles and the same have been fed into the system. The moment any of these stolen vehicles is detected, the location of the vehicle is identified and the culprits are arrested,” said Mr. Aggarwal. It makes Gurugram one of the first cities in the country to have a robust surveillance system in place with the help of CCTV cameras with artificial intelligence. The administration has also used the cameras for COVID-19-related surveillance to ensure social distancing, wearing of masks and avoiding gatherings. Nippon Electric Company (NEC) is the GMDA’s main contractor for the project as a master system integrator. These cameras are a mix of four different types: fixed cameras, red light violation detection (RLVD) cameras, automatic number plate reading (ANPR) cameras and dome cameras. “While the fixed cameras are mostly used for surveillance, the RLVD and ANPR cameras are installed together. At each intersection, there is usually one RLVD camera and three ANPRs with one for each lane. We are installing 315 RLVD and ANPR cameras. The dome cameras are for face recognition at crowded places such as metro stations, railway stations, shopping malls and temples,” said Mr. Aggarwal. GMDA’s sub-contractor for the project, Vehant Technologies, a pioneer in artificial intelligence/ machine learning-based security surveillance, has already started the work for installing the 315 RLVD and ANPR cameras at 29 major intersections, including Bakhtawar Chowk, Rezangla Chowk, Mehrauli-Gurgaon Road, Galleria Market, Jharsa Chowk, IFFCO Chowk, HUDA City Center, ABW Tower, Rajiv Chowk, Subhash Chowk, Bristol Chowk, Vatika Chowk, Signature Tower, Hero Honda Chowk, IMT Manesar Chowk, Atul Kataria Chowk, and Sector 55/56 crossing. The total cost of this project is Rs. 60 crore. E-challan generation The system automatically encrypts and transfers the data of violation to the centralised server at Traffic Police headquarters in Sushant Lok-I, besides the GMDA’s ICCC. The system also facilitates e-challan generation along with photo/video evidence which is then sent to the violators’ mobile phone through SMS. The system is capable of 24×7 operations. This solution will have an overview camera to capture the zoomed-out picture of an entire area when there has been a red-light violation. The ANPR will read the number plate of the offending vehicle and store it in the database. Anoop G. Prabhu, CTO and co-founder, Vehant Technologies, said these cameras had a special feature to capture images at night and even during bad weather. This will help the city in making roads safer and reducing traffic accidents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/millennium-city-gets-smart-eyes-in-the-sky/article33484574.ece
03 January 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi holds dry run for vaccine drive, Jain says shot will be free||A dry run for the COVID-19 vaccination drive, without anyone actually being inoculated, was carried out at three centres in the city on Saturday to check the preparedness of the system. Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain termed the process “flawless”. The dry run was carried out at three healthcare facilities in the national capital: Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital in Shahdara, Urban Primary Health Centre in Daryaganj, and Venkateshwar Hospital in Dwarka. While Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan reviewed the dry run at GTB Hospital, Mr. Jain visited the health centre at Daryaganj. The latter reiterated the government’s stand that the vaccine will be provided free of cost to the people in Delhi. “The system created is very good. I feel it is flawless. All [vaccination] centres have been linked to a hospital,” Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said after visiting the facility. 3 rooms in each booth Each booth for vaccination will have three rooms: waiting room, vaccination room, and observation room. Shalini, 35, a nurse at GTB Hospital who was part of the 25 healthcare workers participating in the dry run at the hospital, said that the hospital had explained the process on Friday and things went smoothly on Saturday. “We came here around 8 a.m. and first got our documents checked before sitting in the waiting room. Then, we were called to the vaccination room. There, I was told that it will be a two-dose vaccine and that it was safe. I asked whether I should roll up my sweater’s sleeve for the mock drill, but they said no and asked me to wait for half an hour in the observation area,” Ms. Shalini said. Little concerned The nurse, however, said that many healthcare workers like her were a little concerned about the safety of the new vaccine. “But we will have to take the vaccine to defeat the virus. What else will we do?” she said. In GTB Hospital, a stretcher was kept ready near the observation room, which is part of the preparedness to take care of people who suffer any complication during the actual vaccination drive. Once the vaccine is approved, it will come to a main storage centre being created at the Delhi government-run Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital. From there it will go to 11 district vaccine stores, one in each district in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-holds-dry-run-for-vaccine-drive-jain-says-shot-will-be-free/article33484582.ece
03 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rain fails to dampen spirits of farmers||Despite parts of the Capital receiving light rain on Saturday morning, the weather failed to dampen spirits of farmers protesting at the Singhu border. With several of them moving into their trolleys to avoid the drizzles, the farmers, who have been at the border for nearly 40 days now, explained that with several layers of plastic over their trucks to prevent seepage, they had come prepared for adverse weather conditions. Manjeet Singh, a farmer from Patiala said, “I have been at the border since the first day and have not even gone home in the past month. Our trolleys are covered with three layers of plastic to prevent any kind of seepage. Even if there’s any kind of extra-aid we require, the several organisations out here are there to provide us with that. We are here for a reason and the hope that something substantial will happen is always there.” For the people? “Usually a government is meant to be “for the people” but clearly under the current circumstances it’s difficult to gauge who’s government it actually is,” Mr. Singh rued. Satsem Singh, a farmer from Punjab’s Kapurthala district said, “We have all kinds of reinforcements, measures and resources in place. The trolleys are safe and covered with layers of plastic among other things. The Prime Minister can extend this for as long as he wants to. We are fully prepared. Sukhjeet Singh, another farmer who owns around 25 acres of land in Patiala added, “Rain has been forecast for the next couple of days. While we are managing quite well, at times issues like drying clothes, increasing mosquitoes and clothes getting soiled due to the mud prop up. But we are quite certain of not moving from here. What is even left to go back to if the laws are not repealed?” For a cause The environment at the protest site is improving with each passing day, Mr. Singh explained while stating that the people from diverse backgrounds had come together for the cause. “The Prime Minister is unable to gauge the environment out here and the fact that people from across castes, creed and religions had come together for the cause,” said Mr. Singh. Following announcements of a tractor parade on Republic Day, protesting farmers said that they were ready to call an increased number of people from their respective villages. Baldev Singh, a 60-year-old farmer from Punjab’s Tarn Taran district said, “Each day there are more and more people joining this peaceful agitation. We are ready to call even more number of people to join. Never before has one seen such an agitation of this scale. It is historic as people from across States have joined in. Once this is successful, the government won’t dare to take any measures which is against the welfare of people. No matter how long it takes, we are bound to win.”  The trolleys are safe and covered with layers of plastic among other things. The PM can extend this for as long as he wants to  Satsem Singh  Farmer from Punjab’s Kapurthala||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/rain-fails-to-dampen-spirits-of-farmers/article33484580.ece
03 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Major fire in Moti Nagar building, no casualties||A massive fire broke out at a four-storey building, housing a Harley-Davidson showroom on the ground floor, in west Delhi’s Moti Nagar in the early hours of Saturday. A fire department official said information about the blaze was received at 1.36 a.m. after which 25 fire tenders were pressed into service. Four persons identified as Mohammad Shadab (23), Dhirender (21), Kiran (20) and Riya (24) were rescued by firefighters. The fire department said that the first and second floor were severely damaged and some portions of the ground floor and basement were also affected. The official also said that there was a nightclub on the third floor and a rooftop restaurant. “The nightclub did not have an NOC from the Delhi Fire Services,” the official said. DCP (West) Deepak Purohit said, “The fire broke out around 12.30 a.m. on Saturday. The employees of the nightclub tried to extinguish the blaze at their level but did not succeed.” The police said that when they reached the spot, the first floor of the building — where rear-view mirrors of cars and bikes were manufactured — was englufed in a massive blaze. The rooftop restaurant was about to close but some persons were stuck there. They were safely rescued and taken to a nearby hospital and later discharged. On the second floor, there was a readymade garments factory, a senior police officer said. A case has been registered, the police said, adding that the nightclub had a licence and they are checking its validity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/major-fire-at-four-storey-building-no-casualties/article33484575.ece
03 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Light rain raises minimum temperature by 6°C||The Capital received light rain on Saturday morning that brought down the minimum temperature from 1.1 degrees Celsius recorded the previous day to 7 degrees Celsius which is normal for the season. The maximum temperature was also normal at 19.5 degrees Celsius. The rain brought an end to the cold wave that had kept the minimum temperature below normal. Cloudy sky with the chance of light rain and thundershowers is likely to continue till January 6 due to a western disturbance in the region. The minimum temperatures are likely to hover around 8 degrees Celsius. The Safdarjung station recorded 1.2 mm or rainfall while areas like Ridge and Ayanagar recorded only traces of rainfall. “Generally cloudy sky with light rain/thundershowers accompanied with strong surface winds of 15-25 kmph is forecast for January 3. Moderate rain/thundershowers accompanied with strong surface winds [15-25 kmph] and possibility of hailstorm at isolated places for January 4,” reads the forecast. It adds that generally cloudy sky with light rain/thundershowers are expected on January 5 as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/light-rain-raises-minimum-temperature-by-6c/article33484576.ece
03 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||NGMA starts weekend art, music sessions||In a first since the COVID-19 pandemic shut down museums in 2020, the National Gallery of Modern Art (NGMA) here on Saturday started a series of weekend events on its lawns, with sketching sessions, a pottery studio and dance performances. Over 100 people attended the various activities, including participating in a sketching session led by artist Jatin Das, said an NGMA official. On Sunday, the official said Kathak and Chhau dancers will perform and NGMA director-general Adwaita Gadnayak would lead the sketching session. The activities were held outdoors to allow for social distancing, the official said. On Friday, the NGMA had announced it would be opening its lawns and galleries to the public every weekend free of cost from 2.30 p.m. to 4.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ngma-starts-weekend-art-music-sessions/article33484570.ece
03 January 2021||New Delhi,||Air quality ‘severe’ for second day||The air quality of Delhi and Noida continued to be in the ‘severe’ category for the second consecutive day on Saturday and Gurugram’s continued in the ‘very poor’ category, as per the Central Pollution Control Board. The air quality of the Capital is expected to improve over the next three days. The effect of stubble burning on the city’s air quality remained low on Saturday. “The condition is likely to improve by Sunday as a fresh western disturbance is starting to effect the region, leading to relatively faster surface winds speed,” said monitoring agency SAFAR. The AQI of Delhi was 443 on Saturday, slightly up from 441 on Friday, as per CPCB’s 4 p.m. bulletin. The values for Gurugram and Noida were 336 and 448, respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/aqi-of-delhi-severe-for-second-day/article33484571.ece
03 January 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha to reopen schools for Class X, XII from Jan. 8||The Odisha government on Saturday announced to reopen schools for Classes X and XII from January 8 in order to ensure 100 days of classroom teaching before their final Board examinations. While Class X students will attend classes from January 8 to April 26, Class XII students will cover their courses between January 8 and April 28. The students will have to appear in practical examinations before final examinations. The Board of Secondary Education will conduct Class X examinations from May 3 to May 15 and for Class XII between May 15 and June 11. “The decision has been taken so that the students of our State can appear for all India competitive tests,” said the School and Mass Education Department. The standard operating procedures issued for schools for reopening and conducting examinations would be applicable to all the government, government-aided and private educational institutes affiliated to CBSE and ICSE and other Boards. The government has set a pre-condition that the students would attend classes only with the written consent of their parents. “The District Collectors will have the final authority to take decisions to the time and method of school reopening,” says the State school reopening plan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/odisha-to-reopen-schools-for-class-x-xii-from-jan-8/article33484593.ece
03 January 2021||Ghaziabad,||Farmer from U.P. ends life at Ghazipur border||A 70-year-old farmer from Rampur district in Uttar Pradesh allegedly ended his life at the Ghazipur border on Saturday morning, police said. Braving the cold wave, hundreds of farmers from Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand are protesting against the farm laws at the Delhi-Ghaziabad border for more than a month. ‘Govt. responsible’ Rajvir Singh, national vice president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, said, the farmer had been identified as hailing from Pasiapur village of Bilaspur block in Rampur. “He and his family have been actively participating in the protest for many days. In the note written in Gurumukhi that he has left behind, he held the government responsible for the current state of farmers as it had not been listening to their demands.” A translation of the note released by the BKU said the laws made by the government were not in the interest of farmers but the government was not taking them back. “Forty farmers have died during protests in Punjab but none has laid his life from Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. So, this servant is offering his body for the cause of revocation of the three laws.” He also mentioned that he served in Gurdwara Hemkund Sahib in Chamoli district of Uttarakhand. Anshu Jain, Deputy Superintendent of Police, Indirapuram said, “The family and coordination committee didn’t want the post-mortem to be done. Keeping their sentiments in mind, we have sent the body to his native village. The body and the note were recovered from a mobile lavatory stationed at the protest site. In the note, he hasn’t held anybody responsible for his death,” she said. Ms. Jain said the law and order situation was under control. “We are in touch with the coordination committee and are ready to provide every possible help to counter the cold wave,” she added.  Those who require assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts may contact Sanjivini, Society for Mental Health suicide prevention helpline 011-4076 9002 (10 a.m. to 7.30 p.m., Monday-Saturday).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/farmer-from-up-ends-life-at-ghazipur-border/article33484977.ece
03 January 2021||Jalna,||‘Centre should back Maratha reservation in SC’||Maharashtra Public Works Department Minister Ashok Chavan on Saturday said the Centre should come out in support of reservation for the Maratha community in the Supreme Court. The apex court has asked Attorney General K.K. Venugopal to assist the court in the matter, which will be next heard on January 25, the Congress leader told reporters. “So the Centre should now submit its say in favour of the quota,” he said. In September 2020, the Supreme Court stayed the implementation of the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes Act that granted quota to the Maratha community in jobs and education in the State. Mr. Chavan, who heads a Cabinet sub-committee on the quota, demanded that the Centre include the Maratha quota law in the Ninth Schedule of the Constitution, so as to preclude its judicial review. On BJP leader Vinayak Mete’s demand that Mr. Chavan should be removed as head of the cabinet sub-committee, the former chief minister said, “I have been nominated by the government, not Mete. I am doing my duty sincerely to secure reservation.” The Opposition should not politicise the issue as the matter is sub-judice, Mr. Chavan added. To a question on the ruling ally Shiv Sena’s demand to rename Aurangabad as Sambhajinagar, he said the MVA government has a Common Minimum Programme, in which renaming of Aurangabad does not figure. “State Congress president Balasaheb Thorat has already stated that the party would oppose any such proposal,” Mr. Chavan said, claiming that there were no differences among the allies on the matter and no threat to the coalition government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/centre-should-back-maratha-reservation-in-sc/article33484431.ece
03 January 2021||Mumbai,||Two held for killing woman in scuffle at new year party||Two people were arrested on Saturday in connection with the killing of a 19-year-old who was found dead following a party with her friends in Khar on New Year’s Eve, police said. Janhavi Kukreja was found dead under suspicious circumstances at a residential building on 15th Road in Khar in the early hours of Friday. Investigations revealed the college student had attended her friend’s terrace party in the building, the official said. During the party, the victim allegedly found her boyfriend with another woman, which led to a scuffle on the staircase, and she was later found dead on the ground floor of the building, he said. An offence under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code was registered against the victim’s boyfriend and female friend, who were detained and later arrested on Saturday, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/two-held-for-killing-woman-in-scuffle-at-new-year-party/article33484434.ece
03 January 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Bidre case lawyer asked to prove attendance in court||In a new twist in the Ashwini Bidre murder trial, the Navi Mumbai Police have sent a letter to Public Prosecutor Pradeep Gharat asking him to prove his attendance at each hearing in court. Mr. Gharat said the police have asked him to furnish the details of his attendance even as half of his bill is still awaiting clearance. “The Navi Mumbai Police have asked me to prove my attendance in court. It is the duty of the police to keep tabs on the case by sending their representatives on the date of hearing to court. To know about my attendance, they should be checking the roznama of the court. I am a senior counsel and if the police department intends to insult me by asking such questions instead of clearing my bills, I will drop the case,” Mr. Gharat said. The Public Prosecutor said he is paid for each appearance and not according to what transpires in court. Responding to the Navi Mumbai Police’s letter, Mr. Gharat wrote, “I am shocked to read your request to me since you are thumping your responsibility of providing records on my head. Please note that since 2003, the procedure followed by the police officers concerned and the competent paying authority is that I send my bill to the investigating officer, who obtains my attendance certificate from the Registrar of the sessions court concerned. Thereafter, the bill is tendered to the treasury and the payment is released by it. I presume that for releasing my first set of bills, the same procedure has been followed by you.” Navi Mumbai Police Commissioner Bipin Kumar Singh said, “I will have to verify what the letter is about, but I am sure it would be a procedure that is followed. None of the bills of Mr. Gharat is pending with us. All bills have been forwarded to the government.” Meanwhile, Raju Gore, the husband of Bidre, claimed this is just another way to create hurdles in the completion of the trial. Mr. Gore has always maintained that the Navi Mumbai Police have been trying to help the accused right from the start. Mr. Gore said, “On Friday, three witnesses were produced in court. However, since the investigating officer, ACP Vinod Chavan, was not present, the witnesses could not be examined. Mr. Gharat will drop the case if his bills are not cleared and then the case will suffer, helping the accused who is also a police officer.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bidre-case-lawyer-asked-to-prove-attendance-in-court/article33484433.ece
03 January 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Missing Nashik teen reunited with family||The Vashi police have traced a 17-year-old boy who left his house in Nashik on December 28 as he was unable to cope with online classes amid the pandemic. The police said the Class XII student left a note that he was leaving out of his own will and would end his life if anyone tried to find him. “He was a bright science student, but could not cope with classes going online. He was frustrated over his inability to meet high expectations,” senior police inspector Sanjeev Dhumal said. The boy’s father is a cloth trader and his mother a homemaker. The police said the boy left with Rs. 6,000 and a SIM card. He hitched a ride on a truck to Airoli and then hailed an autorickshaw to Thane. He reached Vashi in another auto on December 30. “In between he stayed at a lodge. At Thane, he had bought a second-hand phone and activated his SIM card. He saw messages from his parents requesting him to return home. He then called his mother and told her not to look for him,” Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Dhage said. The family informed the police and they traced his call. “We increased bandobast at Vashi creek. The mobile’s location kept changing from Sanpada to Vashi,” Mr. Dhumal said. Assistant Commissioner of Police Vinayak Vast and other staff found him near Vashi railway station. The police then reunited the boy with his parents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/missing-nashik-teen-reunited-with-family/article33484435.ece
03 January 2021||New Delhi,||AAP leader meets families of deceased farmers in Punjab||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader and its Punjab unit co-in-charge, Raghav Chadha, on Saturday met the families of two farmers who had died allegedly while protesting against the farm laws and offered monetary support to them in Moga. Notices to BJP The party said several farmers from Amritsar, Jalandhar and Sangrur have sent legal notices to BJP leaders for their “defamatory” statements about the ongoing protest and that AAP has offered legal help to them. “Swargiya Makhan Khan and Swargiya Gurbachan Singh made the supreme sacrifice while fighting for their rights. Both had raised their voices against the three black farm laws. Had the government shown some regard and sensitivity, these homes in Moga wouldn’t have been in mourning,” Mr. Chadha said. The party said Gurbachan Singh, 80, had been protesting for the last two months in front of a silo belonging to the Adani group. “He would daily bring farmers in tractor-trolley to protest... he died protesting at Moga on November 30,” AAP said in a statement. Makhan Khan, 44, died on December 14 at the Singhu border. He had been at the border since November 26 and died after suffering from a heart attack, said the party. “While no amount of monetary support can bring back these two brave souls, the least we can do for a grieving family is to support them emotionally and financially, tell them they’re not alone, and that they’ll never be alone,” he said. Mr. Chadha alleged that BJP leaders have described the farmers as terrorists, anti-nationals, goondas, agents of Pakistan and China. “Does our farmer look like a terrorist? I’d like to tell BJP that our farmers have had enough. They’re done with being maligned and abused,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/aap-leader-meets-families-of-deceased-farmers-in-punjab/article33484595.ece
03 January 2021||New Delhi,||Sacrifices not in vain: BKU||BKU leader Rakesh Tikait said the sacrifice of farmers won’t go in vain. “The government should not test farmers’ patience,” he said. If the government did not take the three farms laws back on January 4, the agitation would be taken to the next level, he added. He warned the U.P. to immediately make payment for the sugarcane crop or else farmers would picket the State Assembly from January 10. “Sugarcane farmers are being looted in U.P. as payment of Rs. 4,000 crore is still pending,” he claimed. Mr. Tikait also demanded a compensation of Rs. 10 lakh and a job each to the kin of two farmers who had sacrificed their lives in the interest of farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/sacrifices-not-in-vain-bku/article33484978.ece
03 January 2021||Panaji,||Goa not banana republic, tourists must follow COVID-19 norms: Rane||Predicting a spike in COVID-19 cases in January, Goa Health Minister Vishwajit Rane on Saturday appealed to tourists to take precautions, as “Goa is not a banana republic”. Addressing the media after chairing a high-level meeting, the minister said despite repeated appeals to wear masks and practise social distancing, people have not been taking precautions. Mr. Rane said he expected a spike in infections due to new year celebrations and influx of tourists. “Tourists should realise that although they are here to enjoy, they must follow safety measures. I saw that 60% of the people at the airport were not wearing masks. We need to be cautious. We want people of Goa to be safe. Business activities should continue, but people need to exercise caution. Goa is not a banana republic,” he said. The minister added that night clubs will have to ensure strict implementation of the standard operating procedure, or else action will be taken against them. He said the Health Department will propose to increase the penalty for not wearing masks to Rs. 500. By not abiding by the rules, people are putting the lives of others, including doctors and health workers, at risk and burdening the health infrastructure, he said. ‘Dry run successful’ The dry run to assess the readiness of the mechanism laid out for COVID-19 vaccination was conducted successfully on Saturday, Goa Health Secretary Amit Satija said. He told reporters that the mock drill was carried out at three Primary Health Centres at Corlim, Panaji and Aldona in North Goa. “Various aspects like necessary logistics, actual implementation of the protocol, generation of a vaccination certificate were tested during the dry run,” Mr. Satija said. No actual vaccine was administered to any identified beneficiary during this exercise. He said Goa, which comprises South Goa and North Goa districts, has adequate cold chain capacity to store the COVID-19 vaccine. He said the Central government had also approved more “ice banks” for the storage of vials of the vaccine. “Help is being taken from private hospitals in Goa to augment the vaccine storage capacity,” Mr. Satija added. An expert panel of the Central Drug Authority on Friday recommended granting permission for restricted emergency use of Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine being manufactured by the Serum Institute of India, paving the way for the roll-out of the first COVID-19 shot in the country. The recommendations have been forwarded to the Drugs Controller General of India for final approval.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/goa-not-banana-republic-tourists-must-follow-covid-19-norms-rane/article33484430.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Hazy skies||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hazy-skies/article33485056.ece
03 January 2021||Washington,||In a first, U.S. Senate overrides Trump veto||The U.S. Congress on Friday dealt Donald Trump a humiliating blow in his last days in office with the Senate voting overwhelmingly to override his veto of a sweeping Defense Bill — the first time lawmakers have done so during his presidency. By a lopsided vote of 81-13, well more than the two-thirds of the 100-member chamber required, the Republican-controlled Senate approved the $740.5 billion National Defense Authorisation Act to fund the military for fiscal year 2021. The Democratic-led House of Representatives had voted 322 to 87 on Monday to override Mr. Trump’s veto. Both houses of Congress had easily passed the legislation in early December by strong majorities, but Mr. Trump, citing a litany of objections, vetoed it on December 23. “It’s time for us to deliver this Bill,” Republican Senate majority leader Mitch McConnell said at the start of Friday’s session. “It’s our chance to remind brave service members and their families that we have their backs.” The vote completed a stunning rebuke in the waning weeks of Mr. Trump’s presidency. It came in an extraordinary New Year’s Day session necessitated by his veto, possibly the final act of the outgoing Congress. New members will be sworn in on Sunday, just 17 days before Democrat Joe Biden is inaugurated to succeed Trump. Trump’s complaints Breaking with members of his party, Mr. Trump had criticised the Defense Bill on numerous grounds. He called it a “gift” to China and Russia and said it restricted his ability to lower troop numbers in Afghanistan, South Korea and elsewhere. Mr. Trump had bristled at language to rename military installations that currently honour leaders of the breakaway Civil War-era, pro-slavery Confederacy. He also insisted the Bill should include a repeal of a federal law, known as Section 230, that provides liability protection to Internet companies such as Facebook, Twitter and Google, which he regularly accuses of anti-conservative bias. “Our Republican Senate just missed the opportunity to get rid of Section 230, which gives unlimited power to Big Tech companies,” Mr. Trump tweeted after the vote. “Pathetic!!!” Referring to the Senate’s refusal to vote first on a motion to increase pandemic aid checks, he added, “Now they want to give people ravaged by the China Virus $600, rather than the $2000 which they so desperately need,” using a term he applies to the coronavirus that has been widely decried as racist and fanning conspiracy theories. But members of the President’s own Republican Party — which traditionally prides itself as strong on defence — underscored the importance of the Bill. “It’s absolutely vital to our national security and our troops,” said Republican Senator Jim Inhofe, chairman of the Armed Services Committee. “Our men and women who volunteer to wear the uniform shouldn’t be denied what they need — ever.” Democrats in both chambers had slammed Mr. Trump’s veto. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi hailed the “resounding rebuke” that both houses of Congress delivered by overwhelmingly overriding Mr. Trump’s veto.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/in-a-first-us-senate-overrides-trump-veto/article33484094.ece
03 January 2021||London,||We hope to join you again, Scottish leader tells EU||Scottish First Minister Nicola Sturgeon on Saturday told the European Union “we hope to join you again soon” as an independent nation following Britain’s full departure from the bloc. “As an independent member of the European Union, Scotland would be a partner and a bridge-builder,” she wrote on her party’s website. A comfortable majority of Scots voted to remain in the European Union during the 2016 Brexit referendum, giving fresh impetus to the movement pushing for Scotland to leave the United Kingdom. After losing the 2014 independence vote, Scottish National Party (SNP) leader Sturgeon is spearheading the push for another referendum and hopes to rejoin the EU should she fulfil her dream. “More and more people in Scotland believe our aspirations can best be met by continuing to contribute to the shared endeavour and solidarity that the EU represents,” she wrote. “Because of Brexit, we can now only do this as an independent member state in our own right. “We didn’t want to leave and we hope to join you again soon as an equal partner,” she added. Recent polls have shown consistent support for independence, with the coronavirus outbreak further driving a wedge between the devolved governments and London. But readmission to the EU would not be a formality, with Scotland running a heavy annual fiscal deficit. Ms. Sturgeon would also have to rely on British Prime Minister Boris Johnson agreeing to a referendum in the first place. He has ruled out such a vote, but the SNP will likely claim a mandate and heap pressure on Johnson should the party perform well in upcoming local elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/we-hope-to-join-you-again-scottish-leader-tells-eu/article33484092.ece
03 January 2021||RAMALLAH,||‘Israeli gunshot paralysed Palestinian’||The Palestinian Health Ministry said on Saturday a youth is suffering from paralysis a day after he was shot in the neck by Israeli forces in the occupied West Bank. The man, Haron Abu Aram, 24, was left quadriplegic, the Ministry said. Witnesses said the incident was triggered when Israeli forces tried to stop Palestinians building a house in a village in southern Hebron and seized an electricity generator belonging to Mr. Abu Aram. Israel prevents Palestinians from building houses on areas under its control in the West Bank without hard-to-obtain building permits. The Israeli military said “a violent riot” was instigated when the troops were evacuating “an illegal building” in the At-Tuwani village. The military said Palestinians attacked the forces with “massive amount of rocks.” “We are aware of a report regarding a Palestinian who was injured by live fire during the incident. The incident is being investigated," the Israeli military said on Saturday. Video showed a group of Palestinians trying to recover the generators from the hands of the soldiers before a gunshot is heard and Mr. Abu Aram appears on the ground. Growing settlement In 2020, Israeli has demolished the homes of more than 900 Palestinians in the West Bank and east Jerusalem, according to the Israeli rights group B’Tselem. The Palestinians claim the West Bank and the Gaza Strip, with a capital in east Jerusalem, for a future state. They say the growing settler population, approaching 5,00,000 in the West Bank, has made it increasingly difficult to achieve their dream of independence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/israeli-gunshot-paralysed-palestinian/article33484090.ece
03 January 2021||Tehran,||Amid U.S. tensions, Iran Guards vow response to ‘any action’||Iran’s Revolutionary Guards chief Hossein Salami vowed on Saturday to respond to any “action the enemy takes,” in a visit to a strategic Gulf island, amid rising tensions with the U.S. Mr. Salami was speaking on the eve of the first anniversary of the U.S. killing of top Iranian military commander Qasem Soleimani in a Baghdad drone strike on January 3, 2020. “We are here today to evaluate and be assured of our powerful capabilities at sea and against enemies who sometimes boast... and threaten,” Mr. Salami said, according to the Guards’ official website Sepahnews. Mr. Salami inspected the troops stationed on Abu Musa island, accompanied by the Revolutionary Guard Corps Navy commander Rear Admiral Alireza Tangsiri. “We would respond with a reciprocal, decisive and strong blow to whatever action the enemy would take against us,” Mr. Salami warned. Abu Musa and the Greater and Lesser Tunb islands are located in the Gulf near the entrance to the strategic Strait of Hormuz, through which a fifth of world oil output passes. The islands are under Iranian control but are also claimed by the UAE. Tensions have been building up in the run-up to the anniversary of Soleimani’s killing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/amid-us-tensions-iran-guards-vow-response-to-any-action/article33484084.ece
03 January 2021||Vienna,||Iran plans to enrich uranium to up to 20%, says IAEA||Iran has informed the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) that it intends to produce uranium enriched to up to 20% purity, well beyond the threshold set by the 2015 Vienna accord, the UN nuclear watchdog said on Friday. “Iran informed the agency of its intention to enrich uranium at a rate of up to 20% in its Fordow underground plant, to comply with a law recently passed by the Iranian parliament,” an IAEA spokesperson told AFP. The letter dated December 31 “did not state exactly when this enrichment activity would begin”, the spokesperson added. Russian Ambassador to the IAEA Mikhail Ulyanov reported the information earlier on Twitter, citing a report submitted by IAEA chief Rafael Grossi to the board of governors. “It is an additional blow,” a diplomat based in Vienna told AFP, as Tehran continues to retaliate to U.S. sanctions by progressively abandoning limits on its nuclear activity laid down in the deal. According to the latest report available from the UN agency, published in November, Tehran was enriching uranium to levels greater than the limit provided for in the Vienna agreement (3.67%) but not exceeding the 4.5% threshold, and still complied with the Agency’s very strict inspection regime. But there has been turmoil since the assassination in late November of Iranian nuclear physicist Mohsen Fakhrizadeh. In the aftermath of the attack, blamed on Israel, hardliners in Tehran pledged a response and Parliament passed a controversial law calling for the production and storage of “at least 120 kg per year of 20% enriched uranium” and to “put an end” to the IAEA inspections intended to check that the country is not developing an atomic bomb. The Iranian government had opposed the initiative at the time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/iran-plans-to-enrich-uranium-to-up-to-20-says-iaea/article33484086.ece
03 January 2021||Hodeida,||Explosion at wedding kills 5 in Yemen||Five women were killed when a projectile exploded at a New Year’s Day wedding party in Yemen’s Red Sea city of Hodeida, the latest attack in the war-torn nation. The government and Houthi rebels blamed each other for the Friday night attack near Hodeida’s airport, a frontline between their forces on the edge of the key Houthi-held port. It came just two days after at least 26 people were killed in blasts that rocked the airport of the southern city of Aden as government Ministers got off a plane. In Hodeida, “the explosion struck at the entrance to a complex of several wedding halls” as a party was being held for a newly-married rebel supporter. Officials said five women were killed, and children were among the wounded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/explosion-at-wedding-kills-5-in-yemen/article33484083.ece
03 January 2021||Nur-Sultan,||Kazakhstan abolishes death penalty||Kazakhstan abolished the death penalty, making permanent a nearly two-decade freeze on capital punishment in the authoritarian Central Asian country, a notice on the presidential website said. The notice said President Kassym-Jomart Tokayev had signed off on parliamentary ratification of the Second Optional Protocol to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/kazakhstan-abolishes-death-penalty/article33484088.ece
03 January 2021||Chennai,||When IT’s business unusual||The pandemic has bolstered digitisation efforts by technology customers across the world, which is, in turn, spurring growth for small-sized Indian software firms. “This is possibly the best December we have had,” said Ram Sukumar, CEO of Indium Software, on the number of new clients his company has added. Indium signed on 32 new customers between April and September, an 11% increase from a year earlier. “A significant portion of this was in Q2, post July 2020.” It sounds counter-intuitive that at a time when the COVID-19 virus was ravaging the world, small IT firms had been clocking up new customers looking for software solutions. A handful of companies that The Hindu spoke to confirmed this trend. Arun Natarajan, founder, Venture Intelligence — that tracks financials, equity transactions and valuations of private firms – said the lockdown following the COVID-19 oubreak had pushed clients to digitise their organisations. “The pandemic-driven acceleration of digitisation at the end-customer level is indeed helping IT adoption and such vendors, especially those that offer SaaS,” he said. Specific categories of customers opened up their purse strings – if Indium saw gaming software, healthcare and real estate clients show interest, GoFrugal had kirana and pharmacy stores in India signing up in a hurry. Doubling count GoFrugal, which offers cloud and mobile ERP solutions to retail, restaurant and distribution businesses, almost doubled its new client count to 2,470 stores in the kirana and pharmacy vertical in the eight months to November, compared with 1,320 stores a year earlier. CEO Kumar Vembu said as customers did not want to come to shops or handle cash, store owners jumped onto the tech bandwagon. “With the pandemic, it was not easy for kirana and pharmacy stores to keep pace with orders and stock movement. Only tech solutions could ensure end-customers received delivery of exactly what was promised.” While sales teams had more time on hand, thanks to zero commutes, client decision makers, too, wanted to make an improvement. GoFrugal, which crossed $5 million in 2019 revenue and plans to achieve $10 million in 2021, saw traffic to its site doubling in the first 90 days of the lockdown. “Money to spend was never an issue for prospects. Helping store owners understand the benefit was the challenge. COVID-19 helped quicken that process for us.” Document360, a software-as-a-service from Kovai.co that helps build a self-service knowledge base for users, raced from 2,000 users to 5,000 in about 12 months in 2020. Saravana Kumar, CEO, Kovai.co, said, “From 100 logos we went up to 400 and revenue rose 500 times.” Significantly, the company, which raked in $10 million in revenue in 2020, did not use discounts to get clients in the door. For, it was not just small-sized companies that found way to such vendors. “Large corporations, too, came to our website, especially those looking for niche artificial intelligence or data skills we had on offer,” said Mr. Sukumar of Indium, which is targeting $30 million in revenue next financial year. How clients found small software firms probably offers a lesson in digital marketing. Mr. Sukumar said, “No events, in-person meetings, travel or luncheons were possible during the lockdown. So, we increased spends and focus on digital marketing and inside sales teams. These helped elevate our brand during this pandemic.” He also pointed out that clients’ preference for onsite manpower resources was not negotiable earlier. But the pandemic proved work-from-anywhere was possible. So, where resources sat, became irrelevant. The same sentiment is now getting reflected in vendors such as GoFrugal. “Our work is moving to where there are people to execute – be it in Kochi or Tiruvannamalai. Our customers are in places as far apart as Lucknow and Pollachi,” said Mr. Vembu.  Gaming software, healthcare and real estate clients showed interest globally, while in India, kirana and pharmacy stores adopted tech in a hurry||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/when-its-business-unusual/article33484069.ece
03 January 2021||MUMBAI,||‘Tatas likely to be serious bidder for AI’||As the bidding process for Air India’s disinvestment enters its next phase in the coming week, the Tatas are expected to emerge as a serious bidder for the carrier. For, with Air India (AI) they could potentially become a significant player in the aviation sector by consolidating AirAsia India and Vistara with Air India, analysts said. The winning bidder for Air India will also acquire its profit-making and low-cost subsidiary, Air India Express. ‘Vacuum left by Jet’ “No Indian carrier so far has filled the void created by the closure of Jet Airways,” said Jitender Bhargava, aviation author and former executive director of Air India. “India needs a strong carrier that can have significant presence in international routes. The Tatas have that potential,” he added. “By acquiring Air India, they can get into the league of major carriers once they combine AirAsia India and Vistara under its fold. Vistara on its own will take a long time to have any major presence in international sectors but with Air India, there will be a vast difference. Air India only needs a professional management to make a turnaround,” he said. A spokesperson for Tata Sons declined comment on the matter. On Wednesday, the Tatas raised their stake in AirAsia India to 83.67% from 51%, for Rs. 280 crore. Ansuman Deb, research analyst, ICICI Securities, said in a report that the Tata group had demonstrated its commitment to aviation as its portfolio includes majority stakes in Vistara and AirAsia India and it remains a possible bidder of AI. Stage 1 of the bidding process for AI has begun. Multiple bidders including the Tatas, and a section of Air India employees backed by U.S.-based fund Interups Inc. have submitted expressions of interest and they will be shortlisted based on eligibility criteria. “In stage 2, starting January 5, shortlisted bidders will be provided with a request for proposal and then, there will be a... bidding process,” he said. ‘Four-player arena’ If the Tatas acquire Air India and consolidate Vistara and AirAsia India under it, the sector will change from a six- player to a four-player industry comprising the Tatas, IndiGo, SpiceJet and Go Air, Mr. Deb added. The Tatas would then have domestic market share of 23.2% (Air India 10.3%, Vistara 6.3% and AirAsia India 6.6% as at November 2020). IndiGo is the dominant player with 53.9% share. In 1953, Tata Airlines, which was founded by JRD Tata, was nationalised and became Air India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tatas-likely-to-be-serious-bidder-for-ai/article33484064.ece
03 January 2021||Chennai,||Jain Housing to prune debt||Chennai-based Jain Housing and Constructions Ltd. will reduce its debt to the minimum in the next two years and enter tier-II cities, said its joint managing director Sreyansh Mehta. “Currently, at the group level, we have a debt of Rs. 470 crore to Rs. 500 crore and we would like to reduce it to as much as possible in the next two years,” he said in an interview. Towards this, the company had raised Rs. 175 crore from two international financial institutions viz. Nippon Life India Asset Management Ltd. of Japan and Apollo Global Management of the U.S. “This shows the confidence, the investors have in us, even during the difficult times,” he said. Jain Housing, which has been in the business of building residential apartments and complexes in the Southern States for the last 33 years, has completed 185 projects and has about 20 projects in pipeline. Stating the estimated value of these projects would be about Rs. 4,000 crore, Mr. Mehta said they might go in for an initial public offering (IPO) when the estimated value of the projects cross Rs. 5,000 crore and at the right time, too. “It would take at least three to four years, for us to reach this milestone.” About the impact of COVID-19 on realty, he said some of the projects came to a halt following the lockdown, but they made it up, soon after. Rise in cost “There was a slight increase in construction cost, but we did not pass it on,” he added. “Pandemic was a setback for everyone. But, we are hopeful and optimistic that the construction sector will bounce back soon,” he said. “To bring back home buyers, we are offering incentives and attractive payment options,” he said. The company is also gearing up to enter tier-II cities of the Southern States. Presently, it has ongoing projects in Chennai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Coimbatore, Kochi and Tiruppur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/jain-housing-to-prune-debt/article33484071.ece
03 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘ Rabi foodgrain output likely to exceed previous record’||The country’s Rabi foodgrain production, including wheat, in the ongoing 2020-21 crop year is expected to be better than the previous year’s record of 153.27 million tonnes, according to Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar. Sowing of Rabi (winter) crop is under way. The Rabi sowing begins from October immediately after the harvest of Kharif (summer) crops. Wheat and mustard are major crops. The crop year runs from July to June. Speaking to PTI , Mr. Tomar said the country’s agriculture sector performed well during 2020 as foodgrain production rose to a record in the Kharif season with farmers working hard despite the COVID-19 pandemic and proving their relevance. “This year, we hope better foodgrain production in the Rabi season than last year (same season),” he said.  Total target For the 2020-21 crop year, the Centre has set a target of a record foodgrain output of 301 million tonnes, out of which it expects 151.65 million tonnes to come from the Rabi season. Further, the Minister said progress to be made in the recent government initiatives, including two new farm laws on marketing, formation of 10,000 FPOs (Farmer Producers Organisations ), Rs. 1 lakh-crore Agriculture Infrastructure Fund, will also benefit farmers and boost the sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rabi-foodgrain-output-likely-to-exceed-previous-record/article33484073.ece
03 January 2021||New Delhi,||December GST e-invoice count climbs to 6.03 cr.||As many as 6.03 crore GST e-invoices were generated in December, higher than the 5.89 crore seen in November, according to an official release. The government had made it mandatory for businesses with turnover of more than Rs. 500 crore to generate electronic invoice or e-invoice for B2B transactions, from October 1, 2020. In a statement, the IT Ministry on Saturday said the GST e-invoice system, “the game changer in the GST system”, had completed three months and had facilitated the smooth transition of taxpayers to the new platform. It has enabled more than 37,000 taxpayers to generate more than 16.8 crore invoice reference numbers during the last three months from the NIC-developed e-invoice system. “Starting with 495 lakh, during October 2020, generation of e-invoice has [risen] to 589 lakh in November 2020 and 603 lakh in December 2020,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/december-gst-e-invoice-count-climbs-to-603-cr/article33484076.ece
03 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||BSNL to test local 4G gear before tender||BSNL will test the quality of Indian telecom equipment before letting indigenous manufacturers participate in the 4G tender to be floated by it, according to a notice by the company. BSNL had floated a 4G tender worth Rs. 9,300 crore for procurement of telecom equipment in March but it was cancelled later due to multiple reasons, including an allegation from Indian companies that the state-run firm’s project does not comply with preferential market access norms and was inclined towards foreign companies. BSNL now plans to float a tender for procuring equipment for 57,000 sites but details will be shared in the tender document.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/bsnl-to-test-local-4g-gear-before-tender/article33484065.ece
03 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||TVS Motor sales rise 17.5% in December||TVS Motor Company on Saturday reported a 17.5% increase in total sales to 2,72,084 units in December. The company, which primarily makes two-wheelers and three-wheelers, had sold 2,31,571 units in December 2019, TVS Motor Company said in a statement. The total two-wheeler sales during the month stood at 2,58,239 units as against 2,15,619 in December 2019, up 20%. The domestic two-wheeler sales stood at 1,76,912 units last month, as compared to 1,57,244 units in December, up 13%, it added. Total exports rose 28% to 94,269 units last month, as against 73,512 in the year-earlier period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tvs-motor-sales-rise-175-in-december/article33484074.ece
03 January 2021||MUMBAI,||Five India players in isolation after ‘protocol breach’||Five India cricketers, including vice-captain Rohit Sharma, have been placed in isolation as a precautionary measure following an alleged breach of biosecurity bubble in Melbourne on New Year’s Day. While Cricket Australia (CA) and the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) have launched an investigation into the matter, The Hindu understands it would be premature to assume the five cricketers would be unavailable for the third Test of the Border-Gavaskar Trophy, scheduled to begin in Sydney on January 7. The incident came to light after a fan posted a video on his Twitter feed of Rohit, wicketkeeper Rishabh Pant, pacer Navdeep Saini along with openers Shubman Gill and Prithvi Shaw dining at an indoor restaurant in Melbourne. “The BCCI and CA are investigating the matter and seeking to determine whether the outing constitutes a breach of biosecurity protocols,” CA said in a statement on Saturday. “In the interim, on the advice of the Australian and Indian medical teams, the aforementioned players have been placed in isolation as a precaution. This will include separating the group of players from the broader Indian and Australian squads when traveling and at the training venue,” the statement added. While the BCCI hasn’t issued a formal update, a Board insider stressed that the issue should not be blown out of proportion. According to him, players were verbally informed that squad members, despite being in a bio-bubble created to deal with the pandemic, could dine out in an indoor restaurant after prior intimation and information. “It is being ascertained in Australia whether the players had obtained permission, so let’s wait for a day till the primary investigation is over. Every member of both the squads is required to clear two more COVID-19 tests before the next Test anyway, so it would be premature to say right now that these cricketers are in danger of missing out on the Test,” the source said. The CA statement confirmed that all the players would be allowed to train in isolation. The BCCI official confirmed that if required, all five would travel to Sydney from Melbourne in isolation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/five-india-players-in-isolation-after-protocol-breach/article33484251.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||I think it’s a great reward for Natarajan, says Warner||Australia opener David Warner has congratulated Sunrisers Hyderabad teammate T. Natarajan after he was included in India’s Test squad for the remainder of the Border-Gavaskar series. Natarajan replaced Umesh Yadav, who returned to India after injuring his left calf muscle during the Boxing Day Test in Melbourne. “I think it’s [being included in Test squad] a great reward for Natarajan,” Warner told reporters on Saturday. “Given the fact that he came here (Australia) as a net bowler and had to miss the birth of his child, it’s a big achievement.” “He is a very good bowler and I got to see that when I captained him in the IPL... so if he does get that opportunity (Test debut), we know he is comfortable and he will know what line and length to bowl,” Warner said. Warner also said it is unlikely he will recover fully from the groin injury before the third Test, but is doing everything he can to play in Sydney.  “I haven’t run in the last couple of days. Am I going to be 100%t? Highly doubtful. But I’m doing everything I can to get on that park and play, even if that means I’m not 100%,” he said. Warner felt that the right mindset and intent will be key to whether the Australian batsmen can bounce back in the series. “It’s the loud calling, the way your shoulders are back, you are in the bowler’s face, you are trying to unsettle the line and length. I live by the sword, die by the sword when I’m out there with the bat,” he said.  The third Test will be telecast from January 7 on Sony Six, Ten 1 and Ten 3 channels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/i-think-its-a-great-reward-for-natarajan-says-warner/article33484259.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Mumbai on summit after first-half blitz||Just 11 minutes made all the difference. Mumbai City FC toyed with Kerala Blasters in the first half and staved off a strong fightback in the next to finish with a 2-0 victory in the Indian Super League at Bambolim’s GMC Stadium on Saturday night. Striker Adam Le Fondre scored off a penalty in the third minute and midfielder Hugo Boumous added one more eight minutes later as the Blasters paid the price for poor defending. The victory carried Mumbai to the top of the 11-team table with 19 points while Blasters stayed ninth with six. Class apart Mumbai was a class apart. Despite having a 12-day break, Sergio Lobero’s boys looked like they had lost none of their touch. They moved up with quick, crisp passes and the Blasters’ defence was frequently in trouble. Blasters conceded a penalty soon after the start when defender Costa Nhamoinesu brought down Boumous and Le Fondre was right on target. Long pass A few minutes later Ahmed Jahouh, with a long 75-metre freekick from inside his own box, put the ball in Boumous’ path and the midfielder smartly foxed goalkeeper Albino Gomes with a diagonal shot that went into the far corner. The defenders were slow to react and paid the penalty .  Mumbai had Blasters at its mercy for the rest of the opening half but failed to add more goals. And Blasters’ Lalthathanga Khawlring also messed up a good chance, failing to connect properly. Kibu Vicuna’s boys regrouped well after the break. Sahal Abdul Samad played a lively role and the Kochi side came close to finding the net a few times but Sahal and Vincente Gomez’s were a bit unlucky. The Mumbai goalkeeper Amrinder Singh also did a good job. Meanwhile, the Blasters goalkeeper Gomes saved a Boumous penalty around the 70th minute to add to his growing reputation.  The result:   Mumbai City FC 2 (Adam Le Fondre 3-pen, Hugo Boumous 11) bt Kerala Blasters FC 0.   Sunday’s matc hes: East Bengal vs Odisha, 5 p.m.; ATK Mohun Bagan vs NEUFC, 7.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mumbai-on-summit-after-first-half-blitz/article33484264.ece
03 January 2021||London,||Man United moves joint top with Aston Villa win||Son Heung-min scored his 100th goal for Tottenham Hotspur as it returned to winning ways with a 3-0 defeat of Leeds United to climb back into the Premier League’s top four on Saturday. The South Korean doubled Tottenham’s tally just before the interval after strike partner Harry Kane’s penalty had given the hosts the lead. Toby Alderweireld’s header made it 3-0 in the 50th minute. Manchester United closed in on pole position after a 2-1 home win over Aston Villa on Friday put it level on points and games played with leader Liverpool. United trails its traditional rival on goal difference with both teams on 33 points from 16 matches. United stretched its unbeaten league run to 10 games as Bruno Fernandes capped another fine individual performance with a penalty after Bertrand Traore had cancelled out Anthony Martial’s opener for the home side. The hosts had the upper hand in the first half and Martial forced an acrobatic save from Emiliano Martinez before he buried a superb diving header past the Villa goalkeeper after Aaron-Wan Bissaka’s cross in the 40th minute. The visitors came close through Ollie Watkins before Traore got on the end of a sharp Jack Grealish pass at the far post and beat United keeper David De Gea with a slick shot from close range in the 58th. But Villa’s joy was short-lived as Fernandes drilled his penalty into the bottom right corner three minutes later after Paul Pogba went down under a challenge from Douglas Luiz, with the spot-kick given after a VAR check. Earlier a late rocket from Tomas Soucek gave West Ham United a 1-0 win at Everton in the first Premier League game of 2021 that had been short on fireworks until the Czech midfielder’s well-deserved winner in the 86th minute.  The victory leaves West Ham 10th in the standings with 26 points while Everton remains in fourth spot on 29 points. Meanwhile, Fulham’s game on Sunday at Burnley has been postponed after the London club discovered more positive coronavirus cases.  The results:   Premier League: Tottenham 3 (Kane 29-pen, Son 43, Alderweireld 50) bt Leeds 0.   LaLiga: Villarreal 2 (Nino 19, Moreno 54) bt Levante 1 (Leon 73).   Friday: Premier League: Everton 0 lost to West Ham 1 (Soucek 86).   Manchester United 2 (Martial 40, Fernandes 61-pen) bt Aston Villa 1 (Traore 58).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/united-moves-joint-top/article33484268.ece
03 January 2021||Pune:,||Unbeaten Forest Flame for Indian 1000 Guineas||Trainer S.S. Attaollahi’s queen filly Forest Flame, who is unbeaten in her last four starts, is in great heart and should win the first Indian Classic of 2021, the Gool & Soli Poonawalla Indian 1000 Guineas (Gr. 1) to be run at Pune on Sunday (Jan. 3). Rails will be announced one hour before the first race. There will be no online or totalisator betting at RWITC.  VENUS DE MILO PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46, 1.00 p.m: 1. Stick To The Plan (4) Ajinkya 59, 2. Grand Sinatra (3) S.J. Sunil 58.5, 3. Rambler (9) Zeeshan 58.5, 4. Dawnstar (5) Hanumant 57, 5. Luscus Centaurus (7) Akshay Kumar 57, 6. Spice (8) Shailesh Shinde 57, 7. Sussing (2) T.S. Jodha 57, 8. Hioctane (10) Chouhan 56.5, 9. Hollywood Park (1) N.B. Kuldeep 56 and 10. Rospomare (6) Merchant 56.  1. HIOCTANE, 2. STICK TO THE PLAN, 3. RAMBLER   SIR RAHIMTOOLA CHINOY TROPHY (1,600m), Cl. II, rated 60 to 86, 1.30: 1. Frivolous (2) Gagandeep 62, 2. Victorious Sermon (1) Zervan 60, 3. Gallantry (5) Yash 52.5, 4. Mount Moriah (4) Trevor 50 and 5. Odessa (3) Peter 49.  1. MOUNT MORIAH,   2. GALLANTRY   LADY IN LACE PLATE (Div. I) (1,400m), Cl. V, rated 4 to 30, 2.00: 1. Lightning Gold (7) P. Shinde 62, 2. Posse (2) Suraj Narredu 62, 3. Beejay (5) C.S. Jodha 61.5, 4. Magical Journey (1) Rupesh 60.5, 5. Naxos (11) Kaviraj 60.5, 6. Patriots Day (4) J. Chinoy 60.5, 7. Seasons Greetings (3) Chouhan 60.5, 8. Adonijah (8) Prasad 59, 9. Polaris (10) Bhawani 59, 10. Xponential (9) Merchant 59 and 11. Shapath (6) T.S. Jodha 58.  1. POSSE, 2. SEASONS GREETINGS, 3. SHAPATH   SIR JAMSETJEE JEEJEEBHOY (VI BART) TROPHY (1,000m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only, 2.30: 1. Alexander (2) Yash 56, 2. Juiced (4) Bhawani 56, 3. Multiencrypted (3) Parmar 56, 4. Nothing To Worry (7) Zervan 56, 5. Red Merlot (1) J. Chinoy 56, 6. Circus Queen (5) Sandesh 54.5 and 7. Fortune Cookie (6) Neeraj 54.5.  1. ALEXANDER, 2. NOTHING TO WORRY, 3. CIRCUS QUEEN   UTTAM SINGH TROPHY (2,400m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46, 3.00: 1. Moriseiki (3) Neeraj 60, 2. Lorito (7) Trevor 58.5, 3. Historian (6) Yash 58, 4. Brazos (1) Parmar 57, 5. Roaring Tiger (4) Srinath 54.5, 6. Fire N Ice (2) Chouhan 53, 7. Touch Of Faith (5) Sandesh 52.5 and 8. Walk The Talk (8) Kaviraj 49.  1. ROARING TIGER, 2. LORITO   COL. KAIKHUSHROO MANECKJI BHARUCHA MEMORIAL TROPHY (1,000m), Cl. III, rated 40 to 66, 3.30: 1. Storm Breaker (5) Vishal Bunde 62, 2. Hidden Gold (8) Trevor 61.5, 3. Impala (4) J. Chinoy 56.5, 4. Namaqua (7) Peter 56.5, 5. Wild Fire (3) Kaviraj 55, 6. Memorable Memories (2) C.S. Jodha 54, 7. Slam Dunk (1) Shubham 53 and 8. Ustad Pedro (6) Aniket 52.5.  1. HIDDEN GOLD, 2. NAMAQUA,   3. STORM BREAKER   GOOL & SOLI POONAWALLA INDIAN 1000 GUINEAS (Gr. 1) (1,600m), Terms, Indian Fillies, 4-y-o only, 4.00: 1. Alluring Silver (1) Suraj Narredu 57, 2. Costa Rica (6) Srinath 57, 3. Forest Flame (2) Trevor 57, 4. Miss Muffet (7) Sandesh 57, 5. Noble Queen (3) Yash Narredu 57, 6. One Wish (4) Chouhan 57, 7. Smashing Blue (8) Akshay Kumar 57and 8. Super Girl (5) Parmar 57.  1. FOREST FLAME, 2. ALLURING SILVER, 3. SMASHING BLUE .  VENUS DE MILO PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46, 4.30: 1. Birkin Blower (3) Zervan 59, 2. Mighty Warrior (10) Bhawani 59, 3. Clark Kent (6) S.J. Sunil 57, 4. Tasman (9) Shubham 56, 5. Wild Flower (8) Kaviraj 56, 6. Istanbul (4) Merchant 53.5, 7. Shamshir Sword (1) Chouhan 53, 8. Waverunner (2) T.S. Jodha 53, 9. Officer In Command (7) Dashrath 52.5 and 10. Hot To Trot (5) Peter 51.5.  1. BIRKIN BLOWER, 2. SHAMSHIR SWORD, 3. OFFICER IN COMMAND .  LADY IN LACE PLATE (Div. II) (1,400m), Cl. V, rated 4 to 30, 5.00: 1. Summer Night (4) Sandesh 62, 2. Mythical Power (2) J. Chinoy 60.5, 3. Caesar (6) Nazil 60, 4. Trinket (8) Bhawani 58.5, 5. Irish Eyes (10) Kaviraj 58, 6. Dont Mess With Me (1) S. Amit 57.5, 7. Soldier Of Fortune (9) Merchant 56.5, 8. Gandalf (3) Peter 55, 9. Shadows (5) Shubham 52 and 10. Cristo Boss (7) Prasad 50.  1. SUMMER NIGHT, 2. CAESAR,   3. GANDALF  Day’s best: HIOCTANE  Double: ROARING TIGER — BIRKIN BLOWER||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/unbeaten-forest-flame-for-indian-1000-guineas/article33485088.ece
03 January 2021||MUMBAI,||Arjun Tendulkar added to Mumbai squad||Arjun Tendulkar has received his maiden call-up to Mumbai’s senior squad as the left-arm pacer has been added to team for the league stage of the Syed Mushtaq Ali (T20) Trophy, starting on January 11. Right-arm pacer Krutik Hanagavadi has also been included in an enlarged squad of 22 players. While chief selector Salil Ankola confirmed that Arjun and Hanagavadi have joined the squad’s biosecure bubble on Saturday, a Mumbai Cricket Association (MCA) official added that the duo has been added after the BCCI allowed the maximum squad strength to be increased from 20 to 22. The two were the first two stand-byes in the squad of 20 announced on December 26. While Arjun has impressed with his left-arm seamers, he can be a useful pinch-hitter. Experts feels he needs to work on his fielding if he has to earn a Mumbai cap. Besides representing India Under-19, Arjun was a net bowler for Mumbai Indians for the Indian Premier League’s 2020 edition. Mumbai is placed in Group E along with Delhi, Haryana, Kerala, Andhra and Puducherry. It will play all its games in Mumbai from January 11 to 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/arjun-tendulkar-added-to-mumbai-squad/article33485089.ece
03 January 2021||Coimbatore,||Coimbatore Open golf from January 7||The third Firebird Coimbatore Open 2021 will begin at the Coimbatore Golf Club (CGC) course from Jan. 7. Sponsored by Firebird Institute of Research in Management and The International Business School, the four-day tournament features Open Gross, Nett Medal (played over 72 holes, four rounds) and the Senior class (over-55, three rounds). A special Armed Forces category is planned and there will be a single day event on the final day. This year will witness the participation of the TarunSardesaiGolf (TSG Academy) from Bengaluru. “Bountiful monsoon rains have helped in making the rough challenging. The course will serve as a fair test of stroke making skill and course management technique,” said R. Gopinath, the CGC President. He added COVID-19 precautions have been taken to ensure safety. “A four-round medal play tournament is a true test of a golfer’s mental and physical ability. I am glad that Firebird Institute continues to support the tournament at the CGC despite the challenging times we are in,” said Ashwin Chandran, Golf Captain, CGC. P.R. Ramakrishnan, CGC Committee Member, was pleased as well with senior open conducted separately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/coimbatore-open-golf-from-january-7/article33484260.ece
03 January 2021||BENGALURU:,||Antibes triumphs in Bangalore Oaks||Arjun Mangalorkar-trained Antibes (S. John up) won the Bangalore Oaks, the chief event of the races held here on Saturday (January 2). The winner is owned by Diamond Band Racing Synticate. Pvt. Ltd. representing by. Mr. Shiven Surendranath, Mr. Kersi H. Vachha, Mr. Haider Soomar & Mr. Arun Alagappan.  1. NOVICE PLATE (1,200m), maiden 3-y-o only, (Terms): SCRUPLES (Trevor) 1, Allamanda (Neeraj) 2, War Chieftain (Suraj) 3 and Lightning Flame (Darshan) 4. 1-1/4, 7-1/2 and 5. 1m, 13.86s. Rs. 15 (w), 12, 11 and 15 (p), SHP: 28, THP: 41, FP: 41, Q: 25, Trinella: 228 and 110, Exacta: 634 and 307. Favourite: Scruples. Owner: United Racing & Bloodstock Breeders Ltd. Trainer: S. Attaollahi.  2. DEVARAYANADURGA PLATE (1,100m), rated 00 to 20: COUNTRY’S JEWEL (S. John) 1, Song and Dance (J.H. Arul) 2, She’s Superb (Arvind K) 3 and Altair (Naveen K) 4. 1-1/4, Snk and 5. 1m, 08.63s. Rs. 40 (w), 16, 18 and 47 (p), SHP: 49, THP: 99, FP: 377, Q: 133, Trinella: 947 and 473, Exacta: 2,333 and 1,000. Favourite: Song And Dance. Owners: Country Stud Farms LLP & Mr. Roopesh S. Trainer: V. Dheeraj.  3. DHARMASTHALA PLATE (Div. II) , (1,400m), rated 15 to 35: WATCHMYSTARS (Suraj) 1, Smithsonian (D. Patel) 2, Golden Memory (Darshan) 3 and Smoke The Grass (Neeraj) 4. 4-3/4, 1/2 and 2-3/4. 1m, 26.57s. Rs. 16 (w), 11, 93 and 14 (p), SHP: 268, THP: 36, FP: 652, Q: 251, Trinella: 1,211 and 623, Exacta: 1,825 and 1,173. Favourite: Watchmystars. Owners: Hyperion Bloodstock Pvt Ltd rep by. Mr. Zaheer F. Rattonsey, Mr. Ramesh Chandra Mehta & Mr. R. Shiva Shankar. Trainer: Irfan Ghatala.  4. MERCARA PLATE (2,000m), rated 30 to 50: SPORTING MEMORIES (Trevor) 1, Ansaldo (Akshay K) 2, Redoubtable (Zervan) 3 and Johnny Bravo (Srinath) 4. 1-1/2, 1 and Shd. 2m, 09.27s. Rs. 43 (w), 16, 12 and 24 (p), SHP: 33, THP: 32, FP: 84, Q: 33, Trinella: 303 and 276, Exacta: 540 and 256. Favourite: Ansaldo. Owners: Mr. P.J. Vazifdar, Mrs. P.J. Vazifdar, Mr. M. Rishad & Mr. Kersi H. Vachha. Trainer: S. Padmanabhan.  5. NEW YEAR CUP (1,400m), 4-y-o & over, (Terms): MULTIFACETED (Sandesh) 1, Cosmic Ray (Suraj) 2, Snowdon (Trevor) 3 and Shesmyscript (C.S. Jodha) 4. 2-1/4, 2 and 3/4. 1m, 25.09s. Rs. 41 (w), 24 and 14 (p), SHP: 30, THP: 26, FP: 50, Q: 45, Trinella: 82 and 80, Exacta: 196 and 199. Favourite: Cosmic Ray. Owners: Mr. Rienzie M.K. Edwards & Mrs. P.P.M. Edwards. Trainer: Darius Byramji.  6. BANGALORE OAKS (2,400m), 4-y-o fillies, (Terms): ANTIBES (S. John) 1, Rambunctious (Neeraj) 2, Lake Tahoe (Suraj) 3 and Amazing Blaze (Trevor) 4. 1-1/2, 2 and 3/4. 2m, 34.33s. Rs. 21 (w), 13, 18 and 12 (p), SHP: 53, THP: 62, FP: 342, Q: 209, Trinella: 430 and 67, Exacta: 1,743 and 1,067. Favourite: Antibes. Owners: Diamond Band Rac. Syn. Pvt. Ltd. rep by. Mr. Shiven Surendranath, Mr. Kersi H. Vachha, Mr. Haider Soomar & Mr. Arun Alagappan. Trainer: Arjun Mangalorkar.  7. LALIT MAHAL PLATE (1,200m), rated 60 & above: Declared null and void by Stewards due to a false start.  8. DHARMASTHALA PLATE (Div. I) , (1,400m), rated 15 to 35: FOREVER TOGETHER (Suraj) 1, Towering Presence (Trevor) 2, Rosy Rapunzel (P. Surya) 3 and Dreams United (S. John) 4. 6, 3-1/4 and Lnk. 1m, 25.91s. Rs. 12 (w), 11, 11 and 66 (p), SHP: 16, THP: 109, FP: 32, Q: 36, Trinella: 666 and 271, Exacta: 8,823 and 1,890. Favourite: Forever Together. Owners: Villoo Poonawalla Racing & Breeding Pvt. Ltd. rep by. Mr. Cyrus S. Poonawalla, Mr. Adar C. Poonawalla & Mrs. Natasha A. Poonawalla. Trainer: Rajesh Narredu.  Jackpot: Rs. 312 (220 tkts, paid on third leg); Treble (i): 299 (19 tkts.); (ii): 21 (471 tkts. paid on first leg).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/antibes-triumphs-in-bangalore-oaks/article33484252.ece
03 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Aronian holds Radjabov||Levon Aronian escaped with a 45-move draw in the first game of the opening set in the final of the $200,000 Airthings Masters online rapid chess tournament on Saturday. On Friday, Radjabov and Aronian advanced to the final with easy victories in the second set too, against Daniil Dubov and Maxime Vachier-Lagrave, respectively. Radjabov saw off Dubov’s all-or-nothing approach and won twice in succession to put an early end to the Russian’s challenge. Aronian, following two drawn games, pulled off a 113-move win over Vachier and joined Radjabov in posting straight-set victories in the semifinals.  The results:   Final: Set One, Game One: Teimour Radjabov (Aze) drew with Levon Aronian (Arm).   For third place: Set One, Game One: Maxime Vachier-Lagrave (Fra) lost to Daniil Dubov (Rus).   Semifinals: Set Two: Radjabov bt Dubov 2-0; Aronian bt Vachier 2-1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aronian-holds-radjabov/article33484254.ece
03 January 2021||KOLKATA,||Ganguly stable after angioplasty||BCCI president and former India cricket captain Saurav Ganguly was ‘hemodynamically stable’ after undergoing an angioplasty, following a mild heart attack during a workout session in the gym at his residence, here on Saturday. “Sourav Ganguly had a mild heart attack this morning. He came in good time. There was a critical blockage in one artery on which we performed angioplasty,” said Aftab Khan, one of the doctors treating the 48-year-old at Woodlands Hospital. Under observation Dr. Khan said that blockages had been found in two more arteries but they were not of immediate concern and added that Ganguly was stable, awake and will remain under observation for the next 24 hours. A five-member medical board has been set up to monitor his health condition. West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhakhar and Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee were among those who visited the hospital. Union Home Minster Amit Shah also inquired about his health. The Chief Minister said the hospital was taking all necessary steps and “further decisions will be taken as per his health condition.” Cricket Association of Bengal secretary, and Sourav’s elder brother, Snehashis Ganguly also added that his brother was stable. “I wish and pray for the speedy recovery of @SGanguly99 I’ve spoken to his family. Dada is stable and is responding well to the treatment,” tweeted BCCI secretary Jay Shah.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ganguly-stable-after-angioplasty/article33484257.ece
03 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Zeeshan Ali to head the National Centre||Davis Cup coach Zeeshan Ali is excited about taking over as head of the National Tennis Centre. “The whole project appealed to me when I was told about it in November. I have shifted from Bengaluru with family and been here for a month. “This is going to be concrete work, and much more than we have ever done for Indian tennis,” said Zeeshan. While the details of the centre will be announced soon, Zeeshan said that everything was in place for a high performance camp for junior boys. “We have eight of the top-10 juniors in the country and 17 of the top 25. “We will have a camp for a week in a bio bubble atmosphere, with 22 boys. Ashutosh Singh and Saurabh Singh will be the coaches, and I have also taken eight coaches of DLTA after having a session with them,” said Zeeshan. There will also be webinars with a sports psychologist, dietician and other experts. Abhimanyu Singh and Anand Dubey will take care of the fitness aspects of the trainees. “We have a bunch of good players including Dev Javia. The players will be busy from 8 a.m. to 5.30 p.m. every day,” said Zeeshan. There will be an invitational National championship for the players to prepare them for the two ITF junior tournaments scheduled in the country. “All the players will stay in single rooms. Parents and personal coaches will not be allowed in the bubble. Parents will be invited to join in the webinar, as it is important that they also get the knowledge,” said Zeeshan. As Zeeshan observed, the idea of having the best players of the country training in one place would be beneficial to all.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/zeeshan-ali-to-head-the-national-centre/article33484266.ece
03 January 2021||Hyderabad:,||Lightning Bolt looks good for an encore||Lightning Bolt, who won well in his last outing, may score an encore in the Zoom Zoom Plate, the feature event of Sunday’s (Jan. 3) races.  HARIDWAR PLATE (1,200m), (Terms) Maiden 3-y-o only (Cat. II), 1.45 p.m.: 1. Akido (1) Nakhat Singh 56, 2. Bruno (2) Darshan R N 56, 3. Dream Station (7) Kuldeep Singh 56, 4. Jarvis (10) Ajeeth Kumar 56, 5. Pedro Planet (6) Kiran Naidu 56, 6. Space Walk (9) C.P. Bopanna 56, 7. Sye Ra (3) Afroz Khan 56, 8. Burano (8) Gaddam 54.5, 9. Moonlight Ruby (5) A.A. Vikrant 54.5 and 10. Unmatched (4) Koushik 54.5.  1. AKIDO, 2. JARVIS,   3. UNMATCHED   OSMAN SAGAR PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), rated upto 25 (Cat. III), 2.15: 1. Africanus (4) Abhay Singh 62, 2. Big Day (2) Jitendra Singh 62, 3. Fantastic Show (8) Darshan R N 62, 4. Farmville (7) Mukesh Kumar 62, 5. Golden Lace (1) Deepak Singh 62, 6. Starwalker (11) Rohit Kumar 62, 7. Hashtag (10) Gaurav Singh 61.5, 8. Vallee Ikon (3) A.A.Vikrant 61, 9. Acadian Angel (5) Santosh Raj N R 59, 10. Agilis (9) Surya Prakash 56.5 and 11. Light Music (6) Nakhat Singh 50.  1. STARWALKER, 2. LIGHT MUSIC,   3. FARMVILLE   MEGATOP PLATE (Div. I) (1,400m), 5-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 2.45: 1. Linewiler (3) Gaurav Singh 60, 2. Mr. Shanghai (11) Darshan R N 59.5, 3. Tiger Of The Sea (1) Surya Prakash 58, 4. Solo Winner (12) Jitendra Singh 57.5, 5. Super Angel (5) Abhay Singh 57, 6. Wood Bridge (6) Md. Ismail 55.5, 7. Story Teller (8) Nakhat Singh 54.5, 8. Tapatio (7) A.A. Vikrant 53.5, 9. Stormy (10) B.R. Kumar 52.5, 10. Let It Be Me (2) G. Naresh 51.5, 11. Sacred Lamp (13) Ajit Singh 51.5, 12. Super Act (9) Gaddam 51 and 13. Secret Command (4) Santosh Raj N R 50.5.  1. SUPER ANGEL, 2. TAPATIO,   3. STORY TELLER   OSMAN SAGAR PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), rated up to 25 (Cat. III), 3.15: 1. Air Salute (7) Santosh Raj N R 62, 2. Crackershow (9) B.R. Kumar 62, 3. Millennia (1) Abhay Singh 62, 4. Misty River (8) Gaurav Singh 62, 5. Negress Princess (4) Koushik 62, 6. Bedazzled (5) Nakhat Singh 61.5, 7. Gold Label (2) Jitendra Singh 60, 8. Whiskery (3) Surya Prakash 59.5, 9. Hopscotch (6) Kuldeep Singh 54.5 and 10. Golden Faraska (10) G. Naresh 51.  1. HOPSCOTCH, 2. AIR SALUTE,   3. BEDAZZLED    OLYMPIC FLAME PLATE (1,400m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II), 3.45: 1. Havelock Cruise (8) Deepak Singh 60, 2. British Empress (1) Koushik 59, 3. Dandy Man (9) Ashad Asbar 58, 4. That’s My Magic (12) Mukesh Kumar 57.5, 5. Private Empire (2) Kiran Naidu 55.5, 6. Call Of The Blue (4) Abhay Singh 54, 7. Miss Marvellous (3) G. Naresh 54, 8. Spicy Star (11) Gaurav Singh 54, 9. Lockhart (7) Ajeeth Kumar 53.5, 10. Blazer (14) Afroz Khan 52.5, 11. Tetra Rama (13) Kuldeep Singh 52.5, 13. Ulysses (6) Md. Ismail 51.5 and 14. Gazebo (10) B.R. Kumar 50.5.  1. HAVELOCK CRUISE,   2. PRIVATE EMPIRE,   3. BRITISH EMPRESS   ZOOM ZOOM PLATE (1,600m), rated 60 to 85 (Cat. II),4.15: 1. Air Strike (4) B.R. Kumar 61.5, 2. Paso Robles (6) Kiran Naidu 61, 3. Champion Bull (9) Ashad Asbar 58, 4. Staridar (3) Koushik 57, 5. That’s My Class (11) Md. Ismail 57, 6. Mark My Word (8) C.P. Bopanna 56.5, 7. Artistryy (12) Gaurav Singh 56, 8. Reno Star (1) Kuldeep Singh 56, 9. Lightning Bolt (5) Ajeeth Kumar 54.5, 10. Southern Legacy (2) S.S. Tanwar 54, 11. N R I Symbol (10) Darshan R N 53 and 12. Ashwa Yashobali (7) Gaddam 50.  1. LIGHTNING BOLT,   2. PASO ROBLES, 3. STARIDAR   MEGATOP PLATE (1,400m), 5-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 4.45: 1. Once More (10) Santosh Raj N R 60, 2. Red Snaper (5) Abhay Singh 60, 3. Explosive (3) Mukesh Kumar 59.5, 4. Golden Hope (1) Md. Ismail 59, 5. Promiseofhappiness (11) A.A. Vikrant 56.5, 6. Mawelll (6) Darshan R N 56, 7. Platinum Claasz (12) Afroz Khan 56, 8. Starboy (4) Ashad Asbar 55.5, 9. Red River (7) B.R. Kumar 54.5, 10. Brush The Sky (9) Ajeeth Kumar 53.5, 11. Glendale (2) G.Naresh 52, 12. Bob Campbell (8) Ajit Singh 51 and 13. Honourable Guest (13) Gaddam 50.5.  1. MAXWELL, 2. RED SNAPER,   3. EXPLOSIVE  Day’s best: SUPER ANGEL  Double: AKIDO — MAXWELL  Jackpot: 3, 4, 5, 6 & 7. Mini jackpot: (i) 1, 2, 3 & 4. (ii) 4, 5, 6 & 7. Treble: (i) 2, 3 & 4. (ii) 5, 6 & 7. Tanala: All races.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lightning-bolt-looks-good-for-an-encore/article33484253.ece
03 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Top stars for women’s T20 tournament||Several international cricketers, including Jemimah Rodrigues, Punam Raut, Radha Yadav, Deepti Sharma, Anuja Patil and Thirushkamini, will be seen in action in the Falcon Sports Club Golden Jubilee T20 women’s cricket tournament here. The tournament, for the India Nippon Cup, will commence at the Samprasiddhi Sports Estadio on Monday. Four teams — Falcon Herons, Falcon Sheen Sports, Falcon KiNi RR and Falcon Ameya Sports — will compete in the league-cum-knockout competition. All matches will be streamed live on YouTube. Former India captain and Falcons SC president Shantha Rangaswamy said Mohd. Azharuddin and Mithali Raj are expected to be present at the prize distribution ceremony on Jan. 12. To ensure player safety, Standard Operating Procedure prescribed by the Karnataka State Cricket Association will be in place. “All players from outside Karnataka are required to submit COVID-19 RT-PCR negative test result,” Shantha said at a press conference here on Saturday. Challaru Prathyusha (KiNi RR Sports), G. Divya (Falcons Herons), Veda Krishnamurthy (Ameya Sports) and Rakshitha Krishnappa (Falcons Sheen Sports) will be team captains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/top-stars-for-womens-t20-tournament/article33484870.ece
03 January 2021||HYDERABAD,||Shameel inks three-year deal with HFC||Hyderabad FC has appointed AFC A-Licence holder Shameel Chembakath as the head coach of the reserves and the u-18 players “I’m very excited to join the team and am looking forward to working with HFC. I always wanted to join a club which is ambitious and has a clear plan,” Shameel said, who joins on a three-year deal. “I’m extremely delighted that the club has shown trust in me and I firmly believe that working alongside people for a common goal or a purpose forms bonds that can last a lifetime. I’m looking forward to the new challenge.” The Kerala-born Shameel represented the likes of Vasco SC and Mohammedan SC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shameel-inks-three-year-deal-with-hfc/article33484980.ece
03 January 2021||JOHANNESBURG,||Steyn not to play in IPL this year||South African fast bowler Dale Steyn on Saturday has made himself ‘unavailable’ for this year’s Indian Premier League (IPL) but ruled out an imminent retirement from competitive cricket. “Just a short message to let everyone know that I’ve made myself unavailable for RCB at this year’s IPL, I’m also not planning on playing for another team, just taking some time off during that period,” Steyn tweeted. “I will be playing in other leagues, nicely spaced out to give myself a opportunity to do something I’ve been excited about as well as continue to play the game I love so much. “NO, I’m NOT retired,” he stressed in another tweet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/steyn-not-to-play-in-ipl-this-year/article33484255.ece
03 January 2021||Los Angeles,||Doncic stars in Mavericks’ win||Luka Doncic scored 27 points to outduel fellow Slovenian Goran Dragic as Dallas Mavericks took advantage of some woeful three-point shooting by Miami to beat the Heat 93-83 on Friday. Doncic also tallied 15 rebounds, outperforming compatriot Dragic who finished with 10 points and seven assists in Dallas. Elsewhere, De'Andre Hunter scored 23 points, and Trae Young chipped in with 21 as Atlanta Hawks bounced back from giving up 145 points in its last game to beat the cold-shooting Brooklyn Nets 114-96 in New York. Davis scores 35 points  In Texas, LeBron James finished with 26 points, 11 rebounds and 10 assists and Anthony Davis had 35 points and 11 rebounds as Los Angeles Lakers rallied to beat San Antonio Spurs 109-103. The Lakers recorded their second win over San Antonio in three days, closing the contest with a 9-0 run.  The results:   Dallas Mavericks bt Miami Heat 93-83; Detroit Pistons bt Boston Celtics 96-93.   Minnesota Timberwolves lost to Washington Wizards 130-109; San Antonio Spurs lost to LA Lakers 109-103.   Denver Nuggets lost to Phoenix Suns 106-103; Charlotte Hornets lost to Memphis Grizzlies 108-93; Brooklyn Nets lost to Atlanta Hawks 114-96.   Milwaukee Bucks bt Chicago Bulls 126-96; Utah Jazz bt LA Clippers 106-100; Golden State Warriors lost to Portland Trail Blazers 123-98.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/doncic-stars-in-mavericks-win/article33484265.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Deepanshu misses century||Man-of-the-Match Deepanshu Phore (99) and Siddhant Bansal 4/19) played stellar roles in Telefunken Club’s 183-run victory over RCC Academy in the B.R. Sharma tournament.  The scores: Telefunken Club 322/8 in 40 overs (Deepanshu Phore 99, Jatin Kumar 52, Swayam Kaushik 50, Abhimanyu Singh 35, Shubham Kumar 3/49) bt RCC Academy 139 in 35.3 overs (Shubham Sharma 47, Aryan Chaudhary 31, Siddhant Bansal 4/19) .    Virender Rawat (4/51) and Nadeem Khan (62) helped S. S. Sports Club beat Stallions Club by five wickets in the Niz Sports Corporate Cup.  The scores: Stallions Club 181 in 17.5 overs (Reuben Kumar 85, Virender Rawat 4/51) lost to S.S. Sports Club 185/5 in 15.1 overs (Nadeem Khan 62, Rahul Mehra 43, Ravi Solanki 40) .    Ayush Kumar (145) and Jehan Kumar (3/42) excelled in Talent Hunt Academy’s 111-run win over Sam Sports in the second D.S. Gold Cup tournament.  The scores: Talent Hunt Academy 343 in 38.2 overs (Ayush Kumar 145, Rajdeep Jain 71, Shivam Kumar 32, Dev Bachchas 3/66) bt Sam Sports 232 in 36.2 overs (Tushar Bachchas 57, Honey Kumar 50, Jehan Kumar 3/42) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/deepanshu-misses-century/article33484973.ece
03 January 2021||CHENNAI,||TNCA lower division matches postponed||All the TNCA lower division league matches scheduled to be played on Sunday have been postponed due to inclement weather and wet ground conditions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tnca-lower-division-matches-postponed/article33484948.ece
03 January 2021||Johannesburg,||No Rabada for second Test||South Africa has lost leading fast bowler Kagiso Rabada and Sri Lanka will be without key paceman Suranga Lakmal for the second and final Test starting on Sunday. CSA said on Saturday that Rabada will not play with a view to him being fully fit for the forthcoming series against Pakistan and Australia.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/no-rabada-for-second-test/article33484258.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Getting ready||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/getting-ready/article33484248.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 09:02 IST,||Sudoku - January 3, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-january-3-2021/article33485354.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Let the games resume||A feast awaits sports fans this year after the drought that was 2020. The historic cancellations and postponements of high-profile sporting events were minor inconveniences in the scheme of things. For, lives were lost and suffered. Also, after a prolonged absence, professional sports returned in the second half of the year. But they were largely sidelined by the pandemic and other political events — except a few tournaments like the Indian Premier League (IPL), which made the prime-time news and front pages in India, even during a year that felt like an apocalypse. With the world finding its feet again after the announcement of vaccines, sports will hopefully be in the limelight again and played amidst spectators. Here are some of the plots that are worth your attention: The Tokyo drift The postponed Summer Olympics will be the biggest draw of the year. This will be the first staging of the games in an odd-numbered year in its 124-year history — it will, however, be called Tokyo 2020. The absence of the retired Usain Bolt and Michael Phelps, who are among the greatest Olympic champions, will be conspicuous. The Jamaican sprinter and the American swimmer shattered several world records while winning eight and 23 gold medals, respectively. The former’s showmanship will be especially missed. Britain’s Mo Farah will be another celebrated athlete. India, meanwhile, will hope someone joins Abhinav Bindra in the individual gold winners’ list. Among the most favoured to do that is P.V. Sindhu, who came close to winning the badminton singles final in Rio 2016. She was, then, an emerging star. But with a gold and two silver medals over three World Championships and a silver medal at the Asian Games, she is among the favourites to win the singles event in Tokyo. Sindhu apart, Neeraj Chopra (javelin), Mirabai Chanu (weightlifting), Manu Bhaker and Saurabh Chaudhary (pistol shooting), and Bajrang Punia (wrestling) will also be closely followed. But some of the most endearing Olympic stories involve less-heard names. Remember the Singaporean swimmer Joseph Schooling, who beat his childhood idol, Phelps, to win the 100m butterfly event in Rio? Let us hope more such stories await to unravel in Tokyo. In the twilight zone The last time Roger Federer contested a tennis match, ‘Corona’ was still largely associated with beers. The Swiss maestro was far from his best in the Australian Open last January. After two five-set escapes, he dragged himself into the semi-final, wherein Novak Djokovic, the eventual champion, crushed him in straight sets. Two knee surgeries forced Federer to miss the rest of the year. Rafael Nadal, in his absence, equalled his record for the most number of men’s singles Grand Slam titles (20) when he won last year’s French Open. Djokovic is at 17. Despite missing this year’s Australian Open, he wants to make a comeback later this season, which also includes the Olympics, wherein he is yet to win a singles gold. Federer made a miraculous return from injury in 2017 to add three more Slam titles. But, at 39, such feats are near-impossible. We might be seeing the last few matches of Federer. Same can be said about fellow tennis great, Serena Williams, also 39, who, with 23 Slams, is just one short of equalling Margaret Court’s record. She, too, sustained an injury (Achilles) last year. The emergence of Naomi Osaka has made the women’s field stronger. So, for Serena to emulate or overtake Court will be a herculean task. But it is not merely for their numbers that we watch them play. Beyond the boundary Athletes in the U.S. and elsewhere, with their presence (Naomi Osaka wearing BLM {Black Lives Matter} facemasks at the US Open) and absence (WNBA and NBA players boycotting matches), underscored the conversations about racial injustice last year. The basketball teams’ walkout sparked more protests across sports from different parts of the world. Organisers and authorities usually disfavour, discourage and even punish activism in professional sports.Tommie Smith and John Carlos’s expulsion from the 1968 Olympics is a famous example. But the collective stand last year perhaps forced the organisers to join the fight against racism. Players in Premier League, for instance, wore a Black Lives Matter logo before replacing with the phrase No Room for Racism. It would not be surprising to see such acts against racism repeat at the Olympics this year. What’s a better place to make a political statement than at the grandest stage of sport? Busy schedules After the cancelled and deferred events of last year, 2021 is packed with big events like the T20 World Cup in India, Euro 2020, the Olympic and Paralympic Games and Copa América. These will be in addition to the annual regulars, like the professional leagues across sports. The Indian men’s cricket team, currently in Australia, will come home in February to welcome England for a four-Test series and limited-overs games. The series against England, IPL and the T20 World Cup at home, will keep the men busy throughout the year. The women, meanwhile, are at a standstill. They have not played international cricket since March. Football clubs and countries will be scrambling to keep the players injury-free in a year with two major international competitions — Euro 2020 and Copa América — apart from the Olympics. In this series, we look ahead at what 2021 has to offer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/let-the-games-resume/article33484418.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Good guy, bad guy||When Paul Donald Wight II entered the ring as Big Show way back in the ‘90s, he was widely perceived as the successor to Andre the Giant, thanks to his towering figure. Though one of the celebrated stars in the world of wrestling and a favourite among fans, there were certain things that came as additional baggage for Wight, who had to maintain his protruding waistline and the character’s imposing personality of a giant. “When I started my career I thought I had to be the biggest guy in the locker room because I was the giant; I was the Big Show. Then as the business evolves, the character has to evolve as well. You also have to do what’s best for you physically for your own personal health,” says Wight, in a Zoom interview from Florida, USA. “After years, with knee and bad hip injuries, I had to find ways to change the way my character looked, ate and exercised. I am always going to be the Big Show whether I’m 500 pounds or 400 pounds. That moniker is going to stay. But I am at a point in my career where I am a lot healthier and happier.” The Big Show is among the last of the WWE superstars from a previous generation that we have grown to develop a love-hate relationship with, over the years. Wight, who has embodied the character for close to three decades, has had an enviable run and is excited about, perhaps, the last leg of his career. Although he has not yet retired, he will now be making an appearance in RAW’s Legends Night , alongside legends Hulk Hogan, Ric Flair and other WWE stars. “I find it funny that these guys [Hogan and Flair] are Hall of Famers and retired...I am not in the Hall of Fame and haven’t retired, but I have been wrestling for four decades and I am a legend. It’s a unique position to be there,” says Wight. This year’s Legends Night will be starkly different from previous years, given that we are still in the middle of a raging pandemic, and in the absence of fans at the stadium. But Wight says that it is a business model that they have come to terms with, “You are essentially working for the TV audience. Yes, it’s a nice ambience to have when there is crowd and you will really feel their energy. But after a while, you know you are working towards TV audience; there aren’t going to be any shortcuts and you cannot look at the crowd for help,” he says with a laugh, “Ultimately, you are all along in the ring with a hope that whatever you do translates on screen and people enjoy the show.” Been there, done that His character may not be as flamboyant as Ric Flair; he may not come across as animated as Stone Cold or as influential as The Undertaker, but Big Show has become a legend in his own right, partly due to the character’s evolution. Or, as Wight says, Big Show is someone who has often had “good guy, bad buy” turns. “That is one of the fun things about my character. But sometimes, it’s a lot more fun to be the bad guy to pretend to be someone you’re really not,” he says, adding, “I am really not a ‘bad guy’ persona and I think there’s a bit of cathartic release to play that character. But I have too much of a conscience to play that character. I am a big marshmallow ( laughs ). I am really doing a heck of an act when I play a bad guy.” One of the memorable story arcs for Big Show is his rivalry with Brock Lesnar; the duo has had some nasty fights. But Wight finds it difficult to pick a favourite opponent or a feud. “I have had so many incredible opponents and partners and matches. I worked with people like Eddie Guerrero and my first match was with Hulk Hogan, and I won World Heavyweight Championship against Ric in 1996. I have wrestled with John Cena and The Undertaker all over the world, as is the case with Brock Lesnar. There is no way possible for me to pinpoint at one particular memory,” he says. He attributes his legacy to a loyal fanbase, who even made his Netflix comedy show, The Big Show, which dropped on the platform last year, a success. “I am humbled and grateful for their love. I know The Big Show did really well in India. You can’t have a career as long as mine without the support and love from fans,” he says. Wight has been walking a tightrope between his professional career as a wrestler, while pursuing his acting career at the same time. There is no Plan B as such for Big Show at the moment. “I don’t have any pressure. I enjoy fighting and helping out young talent,” he says adding, “I am currently reaping the benefits of my hard work,”  Watch WWE RAW Legends Night Live and Exclusive on January 5, 2021 from 6.30 a.m. IST and the repeat from 8 p.m. IST, on SONY TEN 1 (English) and SONY TEN 3 (Hindi) channels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/good-guy-bad-guy/article33484421.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Vagrant at estuary near ECR||Everyone hates a prating tattler. Even two tattlers do not expend any love between them. The lone and striking exception is when tattlers are togged in feathers, wear a tail with a cinder-grey shade to it and keep bobbing it. A tattler of this description having showed up, two weeks ago, small bands of birders, particularly eBirders from Chennai, flocked to Yedaiyanthittu Estuary off East Coast Road, and a short jog from the Alampara Fort. It was a Grey-tailed Tattler holding court at this estuarine system. While migrating , Grey-tailed Tattlers are not expected to find themselves an Indian address. They are not even expected to soar the Indian skies, as they take the East Asian-Australasian Skyway from their breeding grounds in north-eastern Siberia to make the winter trip either to south-east Asia or Australia. This Grey-tailed Tattler is a vagrant, and previous data of such vagrancy in this region comes from Pulicat Lake. Previous data On September 30, 2017, Sivakumar Shanmugasundaram and Sundaravel Palanivelu spotted one, and later discussed the sighting and the characteristics of the bird, as seen in the field, in Indian Birds , edition dated 15 December, 2017. The paper mentions subsequent sightings of the same vagrant Grey-tailed Tattler in Pulicat the same wintering season by other birds. Besides, they chronicle how birder Arun Prasad retrospectively discovered that he had photographed a vagrant Grey-tailed Tattler — probably the same bird — the previous wintering season, on September 18, 2016, at Pulicat Lake. Noticing photos of the Grey-tailed Tattler from Pulicat posted by birders in 2017, Arun had refreshed his album of bird photos, and found a Grey-tailed Tattler parked as an “unnamed bird”.  The sighting  Rama Neelamegam and Vikas Madhav Nagarajan headed to Yedaiyanthittu Estuary on December 23, 2020, after reports of the sighting of a vagrant Grey-tailed Tattler there had surfaced, first in the “FB Ask IDs of Indian Birds Group”, and later on eBird. Aneesh Pandian and Praveen Pandian had separately documented the sighting, dated December 15, 2020, on eBird. On December 24, Subramanian Sankar recorded the sighting on eBird, as he had made the trip along with other birders. He would make another trip on December 27 to study the bird more closely. Striking pointers  The Grey-tailed Tattler has a bearing similar to the Common Redshank, and is known to hang out with it. Both Rama and Sankar report that there were Redshanks around during their respective visits. “It is a matched blend of the Greenshank and Redshank,” says Rama. With their orangish legs and organish shade towards the base of its beak, the Redshank is unlikely to be confused with a Grey-tailed Tattler. The Tattler has yellowish legs. Put a juvenile Redshank in the picture, and things can get hazy, Sankar points out. In that case, the easy differentiator would be the Grey-tailed Tattler’s tail, which Sankar calls “charcoal kind of grey”. Both Vikas Madhav Rangarajan and Sankar see the loral stripe worn by the Gret-tailed Tattler as a standout feature, as it is strikingly prominent. “The Redshank’s neck is elongated, but the Tattler’s is short in comparison. The latter is a squat bird,” says Sankar. Behaviour highlights Vikas points out that one instinctively knows that this one (the Grey-tailed Tattler) is different from most other coastal birds. “After all, it is a tringa , and has the same energy. There is constant head-bobbing and slight tail-bobbing. The whole bird keeps moving. It is an energetic bird: It is in fact hyper-energetic,” says Vikas, who is an eBird reviewer. “When we saw it there, the bird was always around a couple of Western Reef Egrets, one of intermediate and the other of darker shade. The Western Reef Egrets were actively feeding, and one got a sense that the Grey-tailed Tattler was moving wherever these birds were moving,” says Sankar. Referring to this behaviour, Vikas states that the reason for it is best known to the bird. So now, on the East-Coast region, two areas have been marked for Grey-tailed Tattler. Rama says that the Grey-tailed Tattler sighted at Yedaiyanthittu Estuary is probably the same bird that had been seen at Pulicat Lake. Or, it is a different bird, but had been missed earlier because Yedaiyanthittu Estuary is underbirded. Sankar states that the bird is still around the estuary and he plans one more trip for a deeper study of the vagrant.  (‘Migrant Watch’ is a column about birds that visit Chennai during winter)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/vagrant-at-estuary-near-ecr/article33484766.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||A wish list for 2021||Can residents be activists? “Residents as activists” is no longer a far-fetched idea. K. Viswanathan, secretary of Mylapore Residents Welfare Association (MRWA), says there is evidence on the ground to show that residents’ groups are emerging as a strong voice in Chennai. He cites the example from Mylapore, where MRWA has been able to galvanise 130 RWAs into meaningful activism. “Initially, residents had reservations about lodging a complaint individually. Now, whenever a concern is voiced on a WhatsApp group, the issue behind it is either taken up by another individual or as a group. Residents have understood the advantage of representing a local issue under a banner as opposed to going it alone and waging a lone battle,” says Viswanathan. Every Trust Cross Street in Mandavelipakkam Trust, he says, has formed a local group, which means residents have their concerns addressed hyperlocally. A 2018 data by Change.org, an online platform for launching campaigns, found Bengaluru topping the list with its residents filing the maximum number of online petitions on civic issues. More than 3,600 petitions were started on the platform, of which 2,100 pertained to civic, road and infrastructure issues. As per the data, while petitions started by Bengalureans went up by 42.5% that year, Chennai saw a rise of 30%. Delhi stood at 4% and Mumbai at 13.6%. Can we see Chennai racing past Bengaluru when Change.org comes out with its new data? ‘My waste, my responsibility’ With Indore bagging the “cleanest city” titlefour years on the trot, many other cities were naturally keen on learning what the Indore model had to offer. There is also a learning to taken from what Bengaluru has done in this area. In 2019, the civic body Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) tried out the Indore model in some wards only to dump it a year later and revert to its old system of garbage collection and disposal. BBMP had commissioned vehicles fitted with separate bins to collect wet, dry and sanitary waste but the model did not work for the city. Mangalam Balasubramaniam, waste management expert and managing trustee Exnora Green Pammal, says she admires the Alappuzha model where emphasis is on de-centralised solid waste management. “But one system that worked for one city may not necessarily suit another. Any model needs to be adapted to suit local realities,” she says. Mangalam says awareness about managing waste at source has increased among the residents of Chennai but the city still has a long way to go. “Our end-to-end needs have not been met so far, what I mean by this is that we must be sending only 5 to 10% of our waste to the landfills and for this to be achieved, the city needs better infrastructure,” says Mangalam. The Alappuzha model is a success as there was people’s participation and political will and we would need all of these if we were to replicate it in Chennai, says Mangalam. Whether Chennai tweaks its own model or learns from others, we need to challenge ourselves and improve the city’s cleanliness story in 2021. Residents for waterbodies Behind every lake in Chennai that has filled up on account of this monsoon, there is a group of community members who have pushed for change, knocking on the government’s doors, or simply rolled up their sleeves and did what they did to improve conditions at their waterbodies. Sample the case of the Rajakilpakkam lake. Water scarcity was so acute in the neighbourhood that the Federation of Rajakilpakkam Residents’ Welfare Association, which consists of 23 residents’ welfare associations, put up an united effort to revive the waterbody. Ambattur Waterbody Protection Movement (AWPM) formed three years ago with 10 like-minded individuals, now has more than 300 members and their activities go beyond Amabttur — Avadi and Thiruverkadu were added in the recent months. “Our initiatives go beyond clean-ups; we monitor the waterbodies near us,” says Nedumaran S.P. of AWPM. He says they act as a pressure group for the government and get departments to take steps to protect waterbodies in their localities. “We revived seven waterbodies in Ambattur as part of the first phase; and work on another 11 is under way.” There are similar examples in Perungudi, Sembakkam, Korattur and Madambakkam where citizens’ initiatives have helped save lakes from further encroachment and deterioration. Arun Krishnamurthy, founder, EFI which works in 14 cities, says Chennai has set an example for other cities in reviving lost lakes. Ahmedabad, Indore, Hyderabad and Coimbatore would match Chennai when it comes to sustained efforts to revive and conserve waterbodies, he adds. “Even before 2015, Chennai had a volunteering network that would take care of its lakes and ponds. Post-2015, this network has become more vibrant as the Chennai Floods came as a wakeup call,” says Arun. Later, the 2019 water crisis again underlined the importance for a collaborative effort while attempting to restore neighbourhood wells and ponds. Greater Chennai Corporation joined hands with corporates to restore ponds in city. Clubs like Lions and Rotary got keenly involved in waterbodies’ rejuvenation exercises. It would do Chennai great good if many more groups joined hands and a complacent attitude did not set in. Engagement on social media Which are the government departments that make the most of the reach offered by social media? That would be an interesting question to ask, as a majority of government departments actively cultivate a social media voice and presence. The social media pages of the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC), Chennai Metro Water and Chennai Traffic Police, to name only a few departments, are frequently buzzing with posts. Having a social media presence alone would not do. It boils down to how effective these departments are in propagating their campaigns, showcasing their activities, interacting with the public with the objective of serving them better. Last July, GCC brought out a newsletter titled ‘The Chennai’ which focused on the work carried out by the civic body during the pandemic. There is also the trend of government departments hiring the services of PR agencies to handle their social media handles. This approach could infuse more professionalism into how these departments connect with residents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-wish-list-for-2021/article33484776.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||A mighty baobab’s last sigh?||Two weeks ago, on a routine Sunday-morning visit to his property on Greams Road, Manzoor Ahmed spotted men sawing thick branches off a baobab tree at a petrol bunk. When asked why the tree was being put through such a punishment, the men said the branches damaged the roof of a shed on the property, and could also crack the adjacent wall. “But they had no answer when I asked why they were hacking off branches all around the tree, why they were sawing close to the trunk instead of at the end resting on the roof,” says Mansoor. He successfully asked the cutters to keep their hands off the tree, took pictures of the branches on the ground and called Nizhal. “I was desperate for help, and googled for a relevant NGO,” discloses Manzoor. A flurry of activity followed. Dr. T.D. Babu of Nizhal jumped into an auto for in-person inspection, but not before informing Greater Chennai Corporation about an ill-advised tree ‘pruning’ exercise. On reaching the station, Babu gave the bunk assistant a lecture on the importance of the tree and the consequences of damaging it. “Baobab trees can live up to a thousand years, and this petrol-bunk tree is mentioned in Nizhal's book Living Landmarks of Chennai ,” he said. This baobab is an impressive specimen with a girth of 6.2 metres / 20.34 feet circumference. Mercifully it stood near a spot where motorists take a turn to leave the bunk. “After it was hit by a lightweight vehicle, we built a low enclosure around it,” said the manager of Madhu Service Station. “We strive to keep the area green, but now I am proud to know that my bunk hosts a heritage tree. We will preserve it like it is family.” He promised to install an informational metal board provided by Nizhal and agreed to widen the cement enclosure behind the trunk. Unfortunately, on 31 December, the tree reportedly leaned over, probably because the delicate balance had been disturbed by the cutting of the branches. The tree had tilted towards road, a few feet away from the roof of the shed, and that sadly was its death warrant as it now blocked entry to the offices on the road. Says Babu, “We do not have the wherewithal to pull back the tree and make provision to steady it in its place. Erection of such huge trees calls for enormous effort, proper machinery and funds - things we that are hard to come by in such cases.” (Geeta Padmanabhan is a civic activist and a resident of Thiruvanmiyur)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-mighty-baobabs-last-sigh/article33484740.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Have you tried ‘drumming together’ as a community?||Here is a pandemic lesson. Ironically, neighbours connect with each other more often and more meaningfully when staying connected takes some effort, not to mention some masks and some distance. At the height of the lockdown, strangers with shared ‘common areas’ suddenly became truly neighbours. Community webinars led to pleasant discoveries of in-house talent. Youngsters carried supplies to seniors’ doorsteps, leading to inter-generational friendships. Doctors offered free consultations in their communities, adding a new layer of meaning to “home care”. Sometimes, the connection had a rare intensity to it. Lavanya Krishnakumar’s contribution slots into this category. The pandemic has made her the Anna Kendrick of her community. When she started a Drum Circle for her neighbours, she in fact used Anna’s immensely famous “Cups” song which is based on a folk classic “When I am Gone”. Originally from the musical comedy Pitch Perfect , it gained a breath of its own and more legs, when Anna reworked it into a single, which climbed up musical charts on both sides of the Atlantic. While Anna used papercups as drums for the song, Lavanya used cylindrical thingamajigs to suit her Drum-Circle drill. Lavanya explains that she would fill these cylindrical objects with rice and daal to create a shifting-and-shaking “ssshh-ssshh, ssshh-ssshh” sound and have it overlaid on the rhythm. Lavanya had done Arts-based Therapy (ABT) from Babu Trust in Pune, and that is where she got introduced to drumming as a therapeutic tool. She still considers herself a learner in ABT. Drumming or any other art form can meet a “therapeutic need” when it is used in conjunction with other tools such as counselling to fix a problem, she states, adding that it can however also be used to “create an atmosphere of trust where a group comes together to create something together, and there is a sense of shared joy.” It is this form of “therapeutic need” Lavanya sought to meet when she decided to have the first Drum Circle in December for her community, The Central Park South on Old Mahabalipuram Road. “I had two African djembes , which were given to me as part of the course. Over that, we had some tambourines; and anything that I had picked up that could make sounds. It could include bells. I even had daal and rice put in a cylinder so that when I shake it up, it gives that “ssshh-ssshh” sound. I have a modest collection, and that is about how much I could collect in this amount of time,” explains Lavanya. She asserts “drumming is one activity that fires every nerve cell in your brain”, and that it can benefit anybody, and be practised by anyone. “When we went to do this course, none of us were drummers. We were not percussionists. The more we sat in a group and explored rhythm, we only realised that rhythm was already in us,” says Lavanya, referring to the drum-circle component of the ABT course she undertook. On the Drum Circle drill conducted at her community, Lavanya elaborates, “We followed all the COVID-19 norms; we had only ten people in the group, and we explored some rhythms. I would suggest a rhythm or a lead, which people would follow. We had what you call the start and stop cues. We had something called a rumble which we would build up to a crescendo. We did something that was already available, such as the “Cups”, a song from the musical comedy Pitch Perfect , which uses a papercup as a drum. There are so many derivatives of it, which people can go home and try out.” The purpose of the Drum Circle is to get residents to collaborate through drumming as a creative pursuit. “Each one now will explore their own rhythm. And also they can drum as a community, creating a nice synergy. It is not a performance, but just participation. There is no facilitator, only facilitators. Anyone can facilitate the drum circle. People took turns to facilitate the drum circle during the one hour,” explains Lavanya. Supriya Santhanam, who coordinated the Drum Circle, points out, “We would allow only ten people in a session to maintain COVID-19 prevention norms, and so there are people on a waiting list. They would be accommodated in subsequent Drum Circle gatherings, one of which is coming up around the Pongal season.” Lavanya, who is founder-trustee of Golden Butterflies, a paediatric palliative care foundation, says the as part of the ABT programme, her first pilot project was with differently-abled children. She adds, “There is a little school inside Loyola College called BLINK which is for children with special needs. My first pilot novice project of 20 hours was with them, and I organised a drum circle with them. All of them wanted to drum. There was a child with extremely limited mobility in one hand, but I held a bell, and she wanted to participate; all of them wanted to participate.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/have-you-tried-drumming-together-as-a-community/article33484753.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Take five from 2020||Having an in-house medical team and a COVID-19 response team is obviously a big relief to residents, when much about the virus is still unknown, and the only way to be safe from it is to stay away from it. From running errands for homes under quarantine to keeping an eye on those walking without masks, volunteers have been playing essential roles. In the initial months of the pandemic, communities that had earlier maintained a directory of residents renewed their interest in the exercise. The effort was largely directed at finding medical professionals who could clarify nagging doubts around COVID-19 or to check in on a senior citizen with medical problems who did not want to visit the hospital. Some of those communities that had not created a database of residents in their community started the exercise. The House of Hiranandani Upscale in Egattur, for instance, initiated the exercise of creating a database of doctors residing at the community. Prior to the lockdown, the gated community had a database of six to eight doctors, but after the exercise they identified at least 25 doctors, each with a specialisation.      With the lockdown driving residents to a situation where they had to manage various chores, some put their culinary skills to the test, by cooking for the larger community. From serving food to a bachelor next door, these efforts bloomed into ventures. These were people whose kind offerings had an impact, and they felt encouraged and confident to turn their hobby into a part-time vocation. Some succeeded in persuading their apartment associations to let out their unused space to them, at a fee, so that they could run their business more professionally. At Mantri Synergy in Padur, two families, related to each other, and a neighbour, teamed up to start a multi-cuisine cloud kitchen, Tumbo Cafe, at the gated community. The space earmarked for a kitchen had fallen vacant, and these residents approached the community management committee and took the space for a rent.     During the pandemic, there was a huge category of volunteers who wanted to be of service but without endangering their safety. These resident-volunteers signed up for initiatives that they can be a part of, while staying in the comfort of their community or home. One such notable volunteering effort came from residents’ welfare associations from the OMR region. Residents’ welfare associations turned their club houses and basements into spaces where resident-volunteers could pack kits consisting of essential food and sanitation items for the benefit of the underprivileged. Bhoomika Trust approached the Federation of OMR Residents Association (FOMRRA) when it found it difficult to mobilise volunteers for this task. Some RWAs came up with time slots for each family to help with the packing. 4The mall at the doorstep First they brought groceries to the doorsteps, and when the lockdown continued to extend, other things followed. That included the mall. So, from fabrics and footwear to furniture, residents got a taste of a different shopping experience, one they could have at their doorsteps, as brands like Pantaloons, FabIndia, Max and Trends had all flocked there. Most of the gated communities had many precautions in place including not allowing more than five people to shop at a time. Jains Inseli Park in Padur, for example, would allow only one stall at a time at their club house.   Though confined to their homes, residents discovered new ways to stay connected during 2020. From community celebrations being livestreamed on Facebook to knowledge sharing sessions on Zoom, the pandemic seemed to give residents a space where they they could meet up with their neighbours. There were also novel initiatives for residents to staying connected, in-person, but in a manner that would ensure their safety — to give an example, The Central Park South in Sholinganallur initiated an open-air storytelling programme, which was largely driven by the grandparents in the community. These story-telling sessions would take place by the poolside or on the terrace, and safety protocols would be followed.  Prior to the lockdown, the gated community had a database of eight doctors, but after the exercise they identified 25 doctors||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/take-five-from-2020/article33484757.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Thazhambur Eri restored||Hinduja Leyland Finance (HLF), the captive financing arm of commercial vehicle maker Ashok Leyland, has played a pivotal role in the restoration of Thazhambur Eri. It took up the exercise as a corporate social responsibility exercise, bringing on board Care Earth Trust, a bio-diversity conservation NGO, which carried out the restoration. Following clearance of garbage pile-ups and invasive weeds, the lake was desilted and deepened. Sprawling across 30.6 hectares, the waterbody comes under the jurisdiction of Water Resources Department, Lower Palar Basin Division. The earth excavated from the lake was used to form a super structure bund and strengthen the perimeter. As part of the restoration work, the inflow channels were cleaned to ensure the lake receives water from the catchment area. In the water-holding area, five to six mudflats have been formed for birds to nest. Native tree species have been planted on the lake’s periphery. Mural paintings depict biodiversity have been installed. After restoration, the waterbody has an additional capacity of 5.3 mcft over the existing 16.46 mcft. With eco-friendly materials, information tablets have been installed and a mud hut called ‘machan’ has been built around the lake. The huts are meant for visitors to sit and view the birds. S. Nagarajan, executive vice-chairman, HLF, says, “The lake has a 2.35 km perimeter. The catchment area of the lake spreads around 1.76 square km. The restoration work started in 2018. Before the restoration work commenced, a team of ecologists, engineers, and researchers from Care Earth Trust studied the lake and its biodiversity.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/thazhambur-eri-restored/article33484773.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Correct design flaw in master stormwater drain’||Residents of Ward 178 in Velachery seek corrective measures on the master stormwater drain that passes through Velachery-Taramani Link Road. The November rains exposed the ineffectiveness of the drain. In spite of having a big drain, some neighbourhoods in Ward 178 — Ram Nagar, Vijaya Nagar, Padmavathy Nagar, Vinayagapuram, Srinivasa Nagar, Kuberan Nagar, AGS Colony, Murugu Nagar — suffered inundation, being submerged under three feet of rainwater. Residents went without electricity for three days, as Tangedco had to suspend the supply on account of this problem. Residents of various colonies in Velachery convened a meet recently to discuss this problem and possible solutions. S. Kumararaja, a longtime resident of Velachery, says, “The construction of the master drain began in 2011 and was completed by 2016. It was meant to carry surplus water from Velachery lake to Buckingham Canal via Velachery-Taramani Link Road. Looking at the design and plan of the drain, it was evident that the drain would not serve the intended purpose and we requested the authorities concerned to drop this project. Because, there were already CMWSSB’s underground pipes along the route of the sanctioned drain and hence they would hamper free flow of water. Next, during the construction, we drew attention to the fact that the slopes required to ensure smooth flow of water were missing. But our suggestions were ignored. As there was not much rain in the last two years, this flaw in the design and construction was not exposed. But this year’s rains have proved our contention right. This drain was built at a cost of Rs. 62 crore but failed to deliver when it mattered the most.” Corrective measures to this drain apart, the residents have suggestions to check flooding. “There is another drain carrying excess water from Velachery lake to Pallikaranai. The stormwater drains of Ward 178 are connected to this drain near Velachery MRTS station. From this point, stormwater is supposed to enter another drain called Veerangal Odai which is already taking water from Alandur, Aadambakkam and Guindy which are big localities. What happens is that the force of water from those areas is higher when compared to the water flowing from the Velachery lake to the Pallikaranai drain. This is another cause for inundation in Ward 178. We suggest that water from our stormwater drains need not routed to Veerangal Odai. Instead, from the Velachery MRTS a new drain should be constructed up to Pallikaranai,” adds Kumararaja In addition to flooding, the residents had to endure sewage overflows as well. “Although, stormater receded, the sewage muck stayed on. Additional pumping stations are required for Velachery. Besides, the sewage pipes have to be replaced. As the existing stations and pipes are from the early 1990s; in the last 20 years, the population Velachery has grown rapidly. Hence, we need to enhance the capacity of our sewage system,” adds Kumararaja. Residents have also pointed out that unlike in the previous years, some parts of Madipakkam were not affected. “Because, a new drain was constructed from Balaji Nagar in Madipakkam to Pallikaranai. Usually stormwater from neighbourhoods in Balaji Nagar is made to enter Veerangal Odai. As it was already carrying too much of stormwater from Alandur, Aadambakkam and Guindy, the new stormwater drain from Madipakkam was directly channelised to Pallikaranai. Velachery needs a similar arrangement,” says Kumararaja.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/correct-design-flaw-in-master-stormwater-drain/article33484770.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||‘We need a direct MTC service to Egmore railway station from Velachery’||A longtime resident of Velachery, I see a need for better public transport connectivity for Velachery. We need a direct Metropolitan Transport Corporation (MTC) service to the Egmore railway station. The MRTS line makes it easy for residents of Velachery to reach Central railway station quickly. That is not the case when we consider Egmore railway station. A MTC service between Velachery and Egmore railway station would certainly receive considerable patronage. To reach Egmore, those who rely on public transport head to the Thiruvanmiyur terminus where they board 23C. Next, we also seek a direct service to Poonamalle. Again, MTC commuters have to go to Thirvunmiyur terminus or Guindy to board buses bound for Poonamalle. Another long-pending demand on connection with public transport is the completion of railway line from Velachery MRTS to St. Thomas Mount. Though it involves just a distance of 500 metres, the work has been pending for nearly 13 years. In 2007, the railway line from Mylapore MRTS to Velachery MRTS was inaugurated. I attended the inaugural function, the dignitaries at the event said that the next line, that is from Velachery MRTS to St. Thomas Mount would be opened in another two years. But it has not happened till date. With regard to this project, we hope to see some visible signs of progress in this project. Another expectation is the establishment of a spacious MTC terminus for Velachery. The construction of the twin flyover at the Viajayanagar junction in Velachery is proceeding at a good pace and nearing completion. We learnt from Highways officials that of the two flyovers, the one from Taramani to Bypass is likely to be ready by February. Before it is opened for traffic, the MTC terminus at the junction should be shifted to the vacant land near Velachery MRTS station. The land belongs to the Southern Railway. The Tamil Nadu government and the Southern Railway should come together and facilitate the creation of an MTC terminus. The existing terminus is coming in the way of hassle-free traffic movement at the busy junction. There can be a bus-stop at the Vijayanagar junction but not a terminus. S. Kumararaja is the president of Annai Indira Nagar Residents Welfare Association in Velachery||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/we-need-a-direct-mtc-service-to-egmore-railway-station-from-velachery/article33484778.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Handicrafts sale||Sumathi Handicrafts is organising an exhibition-cum-sale of handicrafts and handloom products at No: 7, North Mada Street, Mylapore. According to a press release, Bandini saris, Chanderi silk saris, Tussar silk saris, Kota saris, Ikkat saris, and Maheshwari saris are available. In addition, dupattas, shawls and kurtis are part of collection. Quilts, bedspreads, brass artefacts, and crockery items are available. A festival discount of 25 per cent is offered, says the release. The sale ends on January 16. Time: From 10 a.m. to 8.30 p.m. For details, call 73583 17050 / 96293 74196.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/handicrafts-sale/article33484745.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Restore Jalladiampet Eri’||On behalf of the residents of Jalladiampet, Pallikaranai and Medavakkam, I request the Water Resources Department (WRD) to take steps to restore the Jalladiampet Eri. Located near the intersection of Velachery Main Road and Medavakkam-Sholinganallur Road in Medavakkam, the waterbody is being abused by dumping of garbage and construction debris. Further, the S10 Pallikaranai Police Station has parked abandoned vehicles near the waterbody. Above all, residents discharge sewage into it. As the waterbody is polluted it has in turn contaminated the groundwater. I have made innumerable complaints to the Medavakkam Village Panchayat about this issue, but till date, no action has been taken. Dumping of garbage continues unabated. Earlier, the dumped garbage would be set on fire by the conservancy workers of the Panchayat, causing billows of smoke to waft around the region, which includes busy sections of Velachery Main Road and Sholinganallur –Medavakkam Road. It took repeated complaints to put an end to the practice of garbage burning. Today, the water-holding area in the waterbody has reduced. Besides, it is overrun with dense vegetation. Steps have to be taken to remove heaps of solid waste and arrest discharge of sewage. Further, the waterbody should be deepened and revived. Doing so will help replenish groundwater table in Medavakkam, Pallikaranai and Jalladiampet.  S. Mani is a resident of Medavakkam.   Discharge of sewage continues unabated||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/restore-jalladiampet-eri/article33484783.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||You can be our volunteer-writer||Dear readers, you can be our volunteer-writer by writing to us about issues and events in your neighbourhood. You should send the write-ups to downtownfeedback@ thehindu.co.in. Letters must carry the postal address and contact number. Here’s a short note on the basic building blocks of any short news feature. a) The lead is the first section of an article, and leads that narrate a human situation work the best. b) The next element is the cosmic paragraph, in which you give the overall picture. c) News features have to be factually-grounded and the central portion, which will consist of a few paragraphs, should support the anecdotal paragraph and the cosmic paragraph||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/you-can-be-our-volunteer-writer/article33484779.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Tributes paid to Schmidt||Tributes were paid to Kaj Schmidt on the occasion of his 90th death anniversary, at his memorial on Elliot’s Beach in Besant Nagar on December 30. H. Murugan, Zonal Officer, Zone 13 Adyar, Greater Chennai Corporation, placed a wreath at the monument. Besides, S. R. Prabhakar Rao, former honorary Vice-Consul, Royal Danish Consulate, Chennai, took part. People who had gathered at the memorial paid tributes by placing battery-powered lamps at the facade of the monument.  At the event, members of Spark, a citizens’ forum and residents’ associations requested the Zonal Officer to ensure a coat of non-cohesive paint is given to the grilles at the monument and to the plaques which are getting corroded. The members also requested the officer to take steps to repair the solar-powered lamp posts installed in the four corners of the memorial. The Zonal Officer agreed to do the needful.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/tributes-paid-to-schmidt/article33484781.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Gifts presented to KG students||As part of Christmas celebration, teachers of Vidya Ratna P.T.S.Matriculation Higher Secondary School dressed up as Santa Claus, visited kindergarten students in their residential localities and presented gifts. During these visits, there was music and dance, says a press release. The school is located at First Cross Street in Shastri Nagar, Adyar. This was an effort to bring some cheer to children amidst the pandemic, adds the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/gifts-presented-to-kg-students/article33484744.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Signals out of order at Perumbakkam junction||At the intersection of Prabhu Nagar Road, First Main Road and Sholinganallur-Perumbakkam-Medavakkam Road in Perumbakkam, there are five traffic signals. But none of them is functioning. The intersection witnesses the movement of vehicles like buses, lorries and tankers every day. As the signals are not in order, the junction witnesses traffic snarls. Hence, pedestrians also find it very difficult to cross the road. They have to dart across the road. Most of the motorists do not bother to slow down for pedestrians. Despite several complaints, the authorities have not taken any steps, say residents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/signals-out-of-order-at-perumbakkam-junction/article33484774.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Discharge of sewage at vacant plots in Perumbakkam goes unchecked’||I request the Chengalpattu District Collectorate to attend to the issue of sewage discharge in the vacant plots at Perumbakkam. It happens almost every day, in the wee hours, when drivers park their tankers and let out the sewage in the plots. As these plots are overrun with bushes, drivers find it convenient to discharge the sewage. Our complaints about this menace to the Perumbakkam Village Panchayat and at the S10 Pallikaranai Police Station have been of no avail. These tankers are supposed to discharge the greywater at the sewage treatment plant on Corporation Road in Perungudi. But to save time and fuel, many operators resort to this practice. We learnt that a sewage treatment plant has been set up on the premises of Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewrage Board (CMWSSB) depot on Kalaignar Karunanidhi Salai in Sholinganallur. But it has not started to function. We request the CMWSSB to do the needful at the earliest to alleviate the woes of Perumbakkam resident. M. Raman is a resident of Perumbakkam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/discharge-of-sewage-at-vacant-plots-in-perumbakkam-goes-unchecked/article33484785.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Workshop on terrace gardening||TNAU Information and Training Centre, Guindy, is organising a workshop on terrace gardening on January 7. Another workshop on “soil and water quality management” will be held on January 8. For registration and further details, 044 – 2225 0511/ 2250 1960.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/workshop-on-terrace-gardening/article33484742.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Besant Nagar resident launches debut novel||Akshath Jaganmohan, a resident of Besant Nagar, is launching his debut novel, Ithalar Tea Party on January 4 (6 p.m. to 7 p.m.) at Odyssey bookstore in Adyar. Akshath is a 13-year-old, studying at Shraddha Children's Academy, Kottivakkam. Set in Ithalar, a town in Nilgiris, just after Independence, the story centres around a murder in a tea estate and how the culprit is unmasked, says a press release. The unmasking of the culprit is made challenging by the fact that the murdered — Anderson Quill, the owner of the English Ithalar Tea Estate — had many enemies. On setting of the story, the release quotes Akshath as saying, “A few years ago, when I was studying in the United States, we learned about the Boston Tea Party. Last year, I went to Ithalar for a vacation and saw a lot of tea estates in the region. I started learning about plantations and how the British used the cash crop and the poor Indian labour force to get as much income as possible. After a couple of months, the story just sort of fell together.” The book will be available on Kindle and in Odyssey from January 4, 2020. For paperback orders, email team@readen.in, the release says Keeping COVID-19 regulations in mind, the event entry is by invitation only, it adds. There will be a live telecast of the event on Odyssey's social-media platforms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/besant-nagar-resident-launches-debut-novel/article33484755.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Let us have an eye out for eastern flyway zone birds’||The East Asian-Australasian Flyway may have something to do with India’s East Coast that is much more significant than birders have assumed so far. Birds associated with this eastern flyway zone, which they wing through on their way to their wintering grounds in south-east Asia, are increasingly seen in areas off India’s East Coast as a vagrant, and sometimes more than that. The Long-toed Stint is sighted as a rarity every wintering season. And the Eastern Yellow Wagtail seems to be very much in our midst, every winter. Says eBird reviewer Vikas Madhav Nagarajan: “Now, we are getting more of the Eastern Yellow Wagtail, an Eastern zone flyway bird. In December alone, I sighted ten of them in Chennai. Long-toed Stint is also more of an Eastern zone flyway bird. This shows that on our Eastern coastal section, we will have to keep an eye out for all Eastern flyway birds. South-east Asia is the wintering grounds for the Eastern Yellow Wagtail. However, going by the frequency with which they are sighted here, it seems to have inked parts of India into its itinerary.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/let-us-have-an-eye-out-for-eastern-flyway-zone-birds/article33484767.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||A wish list for 2021||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-wish-list-for-2021/article33484759.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Correct design flaw in master stormwater drain’||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/correct-design-flaw-in-master-stormwater-drain/article33484761.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Vagrant at estuary near ECR||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/vagrant-at-estuary-near-ecr/article33484763.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||the week that went by||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-week-that-went-by/article33484748.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||The fairest of them all||T huk-thuk-thuk-thuk falls the hammer, smoothing out imperfections in the metal disc. A higher-pitched sound draws the eye to a corner where another craftsman works on a brass frame with hammer and chisel. Deeper thuds are heard in the background, where two bigger hammers pound the soil used to cast the mirrors. This soundscape greets us as we walk into P. Gopakumar’s workshop in Aranmula, in Kerala’s Pathanamthitta district. Here, artisans fashion the famous Aranmula kannadi , the metal mirrors — the alloy is a closely guarded secret — made nowhere else in the world. On one side, another man is polishing the mirrors with water paper, a small modern intervention meant to give a shine to the metal. But tradition still rules in Aranmula — later, all the mirrors will be rubbed down with oiled sacks. Frame work It’s the question of tradition versus innovation that has brought us here today. Gopakumar, 57, is a man of the world. He’s exhibited as far afield as Los Angeles, speaks fluent English, and is happy to chat about his foreign customers. A bit of a maverick, then, in the community of traditional artisans. And perhaps that’s what made him the natural choice to be point man for a major design intervention that now seeks to upend the canons of the Aranmula mirror, or, more specifically, its frame. The ubiquitous long-tailed brass frame — the valkannadi — and other classic designs may soon be joined by variations as part of an initiative by the Crafts Council of India (CCI), which approached one of India’s leading designers, Ayush Kasliwal, to help relaunch the craft after the devastation wrought by the 2018 floods. With moulds and tools damaged, soil washed away, and whole workshops destroyed when the Pampa flooded, the artisans reportedly endured a loss of around Rs. 1 crore. Struggling to recover, they have not had much help either from the State or Central governments. The most significant aid came from the U.S.-based Heritage India, which provided kits worth Rs. 1 lakh each to the artisans. It was then that members of CCI, led by chairperson Gita Ram, a long-time acquaintance of Gopakumar, arrived on the scene. They assessed the situation and decided that a bit of innovation might help revive business and revitalise the community. For example, says Ram, the quality of the brass used for the frames, supplied by casters from Andhra Pradesh, had deteriorated. When Ram spoke about the possibility of change, she found resistance; the artisans were “proud” and happy to stick with the tried and tested. She asked them to think about the next generation, one that may be more discerning. And that’s when she got in touch with Kasliwal, the distinguished Jaipur-based designer who has done a lot of work with metal. New realms Kasliwal had been mulling about working with Aranmula mirrors for a long time but had been sceptical given the language barrier. But now, a visit was organised and using local interpreters, he interacted with the artisans and held sessions where they were encouraged to consider new designs. Kasliwal was enthused. “The mirrors are part of a very beautiful thing, a traditional trousseau,” he says, “But I also wanted to create products that extend to new realms.” Kasliwal and his studio have been working pro bono with Gopakumar’s workshop since August 2019, producing new designs. He excitedly describes the new models, such as the ‘Anugraham’, a simple shape in a brass frame with a hand-engraved blessing. The ‘Deepa’ has two brass frames joined together, with one containing the mirror and the other a diya or traditional lamp. When it’s lit, the mirror reflects the flame. The designs also incorporate new techniques, such as machine work and 3D printing of the brass components, with a focus on improving the quality of the brass casting. On a more visible level, there’s a new material in the mix: wood. Several models combine brass with woodwork, such as the ‘Gokha’, which is a brass-framed mirror sitting on a little wooden shelf. The ‘Kashtha’ has a wooden-framed mirror attached to a brass knob. They have also forayed into jewellery — the ‘Mudra’ is a tiny mirror set in a silver ring. Gopakumar’s workshop has been busy turning these designs into reality, and now he, Kasliwal and CCI are ready to launch the project with a webinar on January 10. CCI has plans to market the products through its own website and outlets, the wider Craft Council network, and through online retailers like Amazon Karigar and Jaypore. Kasliwal points to the potential of the vast, untapped Indian market outside Kerala for these products. After 2018 came a smaller spell of flooding in 2019 and last year, of course, was disastrous. Today, Gopakumar’s workshop is one of the few with a steady flow of work — most others are open only two or three days a week. Given this, the new designs and the marketing push might well be a boon. And Gopakumar places a lot of faith in CCI and Kasliwal. Sacred tradition The question is, why is the whole effort focused only on Gopakumar and his workshop? All three, Ram, Kasliwal, and Gopakumar, say that the other artisans are too conservative to adopt the new ideas. Kasliwal is philosophical about this. He emphasises the centrality of craftspeople and their agency. “Design is only a bridge,” he says. Perhaps the others will come around eventually. “Leave the designs with them. It’s for them to use it.” As with many other handicrafts, this too is a family trade. Gopakumar learnt from his uncle; the others at his workshop are family. Some 16 to 27 families are involved in the craft. Their ancestors were brought from Sankarankovil in Tamil Nadu’s Tenkasi district in the mid-18th century, during the blood-soaked reign of Anizham Thirunal Marthanda Varma, the ‘maker of modern Travancore’. They plied their trade comfortably until the mid-19th century when glass mirrors flooded the market. After that, it was only in the 1980s that interest in the metal mirrors was revived and business picked up again. A little past Gopakumar’s workshop is K.A. Selvaraj Achari’s workshop. He is the secretary of the Viswabrahmana Aranmula Metal Mirror Nirman Society, but seems completely unaware of the project and of Kasliwal. He vaguely recalls some training sessions but doesn’t realise there has been any progress since. He sends us to the society’s president, K.P. Asokan, whose workshop is a little ahead. The 54-year-old is strident in his opposition to the new-fangled ideas. What exactly is the problem? Well, tradition, for one. Asokan talks about his ancestors and their struggles, about the sanctity of their “divine product” and how it cannot be violated for profit. He gives the example of a woman who wanted a sari with Aranmula mirrors sewn onto it; he refused the order, of course. But it’s the use of wood that really raises his hackles. “The society will never promote woodcraft,” he says, and explains why. Solids expand in heat, so the metal mirror is likely to expand into its wooden frame and jerk about, causing scratches. Mostly though, Asokan says the society should have been consulted. Any decision should have been a collective one, he says. As always, it’s a conflict between tradition and innovation. The new project is exciting and well-intended but doesn’t seem to have reached a consensus yet. Without that, the best of plans might not reach the artisans who need it the most. And that would be a pity.  With moulds and tools damaged, soil washed away, and whole workshops destroyed when the Pampa flooded, the artisans reportedly endured a loss of around Rs. 1 crore||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-fairest-of-them-all/article33484791.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||The fiery taste of childhood||In the 1980s when I was growing up in Hyderabad, there were not too many options to eat out, especially for snacks. Any eating out was anyway mostly restricted to special occasions. So, when a small eatery called Sheetal Chaat Bhandar opened relatively close to where I lived, it was the start of a new gastronomic chapter in my life. The first time I visited the place, I was quite taken in by the sight of the large iron pan that had a fiery red curry simmering on the edge in a neat circle and a blob of yellow butter sizzling in the centre. Using an iron ladle, the chef then pulled a small portion of the curry into the middle and blended it with the butter. The mélange of curry and butter and the aroma of the masala wafting through the small eatery had me salivating. Focal point The chef then sliced a pav in two and dunked it into some butter in another pan and in a minute, a crispy brown edge had formed on the bread. Plating the pav and bhaji with a dash of finely chopped onion and a wedge of lime, he handed it to me. One bite, and I was transported to culinary heaven. The punch of spices from the bhaji was balanced by the buttered pav and the crunch of the onion and slight tartness from the lime meant a perfect burst of flavours in my mouth. I was in school then and soon it became a ritual to celebrate food and I looked forward to visiting the eatery. On several occasions, I would hop on a cycle rickshaw and get the dish packed to enjoy at home. This was the time before mobile phones and the Internet and the plate of food was always the focal point of our attention. That is perhaps why the flavour profile of this dish is so ingrained in my mind. I visited Sheetal Chaat Bhandar many times, and it was amazing how the chef always managed to keep the taste intact. Little wonder then that pav bhaji became my favourite snack. A few years later, my family shifted to Secunderabad and I never visited the eatery again. Nailed it Later, in the mid-90s, after moving to Bengaluru, eating out became more commonplace and pav bhaji was the dish I invariably ordered. However, it was never like the one I had eaten in Hyderabad. Despite trying it in several restaurants, the taste never matched the memory of it in my head. I then started experimenting with pav bhaji in my own kitchen, using the typical vegetables — beans, peas, carrots and potatoes — and adding readymade pav bhaji masala. Though the taste was okay, somehow the fiery colour of the bhaji was missing. Many experiments later, I worked on a healthy version of the bhaji using traditionally ‘boring’ vegetables like radish, ridge gourd, beetroot, knol khol and chayote. And after some trial and error, I managed to hit the sweet spot in my head. I know that I probably will not be able to replicate the taste of Sheetal Chaat Bhandar’s pav bhaji, but when my nephews tell me they love my version, I know that my inspiration has served me well.  The freelance writer and photographer from Bengaluru seeks offbeat experiences through travel.    The mélange of curry and butter and the aroma of the masala wafting through the small eatery had me salivating||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-fiery-taste-of-childhood/article33484787.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Working with Rajiv Gandhi||Wajahat Habibullah, son of one of the few Muslim army officers to have stayed with the Indian army after Partition, knew the Nehru-Gandhi family long before Rajiv Gandhi became Prime Minister. He joined the J&K cadre of the IAS and served a little over two years in Indira Gandhi’s PMO before she was assassinated and a shade under three with Rajiv. His is, therefore, a sympathetic but not uncritical view. He has shared his experience of seeing a school friend who had become PM being betrayed by friends and relatives. That does not detract from his qualities as a decent human being. It is that element of empathy with the subject that is lacking in most assessments of Rajiv by his detractors. Brief conversations Wajahat’s memoirs do not purport to be a political biography. They are an account, from the sidelines of politics, of his experience of working in Rajiv’s PMO, which was careful to segregate politics from administration. Moreover, it was so compartmentalised that few of us knew what the others were doing. It was only incidentally that we picked up tidbits of information that gave us a hint of what was happening in the political world.  There are, for instance, only two brief snatches of conversation with Rajiv that Wajahat refers to in regard to opening of the locks at the Babri Masjid. One is when Wajahat, as the desk officer for minorities’ welfare, is invited into a discussion with M.J. Akbar, where Akbar pleads for Rajiv’s intervention to modify the Supreme Court’s obiter dicta observations that were causing great concern in the minorities’ minds. The other is a brief exchange of words that Rajiv had with Wajahat on a flight during which the PM tells Wajahat that he knew nothing of the attempt to change the status quo at the masjid and was attempting to find out whether Arun Nehru and M.L. Fotedar were behind this. Rajiv was not running a police state and there was no way a private, vengeful conspiracy to undermine him would have been revealed to him before the deed was done. It took only half an hour between judgment being rendered and the locks being opened. Thousands swarmed into the masjid and Rajiv was confronted with a fait accompli that could only be reversed by action that would have precipitated a huge communal riot. So, what action, did the then PM take? Well, Arun Nehru was sidelined within weeks and was unceremoniously thrown out of both government and the party within months. Fotedar was not, which goes to show that Rajiv had held an impartial inquiry and punished only the guilty one. Wajahat gets wind of what is happening only when Arun Nehru requests (in effect, orders) him to pass on any information about the UP Chief Minister seeking to meet the PM on his own. Quite properly, Wajahat directs Arun Nehru to the PM’s private secretary. Bofors, Shah Bano case Arun Nehru is never rehabilitated in the party or in the family he thinks he belongs to by right. He takes his revenge by enticing dissatisfied elements — Arif Mohammad Khan, V.P. Singh and others to defect and form the alternative National Front (that Rajiv crushingly described as the “National Affront”). True, the traitors’ cabal they formed with an opportunistic BJP and Left support defeated Rajiv in the 1989 election largely by propaganda that Rajiv had banned middlemen in the Bofors deal only to clear the way to himself taking a huge bribe of Rs. 64 crore. This was backed by V.P. Singh flaunting a piece of paper at every election rally on which he claimed he had the number of Rajiv’s Swiss account. In the event, the V.P. Singh government collapsed under the weight of its contradictions within a year of taking office. None of the eight non-Congress governments that took office in the decades that followed produced a shred of evidence that stood up in court.    As for the long-term outcome of the Shah Bano shindig, the Supreme Court in Danial Latifi held that no provision of the Constitution, and certainly no fundamental rights, had been violated by the Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Divorce) Act, 1986. Rajiv died before the Narasimha Rao government stood by as the BJP and the goons it had instigated demolished a Muslim place of worship. Had he lived, there would never have been such a wanton attack on minority rights and sentiments. After his assassination, the secular fabric of the nation has been torn to shreds. Keeping the peace The Brasstacks fiasco was another example of disloyalty at the highest echelon of the army and those charged with supervising the armed forces. Despite the solemn undertaking given by Rajiv to the Pakistan PM that he would still fears of an invasion in the name of undertaking an exercise, following which strict orders were issued by the PM (who was also Raksha Mantri), the army chief and his MoS orchestrated a show of strength while Rajiv was away which almost brought the two countries to war. Rajiv, on return from a holiday with his family, telephoned the Pak President and PM, got his MoS and army chief to tone down their belligerence and kept the peace. Wajahat convincingly shows that the Bofors rumpus too was an act of betrayal, not venality. He quotes Rajiv’s highly relevant questions to the Ministry of Defence which were never answered because his notes of June 4 and June 15 were held up in the PMO and not passed on to the MoD by Rajiv’s closest bureaucratic aide, Gopi Arora, determining on his own that if he were to pass on the file it might worsen the already bad relations between the other Arun — Arun Singh — and Rajiv. The reader might try to answer Rajiv’s queries himself to test their relevance and validity. (pp. 130-131) This reviewer can only endorse the author’s view that to have taken the kind of steps that were being suggested then would have had disastrous consequences on the nation’s commercial reputation and its defence requirements. And, as Wajahat underlines, the Kargil war would never have been won within so short a time but for the Bofors gun.  The reviewer served with Wajahat Habibullah in Rajiv Gandhi’s PMO.  My Years with Rajiv Wajahat Habibullah Westland Books  Rs. 799||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/working-with-rajiv-gandhi/article33484837.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||A line runs through it||The dense evergreen and semi-evergreen forests of Mollem at the edge of the Western Ghats, 60 km from Goa’s capital Panaji, support thousands of indigenous people and abound with a huge diversity of wildlife: tigers, leopards, gaur, and over 200 species of birds. They also happen to be the site of three proposed infrastructure projects — a highway expansion, the double-tracking of a railway line, and a power transmission line — which if initiated could mean the felling of over 30,000 trees, irreversibly impacting this rich ecosystem. The ‘Save Mollem’ campaign in Goa has drawn everyone from celebrities to politicians, who have come together to express outrage at the absence of assessment of the threats to green cover and wildlife that the projects pose, and a consequent lack of mitigation measures. Take the 400 kv power transmission line from Goa to Karnataka that passes through the forests near Mollem, which has been given a wildlife clearance by the standing committee of the National Board for Wildlife. The line, which could involve the felling of over 5,000 trees, is being built by the Goa Tamnar Transmission Project Ltd, a special purpose vehicle of Sterlite Power. The forest department’s site inspection report says that the area has ‘semi-evergreen forests’ with 43 species of mammals such as the tiger, leopard, sloth bear, barking deer, and slender loris, and 250 species of birds. But in its forest clearance application, the company says: “Since the project is for laying of a transmission line, post its installation, there shall not be any harmful impact on the wildlife.” This contradicts growing scientific consensus that linear projects like power transmission lines have harmful effects on wildlife. For instance, a paper published this May in the journal Biological Conservation says that power lines “act as barriers to movement, with many animals avoiding even narrow clearings”. They disrupt ecological processes and gene flow and affect seed dispersal and disease dynamics, the study says. The lead author of the paper, Anisha Jayadevan of the Centre for Wildlife Studies in Bengaluru, says, “Animals like the flying squirrel and lion-tailed macaque move from branch to branch. They are unlikely to cross even really narrow clearings.” . As for large mammals, while they can cross, they stand the risk of getting electrocuted by sagging wires. “There has to be a study for each location to see what wildlife is being impacted and how it can be mitigated,” says Jayadevan. Neglected measures In August 2019, the standing committee of the National Board for Wildlife, chaired by environment minister Prakash Javadekar, approved a list of 13 ‘eco-friendly measures’ to mitigate the impact of power transmission infrastructure on wildlife. One of these said, “Early planning and rigorous Environmental Impact Assessment are two principal requirements for reducing wildlife mortality due to transmission lines.” But the Goa Tamnar Transmission Project, as a power transmission project, is exempted from preparing an Environment Impact Assessment report. It is also exempted from preparing a biodiversity impact assessment as part of its wildlife clearance, because it occupies a 48-ha area in the sanctuary and the minimum limit to prepare the assessment is 50 ha. In fact, the Goa forest department’s senior officials approved the project “in public interest” citing its necessity to supply electricity to Goa. At the State Board for Wildlife, some members objected to the proposal because of the impact on the Bhagwan Mahaveer Wildlife Sanctuary, according to the minutes of the meeting; but they went ahead and approved the proposals saying it was necessary for “meeting and strengthening power supply to the State”. The National Board for Wildlife’s standing committee approved the project in April 2020 without recommending any wildlife mitigation measures. It said measures recommended earlier by Goa’s Chief Wildlife Warden would do. But these were generic in nature — the warden said that the company “may install towers” in a way that fewer trees are felled, and that “the construction/ installation work should not have adverse impact on wildlife habitat.” These are vague and non-specific instructions. Meanwhile, when contacted, the power company said in an email that it had voluntarily carried out a study in March 2019 and submitted it to the State government at the beginning of the clearance process.  It will also voluntarily undertake mitigation measures such as building artificial nesting platforms and perch rejecters, it said. The company also stated that “transmission lines do not divide the forest in two parts and allow free movement of wildlife.” Executive action Two other prominent projects near Mollem have not carried out any wildlife assessment at all. These are the four-laning proposal for National Highway 4A, and the double-tracking of the South Western Railway line through the Ghats. The projects fall within the eco-sensitive zones of wildlife sanctuaries with populations of leopards and gaur. But they are exempt from wildlife clearances thanks to an order issued by the environment ministry in 2017 for such projects in eco-sensitive zones of sanctuaries. “Such ‘executive clarifications’ weaken regulations,” says Chakraborty, the lawyer. Several agencies — ranging from the State forest departments, to the National Board for Wildlife — have powers under the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972 to assess projects coming up in wildlife-rich areas and impose legally binding mitigation measures. But these powers have not been exercised for the projects coming up near Mollem. While site inspection reports prepared by the forest department document the presence of wildlife including tigers and gaur, the government does not recommend mitigation measures, and if it does, these measures are vaguely worded. All three projects are still awaiting final forest clearance by the Environment Ministry. Meanwhile, on December 16, the Supreme Court’s Central Empowered Committee said it would carry out site inspections in Goa for all three projects after it received a number of complaints on the manner in which the projects were green-flagged with no assessment to the threats to wildlife. There may yet be a glimmer of hope for the pristine forests of Mollem. The writer is an environmental journalist based in New Delhi.   Two other prominent projects near Mollem have not carried out any wildlife assessment at all. These are the four-laning proposal for National Highway 4A, and the double-tracking of the South Western Railway line||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-line-runs-through-it/article33484850.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||A centrist New Year||If you’re reading this, it means you survived 2020 — so please accept my heartiest congratulations. I don’t know you but something tells me you’re keen to survive 2021 as well. But 2021 could be even tougher than 2020. According to a forecast by the India Meteorideological Department, thanks to a robust El Namo — a global phenomenon marked by evaporation of common sense and a collective melting away of brain cells responsible for empathy — the next 365 days could be 10 times more polarised, and polarising, than the past 1,195 days. Surviving them calls for strong resolve, which calls for strategically smart New Year’s resolutions. A strategically smart New Year’s resolution is one that is both ambitious and easy to abide by. Its most critical quality is that it creates an anti-polarising atmosphere. How? By avoiding the two ends of the Indian Ocean dipolar disorder and staying centrist. Some people scoff at centrism. I want to tell these arrogant know-it-alls that historically the only non-fascists who prospered under fascism were centrists. If you want to thrive in 2021, you will need some extremely centrist New Year’s resolutions that can keep you protected from the destructive rage-storms unleashed by political climate change. I am sharing below six ideas that are potently centrist. They can help you sail through 2021 in safety and security by boosting your immunity to insanity. Feel free to pick one or pick all. As a special gesture in view of COVID-19, I’m waiving my right to royalties. 1 Read more books, if possible: I know you didn’t read as many books as you would have liked in 2020. But don’t blame yourself. The last thing you want to do when stuck at home with time on your hands is read a book — you’d rather use the time to stare at moving images on a plastic box. But 2021 shall be different. Stop feeling guilty for not reading as much as you should, and instead, pat yourself on the back every time you pick up a book, even if it’s only to kill a mosquito or raise the level of your laptop to avoid neck pain. 2 Save more, even if you don’t have an income: Have you read the book Rich Daddy, Poor Daddy ? No? Unless your daddy is Adani or Ambani, read it. You will learn that the one secret habit all billionaires have in common is that they save regardless of their employment status. So, don’t worry if you’ve lost your job and live on NREGA — just put whatever money you have in a savings account in a public sector bank so that it can give more loans to distinguished defaulters and expand its NPA portfolio. You don’t have to be a farmer to understand that every Indian’s well-being is directly proportional to the net worth of India’s crony capitalists. 3 Be a better parent: If you are a father or mother, you will know that the future of India is in your hands. How you bring up your child will determine whether they grow up into JNU-Jamia type urban naxals who demand secularism in India, or IIT-IIM-type NRIs who know that minorities deserve equality only in America. If your child is an intelligent, rebellious teenager, she might ask, “Why should India follow America only in privatisation of education and healthcare but not in protecting the right to propagate any religion?” As a centrist parent, you must tell her that freedom of religion is a very important issue and she should write an open letter on it to Imran Khan with a CC to FATF. 4 Start a new hobby: Right now, the most popular centrist hobby is rediscovering how the public proclamation of your pride in your religious and/ or caste identity in a constitutionally secular republic is not at all obnoxious. If you are a closet Islamophobe, this hobby’s therapeutic value is something you cannot miss. 5 Join a club: This offers the twin benefits of finding new people and new interests. Whether you’re a bleeding-heart liberal or a right-wing bigot, I recommend joining a club that has ‘Hindu’ or ‘Sanatan’ or ‘Sangh’ in its name. 6 Say ‘no’ to genocide: Never miss a chance to condemn the genocide of Uighurs in Xinjiang. And if you’re sure it won’t cost you your job or promotion, there is no harm in condemning inter-planetary genocide. But if any Indian expresses genocidal sentiments about fellow Indians, take a deep breath to avoid premature condemnation. Then ask for data, and highlight the need for nuance. If an anti-national jumps in to condemn the genocidal comment, counter her with an eloquent defence of freedom of expression. If you make a sincere effort, any of these six New Year’s resolutions can keep you safe and gainfully distracted from real issues all through 2021. So, let me wish you — without passing judgment, or in any way disrespecting emotions such as grief, sadness and despair — a Happy allegedly New Year!  But if any Indian expresses genocidal sentiments about fellow Indians, take a deep breath to avoid premature condemnation. Then ask for data, and highlight the need for nuance||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-centrist-new-year/article33484852.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Tale of a timeless timekeeper||The day I took up my first job on a tea estate near Munnar way back in April 1964, my father presented me my first wristwatch — a gilded Swiss-made device. Costing a princely sum of Rs. 120, the equivalent of my gross monthly salary then, it soon became my most cherished possession. In those days, a watch was a status symbol of sorts; people flaunted it as they do smartphones today. Tea estates started work at the unearthly hour of 7.30 a.m. — they still do — and one was required to be strictly on time. My reliable watch never ever let me down. I recall that my British boss — a stickler for punctuality — would stand at the window of his first-floor room, looking out for latecomers who would be promptly ticked off. Through the vicissitudes Over the years, the watch seldom gained or lost time. If it did, I used to reset it by patiently waiting for AIR’s 9 p.m. news bulletin when the resonant voice of Melville D’Mello or Surajit Sen, both veteran newsreaders, would come booming over the airwaves. Twice a year, I used to have the watch serviced. Gingerly inserting a magnifying monocle into his cavernous eye socket, the elderly watch repairer would clean its pulsating and gleaming innards. The watch would last a lifetime, he once assured me with a confidence born of experience, if it was serviced periodically and wasn’t overwound. Indeed, it has faithfully served me right through the vicissitudes of a 40-year tea plantation career and now 16 years into retirement. My watch is still functional, symbolising the famed durability of Swiss workmanship and horology. It also reflects in no small measure my strong penchant for preserving things well beyond their normal lifespan — air-rifles, fishing rods, typewriters, for instance. The watch has thus joined my much coveted collection of collectibles; just as well since I find watches are slowly being phased out by smartphones. Having been a trusted companion and a mute witness to the ups and downs in my life, my watch doesn’t merely tell the time. It tells history. And it will probably outlive me — I’m now 76 — if someone continues to give it the meticulous care and attention I have. gnettomunnar@rediffmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/tale-of-a-timeless-timekeeper/article33484811.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Making faces||This quiet, unassuming village in Purulia can give you the shivers. Wherever you go, there are faces staring at you from the walls of shops and houses — some angry, some blissful, some growling menacingly, their sharp teeth showing. The smooth walls of the simple mud houses contrast sharply with the bright colours and dazzling coronets of these heads, adding to the sense of disorientation. This is Charida, the hub of Chhau mask-making, located in the Baghmundi block of Purulia district. It has been earmarked by the West Bengal government’s Department of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises & Textiles, in collaboration with UNESCO. Nearly every residence along the main road doubles up as a shop, some with names like Mukhosh Ghar (House of Masks). Charida also has a Chhau museum, which documents the specifics of the art form. Babuorbir? The mask is the defining feature of Purulia Chhau, differentiating it from its two other branches. Though Seraikella Chhau does use masks, they are simpler, with none of the pomp of these. When an artist dons the mask, he or she gets into character immediately, transforming into mellow Kartik, fierce Ravana, or Durga’s ferocious lion. In the film, Wonder Mask (by Banglanatak dot com), the artist Anil Mahato says, “Shiva danced the tandava : wearing his mask brings in that frisson for me.” The masks are classified as babu masks (chiefly of gods like Shiva, Narayana, Ganesha, Kartik, Krishna); bir or hero masks (used for demons like Ravana, Mahishasura); bhoot or ghost masks; animal masks (of tiger, lion, buffalo, or monkey heroes like Bali and Sugriva from theRamayana); nari or women masks (for Durga, Parvati, Saraswati and the like); and bird masks (for peacock, swan, Jatayu etc.). Some of the mask-makers are performers too — like Gambhir Singh Mura (1930-2002), the Padma Shri-winning Chhau performer from Charida who brought recognition to the art for the first time. The mask-maker brings his own understanding of the character into the mask which, in turn, shapes the dance. Since the masks are stylised, there’s not much scope for experimentation, but the craftsman can use his imagination in the way he paints them, especially in the way he draws the eyes. Each dancer’s mask is unique, made according to his or her facial measurements by their trusted craftsmen, who work in close collaboration with the troupes. Since the Purulia Chhau mask got the GI tag in 2018, mask-makers have become more aware of their intellectual property rights. But not all masks are meant for performance: many are created and sold as keepsakes to tourists and visitors. Mask-making is a family-run enterprise in Charida, with more than 300 individuals from 115 families involved. The ingredients are simple — it’s basically clay and paper — but the process is slow and detailed, taking shape stage by stage. The chief mask-maker supervises the work, which is executed chiefly by the women in the family. The elaborate and distinctive decoration — made of tinsel, glass beads, zari , plastic flowers, feathers, strips of coloured jute for hair — is almost solely the province of women, yet Charida’s award-winning mask-makers have all been men so far. Another change called for? — A.M.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/making-faces/article33484814.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Something rich and strange||The crane enjoys a mythical status in world literature, especially in Eastern culture, where the bird is seen as a symbol of longevity and a harbinger of good fortune. The origami paper cranes of Japan reiterate the importance of peace in a violent world. In Japan, paper cranes are gifted to convalescents or hung up in war memorials in a nod to the enduring human spirit. And making a thousand cranes is a common collective effort towards a cause.  A Thousand Cranes for India: Reclaiming Plurality amid Hatred , an anthology of verse, creative writing and reportage, uses the crane as a metaphor to show how solidarity fares at a time when divisiveness is on the rise. It starts with Pallavi Aiyar’s foreword about the 2018 rape and murder of eight-year-old Asifa Bano in Kathua, Jammu and Kashmir. She is reminded of it in Japan as she spends a day at Peace Park, a memorial to the victims of the 1945 Hiroshima bombings. From the heart When she tries making a paper crane later, it is like “folding the depravities of the world and transforming them into a weightless thing of beauty,” she says. For her, the anthology is a weapon to avenge Asifa Bano’s killing. “I was determined... not to lose the war begat by Asifa’s murderers and others like them who killed and raped in the name of piety or purity. I would fight for my India using only the weapons I had: words and cranes.” Each of the 23 pieces in this book is thought-provoking. There are ruminations upon the actual crane (Siberian and Sarus); its mechanical counterpart that dominates construction sites; its metaphorical version, where the crane becomes a statement on realpolitik that colours and polarises religious identity. The anthology speaks to us especially because we are big on symbolism in India — whether it is in the colours of the national flag or the gestures that form the grammar of ancient performing arts. The Sarus crane is considered sacred in Indian myths and folklores, which often depict it as a symbol of everlasting love. Freedom and joy In his essay, ‘Travelling in the Zone,’ Ranjit Hoskote writes, “I picture a flight of paper cranes, thousands of them, gliding across lines of control and no-fly zones, reminding us of a freedom and a joy that were never meant to be divided by boundaries enforced with periodic offerings of blood tribute.” Social activist and author Gurmehar Kaur’s short story, Paper Cranes , smites a tender relationship between its teenaged Hindu and Muslim protagonists with the razor blade of sanctioned hatred, but crucially, leaves a door open for reconciliation. In ‘(Un) Folding Secrets’, Jonathan Gil Harris delves deep into the recesses of his mother’s mind to show she survived the Holocaust and other traumatic events by burying them in a fog of invented memories. “There are many ways of folding a piece of paper... Folding can be creative; it can also be a mode of avoidance. It can be both simultaneously,” he writes. Lighter vein Journalist Samrat Choudhury, whose essay, ‘Aziz from Pakistan’, re-examines opposing sides of the Indo-Pak debate in the neutral setting of Japan, makes a strong case for empathy when he writes, “The astonishing thing about war in today’s world is that it happens at all. No normal person would wish it on any of the world’s peoples.” The usually sombre tone of the anthology is leavened with flashes of humour, as in Shovon Chowdhury’s cheeky short story, The Magic Pants , which tries to inject sex appeal into the trademark khaki-shorts uniform of the RSS. The laughs are a bit more strained in Veena Venugopal’s short story, The Maid, which follows the digital skulduggery of a domestic ‘influencer-type’ diva who is using (posed) pictures of her household help to get online appreciation. Besides those mentioned above, there are contributions from Tishani Doshi, Anjum Hasan, Janice Pariat, Gopika Jadeja, Annie Zaidi, Tabish Khair, Swaminathan S. Anklesaria Aiyar, Manu Dash, Sudeep Chakravarti, Mohammad Muneem, Prajwal Parajuly, Sumana Roy, Radhika Jha, Namita Devidayal, Srijato and Natasha Badhwar. As this anthology shows, there are clearly many ways to fold a piece of paper.  A Thousand Cranes for India: Reclaiming Plurality amid Hatred Edited by Pallavi Aiyar Seagull Books  Rs. 499    The anthology speaks to us especially because we are big on symbolism in India — whether it is in the colours of the national flag or the gestures that form the grammar of performing arts||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/something-rich-and-strange/article33484816.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||The Spy Who Came in from the Cold by John le Carré||From the day his third novel, The Spy Who Came in from the Cold , was published in 1963, John le Carré realised that he was to be branded “the spy turned writer, rather than a writer who, like scores of his kind, had done a stint in the secret world, and written about it.” Le Carré, a mask for David Cornwell, had worked for the British Secret Intelligence Service, known as MI6, in the 1960s. He was in service when his first three novels came out: his employers cleared the publication because they concluded that the books were “sheer fiction”, uninformed by personal experience. When le Carré became too famous as a writer, he quit his job with the British intelligence and concentrated on writing, turning out over 20 ‘genre’ novels that would gather praise from peers like Graham Greene and Philip Roth. When he passed away on December 12, 2020, the world lost one of the most important chroniclers of the post-war era who had taken into his sweep the end of empire, the Cold War, the fall of the Soviet Union, American hegemony, but most of all the frailty of the human condition. Air of conspiracy Betrayal, loss, abandonment (of ideology and country) are common themes in le Carré’s novels, which use the spy trope to tell the story of relationships and broken people. In The Spy , a 50-year-old British agent, Alec Leamas, is given up to save an ex-Nazi turned communist in the German Democratic Republic (as East Germany was known as) who is a mole for the U.K. intelligence. It is the 1960s: Leamas had been spying in the backdrop of the Berlin Wall for his British masters. Now ‘Control’ (the name Leamas gives to the head of the Secret Service) wants to bring him in but he is handed out one last assignment, and thereby hangs a tale, built layer by chilling layer. Leamas’ carefully chosen girlfriend, Liz Gold, gets tragically caught in it. The day Leamas heads for East Germany, it’s cold, damp and grey, with the mist pricking his skin. The airport reminds Leamas of the war (World War II — he is a veteran): “machines, half hidden in the fog, waiting patiently for their masters;…Everywhere that air of conspiracy which generates among people who have been up since dawn — of superiority almost, derived from the common experience of having seen the night disappear and the morning come.” Such keenly-observed descriptions abound, of places and people. Devilish brew When realisation dawns upon Leamas in the end that things will not turn out the way he had anticipated, he feels betrayed. But too tired to think of his own fate, he is desperate for Liz to escape the mess. William Boyd writes in the introduction to the Penguin Modern Classics edition that all Leamas wants is that Liz should get over the Wall, to Berlin and safety. But his masters, and not the least, George Smiley — “mastermind of the devilish brew of bluff and counter bluff” and hero of future le Carré novels (the Karla trilogy) — have other plans. They want Leamus to be free, but not Liz, who knows too much. Boyd says that in refusing to come in from the cold as a spy, Leamas comes in from the cold as a person: “In his deliberate orchestration of his death he shows that he is a human being.” In John le Carré: The Biography, Adam Sisman tries to pin down the enigmatic writer. Quoting le Carré, who once wrote, “people who have had very unhappy childhoods are pretty good at inventing themselves,” Sisman says that this applies to le Carré himself. Brought up by a conman father and the memory of a mother who left when he was five, he learnt to invent stories as a boy to escape reality. Sisman points that as a man he put these skills to professional use, first as a spy and then as a writer: “I’m a liar, born to lying, bred to it, trained to it by an industry that lies for a living, practised in it as a novelist.” Le Carré reinvented the spy novel, and The Spy Who Came in from the Cold is one of its finest manifestations. The writer looks back at one classic every month.  William Boyd writes in one introduction to the book that in refusing to come in from the cold as a spy, Leamas comes in from the cold as a person||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-spy-who-came-in-from-the-cold-by-john-le-carr/article33484818.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||City of the ragged heart||When do we start thinking of an adopted homeland as ours , for better or for worse, for richer, for poorer, in sickness and in health? M. Mukundan’s Delhi: A Soliloquy is an ode to our Delhi, from the perspective of the protagonist, Sahadevan, and Devi and Shreedharanunni and Lalitha and Kunhikrishnan and all the other wandering Malayali souls who drifted to the capital city over the decades and became a part of it. It soon transforms from a destination for economic success to something that has a hold over your heart; why else would Dasappan, the poor, desperate barber — always called in Delhi terms the nai — cling on to his life in the city for so long, scraping together enough money for a bare existence, when he could be enjoying the same poverty in Kerala but with his family close by and with less filth? Wretched filth and direst poverty are recurring features, particularly as a shock and reality check for the new arrivals who land up dreaming of Shahjahanabad or Pandit Nehru’s red rose buttonhole. The main characters, however, are a little more middle-class. Just about. They may not be struggling to survive, but until the tailend of the book they struggle to do much more than survive. Saving up or improving one’s situation are daunting prospects in this bleak depiction of pre-liberalisation India, which calls to mind the old jibes about the Hindu rate of growth. If the story could be said to have a villain, it’s the economic hopelessness and stagnation. Mukundan’s typical melancholy suffuses this tour de force of the lives of Delhi Malayalis in the second half of the 20th century, from the wars of the 1960s to the Emergency and vasectomies, the anti-Sikh riots and New India. His own lived experience of decades in Delhi lends it an incomparable authenticity, and there’s plenty to elicit a smile from those familiar with the Malayali shops of INA Market or the Uttara Guruvayurappan Temple in Mayur Vihar. The English translation by Fathima E.V. and Nandakumar K. is a clean and lucid rendering of Mukundan’s brilliant Malayalam original.  Delhi: A Soliloquy M. Mukundan, trs Fathima E.V. & Nandakumar K. Westland (Eka)  Rs. 799||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/city-of-the-ragged-heart/article33484820.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Life before men||Dystopian fiction tells us as much about where we are headed as it does about where we currently are. Writers like Margaret Atwood and Leni Zumas can be credited with starting a feminist trend within speculative fiction. The Handmaid’s Tale or Zumas’s Red Clocks show us how easily women’s rights and bodily autonomy can be snatched away even in supposedly liberal set-ups.   Before She Sleeps — Pakistani journalist and fiction-writer Bina Shah’s sixth novel — is set in a place where these rights had never been granted in the first place. Green City, a fictional place in South West Asia, survives a global nuclear fallout 70 years from now. Because a deadly virus has killed the majority of women in the City, the authorities parcel off the remaining women to husbands chosen by the ‘Perpetuation Bureau’. Women are left with no choice but to embrace state-sanctioned polygamy, turning into birthing machines to “bring an entire nation back to life”. Sabine, the rebel protagonist, joins the Panah, an underground all-women outfit, to escape the clutches of reproductive slavery. The women in the Panah survive by providing an elite clientèle of men in Green City with their company, minus sex. They take on the emotional labour of soothing their male clients and lulling them to sleep. Shah does a convincing job of explaining Green City’s inner workings. Well-chosen details transport the reader to a state-of-the-art city where patriarchy harnesses the full force of technology to enslave women. An impending sense of doom pervades the story from the start. The dread builds up in increments, leading to a terrifying climax. The novel grapples with topical themes such as gender oppression, reproductive rights, surveillance technology and the alarming rise of authoritarian regimes, but the world it orbits is a strictly heterosexual one. Not a single queer character is to be found in Green City — an absence I found rather perplexing. That said, Before She Sleeps is a significant addition to the modern feminist dystopian fiction genre because it offers the rare non-Western perspective. The writer is the author of A Happy Place And Other Stories.  Before She Sleeps Bina Shah Pan Macmillan India  Rs. 599||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/life-before-men/article33484822.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||An incomplete critique of present-day turbulence||In her latest book Azadi: Freedom. Fascism. Fiction. , Arundhati Roy continues her dissenting voice as a writer-activist that had begun with her essay in political criticism, ‘The End of Imagination’ (1998). While reviewing Azadi , I would like to reflect on the nature of Roy’s political criticism.  Azadi is a collection of nine essays, some written for magazines and periodicals, and some delivered as public lectures between 2018 and 2020. The pieces offer a strong criticism of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the network of forces associated with his regime. The essays, therefore, cover mainly the contemporary political turbulence in India — mob lynching, attacks on minorities, the Kashmir problem, the crisis in Assam, demonetisation, CAA-NPR-NRC, the arrest of activists, the conspiracy of Pulwama and Balakot attacks, and the mismanagement of the pandemic, among others. Language of rain What gives unity to these standalone articles is an attempt to frame contemporary happenings with the idea of ‘azadi’ — freedom for Kashmir and novel-writing as freedom with responsibility. But Roy is at her best in “the essays that have been written through the eyes of a novelist and the universe of her novels”. The very first one in the collection and also the most appealing of her pieces, ‘In What Language Does Rain Fall Over Tormented Cities?’ formulates novel writing as an art of translation. While narrating the story of the separation of Hindi and Urdu, it demonstrates how her ‘novels are written in one language but imagined in several languages’. Another essay,‘The Graveyard Talks Back’, skilfully weaves the making of her literature and political criticism, reflecting on fiction in the time of fake news. But the rest of the essays are a quilt woven with facts meant to denigrate a predetermined enemy. Roy’s political criticism does not develop an adequate critique of Modi’s governance and allied forces. It lacks the very nature of an ideal critique, the practice of not only showing what is wrong with the object of criticism, but also accounting for why things are the way they are. For example, the essay, ‘Election Season in a Dangerous Democracy’, reads like a charge sheet, hardly developing any explanation. It would have been useful if her criticism had accounted for the conditions of possibility — the forces that produced the present government, including the people who wanted this regime. Cause for change Most of these pieces seem to believe in changing the world with rhetoric and polemics. In her ‘Statement at Hum Dekhenge All India Convention of Writers and Artists,’ addressed to comrades-in-arms, Roy gives a clarion call to “artists, writers, musicians, painters and filmmakers to prepare themselves to be unpopular and to put themselves in danger in order to win a world”. Her political commentary, however, advanced more with preconceived hatred than an enquiry-based political philosophy, does not make us think; nor is the language of the writer-activist fashioned to influence Modi followers.  Azadi remains a book of records that fashions facts with rhetorically intense prose. However, if we have followed the news at least once a week, Roy’s narratives won’t treat us with new facts and insights. They certainly offer meaty stuff to foreign readers and, of course, some speeches and pieces were indeed originally addressed to audiences abroad. The writer is Chairman, Department of English Studies, Davangere University, Karnataka.  Azadi: Freedom. Fascism. Fiction Arundhati Roy Penguin  Rs. 499    What gives unity to these standalone articles is an attempt to frame contemporary happenings with the idea of ‘azadi’ — freedom for Kashmir and novel-writing as freedom with responsibility||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/an-incomplete-critique-of-present-day-turbulence/article33484839.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1Born on January 3, 1760 in Panchalankurichi, Tamil Nadu, this patriot was the 47th of his dynasty. He ruled the state with great ability and was a patron of the arts. The British waged a bloody battle against him and he was captured finally and put to a one-sided trial. When he was commanded to request a pardon he said, “Do what you want to do, you cowards.” Who was this brave king? 2Born on January 3, 1831, this lady is hailed as one of India’s first modern feminists. After being married off at the age of nine, she went on to fight social evils such as child marriage, the caste system and sati. She and her husband opened 18 girls-only schools, which were among the first in the country. She was also a philosopher and poet and a compassionate social reformer. Who was this all-around amazing lady? 3Born on January 3, 1892, this linguist and expert on Old English and Old Norse literature was a professor at Oxford University. He was supposed to take only 36 lectures per year but took up to 136. He went to parties dressed as a polar bear, and was known to hand shopkeepers his false teeth as payment. His love for languages and history cemented his creation as one of the most enduring fantasy universes. Who was this professor whose books have been turned into multiple Oscar-winning movies? 4Born on January 3, 1926, Sir George Martin was an English composer and music producer who for more than 60 years was responsible for shaping the sound of British and consequently world music. For his extensive collaboration with a certain iconic band he was honoured by being called ‘The Fifth’ person in the band. Which band did Sir George Martin do extensive work with? 5Born on January 3, 1929, Sergio Leone was an influential Italian film director known and loved for a certain genre of movies known as ‘Spaghetti Westerns’ that he made in the 1960s. Although a typical example of this movie will have an Italian cast and crew, the most famous actor in these was an American. Who was this actor who, thanks to Leone, became known globally as the ‘Man with No Name’? 6Born on January 3, 1937, Glen A. Larson was an American television producer who created many iconic TV series that were globally famous in the 1980s. Some of his biggest hits were Battlestar Galatica , Magnum P.I. , The Fall Guy , Automan and Manimal . The series he was known best for in India centered round KITT, a self-aware car with artificial intelligence that helped its driver fight crime. What was the name of this action-packed series that had a catchy theme tune? 7Born on January 3, 1946, John Paul Jones started learning the piano from his father. In school he picked up the bass guitar and nearly joined the legendary instrumental band The Shadows when he was 16. He went on to become a founding member, bassist and keyboardist for one of the greatest rock-and-roll bands ever. What band is this whose song about a lady interested in buying a means to get to the afterlife is often voted the greatest rock song of all time? 8Born on January 3, 1969, this gentleman is considered one of the greatest in his sport, one of the few who is known even to those who don’t follow the sport. His brilliance was evident from a young age when at six years old he won a karting championship. He went on to win seven world championships. His greatest contribution has been to a team known for its vivid red colour, hence earning him the title ‘Red Baron’. Who is this legendary sportsman the world is waiting to hear good news from? 9Born on January 3, 1975, Thomas Bangalter is a French musician who, along with his working partner Guy-Manuel, is one of the most well known and commercially successful DJs of all time. They named their band after a negative review but went on to win multiple Grammy awards and become one of the best-selling bands of all time. Known for their mysterious attire where they refuse to take off their helmets in public, what is the name of Bangalter’s band? 10Born on January 3, 2003, this girl’s middle name is ‘Tintin’. When she was a kid she managed to convince her parents to follow an eco-friendly lifestyle. At the age of 15 she started spending her school time outside the Swedish parliament holding a sign that said ‘Skolstrejk för klimatet’ (School strike for climate). This soon caught on with many students and eventually became a world-wide movement. She has been named one of the most influential people on the planet. Who is this girl who is the youngestTimeperson of the year? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/easy-like-sunday-morning/article33484856.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Notes from under the peepal||Tulsidas wrote in the Ramcharitmanas about their poetic movement, said a friend, as I stared at the peepal leaves. I sat, silent and smitten, amazed yet again, at the swaying of the leaves. The poet, in the epic’s Ayodhya Khand, had allured to a wavering mind, the friend added. From a distance, the swaying leaves appear like happy children playing, while a closer view makes me wonder if this is what the wind chimes at the Pearly Gates look like. It is a special feeling to rest my back against the tree trunk and look at the sky — netted by its dangling leaves. With the peepal, it is more a case of sitting with the tree rather than sitting under the tree. Intrigued by the beauty and mystery of the Asvattha or the Bodhivriksha, as it is also known, and egged on by the friend’s comment, I looked up more. Majestic anyway Harini Nagendra and Seema Mundoli write in their book Cities and Canopies , ‘The sound is like the pattering of raindrops, as the wavy leaves brush against each other’. They further add, ‘The same tree in the dry season, stripped of all its leaves, looks equally majestic’. While Sriram Aravamundan writes, ‘The leaves appear to sway and shimmy even in the stillest of weather, when not a leaf on any other tree stirs’. This particular peepal tree that I visit regularly is also friends with a neem tree, which stands a dozen or so feet away. The branches of both trees meet up in the air. They remind me of how the younger me often wanted to meet friends. Some of the peepal’s branches, strong and gentle, have grown in other direction as well, towards the river, for instance. Does it seek a better view of the flowing water? I also wonder what the tree thinks of or if it speaks to the freshly planted saplings along the river bank. On the peepal’s branches I have on multiple occasions spotted civets scampering up and down. Of course, the barbets always seem to be around. The towering tree with its magnificent trunk has a soothing presence. Perhaps this is why wiser men and women have planted the peepal at temples and other places of worship and peace. Not all peepal trees boast of a grand and stately demeanour though. Many of them sprout on rooftops. A friend, who loves trees even more than I do, had once asked me if the peepal has an innate sense that allows it to figure out that people have vacated the building. For, she had added, it then takes over the entire building slowly and silently. Renu Singhal notes, ‘One of the unlikeliest of places where I spotted a peepal sprout was in the rusted bodywork of a passing bus... waving triumphantly green beside a window...’ In battle hymns The adoration of the peepal is anything but recent. Mike Shanahan, the author of Ladders to Heaven writes, ‘Buddhists, Hindus and Jains have revered this species for more than two millennia. The same tree featured in battle hymns sung by the Vedic people 3,500 years ago. And, 1,500 years earlier, it appeared in the myths and art of the Indus Valley Civilisation’. Two of its other names also highlight its religious associations, Sacred Fig and Ficus religiosa . Connecting the past and the present is one of the world’s most famous peepal trees — the one at the Mabodhi Temple at Bodh Gaya. Recent reports say that the pandemic-induced lockdown has been beneficial for the tree. It is telling on the times that the closure of the temple has led to improvement of the tree’s health. Sarnath, another place associated with Buddha, also has a peepal that is revered. Here too efforts have been taken up during recent years to save the tree. Although I always see its leaves scattered beneath the tree’s canopy, one morning, when I visited it after a gap of a few weeks, I saw many figs strewn about. ‘Ripe figs are devoured by birds and are a favourite food of migrating rosy starlings,’ writes Pradip Krishen in his Jungle Trees of Central India . Ben Crair eloquently describes figs as, ‘enclosed flowers that bloom modestly inward, unlike the flamboyant showoffs on other plants’. He adds, ‘Because a fig is actually a ball of flowers, it requires pollination to reproduce, but because the flowers are sealed, not just any bug can crawl inside. That task belongs to a minuscule insect known as the fig wasp, whose life cycle is intertwined with the fig’s’. Each time I read, there seems to be more, much more to the peepal. No wonder Krishna, in Bhagwad Gita , referred to himself as the peepal amongst trees. The writer is a history buff and avid blogger.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/notes-from-under-the-peepal/article33484864.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Triggering a laugh riot||From the Marvellous Mrs. Maisel to the incredible Kenny Sebastian, there is no denying that comedy continues to lighten us up and add some much-needed cheer to our mundane lives. Stand-up comedy, as a genre, has flourished in the age of the Internet, specifically due to the rise of YouTube and OTT platforms. It is interesting to note a paradigm shift in the scope of comedy and understand audience expectations in the new and “woke” age that we live in. TV shows have transformed from having largely white, heterosexual characters along with outdated comedy that draws laughs by stereotyping people ( The Big Bang Theory , Seinfield , Friends , and so on) to refreshing comedy with diverse casting that takes an active stance against homophobia, racism and xenophobia ( Brooklyn Nine Nine , The Good Place and so on) Stand-up comedy is not lagging in its wokeness. Hannah Gadsby’s Nanette (2018) was a deeply personal account of growing up gay in a small Australian town and it managed to be both incredibly funny and painfully arresting. Hasan Minhaj’s Homecoming King (2017), which drew largely from his experience of growing up brown in America, was both gritty and hilarious. A slew of first and second-generation immigrants continues to shine on the stand-up comedy stage worldwide (Aziz Ansari, Trevor Noah, Ali Wong, to name a few). Closer home, stand-up comedy has diversified and has been adapted to suit the preferences of the many regional audiences that India has. In the Indian stand-up sphere, Aravind SA has been one of the prominent proponents of “Brand Madras” ever since his Chapati song (Lungi Dance parody) went viral on YouTube. In his latest Prime special, I was not ready da , he counters myriad issues among which is the imposition of Hindi. The movement against the imposition of Hindi in Tamil Nadu has historic roots and the sentiment continues to find a strong base among people in the State. In the special, Aravind shares hilarious anecdotes and uses Tamil cuss words most liberally. But often, he makes sobering remarks on “burning” issues. For instance, he mentions that he is not hating the idea of learning other languages but is against “the idea of learning another language at the expense of your mother tongue”. It is laudable that new-age comedians are relentless in their critiquing of age-old practices and discriminatory beliefs. Some may take issue with comedians taking a stance on political issues but as an eminent professor once said, “If you have a voice that is privileged enough to be heard, make sure you say something that makes a difference.” divyavenkattu@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/triggering-a-laugh-riot/article33484813.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Stories from the steel frame||At 29, M.M. Rajendran, a Tamil Nadu cadre IAS officer and 1957 batch topper, got his first lessons in disaster management. As Ramanathapuram Collector, he dealt with the aftermath of the December 1964 cyclone, which left the Dhanushkodi port town in ruins. This experience came in handy 35 years later when he took oath as Governor, a fortnight after a super cyclone paralysed Odisha. The Giridhar Gamang government appeared clueless on tackling the devastation. In Service Uninterrupted: Memoirs of M.M. Rajendran , the author recounts Gamang telling him in “no uncertain terms” that he had no objections to the Governor providing “leadership” for relief and rehabilitation work. Odisha innings “The Chief Secretary had been allowed to go on leave after the cyclone hit the State,” he notes. Thereupon Rajendran coordinated the rebuilding of Odisha, talking among others to Chief Minister of nearby Andhra Pradesh for help, besides engaging with the Prime Minister. Gamang’s successors Hemanand Biswal and Naveen Patnaik, also looked up to Rajendran for guidance. The memoirs say Patnaik endorsed the Governor’s meetings with district officials. He even got his list of Council of Ministers vetted by Rajendran dropping two names on the latter’s objections. Such a political course is uncommon in Rajendran’s IAS cadre State where the Governor is largely seen as a ceremonial head. His Odisha innings is covered extensively in the second part where he comes across as taking earnest efforts for the welfare of the State and in developing its universities. The first part deals with Rajendran’s early life and years as civil servant during which he worked closely with several Tamil Nadu Chief Ministers from K. Kamaraj to M. Karunanidhi. Conspicuously, he skips some details about the violence that followed while recording two important sessions of the Legislative Assembly — when MGR’s widow Janaki Ramachandran moved a vote of confidence in January 1988 and when Karunanidhi presented the budget in March 1989. As Chief Secretary he showed Karunanidhi’s broken glasses to then Governor P.C. Alexander and gave him an “objective version” of the day’s happenings. But he does not describe the physical attack on then leader of the Opposition Jayalalithaa. Rajendran, as Labour Commissioner, had a role in ending a strike lasting over 100 days at The Hindu in 1968. Despite his stints in the UNICEF and the Government of India, he was not appointed Cabinet Secretary, the politics behind which, he bitterly discusses at length. Controversial version    He reveals certain little-known aspects of why Prime Minister Chandrasekhar dismissed the Karunanidhi government and the circumstances under which Congress MPs abstained from voting on Supreme Court judge Ramaswamy’s impeachment motion. The book erroneously mentions Rajiv Gandhi was assassinated in 1992 [May 21, 1991]. Also, it says attempts by some AIADMK leaders to prevent Jayalalithaa from climbing on to the gun carriage carrying MGR’s coffin, was “not to much avail”. In reality, she was pushed out. He controversially advocates that “Tamils had migrated to Sri Lanka when it was under British rule”. The memoir provides interesting anecdotes about popular politicians and covers some significant events. Perhaps, Rajendran could have avoided detailing the numerous functions he attended.   Service Uninterrupted: Memoirs of M.M. Rajendran M.M. Rajendran Har-Anand Publications  Rs. 795||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/stories-from-the-steel-frame/article33484834.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Against the odds?||South’s three-diamond bid was natural and game forcing. North’s three-spade bid was ambiguous. Did he have a big hand for diamonds or was he worried about clubs? South couldn’t bid three no trump with two little clubs so he bid four diamonds. North’s five-club cue bid showed slam interest in diamonds so South bid the slam. A good auction. South won the opening club lead with dummy’s ace and led a diamond to the ace, hoping for the king to fall. The king didn’t, but the jack did. South had to discard his remaining club before leading another trump. Should he play on spades or hearts? The spade suit seems to offer the best chance, as there are more missing spades than hearts — hence less chance of an enemy ruff. The fall of the jack of diamonds, however, changed South’s focus from spades to hearts. A ruff by East wouldn’t hurt, as it would be with the king of trumps presumably. Should West have both missing diamonds, however, he would be ruffing in front of dummy and that could be handled. Declarer led a heart to dummy’s queen, a heart back to his ace, and then the king of hearts. Had West ruffed high, dummy’s club would have been discarded. West ruffed low, so dummy over-ruffed and South switched to spades. The third high spade provided a parking place for the losing club and West was held to one trump trick. Nicely played!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/against-the-odds/article33484859.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Too much fact-checking||Dear Agony Akka,  Whether there is any justice in this world? First of all, I am writing email asking advice from girl who is, I am thinking, half of my age. Worse, I have to call her ‘Akka’, like some plot twist in K. Balachander film Apoorva Raagangal . Whether you have seen it? I saw it in 1975, in Midland theatre: ticket price Rs. 2.90; popcorn at interval 50 paise; bus ticket up and down 40 paise. Rajinikanth’s first film, but storyline was so confusing even today I get headache solving the relationship riddle. Reviews are all saying aha-oho, but nobody is explaining jangiri -type plot. Last week, Rajinikanth was admitted in hospital. Official reason: BP fluctuation. But I am thinking real reason is headache from solving same riddle for 45 years. When I posted this on family WhatsApp group, my 10-year-old grandson is fact-checking me: “Actually, thatha …” My question is: how to deal with a pesky grandson who is checking my posts and forwards and humiliating me in family WhatsApp group? Is there any UN agency dealing with such chicanery? — Grandpa of a Twit     Dear GOAT,  Clearly, you are dealing with a civilizational crisis in your family, which calls for some drastic action. For one thing, your easily outraged grandson sounds like he wouldn’t recognise a joke if it reached out and bit him on his rear end. If you don’t watch out, he will soon start hectoring all your family members at prime time, not unlike a certain high-decibel news anchor we all know (but wish we didn’t). More generally, this business of fact-checking everything, even on family groups, is killing the limitless joy of spreading fake news, which even until a short while ago was carried out with so much delight by WhatsApp uncles and thathas . In that sense, the Golden Age of fake forwards is well and truly over. Fake news factories once operated on an industrial scale, relying largely on busy mamas and kakas to get the word out into every family circle. In fact, my friend Roshni tells me a professional YouTuber in her native Bihar was raking in lakhs generating weird conspiracy theories. And I remember how a few years ago, a French Indophile commentator wrote a satirical article suggesting he had come across an old, rusting trunk with inscriptions by Nostradumus that predicted the rise of a man named “Narendrus” from “Gujaratus” as India’s “supreme leader”. A mainstream news channel fell for it and reported it as news. It used to be that easy. But, sadly, these days everyone is fact-checking everything. They are spiking all the fake stuff in real time. Where’s the fun in that? But the biggest reason why fake news is flopping is because in recent times, real news has become so bizarre that no fake news factory is able to compete with anything half as sensational. My cousin in the Aadhaar office tells me that there was once an application in the name of one ‘Osama bin Laden’; obviously, a fake name, but the man’s real name, it turned out, was Saddam Hussein. Can any IT cell match that? Then there have been instances of women marrying themselves in ‘sologamy’ ceremonies and, in at least in one case, a sologamist subsequently “cheated on herself”. Earlier this year, a Kazakh bodybuilder got hitched to a sex doll. Okay, that’s not so strange, you say. But the love story has a tragic twist — as a consequence of his weighty passion, the doll was broken in two, quite literally. Can any fake news match that for melodrama? So, GOAT, your overzealously fact-checking grandson needs to be held in check. But in the absence of any UN agency, you’ll have to deal with him yourself. To disown him or to expel him from the family WhatsApp group seems excessive. Just follow the time-tested WhatsApp Uncle technique for wearing down family groups — bombard him with syrupy ‘Good Morning’ messages and devotional videos. That will teach him to fact-check you. — AA   agony.akka@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/too-much-fact-checking/article33484854.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Young leadership||Arya Rajendran, 21, became the youngest mayor in the country when she was sworn in as mayor of the Thiruvananthapuram Municipal Corporation. Having won a seat on the council as a Left Democratic Front (LDF) candidate in last month’s local body elections, the second-year B.Sc. student made history when she was voted in as mayor by the LDF’s 52 councillors as well as three independents in the 100-member body.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/young-leadership/article33484795.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||No party||Tamil superstar Rajinikanth, who had said he would soon launch a political party, announced that he would not enter the electoral fray, citing a health condition and the pandemic as reasons. He was recently admitted to hospital for severe fluctuations in blood pressure. Earlier, the shooting of his filmAnnaththewas called off after some crew tested positive for COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/no-party/article33484797.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Variant virus||Twenty people in India tested positive for the variant of the SARS- CoV-2 virus reported first from the U.K. Of these, eight are in New Delhi. India meanwhile suspended flights to and from the U.K. until January 7. Several countries have reported the variant virus, including Canada, Denmark, Australia, Italy, Japan, Jordan, Lebanon, Nigeria and Singapore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/variant-virus/article33484799.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Abortion legalised||In a landmark decision, Argentina legalised abortion, making it the third South American country to do so. Pro-choice activists erupted in jubilation as the decision was announced. The bill legalises terminations through the first 14 weeks of pregnancy. “Today we are a better society,” tweeted Argentina’s president, Alberto Fernández.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/abortion-legalised/article33484801.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Fate of a nation||The U.K.’s post-Brexit trade deal with the European Union, concluded on December 24, was hurriedly passed into law as it ran up against the end of the transition period, December 31. In a 14-hour parliamentary whirlwind, MPs voted the Bill through by 521 votes to 73; it then sailed unopposed through the House of Lords and was signed into law by the Queen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/fate-of-a-nation/article33484803.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Creative destruction||Conditionally approving terms of reference for the Central Vista project, the environment ministry’s Expert Appraisal Committee asked the Central Public Works Department to submit environment-friendly plans for its proposed demolitions of buildings. According to the minutes, these will include the National Museum (above) and the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts, among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/creative-destruction/article33484805.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||People on our Roof||Shefali Tripathi Mehta  Niyogi Books Rs. 399 In a once-grand, now rundown, bungalow in South Delhi, Naina lives with her mother, sister and a stigma, that madness ‘runs in the family’. When a face from her memory surfaces, she goes out in search of the truth behind her father’s disappearance. And the past begins to unspool.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/people-on-our-roof/article33484824.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Troy||Stephen Fry  Penguin Random House Rs. 699 In this retelling ofThe Iliad, ancient injustices, monstrous passions, the highest ideals and the lowest cunning are highlighted again as the Greeks fight the Trojans for 10 long years. The heroism and hatred, revenge and regret, desire and despair of the story still speak to us today.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/troy/article33484828.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Zoravar||Maharsh Shah  HarperCollins Rs. 299 1945, Lahore, India. Zoravar Cheema, a movie buff, dreams of becoming a star. He goes to Bombay, moonlighting as a member of a crime gang, spending nights on the streets, and serving as the junior-most apprentice to actors and directors. Then a freak encounter makes his dream come true.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/zoravar/article33484830.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Dancing in the Mosque: An Afghan Mother’s Letter to Her Son||Homeira Qaderi  HarperCollins  Rs. 564 (Kindle price) Defying the law, Homeira Qaderi risked her freedom to teach children reading and writing and fought for women’s rights in a patriarchal society. But after her son was born, she was forced to flee and this is a letter to the child she had to leave behind in Afghanistan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/dancing-in-the-mosque-an-afghan-mothers-letter-to-her-son/article33484841.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||The Language of History||Audrey Truschke  Allen Lane/PRH  Rs. 699 This volume analyses a group of histories on Indo-Muslim or Indo-Persian political events, namely Sanskrit texts written by men and at least one woman that date from the 1190s until 1721. This archive lends insight into expressions of pre-modern political, social, cultural and religious identities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-language-of-history/article33484843.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||The Chipko Movement: A People’s History||Shekhar Pathak  Permanent Black/ Orient BlackSwan  Rs. 895 Placing Chipko in its grassroots context, a historian shows that in leadership and ideology the movement, which began in 1973, was diverse. Pathak records the voices of ordinary men and women such as Gaura Devi who made Chipko what it was.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-chipko-movement-a-peoples-history/article33484845.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||The Sunday Crossword No. 3131||Across  1 Cake Rubens represented having risen badly, current missing in heaters (6,7) 8 Primarily, clever lyrist inhabiting Olympus? (4) 9 Time, perhaps, for every one old to call about cold (10) 10 Queen’s after exotic fruit: that’s increasingly plain (6) 11 Account involving narrative, extremely droll, one tells everyone for starters? (8) 12 Oarsman flailing about in landlocked country (3,6) 14 Christmas in retirement in Spanish kingdom (4) 15 Give medicine to those in Brooklyn (4) 16 Distressed damsel in Alfa Romeo (6,3) 20 A Spandau Ballet song, a Joni Mitchell song and a Madonna song (4,4) 21 Cry-baby mostly unsettled and grouchy (6) 23 Bribes ‘small, insubstantial’: low-value banknotes with one note missing (10) 24 We’re told drawing of the sea... is... drawn (4) 25 Writer spending energy once in novel, Torch, Belt & Beret (7,6)  Down  1 Express disapproval about Latin grammar: not advisable, initially, somewhere in Italy (7) 2 I complain about old mother-in-law (5) 3 Beethoven’s fifth concerto describing a kind of penguin (7) 4 A tribesman began to crumple, having been knocked down (7-8) 5 Greek island which will lead, they say, to Italian city (6) 6 Everyman’s shown up with drunken English lords and sinners (9) 7 Spare part installed by artisan after losing first four (7) 13 One armed with sword (in fiction) and firearm (in reality)! (9) 15 A bit of Poldark we bit-torrented in lawless online world (4,3) 17 Tooth seen in bionic bits you’re oddly ignoring (7) 18 Relaxing, Bambi? Entirely? Not entirely (7) 19 A little classic board game getting to grips with homicide, in the end? (6) 22 American shiraz technician bottles (5)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-sunday-crossword-no-3131/article33484862.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Sunday REcipe||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/sunday-recipe/article33484793.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Why people with prior infection still need vaccination||As on January 1, nearly 10.3 million SARS-CoV-2 cases have been reported in India, and in all about 50% of people in large urban cities and about 30% of those across India would have already been infected. The four high-risk groups that would receive the vaccine on priority in India alone amount to 300 million people, meaning 600 million doses would be required to vaccinate them. Since vaccine shortage is expected to last at least for a few months, it may seem appealing to delay or avoid vaccinating those who have been naturally infected. But does science support such a decision? “A small minority of those with even symptomatic infection do not end up making high levels of antibodies, and another small minority of such naturally infected people do not make long-lasting antibodies. So, all in all, it is the easiest policy to immunise people without worrying about whether they have been previously infected or not,” immunologist Dr. Satyajit Rath, formerly with the Delhi-based National Institute of Immunology, says in an email. Dr. Gagandeep Kang, Professor of Microbiology at CMC Vellore elaborates saying that while highest levels of binding antibodies are seen in people with the most severe disease, asymptomatic infections may result in low antibody levels or even no antibodies being measured in up to 20% of people. Besides binding antibodies, functional antibodies that block or neutralise the virus are also found in infected people. “Limited studies patients indicate that memory T cells are produced against the virus which indirectly implies that immunity is likely to be longer,” says neurovirologist Dr. V. Ravi formerly with NIMHANS. Lack of knowledge “At the moment, we do not know what really protects against SARS-CoV2 disease, and at what threshold, and for how long. Vaccines are made to induce a good immune response, which is expected to be more predictable than the response to infection. But immune responses in vaccinated people are still being studied, particularly to understand what is protective and how long protection lasts,” says Dr. Kang in an email. “Based on all that we know and do not know at this time, it is advised that even if you have been infected before, you should take the vaccine.” “Both practical considerations as well as lack of precise information on how long immunity lasts after a natural infection necessitates that we do not discriminate against people, says Dr. Ravi. Another reason why skipping vaccination in people already infected might not be advisable is the way the virus in general primes the immune system. Dr. Rath says immune responses to natural infection can be modified by immune evasion mechanisms of the virus. But vaccine formulations do not include those viral tricks, and therefore, immune responses to the vaccines are more likely to be uniform and predictable. “Yes, it is possible that vaccines can result in an immune response that does better than natural infection. We have known this for a long time,” adds Dr. Kang. Variable responses Like in the case of natural infection, vaccines too can produce responses that can be variable across people. “Virus dosage varies a great deal in natural infection, and viral immune evasion tricks work variably well in different individuals. These two sources of variation do not apply to vaccines, so variation in vaccine-generated immune responses is likely to be less than that in natural infection,” Dr. Rath explains. Dr. Ravi says that variation will depend on the type of vaccine, host age and underlying comorbidities, which generally can cause a degree of immunosuppression. Globally, only a handful of reinfection cases have been documented so far, and a few studies show that protection from natural infection lasts over six months. Despite overwhelming evidence, it does not support skipping vaccination in those with prior infection. First, there is no evidence for how long on average protection from natural infection lasts. Also, large-scale genome sequencing studies have not been undertaken to categorically say reinfections have been just a handful. Challenging prospect “In principle, if infection protects against sufficient disease, it would be okay for people who have measurable protection to wait to be vaccinated. But since we do not know how long protection lasts, what constitutes a measure of protection and the logistics of getting people in priority groups back when the period of protection has waned, I think it would be challenging to establish a system that denies vaccination to those recently infected, even for a limited time,” emphasises Dr. Kang. Another possible reason to avoid vaccinating people with prior infection is the possibility of disease exacerbation. But there is no such evidence in the case of coronavirus. For one, some phase-3 trials have not tested participants for pre-existing antibodies prior to vaccination and excluded them. And so far, there are no reports of any harm, although it is not clear if the evidence is large enough to be sure. “There is no reason to assume that we should expect a problem. Unlike dengue where this may be an issue, we do not have multiple types of viruses causing COVID-19,” she says. If vaccination is to be done selectively, the bigger issue is of testing people for antibodies prior to vaccination. This raises several challenges — increased cost and time, logistics and manpower. “It is not really possible to operationalise pre-vaccination testing on a routine basis. We’re already learning in the U.S. that vaccinating the nation is a complicated undertaking and keeping it as simple as possible without complicated or fussy criteria might become necessary,” Dr. Peter Hotez, Professor, Departments of Pediatrics, Molecular Virology & Microbiology, Baylor College of Medicine says in an email. Also, since antibodies wane in about six months, ascertaining the infection status in people who were infected early during the pandemic becomes even more challenging and unlikely to give answers that are of practical use or public health solution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/why-people-with-prior-infection-still-need-vaccination/article33484164.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||India and the race for vaccine development||The COVID-19 pandemic began in January 2020. Italy, France and the U.S. had the novel coronavirus importation in November–December of 2019, but it had remained unrecognised until laboratory test for diagnosis became available in mid-January 2020. By January 24, 2020, infection was detected outside China, Hong Kong and Macau, in Thailand, Japan, Taiwan, South Korea, Viet Nam, the U.S., France, Australia, Singapore, Malaysia and Nepal. By January 31, last year, Philippines, India, Russia, Spain, Sweden and the U.K. had documented virus importation. By February first week,26 afflicted countries realised that they were in the grip of a grave pandemic. The race for vaccine development was on. Advanced biotechnology laboratories and large-scale vaccine manufacturing facilities made India a front runner, if not the best bet, to win the vaccine race in the world outside of China. We had two more advantages: representation in two global initiatives– the Global Pandemic Preparedness Monitoring Board and Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations, the latter advising the world to prepare for vaccine development. The Prime Minister promised to lead SAARC countries in pandemic response. A mammoth market for vaccines was readymade for India as SAARC countries represent 21% of world’s population. India had the capability to manufacture vaccine on a large scale. High-rated facilities India’s vaccine manufacturing facilities are highly rated, globally. They have in-house research and development laboratories. However, they are concerned with research of a practical nature, for refining processes and products, rather than basic and fundamental research necessary for designing new vaccine candidates. Universities and Institutes of technologies are where such new ideas are incubated. Commercial manufacturing facilities depend on profit for research funding. Universities and Institutes, funded by government and private philanthropic trusts, can pursue basic research without financial constraints. When confronted with urgent need for vaccines, the wise approach would have been to establish a platform to bring the two groups together for fast-tracking vaccine candidate designs, pre-clinical and clinical trials, and up-scaling manufacture of promising vaccines. Unfortunately, during January through March there was no guidance or leadership from the Government of India for vaccine development. The expertise of the two global initiatives was not adapted for meeting India’s needs or for asserting India’s global leadership. Filling the vacuum, fortunately, a few private companies, on their own initiative, invested heavily in vaccine development and up-scaling of vaccine production. Consequently, two made-in-India vaccines are now under the national regulatory agency’s assessment for suitability for emergency use authorisation. Neither vaccine has completed Phase 3 trials. One foreign vaccine company with a vaccine already registered in a few countries has also applied for similar approval. The regulatory agency has not yet approved any of them, as of December 31, 2020. China, by political decision and Russia, by temporary registration, initiated a national vaccination programme with indigenous vaccines by or before September, even before Phase 3 trials were completed. By the end of December 2020, thirty-three countries other than China and Russia had already started vaccinating their citizens with vaccines with proper regulatory agency approvals after they had completed very large Phase 3 trials. Four countries began vaccinations in the first half of December and twenty-nine countries began the process in the second half of December. Unique opportunity India had the unique opportunity not only to lead the world in vaccine development and supply, but also in designing a vaccination strategy and platform for rolling out vaccine to the public. India’s model would have been a guide not only for SAARC countries but also for many Asian and African countries with rather weak health management systems. That opportunity was entirely in the hands of the government. Utilising these two opportunities, India could have partly overcome the economic downturn due to the pandemic. The Government of India, Science Advisory bodies, economic advisors, Academia, Medical and Science Academies and Biotechnology experts ought to do some serious introspection now, and analyse how and why India missed this opportunity, in spite of the Prime Minister’s exhortation to scientists and entrepreneurs to “Make in India” for wealth creation and prosperity. We lacked neither competence nor infrastructure, but lulled ourselves into overconfidence and complacency. We were slow, but had we been steady, we ought to have won the race.  (T. Jacob John is former Professor and HOD, Clinical Virology Department, CMC Hospital, Vellore. M.S. Seshadri is Medical Director, Thirumalai Mission Hospital, Ranipet, Tamil Nadu.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/india-and-the-race-for-vaccine-development/article33484163.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||A new measure that can predict whether a city is prone to rain- or tide-based flooding||The C40 Cities report of 2018 notes that by 2050, over 570 low-lying coastal cities will face projected sea level rise by at least 0.5 meters, putting over 800 million people at risk from the impacts of rising seas and storm surges. While the inland areas can be flooded due to the heavy rainfall, the coasts are threatened by the impact of tidal surges. New metric To understand if a coastal city is more prone to floods caused by tidal events or extreme rainfall, a team from the Indian Institute of Technology Bombay devised a new metric or measure called the Tide–Rainfall Flood Quotient. “It is very important to understand the main driver of the flooding events for effective disaster management. Using the past rainfall data, tidal data, and topography of the region you can apply this framework to pinpoint the major factor at play,” explains Subhankar Karmakar from the Environmental Science and Engineering Department at IITB. He is the corresponding author of the work recently published in Environmental Research Letters.  The team selected three geographically diverse flood-prone coastal regions – Mithi Catchment in Mumbai, Maharashtra, Jagatsinghpur District in Odisha, and Greater Chennai Corporation in Tamil Nadu to test their new metric. The new method helped classify these regions into ‘storm-tide dominated’ or ‘pluvial (rainfall) dominated’ regions. In Mithi, they found a devastating impact of storm-tide reaching even up to a distance of 7 km from the coastal boundary. With Jagatsinghpur, high rainfall inundated several areas in the central region and the flatness of the terrain prevented easy drainage of the flood-water into the Bay of Bengal, which further increased the flooding. The flood maps for Chennai showed that rainfall contributed to the flooding, especially in the northern and central regions. Though there was storm-tide in the eastern coastal region, it was in the ‘low’ hazard category. They concluded that Mithi catchment was ‘storm-tide dominated’, while Jagatsinghpur and Chennai were ‘pluvial dominated’ Better management The team writes that the metric can help disaster management experts in framing better flood risk management systems directed towards long term planning. “For storm-tide dominated regions, severe flood hazard can be alleviated by building coastal defence structures such as closure dams, tide breakers, and storm-surge barriers at appropriate locations. The tide and surge forecasting systems in these regions should be equipped with state-of-the-art ocean circulation models...On the other hand, for pluvial dominated regions, structural measures such as rainwater storage structures, lakes, and detention basins should be prioritised in the flood management plans,” according to the authors. Mohit Prakash Mohanty, the first author of the paper who completed his Ph.D. from IITB adds: “We have planned to apply this metric and calculate for the 76 coastal districts of India. It is a hugely time-consuming task as it involves various large data including rainfall, tide, landscape, and elevation of the area. Our study now has given an idea that such long-term planning is needed especially in a country like India which has highly populated coastal cities.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/a-new-measure-that-can-predict-whether-a-city-is-prone-to-rain-or-tide-based-flooding/article33484153.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Woolly rhino from the Ice Age found in Russia||A well-preserved Ice Age woolly rhino with many of its internal organs still intact has been recovered from permafrost in Russia's extreme north. Russian media reported on Wednesday that the carcass was revealed by melting permafrost in Yakutia in August. Scientists are waiting for ice roads in the Arctic region to become passable to deliver it to a lab for studies next month. It’s among the best-preserved specimens of the Ice Age animal found to date. The carcass has most of its soft tissues still intact, including part of the intestines, thick hair and a lump of fat. Its horn was found next to it. Recent years have seen major discoveries of mammoths, woolly rhinos, Ice Age foal, and cave lion cubs as the permafrost increasingly melts across vast areas of Siberia because of global warming. Yakutia 24 TV quoted Valery Plotnikov, a paleontologist with the regional branch of the Russian Academy of Sciences, as saying the woolly rhino was likely three- or four-years-old when it died. Plotnikov said the young rhino likely drowned. Scientists dated the carcass as anywhere from 20,000- to 50,000-years-old. More precise dating will be possible once it is delivered to a lab for radiocarbon studies. The carcass was found on the bank of the Tirekhtyakh river in the Abyisk district, close to the area where another young woolly rhino was recovered in 2014. Researchers dated that specimen, which they called Sasha, at 34,000 years old.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/woolly-rhino-from-the-ice-age-found-in-russia/article33484152.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Know mosquito habits||Can some mosquitoes cause more malaria transmission? According to the World Health Organization, in 2019, there were an estimated 229 million cases of malaria worldwide and the number of malaria deaths stood at 4,09,000. Malaria is caused by Plasmodium parasites and is carried to humans via the bites of infected female Anopheles mosquitoes. A new study (PLOS Pathogens) has shown that if a mosquito has multiple bouts of blood meal, it can shorten the incubation period of the parasites and increase the malaria transmission potential. This poses new challenges to the current malaria elimination strategy. It also makes us rethink malaria research which is usually carried out by giving a single blood meal to the mosquitoes. Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts, U.S. researcher W. Robert Shaw, a lead author of the study, says in a release that malaria-transmitting mosquitoes in endemic regions feed on blood roughly every two to three days and the study shows that this natural behaviour strongly promotes the transmission potential of malaria parasites, in previously unappreciated ways. The team found that malaria transmission potential in the sub-Saharan Africa region is higher than previously thought, making disease elimination even more difficult. They also noted that parasites can be transmitted by younger mosquitoes, which are less susceptible to insecticides.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/know-mosquito-habits/article33484154.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||A rocky road for the banking sector in 2021||The story so far: After losses in two consecutive years, India’s scheduled commercial banks turned profitable in 2019-20. State-run banks continued to bleed for the fifth year in a row, but their losses were much more stifled. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) reckons that the first half of 2020-21 saw even greater improvements in banks’ vital statistics, with non-performing assets (NPAs) falling to 7.5% of outstanding loans by September 2020. The RBI attributed this to the resolution of a few large accounts through the introduction of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) in 2016, and fresh slippages in loan accounts dipping to just 0.74%. When were NPAs at dangerously high levels? Over the course of 2019-20, India’s banks were on the mend from a precarious position in March 2018, when bad loans on their books peaked to over Rs. 10 lakh crore — around 11.5%  of all loans. What former Chief Economic Adviser Arvind Subramanian had called India’s ‘twin balance sheet problem’ in the Economic Survey for 2016-17, had sent banks down a slippery slope, beset by dangerously high levels of non-performing assets. A large part of the problem started in the latter half of 2010s, as assumptions of persistently high economic growth made several large corporates overzealous in their investment ambitions, thus over-leveraging themselves in the process. And lenders, led by public sector banks, fuelled these plans through easy money on credit. The problem was particularly acute in the infrastructure sector, where high-stakes bets on several projects unravelled as growth (and demand) fizzled out following the global financial crisis of 2008. The stress from stretched corporate balance sheets infected banks’ own books and underwhelmed their capacity for fresh lending. This vicious cycle was interrupted to an extent by the IBC, which, along with tighter recognition norms for bad loans, helped correct the course over time. A decline in bad loans is good news. But is it the real picture? The problem is that the COVID-19 pandemic and the national lockdown enforced to curb its spread upended businesses and revenue models across industries, just as it did in the rest of the world. But unlike most of its peers, India’s economy had been declining sharply even before the emergence of the virus. The reason bad loans and insolvency proceedings have not surged as multiple businesses went kaput, taking millions of employees with outstanding retail loans down with them, is the series of regulatory forbearance steps taken by authorities to help them tide over this unprecedented crisis. Interest rates were cut after the onset of the pandemic, a moratorium was offered on loan instalments due from borrowers, and liquidity was infused into the system to keep the wheels of the economy moving without a further shock. At the same time, the invocation of the IBC was suspended for loans that went into default on or after March 25, when the lockdown began. While this suspension has now been stretched till March 31, 2021, a loan restructuring window for borrowers was closed in December 2020. Despite all this, life support in the form of adequate credit flows to some productive and COVID-19-stressed sectors has been deficient, the central bank has said. More worryingly, the RBI believes that a real picture of the state of borrowers’ accounts (and consequently, the banking system in general, and the economy at large), will emerge once these policy support measures are rolled back. What exactly has the RBI said about banks’ health? Roughly translated, the central bank is simply repeating the famous Warren Buffet aphorism — “Only when the tide goes out do you discover who has been swimming naked”. Monetary policy language is more nuanced, of course. “The modest GNPA ratio of 7.5% at end-September 2020 veils the strong undercurrent of slippage ... The data on gross non-performing assets (GNPA) of banks are yet to reflect the stress, obscured under the asset quality standstill with attendant financial stability implications,” the central bank has noted in its annual publication on trends and progress of banking in India released this week. Had the central bank’s normal loan classification norms been followed instead of the COVID-19 relief measures, bad loans would have been higher, the RBI has argued. “Given the uncertainty induced by COVID-19 and its real economic impact, the asset quality of the banking system may deteriorate sharply, going forward,” the report stated. It has also warned about large-scale loan defaults looming over housing finance companies, which have been hit by delays in completion of housing projects, cost overruns due to reverse migration of labourers, and delayed investments by buyers in the affordable housing sector as incomes shrank and jobs were lost. To make the banking sector healthy in the face of large-scale delinquencies and balance-sheet stress that the ravages of the pandemic leave behind, it is critical to “rewind various relaxations in a timely manner”, rein in loan impairment and ensure adequate capital infusion into banks, the RBI says. Experts say more taxpayer money may be needed to shore up public sector banks. What does this mean for India’s hopes for a bounce-back in the economy? Simply put, banks’ ability to lend is critical for businesses and the economy to grow. A deluge of bad loans impairs banks’ ability and willingness to lend, as has been evident in bankers’ aversion to risk in recent years. It is safer to park their funds in government securities, and public sector banks, that have seen a surge in deposits after the recent troubles at co-operative and private lenders like the PMC Bank, Yes Bank, and now Lakshmi Vilas Bank, may prefer to do just that. “Currency with public surged in response to the COVID-19 induced dash for cash while solvency issues related to a private sector bank also brought about some reassignment of deposits. During 2020-21 so far, deposits with PSBs grew at a higher pace than usual, partly reflecting perception of their safe haven status,” the RBI noted. Latest data for November suggest a slight uptick in bank credit flows, but lending to industry as a whole still shrank 0.7%. While several private lenders have raised buffer capital to offset shocks from potential loan defaults, some large state-run lenders have announced plans to raise resources in a staggered manner, depending on the prevailing market circumstances. Since public sector lenders still play a huge role in financing economic activity, it is important that they raise additional capital from the market or from their majority-owner — the government — before the stress ‘obscured’ by the COVID-19 relief measures becomes apparent. What happens next? The central bank has said that the Financial Stability Report (FSR) — which should have been released by now in the usual course of business — will be “released shortly”. This report shall present an updated assessment of the gross NPAs and the capital adequacy of banks “under alternate macro stress test scenarios”. Hence, its findings will be critical in determining how gloomy the situation really is. For now, as the central bank has said, the restoration of the health of banking and non-banking financial sectors depends on the revival of the real economy and how quickly the animal spirits of entrepreneurship return. The Union Budget for 2021-22, which is now just four weeks away, would be critical for banks on two fronts — in what it does to revive demand and investments, and how much money it can promise to set aside for recapitalising public sector banks in the coming year.  The central bank’s Financial Stability Report, which will be ‘released shortly’, is likely to present an updated assessment of the gross NPAs and the capital adequacy of banks ‘under alternate macro stress test scenarios’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/a-rocky-road-for-the-banking-sector-in-2021/article33484080.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Chalking out an effective COVID-19 vaccination plan||The story so far: With two vaccine candidates — Covishield from the Pune-based Serum Institute of India and Covaxin of Bharat Biotech — at final stages of emergency use authorisation (EUA) in India, several States and Union Territories conducted a dry run for a COVID-19 vaccination programme on Saturday. A Health Ministry release said this was organised in 125 districts spanning 285 locations. Four States — Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Gujarat and Punjab — had done a pilot dry run on December 28-29 and the Health Ministry said no major issues were observed in the operational aspects. Why was it necessary? Under India’s ‘Expanded Programme on Immunization’, which was initiated in 1978, the country has gathered experience in administering essential vaccines to children and pregnant women. In 1985, the programme was renamed ‘Universal Immunisation Programme’, under which about 12 different vaccines are provided through the government health system. Other than inoculation, there is a three-tier system at the district, State and national levels to monitor coverage and adverse events and to ensure that the vaccines adhere to quality norms. Roughly 9 million immunisation sessions are conducted annually in India, according to the UNICEF. Despite that, only about 60% of eligible children are fully immunised, with wide variations among States. Because a COVID-19 vaccine will involve two jabs spaced at least four weeks apart, and will need to be administered to potentially over a billion Indians, it requires more planning, personnel and logistical arrangements. India’s priority list of beneficiaries includes healthcare workers, municipal workers, police personnel, those over 50 years of age, and younger people with identified co-morbidities. This, the government has calculated, works out to 300 million people, and given the pace of vaccine production and administration, it will be August till all on the priority list are inoculated. With at least two vaccines on the EUA list, the whole exercise involves an unprecedented level of digitisation. A Health Ministry document notes that the purpose of the dry run was to “assess operational feasibility of using [the] Co-WIN application in [a] field environment, to test the linkages between planning, implementation and to identify the challenges and guide [the] way forward prior to actual implementation. This is also expected to give confidence to programme managers at various levels”. How was it organised? The dry run was carried out in one or two districts of the States and sessions were organised at district hospitals or medical colleges, community or primary healthcare centres, private health facilities, and at outreach sites in urban and rural areas. The dry run tested all the key steps in the COVID-19 vaccination process in a field environment. The programme involved State administrators generating a ‘user ID’. These ‘IDs’ were sent as a phone message to 25 volunteers at each session site. There are five such sites in each district. Each site is manned by a medical officer, who is entrusted with ensuring that these groups of 25 people are inoculated. Though no actual shots were administered, details of every person who is to get the jab are being punched into the Co-WIN application, which is part of the database that will keep track of every inoculation. The dry run involved dummy boxes of vaccines being brought to the centre; cold storage points were also checked to ensure coordination with the actual points of vaccine delivery. Once the session was completed, all data and feedback were relayed back to district, State, and eventually Central centres for feedback and analysis. The exercise began earlier this week in Assam, Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat and Punjab. States have already prepared lists of priority groups — healthcare workers, municipal workers, and Army and police personnel — and beneficiaries who had registered themselves on the Co-WIN app were sent SMSs informing them about the time and place of their “COVID-19 vaccination” as a mock drill. What has been the experience of the trial run? The Punjab government successfully completed the exercise at 12 sites in two districts. Health officials in Assam said they focused on “software efficacy” and would be carrying out the physical part of the drill involving 300 people in two districts. The two-day exercise in Andhra Pradesh was conducted at five session sites, including public and private medical institutions, with 25 dummy beneficiaries (healthcare workers) at each site. Following the dummy run, are actual vaccines ready to be rolled out? So far, only two vaccine candidates — Covishield, developed by the Serum Institute-Pune and based on the AstraZeneca ‘Oxford’ vaccine, and Covaxin, developed by Bharat Biotech and the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) — have been cleared by an expert panel of the Drug Controller General of India. A formal approval by the DCGI is imminent, which will then allow the companies to supply doses to the government for distribution. The SII has said it has already stockpiled 50 million doses and will have another 50 million ready by next week. It is reasonable to assume that the first vaccines will begin to go out within the coming weeks. The dummy runs are useful as a warm-up exercise, but they will reveal little about the toughest parts of the vaccination process, namely the actual inoculation, reactions, severe adverse reactions and potential hospitalisation. So far, as part of vaccine trials in India, thousands of people have been administered test vaccines in hospital settings. Many future inoculations are expected to be conducted in rural settings, where necessary healthcare infrastructure is absent. The United States, which has approved the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines, had expected to vaccinate 20 million people within a month, but has barely progressed to 2.8 million.  No actual shots are being administered, but details of every person who gets the jab is being punched into the CO-WIN app, which is part of the database that will keep track of every inoculation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/chalking-out-an-effective-covid-19-vaccination-plan/article33484082.ece
03 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||DDA launches new housing scheme, over 1K flats on offer||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) on Saturday launched its new housing scheme with around 1,354 flats on offer. These flats are located across the national capital, including Jasola, Vasant Kunj, Rohini and Dwarka, the DDA said. Under the scheme, 291 EWS or Janta flats, 52 LIG (Low Income Group) flats and 757 MIG (Middle Income Group) 2 BHK flats will be put on offer. Additionally, 2 HIG (High Income Group) 2 BHK flats and 252 HIG 3-BHK flats have also been put on offer. “Applicants can only apply online through the new AWAAS app developed by the DDA. Applicants who give preference for more than one category will have to deposit the application money for the highest category. The process of application, issuance of demand letter, possession letter, conveyance deed and uploading of documents will be completely done online,” a senior DDA official said. Computerised draw The urban body said eligible applicants would be considered for allotment through a computerised draw based on the random number technique. “The draw shall be held in the presence of independent observers and the process web-streamed,” officials said. The land-owning agency also said the demand-cum-allotment letter would be issued online and and three months prior to the likely date of handing over the possession. Interested stakeholders will also be able to inspect the flats at their respective sites. “The applicants are advised to visit the site and inspect the flat and satisfy themselves with regard to location, size and cost of the flat before applying for allotment,” a DDA official said. Also, the same flats will be available for inspection on all 7 days from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.  Applicants who give preference for more than one category will have to deposit the application money for the highest category Delhi Development Authority||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dda-launches-new-housing-scheme-over-1k-flats-on-offer/article33484428.ece
03 January 2021||January 03 2021 00:00 IST,||The Brexit deal||The story so far:British Prime Minister Boris Johnson signed the post-Brexit trade agreement with the European Union (EU) on Wednesday. The deal, announced on December 24, sets out the terms for Britain’s relationship with the EU after it left the trading bloc on January 31, 2020. What are the main features of the agreement? The UK-EU Trade and Cooperation Agreement, which came into force on January 1, 2021, retains the ‘zero tariffs’ and quotas trade regime of the past on all imports of goods. It thus averts the potentially catastrophic consequences for Britain of leaving the bloc without any agreement. A hard exit would have resulted in levies of 50% and higher and duties on dairy and food products, besides tariffs on manufactured goods, as per World Trade Organization rates. According to the U.K.’s fiscal watchdog, the Office for Budget Responsibility, the current arrangement could limit the potential economic impact from Brexit to a loss of 4% of the Gross Domestic Product over the medium term, compared to a possible 6% reduction had there been no agreement. Northern Ireland will continue to remain within EU jurisdiction, avoiding a hardening of its border with the Republic of Ireland. On access for EU fisheries to British seas — a contentious issue — the agreement “recognises U.K. sovereignty over our fishing waters”.  What are some new hurdles the U.K. will face? The latest agreement cannot shield Britain from a costly disruption to the frictionless trade flows during the past 47 years of its EU membership, because of its decision to leave the EU’s single market and customs union. An exit from the customs union means the return of customs controls at the U.K. borders and checks on rules of origin to prevent abuse of the zero-tariffs regime. The millions of customs declarations U.K. businesses will have to complete from now onwards are estimated to cost around £7 billion annually, according to HM Revenue & Customs.  How does the European Union plan to enforce a level playing field? The U.K. is free to set its own standards on labour laws and environmental protection. Access to EU markets could, however, be restricted and tariffs imposed wherever arbitrators rule that businesses have been granted unfair advantage. London has succeeded in breaking free from the jurisdiction of EU law and the European Court of Justice, which U.K. eurosceptics regard as an affront to national sovereignty. British and EU companies will be able to challenge state subsidies awarded to their rivals in relevant national courts if they suspect any violation of common provisions set out in the agreement.  How serious could be the impact of the exclusion of services from the accord? As the services sector accounts for about 80% of the U.K.’s economy, the fallout from leaving it outside the purview of the new accord will be hard. The agreement covers data flows in some areas of policing and law enforcement, while decisions on personal data transmissions are to be dealt with separately. Given London’s status as the premier global financial hub, the exclusion of financial services from the agreement is likely to cause uncertainty. Both sides have reached an understanding that the terms of access to each other’s markets would be subject to a unilateral declaration by one party that the regulatory framework of the other was equivalent to its own. Talks are said to begin this month to formulate a memorandum of understanding as a basis to strengthen mutual cooperation.  What does the future hold for relations between Britain and the EU? Ever since the 2016 referendum to quit the EU, European leaders have been unequivocal in their opinion that any future relationship must entail huge costs of exit for the U.K., just as its 47-year membership of the bloc brought vast benefits. In the four-and-a-half years since the vote, Brussels has largely achieved its overarching objective of ensuring that Brexit does not set a precedent for other member states. Conversely, Britain may discover that striking pragmatic compromises is the way forward to protect sovereignty and national self-interest. The latest agreement erects new barriers, rather than remove existing ones, in trade ties between London and Brussels. This peculiar and unprecedented character of the deal, as Pascal Lamy, former head of the WTO underscored, is a necessary and almost inevitable outcome of Brexit. Even so, this limited deal is better than a “no deal” for both parties. It lays the foundation for a future partnership between Brussels and London, based on the stringent terms imposed on Britain under the 2019 U.K. withdrawal agreement.    The millions of customs declarations U.K. businesses will have to complete from now onwards are estimated to cost around £7 billion annually, according to HM Revenue & Customs||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/the-brexit-deal/article33484078.ece
03 January 2021||New Delhi,||AAP accuses civic bodies of corruption||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Saturday accused the BJP-ruled municipal corporations of corruption worth crores of rupees in buying machines to clean landfills. “The BJP is spending Rs. 180 crore instead of Rs. 8.5 crore. The corruption is clear from each and every page of the civic bodies’ own audit report,” said AAP leader Durgesh Pathak ‘Come clean’ He said Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta, MP Gautam Gambhir and the three Mayors of the corporations must “come clean” regarding this alleged scam. “The Prime Minister stays in Delhi and I wonder what he feels when he reads about such corruptions of the Delhi BJP,” Mr. Pathak added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aap-accuses-civic-bodies-of-corruption/article33484426.ece
