09 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Centre turns to SC as talks with farmers fail to break deadlock||The eighth round of talks between the Centre and the farmer unions, which saw raised voices and increased tensions, ended without any resolution to the ongoing stalemate over the repeal of the three farm reform laws. A ninth round of talks will be held on January 15, after the Supreme Court’s next hearing on the issue which is likely to be held on January 11. According to union leaders, the Centre told them that the issue is best resolved by the Supreme Court, asking the farmers to appear at the next hearing and suggesting that it would request daily hearings for speedy resolution of the case. Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar would not confirm this. Farmers unhappy Farmer leaders said that policy issues should not be decided by the court, which is only examining the constitutional validity of the laws. “In our democracy, it is Parliament which makes the laws. But the Supreme Court has every right to examine it,” Mr. Tomar told journalists after the meeting. “Whatever decision the court gives, the government is committed to following it.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-turns-to-sc-as-talks-with-farmers-fail-to-break-deadlock/article33533553.ece
09 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Over half of Army personnel under severe stress, says study||More than half of Indian Army personnel seem to be under severe stress and the Army has been losing more personnel every year due to suicides, fratricides and untoward incidents than in response to any enemy or terrorist activities, according to the findings of a study by United Service Institution of India (USI), a Service think tank. “There has been a significant increase in stress levels amongst Indian Army personnel during approximately last two decades due to operational and non-operational stressors,” one of the findings says. “Prolonged exposure of Indian Army personnel to Counter Insurgency and Counter Terrorism (CI/CT) environment has been one of the contributory factors for increased stress levels,” the study notes. The research was undertaken during 2019-20 by Col. A.K. Mor, Senior Research Fellow at the USI, and presented at a webinar titled “Prevailing Stress Levels in Indian Army due to Prolonged Exposure to Counter Insurgency/Counter Terrorism environment”, organised in October 2020 and uploaded on the website on December 7. While operational stressors are well understood and accepted by Army personnel, the study says that non-operational stressors that add on “have compounding adverse effects on health and combat efficiency of soldiers and thus affecting their respective units too”. In this regard, officers experience comparatively much higher cumulative stress levels, compared to the Junior Commissioned Officers (JCO) and Other Ranks (OR) and the stress causative factors are also different. The study observes that the overall job satisfaction and pride in uniform remains high amongst JCOs and ORs. “It seems to be a growing matter of concern amongst Officers, requiring urgent interventions from the highest levels of government,” it says. “Despite harsh and challenging service conditions, Indian Army personnel remain highly motivated to serve in CI/ CT areas voluntarily... However, the Officers lack a similar level of trust, faith and confidence in their leadership that JCOs and ORs demonstrate,” it states. Management measures The study highlights that various management measures implemented by the Army and Defence Ministry in the last 15 years have not been able to achieve the desired results. “Units and sub-units under stress are likely to witness an increased number of incidents of indiscipline, unsatisfactory state of training, inadequate maintenance of equipment and low morale, motivation and esprit-de-corps, thereby, adversely affecting their combat preparedness and operational performance,” it says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/over-half-of-army-personnel-under-severe-stress-says-study/article33533876.ece
09 January 2021||MANGALURU,||DC tells officials to conduct preliminary health tests before vaccination||Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra on Friday asked Health Department personnel involved in COVID-19 vaccination to conduct preliminary health checks for fever, blood pressure and sugar before administering the vaccine to health workers during the first phase of the vaccination that is likely to be held in the second week of January. Reviewing the dry run for the vaccination held at Government Wenlock Hospital here, Dr. Rajendra said after administration of the vaccine the health care worker should be allowed to go home and take rest. As the vaccine is injected intramuscularly, arrangements should be made to respond to likely health problems to be experienced by the recipient, he said. District Health and Family Welfare Officer Ramachandra Bairy said 39,475 health care workers will get vaccinated in the first phase. Four vaccinators will administer vaccine to 100 healthcare workers per day at each of the health care facility. The whole process will be recorded on a real-time basis on the CoWin app designed for vaccine administration, he said. Arrangement are made for offline operation of CoWin app in areas with internet connectivity issues. On Friday, 23 health care workers turned up for the dry run at Wenlock hospital from 10.30 a.m. Each participant had received SMS about the time they have to be at the vaccination centre. After checking the identity at the reception, they entered the vaccination room where demonstration of vaccine administration was done. The recipient was made aware of the vaccine, the need to continue wearing of masks and told of the next visit for the second doze, before allowing him/her to take rest for 30 minutes at the observation room. Banners on frequently asked questions on COVID-19 vaccine were placed at different places in the block. Dry run was also held at the Urban Primary Health Centre in Surathkal, Bantwal Taluk Hospital, Community Health Centre in Kadaba, Primary Health Centre in Naravi of Belthangady taluk, Yenepoya Medical College, K.S. Hedge Medical Academy, KVG Medical College, Sullia, and the Indiana Hospital in Mangaluru. At Udupi The dry run in Udupi was held at Koosamma Shambhu Shetty Memorial Haji Abdullah Mother and Child Hospital and seven other health facilities. Twenty five healthcare workers turned up at each of the eight health care facilities. Launching the dry run at the Mother and Child Health Hospital, Udupi Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha said all arrangements are made for fool proof execution of the phase one programme. There will be slight allergic reaction following vaccination, which is common to all vaccination. Arrangements are made to address it, he said. As many as 19,562 health care workers will be vaccinated in the first phase. List of police, home guards and other members of the various government departments is being prepared, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dc-tells-officials-to-conduct-preliminary-health-tests-before-vaccination/article33534295.ece
09 January 2021||Bengaluru,||State to get 13.9 lakh vials soon: Sudhakar||Health Minister K. Sudhakar on Friday said Karnataka is expected to receive 13.9 lakh vials of COVID-19 vaccine in a day or two. “The good news for Karnataka from the Union Health Ministry is that tomorrow or the day after we will probably be receiving 13.90 lakh vials of vaccine,” Mr. Sudhakar said. Speaking to reporters at Aster CMI hospital in Bengaluru, one of the eight health vaccine sites where the second dry run of COVID-19 vaccination was conducted in the city, he said in the first phase the vaccination will be administered to healthcare workers. It will be followed by those with comorbidities, those above 50 years, and those in other departments like Police and Revenue, who are also frontline workers. Sources said Karnataka will receive Covishield vaccine manufactured by Serum Institute of India. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is all set to speak to Chief Ministers of all States at 4 p.m. on Monday on vaccine distribution. Karnataka is likely to receive the vaccine in two consignments by air — one from Pune to Bengaluru and another from Pune to Belagavi. The stock will be stored at Bengaluru and Belagavi cold chain centres and from there will be distributed to regional vaccine stores in districts by road through refrigerated and insulated trucks. The Bengaluru cold chain centre has a capacity of storing nearly 40 lakh doses (each vial has 10 doses), sources said. Mr. Sudhakar said that State has registered 6.3 lakh healthcare professionals till date. “We have requested those who are left out, maybe in some medical or dental colleges, to register even now,” he said. Mr. Sudhakar on Thursday said that the Centre has provided 24 lakh syringes to the State.  “We have 10 walk-in coolers, 4 walk-in freezers, 3,201 ice-lined refrigerators (ILR), 3,039 deep freezers, 3,312 cold boxes, 46,591 vaccine carriers, and 2,25,749 ice packs. The Centre has also provided 64 large ILRs with the capacity of 225 litres each. An additional two walk-in coolers and one walk-in freezer will be received from the Centre soon,” he told reporters.  The stock will be stored at Bengaluru and Belagavi cold chain centres and will be distributed to regional vaccine stores in districts by road||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-to-get-139-lakh-vials-soon-sudhakar/article33533661.ece
09 January 2021||Mysuru,||Expansion work of Mysuru airport gets a financial boost from State government||The expansion of Mysuru airport, which hinged on release of funds from the State government, is set to be expedited with Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa ordering the Finance Department to release Rs. 50 crore as the first tranche. Though this was assured in principle a few months ago, the release of funds has been officially sanctioned and certain formalities have to be completed by the Finance Department before the amount is transferred for the works to get started. This was stated by Mysuru MP Pratap Simha on Friday who pointed out that with the release of the first tranche the Karnataka Industrial Area Development Board (KIADB) can commence the land acquisition work for the airport expansion. Though the expansion requires 240 acres the agencies concerned can proceed to acquire 115 acres of land required for runway extension and take up related works in a staggered manner as and when the funds are released. The airport currently has a runway length of 1740 metres and a breadth of 30 metres which is suitable for operating ATR-72 type of aircraft. The proposal is to increase the runway length to 2,750 metres and breadth to 45 metres which will be suitable for Airbus and Boeing aircraft. As per the airport master plan 182 acres is required for runway expansion while 58 acres is needed for the expansion of the terminal building complex. Mr. Simha has also sought an additional Rs. 150 crore for the project from the State government and urged the Chief Minister to announce the same in the forthcoming budget. The proposed runway extension entails creating a subway for the four-lane Mysuru-Nanjangud highway so as to obviate its diversion which would not only be prohibitive in terms of cost but would delay the project given the complexities involved in land acquisition for highway diversion. Sources in the Airport Authority of India said as soon as the KIADB transfers the land to AAI, the runway expansion and the subway construction works will take place. A diversion of a small stretch of the existing road, till the civil works pertaining to subway and runway are completed, will have to be taken up, the sources added. The current development also comes in the wake of constant rumours that the civilian airport in Mysuru is proposed to be handed over to the defence authorities, which, Mr. Simha, said, was a closed chapter. Mysuru airport will remain a civilian airport and there are plans afoot to increase air connectivity to different destinations which will give a boost to investment and tourism, he said. At present short haul flights connect Mysuru to Bengaluru, Mangaluru, Kochi, Goa, Chennai, Hyderabad and Belagavi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/expansion-work-of-mysuru-airport-gets-a-financial-boost-from-state-government/article33533805.ece
09 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,||Congress, allies launch protest seeking Bedi’s recall||The power struggle between Puducherry Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi and the Congress government worsened on Friday. The Secular Democratic Alliance, a formation of around 20 organisations, including the Congress, launched a day-and-night protest under tight security near Anna Statue, seeking the recall of Ms. Bedi. The protesters had planned an indefinite agitation, similar to the one held in February 2019, in front of the Raj Nivas but shifted the venue to Anna Statue due to the restrictions imposed by the district administration. The duration of the protest was reduced to four days. Workers of the Congress, the Communist Party of India, the Communist Party of India (Marxist), the Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi, the Indian Union Muslim League, the Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist), the Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam and other parties marched to the venue. The protesters were let in after thermal scanning, and volunteers gave masks to those who didn’t have one. CPI secretary and coordinator for the agitation A.M. Saleem said workers belonging to all parties would come in batches, but the leaders, including the Chief Minister and the Ministers, would spend the night at the protest venue. Food would be provided three times a day to those taking part in the agitation. Though public participation was greater than it was in 2019, the agitation was marred by the absence of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, an ally of the Congress, apparently due to its differences with the Congress leadership on various issues. The DMK had also kept away from the recent agitation in support of farmers. Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy and Ministers A. Namassivayam, M.O.H.F. Shahjahan, M. Kandasamy, R. Kamalakannan and Malladi Krishna Rao were among those who participated in the agitation. Central forces have been deployed in a large number near the venue and at Raj Nivas. The roads leading to Raj Nivas were barricaded. Meanwhile, the constituents of Secular Democratic Alliance (SDA), including the Congress, later in the evening passed a resolution urging the Centre to withdraw Central forces deployed. The resolution passed by the leaders at the venue of agitation said the deployment of Central forces with arms had created panic among the people. Though public participation was greater than it was in 2019, the agitation was marred by the absence of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, an ally of the Congress, apparently due to its differences with the Congress leadership on various issues. The DMK had also kept away from the recent agitation in support of farmers. Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy and Ministers A. Namassivayam, M.O.H.F. Shahjahan, M. Kandasamy, R. Kamalakannan and Malladi Krishna Rao were among those who participated in the agitation. Among the other prominent leaders were Puducherry MP V. Vaithilingam, Congress MLAs and leaders of the CPI, the CPI(M), the VCK, the CPI (ML) and the MDMK. All-India Congress Committee in-charge for the Union Territory Sanjay Dutt also took part in the protest. Central forces have been deployed in a large number near the venue and at Raj Nivas. The roads leading to Raj Nivas were barricaded. Morning walkers were compelled to take a detour to the Promenade Beach. ‘Withdraw forces’ Meanwhile, the constituents of Secular Democratic Alliance (SDA), including the Congress, later in the evening passed a resolution urging the Centre to withdraw Central forces deployed for the agitation. The resolution passed by the leaders at the venue of agitation said the deployment of Central forces with arms had created panic among the people. The SDA had accepted the request of the District Collector and shifted the venue of protest from Raj Nivas to the designated place. The deployment of Central forces put a question mark on the efficiency of territorial police in crowd control. The deployment of forces would lead to additional expenditure when the Union Territory was facing financial crisis, the resolution said.  Workers of all parties will come in batches and food will be given three times a day to the protesters A.M. Saleem, CPI secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/congress-allies-launch-protest-seeking-bedis-recall/article33533590.ece
09 January 2021||Lahore,||LeT commander gets 5-year jail term for terror financing||Mumbai attack mastermind and Lashkar-e-Taiba operations commander Zaki-ur-Rahman Lakhvi was sentenced to 5 years in jail on Friday by a Pakistani anti-terrorism court here in a terror financing case, amidst mounting international pressure on Islamabad to bring to justice terrorists roaming free in the country. Anti-Terrorism Court Lahore judge Ejaz Ahmad Buttar sentenced the UN proscribed terrorist to five years of rigorous imprisonment each on three counts with a fine of PKR 1,00,000 (approximately $620). His punishment will run concurrently. “The Anti-Terrorism Court (ATC) Lahore convicted Lakhvi for commission of offences of terrorism financing in a case registered by the Counter-Terrorism Department (CTD) for 15 years under different sections of the Anti-Terrorism Act 1997,” a court official told PTI after the hearing. “In default of payment of fine, he will have to undergo an imprisonment of six months each on three counts. He has been sent to prison to serve the sentences,” the official said. Lakhvi, 61, pleaded before the court that he had been “falsely implicated”. He was accused of running a dispensary and using funds collected for terrorism financing. “He and others also collected funds from the dispensary and used the funds for further terrorism financing. He also used these funds for personal expenses,” the CTD said. The Anti-Terrorism Court also directed law enforcement agencies to arrest the co-accused in the case, Abu Anas Mohsin, due to the availability of sufficient evidence against him. The U.S. had welcomed Lakhvi's arrest last week but said Pakistan should try him for the Mumbai attacks also.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/let-commander-gets-5-year-jail-term-for-terror-financing/article33533550.ece
09 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||SEC announces 4-phase elections to local bodies||The State Election Commission (SEC) has opted to hold panchayat elections in Andhra Pradesh after “weighing the pros and cons”. The Commission has decided to conduct the polls, wherever necessary, for local bodies in four phases — February 5, 9, 13, and 17 — and announce the results from February 5 to 17 (four phases). According to the SEC release, a notification will be issued in four phases — January 23 and 27, 31 and February 4. Issue of Election Notice and receipt of nominations by the Returning Officer will be from January 25 and 29, and February 2 and 6. The last date for receipt of nominations is January 27, January 31, February 4 and 8. Scrutiny of nominations will be done on January 28, February 1, 5 and 9. Last day for withdrawal of candidature is January 31, February 4, 8 and 12. The government, however, is likely to go to court seeking an order to halt the election process. According to information, a delegation led by Chief Secretary Adityanath Das met SEC N. Ramesh Kumar on Friday to apprise the government’s stand as per the court directions. The government urged the SEC to postpone the elections citing a second COVID-19 wave and also a winter spike as reasons. The Commission, however, decided to “announce the schedule”. Mr. Das told the Commission that the State government had been presenting its difficulty in holding the elections in view of the invocation of the NDMA Act by the Union government and the seriousness of the COVID -19 situation. The pandemic is being tackled along with the vaccination programme being undertaken by the Government of India and State machinery would be engaged in the massive operation. Most of the functionaries who would be engaged in conducting the local body elections would be those who would be the first recipients of vaccine, he said in a letter written to the Commission.  The commission has been in touch with experts. A second corona wave or a winter spike has not happened till date N. Ramesh Kumar State Election Commissioner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sec-announces-4-phase-local-body-polls/article33533558.ece
09 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||7-day institutional quarantine for U.K. arrivals in Delhi||The Delhi government on Friday announced that all passengers arriving in the Capital from the United Kingdom will have to undergo a seven-day institutional quarantine followed by a seven-day home quarantine even if they test negative for COVID-19 on arrival. On the first day after India lifted the ban on flights from the U.K. imposed earlier to prevent the spread of a new strain of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, 246 passengers arrived by an Air India flight on Friday morning. Representatives from Genestrings Diagnostic, the lab conducting the RT-PCR tests at the Delhi airport, said no passenger had tested positive so far. No passenger is being allowed to leave the airport until all the passengers have been tested. Government officials said incoming flyers will be given an option to choose between a government-run quarantine facility or a private one. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority in an order said, “Those found positive shall be isolated in an institutional isolation facility in a separate isolation unit. Those found negative shall be kept in compulsory institutional quarantine for seven days followed by home quarantine for seven days.” The DDMA said the move has been taken as a “matter of abundant precaution in view of the increased transmissibility of the new variant of COVID-19”. Passengers on arrival will have to pay for their own tests and the order will be applicable on trial basis till January 14. “Travellers coming from UK will have to mandatorily undergo a self-paid RT-PCR test on arrival at the airport,” tweeted Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, who had asked the Centre to extend the ban on flights from the U.K. till January 31. So far, 13 Delhi residents have been found infected with the new variant of COVID-19. Over the next three days, four flights with around 250 flyers on board are scheduled from the U.K.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/7-day-institutional-quarantine-for-uk-arrivals-in-delhi/article33533874.ece
09 January 2021||HUBBALLI,||Twin cities experience sudden downpour||Sudden downpour in the twin cities threw life out of gear on Friday evening leaving several roads waterlogged and many low-lying areas inundated for several hours. Heavy rain lasted for an hour and then it continued to drizzle throughout the late evening, resulted in waterlogging on Gokul Road, Lamington Road, the Hubballi-Dharwad BRTS Corridor, Dajibanpet, and several low-lying areas in the Central Business district and Old Hubballi and Dharwad. The waterlogged roads consequently led to traffic congestion and the traffic police had a tough time streamlining the vehicular movement amid rain. There were reports about overflowing drains and rainwater entering shops and houses in low lying areas. On Gokul Road, Karwar Road, and others vehicles lined up at junctions and in some localities power shutdown was also reported. There were no reports about any casualty or rain related mishaps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/twin-cities-experience-sudden-downpour/article33533664.ece
09 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Physical classes for intermediate semesters after Sankranti||With attendance in final year degree colleges picking up over the past few weeks, the State government has decided to resume on-campus classes for first year postgraduate, and first and second year undergraduate courses after Sankranti. However, the date when students can report back to college is yet to be fixed. C.N. Ashwath Narayan, Deputy Chief Minister and Higher Education Minister, said it would be decided shortly. Vice-Chancellors have been asked to submit a report on this. The Minister decided to resume on-campus classes on Friday after convening a videoconference with all the Vice-Chancellors of government and private universities as well as senior officials of several departments. He said he would meet with the Transport Department to ensure student bus pass facilities, and also with the Social Welfare Department about reopening hostels for first and second year students. Offline classes for final year students began on November 17, but it is only in recent weeks that attendance has picked up. “By taking this success into account, it has been decided to open the remaining classes also. All measures will be taken as per the University Grants Commission and COVID-19 guidelines,” Dr. Narayan said. Around 40-65% of final year degree college students are reporting to campus for class. Around 10-15 % of students in intermediate semesters are taking online classes, but students visit the college to get their doubts clarified from their lecturers. VCs for pen and paper test During the meeting, there was a discussion on the feasibility of online examinations, but most of the Vice-Chancellors, including that of Visvesvaraya Technological University, favoured the traditional pen and paper mode of examination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/physical-classes-for-intermediate-semesters-after-sankranti/article33534126.ece
09 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||7-day institutional quarantine for U.K. arrivals||The Delhi government on Friday announced that all passengers arriving in the Capital from the United Kingdom will have to undergo a seven-day institutional quarantine followed by a seven-day home quarantine even if they test negative for COVID-19 on arrival. On the first day after India lifted the ban on flights from the U.K. imposed earlier to prevent the spread of a new strain of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, 246 passengers arrived by an Air India flight on Friday morning. Representatives from Genestrings Diagnostic, the lab conducting the RT-PCR tests at the Delhi airport, said no passenger had tested positive so far. No passenger is being allowed to leave the airport until all the passengers have been tested. Government officials said incoming flyers will be given an option to choose between a government-run quarantine facility or a private one. Self-paid tests The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) in an order said, “Those found positive shall be isolated in an institutional isolation facility in a separate isolation unit. Those who are found negative shall be kept in compulsory institutional quarantine for seven days followed by home quarantine for seven days.” The DDMA said the move has been taken as a “matter of abundant precaution in view of the increased transmissibility of the new variant of COVID-19”. Passengers on arrival will have to pay for their own tests and the order will be applicable on trial basis till January 14. “To protect Delhiites from exposure to the virus from the UK, the Delhi government has taken important decisions. Travellers coming from UK will have to mandatorily undergo a self-paid RT-PCR test on arrival at the airport,” tweeted Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, who had asked the Centre to extend the ban on flights from the U.K. till January 31. The ban on flight from the U.K. began on December 23 and was in place till January 7. So far, 13 Delhi residents have been found infected with the new variant of COVID-19 and have been isolated. Over the next three days, four flights with around 250 passengers on board are scheduled from the U.K. Around 1,400 passengers had disembarked in Delhi between November 25 and December 23, 2020, forcing the authorities to launch a door-to-door check-up of such persons and their contacts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/7-day-institutional-quarantine-for-uk-arrivals/article33534220.ece
09 January 2021||Mumbai,||‘CM to urge PM to take positive stand on Maratha quota’||State Public Works Department Minister Ashok Chavan on Friday said Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray will be writing to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to urge him to take a positive stand to protect the constitutional validity of the 16% reservation in education and jobs extended to the Maratha community. Mr. Chavan, who heads a sub-committee of the State Cabinet on the issue, said, “The deadlock in the case being heard in the Supreme Court can be resolved only at the level of the Central government. The Centre needs to take a clear stand on this issue and the Chief Minister will be writing to the Prime Minister. We appeal to all members of Parliament from the State to hold a meeting with the Prime Minister.” The previous State government led by the Bharatiya Janata Party had enacted a law to grant reservation to the community under the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes category. While the Bombay High Court cleared the quota law, the Supreme Court stayed it and the matter is pending before a larger Bench of the court. Hearing on the matter will begin on January 25 and the Centre will be presenting its stand on the issue. Mr. Chavan said, “The State government will be presenting its case strongly. But the Centre needs to take a positive stand too. The apex court had issued a notice to the Attorney General in the previous hearing. This is an opportunity for the Central government to make its stand clear.” Mr. Chavan said the Supreme Court should reconsider the existing 50% cap on reservations because if the Maratha quota comes into effect, the total reservation in the State will exceed 50%. He said, “Many State governments have already crossed this limit. Therefore, the landmark judgment in the 1993 Indira Sawhney case capping quotas at 50% needs a relook. This can happen if the Centre takes a positive stand on the issue.” Mr. Chavan pointed out that reservations in Tamil Nadu had exceeded 69% and the quota announced for the Economically Weaker Sections also crossed the limit. “None of it has been stayed, except for the Maratha reservation,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-to-urge-pm-to-take-positive-stand-on-maratha-quota/article33534319.ece
09 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Supreme Court tells govt. to arm forest officers to fight poachers||The Supreme Court on Friday urged the government to arm forest officers and provide them with bullet-proof vests and vehicles when told that India recorded the “greatest number of mortal fatalities” among forest officials in the world. Appearing before a Bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde, senior advocate Shyam Divan said India accounted for 30% of fatalities among forest rangers in the world. Chief Justice Bobde said forest officials were up against a very powerful force. “Proceeds of crime are in millions of dollars. This is an international crime. Recently, I was told that the pangolin skin trade extended to China,” he noted.  The court said the Centre should consider involving premier organisations such as the CBI to help the forest staff. “There should even be a separate wing or wildlife division in the Enforcement Directorate with clean officials to track and investigate crimes of the poachers and the proceeds of their crime... The amounts involved are huge and justify the formation of a separate wing by the ED,” Chief Justice Bobde addressed Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, for the Centre. CJI Bobde pointed out how forest rangers in Assam were armed and “no one dares come near them”. “But in States like Madhya Pradesh, they roam around withlathis. In Karnataka, forest guards are inchappalsand [carry] justlathis... In these States, forest guards are slapped around by poachers,” the CJI said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/supreme-court-tells-govt-to-arm-forest-officers-to-fight-poachers/article33534223.ece
09 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Over half of Army personnel under severe stress, says study||More than half of Indian Army personnel seem to be under severe stress and the Army has been losing more personnel every year due to suicides, fratricides and untoward incidents than in response to any enemy or terrorist activities, according to the findings of a study by United Service Institution of India (USI), a Service think tank. “There has been a significant increase in stress levels amongst Indian Army personnel during approximately last two decades due to operational and non-operational stressors,” one of the findings says. “Prolonged exposure of Indian Army personnel to Counter Insurgency and Counter Terrorism (CI/CT) environment has been one of the contributory factors for increased stress levels,” the study notes. The research was undertaken during 2019-20 by Col. AK Mor, Senior Research Fellow at the USI, and presented at a webinar titled “Prevailing Stress Levels in Indian Army due to Prolonged Exposure to Counter Insurgency/Counter Terrorism environment”, organised in October 2020 and uploaded on the website on December 07 last. While operational stressors are well understood and accepted by Army personnel, the study says that non-operational stressors that add on “have compounding adverse effects on health and combat efficiency of soldiers and thus affecting their respective units too.” In this regard, officers experience comparatively much higher cumulative stress levels, compared to the Junior Commissioned Officers (JCO) and Other Ranks (OR) and the stress causative factors are also different. The study observes that the overall job satisfaction and pride in uniform remains high amongst JCOs and ORs. “It seems to be a growing matter of concern amongst Officers, requiring urgent interventions from the highest levels of government,” it says. “Despite harsh and challenging service conditions, Indian Army personnel remain highly motivated to serve in CI/ CT areas voluntarily... However, the Officers lack a similar level of trust, faith and confidence in their leadership that JCOs and ORs demonstrate,” it states. Management measures The study highlights that various management measures implemented by the Army and Defence Ministry in the last 15 years have not been able to achieve the desired results. “Units and sub-units under stress are likely to witness an increased number of incidents of indiscipline, unsatisfactory state of training, inadequate maintenance of equipment and low morale, motivation and esprit-de-corps, thereby, adversely affecting their combat preparedness and operational performance,” it says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/over-half-of-army-personnel-under-severe-stress-says-study/article33534224.ece
09 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Government constitutes 16-member SIT to probe desecration of idols||The Andhra Pradesh government has constituted a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to probe the recent attacks on temples and vandalising of idols. An order to this effect was issued on Friday. The 16-member team, headed by Additional Director, Anti-Corruption Bureau G.V.G. Ashok Kumar, and Krishna Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu and two Additional SPs (members) will investigate the cases related to vandalising of temples and desecration of idols. The team also comprises two Deputy Superintendents of Police (DSPs), two Assistant Commissioners of Police (ACPs), four CIs and equal number of SIs of different wings across the State. Police detected about 20 cases and arrested the accused. Investigation in the remaining cases were in different stages, a police officer said. The State Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL), Crime Investigation Department and other wings will extend support to the SIT, which will report to Director-General of Police D. Gautam Sawang and Additional DGP (Law and Order) Ravi Shankar Ayyanar. “About 25 cases of ‘attack on temples’ have been reported in West Godavari, Krishna, Vizianagaram, East Godavari, Prakasam and other districts in the State. SIT will investigate on the modus operandi of the accused, criminal history of the accused, if any, links with locals, pattern of crimes and other details by using scientific methods,” said a SIT member. Meanwhile the police have stepped up security on the inter-district borders in Vizianagaram to bar the entry of protesters to the Sri Kodandarama Swamy temple at Ramateertham, where an idol was recently found damaged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/16-member-sit-to-probe-desecration-of-idols-in-ap/article33533495.ece
09 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Common test for private varsity engineering seats||Students competing for engineering seats in private universities will no longer have to sit for multiple entrance tests. Instead, from the 2021–22 academic year, there will be a single entrance test for admissions to 17 private universities in the State, said sources. The Department of Higher Education convened a meeting with representatives of private universities on Friday.According to sources, the State government took this initiative after the Admission Overseeing Committee recommended a single entrance test to save students the hassle of appearing for multiple examinations. A source who attended the meeting said all theuniversities agreed to this model.“We are glad that the universities agreed to hold a common test. But logistics and modalities still have to be worked out,” said the source. Currently, students appear for theCommon Entrance Test (CET) and Consortium of Medical Engineering and Dental Colleges of Karnataka (COMEDK) to qualify for admissions in government and private colleges. Besides this, the Karnataka Religious and Linguistic Minority Professional Colleges Association (KRLMPCA) and the Association of Minority Professional Colleges in Karnataka (AMPCK)also conduct their own tests. Each private university also conducts its own entrance examination for private quota seats, while the 40% government quota seats of these university are filled based on the CET ranks. Aspirants elated Engineering aspirants, who have had a stressful year on account of the pandemic, are elated with this move and feel it will help them save a lot of time and money. Kiran R., an aspirant, said his brother had appeared for more than half a dozen entrance tests to get a seat. “As all private universities will conduct one test, I will only have to appear for this test and COMEDK and CET,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/common-test-for-private-varsity-engineering-seats/article33534127.ece
09 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||A plan to send 50K postcards signed by farmers to PM||An Australia-based Punjabi woman is spearheading an initiative to send about 50,000 postcards to Prime Minister Narendra Modi with messages written by farmers and their supporters. Muskan Jattana a.k.a. Moose has scores of followers on social media and came from Melbourne to join the agitation. “Postcards have been an important part of my life. I used to send postcards to my mother whenever I travelled. So, this idea clicked with me,” she said. The 20-year-old said the idea was inspired by two girls from Maharashtra who had bought 100 postcards and asked people online to share messages on the farmers’ protest, which they would then send to the PMO. “I suggested that the girls get the messages written by the farmers but they did not have the means, so a couple of us thought of doing this,” she said, adding that she shared the idea on a WhatsApp group which has youths from different countries. “So far, we have printed 5,000 postcards for farmers and their supporters at the Singhu and Tikri borders to pen messages,” she said. The goal is to reach 50,000 postcards, after which they will be sent to the PMO. “Modi ji bas karo. Let egos go. These farmers are ours. Let’s be one and work for the progress of this great nation,” read one postcard. Whether the PM reads them or not is not important, she said. “It’s about people writing in words what they are feeling.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/a-plan-to-send-50k-postcards-signed-by-farmers-to-pm/article33534228.ece
09 January 2021||Mangaluru,||No avian influenza in crow carcass||No sign of H5N8 avian influenza was found in the carcass of a crow sent from Dakshina Kannada, which was examined at the South Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory (SRDDL) of the Institute of Animal Health and Veterinary Biologicals in Hebbal, Bengaluru. Four crows were found dead in Manjanady, which borders Kasaragod district of Kerala, on Wednesday. Villagers suspected H5N8 infection in the birds and asked the district administration to get them examined. An officer from the district administration personally took the carcass of a crow for examination at the SRDDL. Having carried out the virology test to find influenza infection, the scientists at SRDDL will now conduct a toxicology test to know about the likely consumption of toxic material by the crow that may have led to its death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/h5n8-test-on-dead-crow-is-negative/article33534137.ece
09 January 2021||CHENNAI,||Two more held for fake TNPSC orders||The Conventional Crime Unit of the Central Crime Branch on Friday arrested two more accused for cheating several persons by promising them government jobs through the Tamil Nadu Public Service Commission (TNPSC) and giving them fake appointment orders. The police identified the accused as S. Ramani alias Venkatachalam, 58, of Mandaveli, and Devan alias Devaraj, 63, of Pattabiram. The duo made fake appointment orders and sent them by post. Devaraj is a retired driver who previously worked at the Secretariat. Following a complaint from TNPSC secretary B. Nandakumar, a special team, led by Assistant Commissioner of Police S. Selvakumar, on last Friday arrested two accused — B. Nagendra Rao, 54, of Pulianthope and A. Gnanasekar, 43, of Tondiarpet. The police said they had collected Rs. 6 lakh from each aspirant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-more-held-for-fake-tnpsc-orders/article33534167.ece
09 January 2021||HUBBALLI,||Mutt land row: Shettar’s intervention sought||In the wake of a controversy surrounding the donation of land, belonging to Moorusavir Mutt to KLE Society, Belagavi, for the establishment of a medical colleges and hospital, further escalating with a section of the devotees of the mutt holding a meeting to chalk out their next course of action, Lingayat leader and former Minister Basavaraj Horatti has sought the intervention of district in-charge Minister Jagadish Shettar to present facts before the public. Mr. Horatti’s statement comes after the seer of Balehosur Mutt, Sri Dingaleshwar Swami, who claims himself to the successor of Moorusavir Mutt, holding a meeting of devotees of the mutt in Hubballi on Wednesday. Dingaleshwar Swami has been active ever since the KLE Society initiated the process of building medical college and hospital and performed bhoomi puja last month. The seer wants the present head of the mutt Sri Gurusiddhar Rajayogindra Swami to take back the land. Mr. Horatti, who is also a member of a high-level committee of the mutt, has said that he has requested Mr. Shettar, who is also in the committee, to hold consultations and clear the air. He told presspersons on Thursday that there was a need to hear the contentions of both sections of the devotees and the seers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mutt-land-row-shettars-intervention-sought/article33533662.ece
09 January 2021||Vijayawada,||CM performs puja for temple reconstruction||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy performed ‘bhoomi puja’ here on Friday for the reconstruction of nine temples that were demolished as part of the developmental works during the Krishna Pushkarams in 2016. The Chief Minister also laid the foundation for eight other developmental works costing Rs. 77 crore at the Kanaka Durga temple, besides unveiling two plaques at the construction site of the Saneeswara Swamy temple. Later, he visited the Kanaka Durga temple, where the priests and vedic scholars extended him a traditional welcome. They also presented the Chief Minister a memento, a photograph of Goddess Kanaka Durga, a ‘sesha vastram’, and ‘prasadam’. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy later released the calendar brought out by the Endowments Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-performs-puja-for-temple-reconstruction/article33534449.ece
09 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. told to arm forest officers to fight poachers||The Supreme Court on Friday urged the government to arm forest officers and provide them with bullet-proof vests and vehicles when told that India recorded the “greatest number of mortal fatalities” among forest officials in the world. Appearing before a Bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde, senior advocate Shyam Divan said India accounted for 30% of fatalities among forest rangers in the world. Chief Justice Bobde said forest officials were up against a very powerful force. “Proceeds of crime are in millions of dollars. This is an international crime. Recently, I was told that the pangolin skin trade extended to China because people believe they are good for certain things,” Chief Justice Bobde noted. The court said the Centre should consider involving premier organisations such as the CBI to help the forest staff. “There should even be a separate wing or wildlife division in the Enforcement Directorate with clean officials to track and investigate crimes of the poachers and the proceeds of their crime... The amounts involved are huge and justify the formation of a separate wing by the ED,” Chief Justice Bobde addressed Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, for the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-told-to-arm-forest-officers-to-fight-poachers/article33533562.ece
09 January 2021||CHENNAI,||‘Punish those involved in Pollachi case’||MDMK Chief Vaiko called for the arrest and punishment of all those involved in the Pollachi sexual assault case. In a statement, he urged CBI officials to conduct a detailed enquiry and bring to light the alleged involvement of members of the ruling party, irrespective of how big they were and their connections, and bring them to justice. The CBI probe had dismissed the tall claims made by the AIADMK that their members were not involved, Mr. Vaiko said, referring to the arrest of Arulanantham, who was the AIADMK’s student wing secretary of Pollachi town.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/punish-those-involved-in-pollachi-case/article33534188.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Setting sail||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/setting-sail/article33534124.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Congress calls Centre ruthless and inhuman||As Friday’s talks failed to break the deadlock between the farmers and the Centre, the Congress said the Narendra Modi government would go down as the most “inhuman and ruthless government in the history of India”.Page 11||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/congress-calls-centre-ruthless-and-inhuman/article33533559.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Season’s harvest||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/seasons-harvest/article33533592.ece
09 January 2021||New Delhi,||PM to hold meeting with CMs on vaccination||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will chair a meeting with the Chief Ministers of all the States on Monday over the roll-out of COVID-19 vaccines. “The meeting via video conferencing will discuss the COVID-19 situation and the vaccination roll-out,” said a tweet on the PM’s official Twitter handle. The meeting comes days after Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said the government was ready to roll-out vaccines for the priority group soon. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) on January 3 granted restricted emergency use authorisation for Serum Institute of India’s ‘Covishield’ and Bharat Biotech’s ‘Covaxin’ vaccines for COVID-19. Meanwhile, ahead of the COVID-19 vaccine roll-out, India concluded its second nationwide COVID-19 vaccination dry run across 736 districts of 33 States and Union Territories on Friday. “After the dry run on January 2, several States had raised concerns regarding software, connectivity and broadband issues, which were relooked into today,” said a senior Health Ministry official. India held its first dry run for the roll-out in eight districts on December 28-29, and the first countrywide drill covering 74 districts was held on January 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/modi-to-chair-meeting-with-states-on-vaccine-roll-out-on-monday/article33533551.ece
09 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||COVID control measures will be hit, says top official||Panchayat Raj Department’s Principal Secretary Gopala Krishna Dwivedi, in a statement issued here on Friday, said that the State Election Commission’s (SEC) decision to conduct local body elections would adversely affect the COVID-19 control measures and health of the citizens. In a strongly worded release, Mr. Gopala Krishna Dwivedi said that the commission’s decision was against the Supreme Court’s orders that the State government’s opinion should be considered before arriving at a decision. The State government’s opinion was submitted to the SEC both in writing and in person, he said. But the SEC did not take into consideration and conducted namesake consultations with the government. As per the court directions, it was necessary to consult the government. The SEC was going ahead with its predetermined plans to conduct the polls, he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/it-will-hit-covid-control-measures/article33533557.ece
09 January 2021||Kolkata,||Ruckus at BJP rally in Nandigram||A ruckus broke out at the mega rally of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) at Nandigram on Friday. Stones were hurled, barricades were breached and agitated supporters shouted slogans directed at the party leadership. The meeting, where senior BJP leaders Kailash Vijayvargiya, Dilip Ghosh, Mukul Roy and Suvendu Adhikari were present, had to be called off. The meeting was a show of strength of BJP leadership and Nandigram strongman Suvendu Adhikari who joined the party last month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ruckus-at-bjp-rally-in-nandigram/article33533723.ece
09 January 2021||New Delhi,||Decide on Rajoana mercy plea by R-Day: SC to govt.||The Supreme Court on Friday pushed the government to take a decision on a mercy petition filed by Balwant Singh Rajoana, facing capital punishment for the assassination of former Punjab Chief Minister Beant Singh, before Republic Day. The petition was filed in 2012, said Rajoana’s lawyer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/decide-on-rajoana-mercy-plea-by-r-day-sc-to-govt/article33533875.ece
09 January 2021||LUCKNOW,||Four die after consuming spurious liquor in U.P.||Four people have died after consuming suspected spurious liquor at Jeetgadi village in Uttar Pradesh. Four policemen, including a Station House Officer, in Bulandshahr district were suspended on Friday in connection with the deaths. A manhunt is on for the person who sold the liquor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/four-die-after-consuming-spurious-liquor-in-up/article33533877.ece
09 January 2021||Kolkata,||Ruckus at BJP mega rally in Nandigram||A ruckus broke out at the mega rally of the BJP at Nandigram in Purba Medinipur district on Friday. Stones were hurled, and agitated supporters shouted slogans directed at the party leadership. The meeting had to be hurriedly called off. The BJP blamed the Trinamool Congress for inciting trouble.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ruckus-at-bjp-mega-rally-in-nandigram/article33533878.ece
09 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Actor-producer Radhika quizzed by CCB||Kannada actor and producer Radhika was questioned for nearly four hours by the CCB on Friday in connection with her financial transactions with an alleged conman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/actor-producer-radhika-quizzed-by-ccb/article33534122.ece
09 January 2021||New Delhi,||Decide on Rajoana mercy plea by R-Day: SC to govt.||The Supreme Court on Friday pushed the government to take a decision on a mercy petition filed by Balwant Singh Rajoana, facing capital punishment for the assassination of former Punjab Chief Minister Beant Singh, before Republic Day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/decide-on-rajoana-mercy-plea-by-r-day-sc-to-govt/article33534221.ece
09 January 2021||LUCKNOW,||Four die after consuming spurious liquor in U.P.||Four people have died after consuming suspected spurious liquor at Jeetgadi village in Uttar Pradesh. Four Bulandshahr policemen were suspended on Friday in connection with the deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/four-die-after-consuming-spurious-liquor-in-up/article33534225.ece
09 January 2021||Kolkata,||Stones hurled during BJP rally in Nandigram||A ruckus broke out at the mega rally of the BJP in Nandigram, West Bengal, on Friday. Stones were hurled and agitated supporters shouted slogans directed at the party leadership.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/stones-hurled-during-bjp-rally-in-nandigram/article33534226.ece
09 January 2021||Mangaluru,||KCCI opposes MESCOM’s power tariff hike proposal||KCCI has opposed MESCOM’s proposal to increase power tariff by Rs. 1 at a time when BESCOM did not propose any increase and also proposed reduction in tariff for high-tension industrial consumers. In a memorandum to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, who holds the Energy portfolio, president Isaac Vas said MESCOM’s proposal would affect consumers in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Shivamogga, and Chikkamagaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kcci-opposes-mescoms-power-tariff-hike-proposal/article33534297.ece
09 January 2021||HUBBALLI,||Health staff, COVID-19 warriors to get vaccine||Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil has said that it had been planned to administer the COVID-19 vaccine to 22,000 frontline health staff and COVID warriors in Dharwad district and 110 vaccine centres have been set up in the district for this.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/health-staff-covid-19-warriors-to-get-vaccine/article33533666.ece
09 January 2021||HUBBALLI,||Vinay Kulkarni’s custody extended again||The special CBI court on Friday extended the judicial custody of Congress leader and former Minister Vinay Kulkarni and his uncle Chandrashekhar Indi alias Chandu Mama till January 22. The duo were arrested in connection with the murder of zilla panchayat member Yogeeshgouda Goudar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vinay-kulkarnis-custody-extended-again/article33533667.ece
09 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Govt. to merge 1,863 schemes into fewer heads||Tthe State government has decided to merge 1,863 projects/schemes into fewer numbers to ensure higher allocation of funds, effective implementation, and utilisation of manpower. This comes in the wake of the Union government merging several programmes and projects into 18 major programmes||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-to-merge-1863-schemes-into-fewer-heads/article33533668.ece
09 January 2021||Mumbai,||COVID-19 vaccination dry run held in Maharashtra||A second dry run to assess the readiness for the COVID-19 immunisation drive was conducted across 32 of the 36 districts in Maharashtra on Friday, a Health Department official said. The other four districts were covered in the first dry run on January 2. Health Minister Rajesh Tope said the mock drill was held at 114 centres. Twenty-five people were given dummy vaccines at each centre.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-vaccination-dry-run-held-in-maharashtra/article33534317.ece
09 January 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Three dead after tempo falls into gorge along Mumbai-Goa highway||Three people were killed and 67 were suspected to have sustained injuries after a tempo skidded off the ghat at Kudpan in Poladpur on the Mumbai-Goa highway and fell into a gorge of around 70 feet late on Friday evening. The deceased have been identified as Tukaram Jhore (40), Harishchandra Bhavesh Hogade (22) and Vithoba Bhagoshi Jhore (65). According to the police, the tempo carrying around 70 people was returning to Ratnagiri from a marriage ceremony in Satara. At the time of going to press, rescue operations were on by volunteers from Madat group in Ratnagiri and Salunkhe group in Mahad. “Besides, police personnel from Khed in Ratnagiri, Mahad and Poladpur, and tehsildars from Khed and Poladpur are on the spot. Poor visibility poses a challenge,” Raigad district Collector Nidhi Chaudhary said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/three-dead-after-tempo-falls-into-gorge-along-mumbai-goa-highway/article33534318.ece
09 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Entry fee rule on M-sand and more struck down||The High Court of Karnataka has struck down the new rule enacted to collect Rs. 70 per tonne from persons who transport processed building stone materials such as aggregates or jelly, M-sand, and other varieties from other States with a valid permit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/entry-fee-rule-on-m-sand-and-more-struck-down/article33533807.ece
09 January 2021||Kozhikode,||Cong. not to yield to ‘aspirations’ of MPs||Driven by its current organisational kinetics, especially after the debacle of the party in the local body polls, the Congress central leadership has decided to put its foot down on fancy aspirations of its Lok Sabha representatives from entering the fray in the coming Assembly polls in Kerala. Of the many reasons why senior functionaries wanted to stringently adopt this policy was that the party would find the going tough to retain the Lok Sabha seats it had handsomely won in the 2019 polls.. Rumours were rife that a few MPs — K. Sudhakaran, Benny Behanan, and Adoor Prakash — were eyeing Assembly tickets after the IUML decided to field its leader P.K. Kunhalikuttty, MP, for the Assembly polls. Such a political harmonisation of legislators contesting Parliament elections was necessitated after the Congress was at the receiving end of the backlash in the polls held in other States. Now a similar experiment would not be viable when a new matrix of nervousness and erosion of its vote-base has gripped the party. With the Congress high command nixing the scheming of some leaders, the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee can now accommodate the aspirations of the middle -rung and youth leaders. That does not mean the party would be firmly immune to the electoral challenges ahead when the leadership would have to deal with the factional politics at play during the run-up to the elections. Besides, party sources said such a decision would also offer the possibilities of office-bearers, including KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran, standing for the elections. Further, the Congress would contest more seats following the exit of the Loktantrik Janata Dal and the Jose K. Mani faction from the UDF. The high command has taken a categorical stand not to concede the vacant seats to the IUML after a calculus of fear stuck the Hindu community following its overt and covert electoral understanding with the Welfare Party of India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-not-to-yield-to-aspirations-of-mps/article33533747.ece
09 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala Assembly Budget session off to a stormy start||The 14th Kerala Legislative Assembly's final budget session got off to a tumultuous start with the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) Opposition boycotting Governor Arif Mohammed Khan's policy address. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala set the tone for what portends to be a stormy month-long sitting ahead of the Assembly polls in mid-May by questioning the constitutional propriety of Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan chairing the session. Speaking out of turn at the start of the Governor's address, Mr. Chennithala said the Speaker was under a cloud of suspicion. The Opposition had moved a statutory resolution under Article 179 of the Constitution to remove Mr. Sreeramakrishnan from the Speaker's office on the charge of lowering the House's esteem by associating with gold smugglers. Mr. Sreeramakrishnan had forfeited his right to share the dais with the Governor. Mr. Chennithala damned the Pinarayi Vijayan government as irredeemably corrupt. Following his cue, UDF MLAs raised slogans and placards against the Chief Minister and Speaker. Mr. Khan objected to the UDF commotion. He halted his address twice and implored the Opposition to allow him to read the policy speech without interruption. “Honourable members, I am doing my constitutional duty. It is expected no impediment be created when the Governor is performing his constitutional duty. You have raised your objection. Now allow me to discharge my constitutional obligation,” he said. Oppn. stages sit-in Mr. Chennithala, in turn, sought Mr. Khan's leave to discharge his responsibility as Leader of the Opposition. The UDF MLAs persisted with their protests for about 10 minutes before trooping out of the House. They, later, staged a sit-in in front of the Assembly chamber. Kerala Janapaksham (Secular) leader P.C. George, MLA, who is reportedly seeking a berth in the UDF, joined them. The sole Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator, O. Rajagopal, sat through the proceedings. The Assembly had convened under the shadow of the COVID-19 pandemic. Lawmakers reached the House wearing face masks and after an antigen test. They sat more distanced than usual. The House had banned visitors. The Governor's address commenced at 9 a.m. and ended at 11.20 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-assembly-budget-session-off-to-a-stormy-start/article33533488.ece
09 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Bird flu now confirmed in six States||Bird flu cases were confirmed in Haryana and Gujarat on Friday, in addition to Kerala, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Haryana where the disease has already been confirmed. Further, at least 16 unusual bird deaths in parts of Delhi are also being investigated, according to a statement from the Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying. The Ministry said it is also taking steps to restore consumer confidence in poultry products such as eggs and chicken meat, enlisting the support of the Health Ministry in this regard. Positive samples for avian influenza were confirmed from two poultry farms in Haryana’s Panchkula district, as well as among migratory birds in Gujarat’s Junagadh district. Positive samples were also reported among crows in four districts of Rajasthan. “Unusual mortality of 16 birds has also been reported in DDA park Hastsal Village, Delhi. The AH (animal husbandry) Department of NCT of Delhi has reportedly taken precautionary measures and sent samples to ICAR-NIHSAD and a test report is awaited,” the statement said. Affected States have been directed to follow the avian influenza action plan to contain the disease. Culling operations have been completed in both affected districts in Kerala, and the disinfection process is underway. Central teams have been dispatched to Kerala, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh for monitoring and epidemiological investigation, said the statement. Increased vigilance Unaffected States have been requested to keep a look out for and immediately report unusual bird mortality, so containment measures can be implemented quickly. In the Delhi cases, samples have been sent to ICAR-NIHSAD for testing. “Awareness among poultry farmers and the general public (consumers of eggs and chicken) about the disease is of foremost importance,” said the statement, adding that the Animal Husbandry Secretary has written to the Health Ministry on the issue. “Appropriate advisories have been requested to be issued from the Health Ministry in this regard so that consumer confidence affected by rumours is put to rest. Also, States have been requested to increase awareness regarding safety of poultry or poultry products that were safe for consumption following boiling or cooking procedures,” it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bird-flu-now-confirmed-in-six-states/article33533516.ece
09 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Handover of power should be peaceful’||Handover of power to the Biden-Harris administration in the United States should be conducted in an “organised and peaceful” manner, India said on Friday. Official spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs Anurag Srivastava said that the violent incidents in the American capital will not succeed in subverting the democratic process. “Indian position on this issue has been expressed clearly in the tweet of the Prime Minister. It was expressed that he was hurt by the incident of rioting and violence in Washington DC. Handover of political power should take place in an organised and peaceful manner. Unlawful protests of this nature cannot damage the process of democracy,” Mr. Srivastava said in response to a question during the weekly press briefing. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said on Thursday that the mob attack on the U.S. Congress had left him “distressed”. “The democratic process cannot be allowed to be subverted through unlawful protests,” Mr. Modi had said. The statements from the Indian side came even as some Indian flags carried by Indian-American supporters of President Trump were spotted among the crowd that attacked the U.S. Congress. Mr. Srivastava, however, did not elaborate on that in his response. India, like other countries, is gearing up for the transition of power from the Trump administration to the Biden-Harris team, which will take over on January 20. An immediate issue of bilateral concern is likely to be India’s purchase of a $400 million missile defence system from Russia despite the U.S.’ objection. Outgoing U.S. ambassador to India Kenneth Juster on January 5 spoke about the choices that India would have to make in going ahead with the deal, saying that punitive measures under CAATSA — Countering of America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act — were not aimed at the friends and allies of the United States. “India seeks to keep its options open and purchase from any country. But there are also limitations that imposes, and choices that might ultimately need to be made,” Mr. Juster had said. In response to the envoy’s remarks, Mr. Srivastava said that India conducts its foreign policy on the basis of choices made to safeguard its “national security interest”. “India and the U.S. have a Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership. India has a special and privileged strategic partnership with Russia. We pursue an independent foreign policy. This also applies to our defence acquisitions and supplies, which are guided by our national security interest,” said Mr. Srivastava.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/handover-of-power-should-be-peaceful/article33533503.ece
09 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Action against Lakhvi a farce: India||Hours after a Pakistan court convicted Lashkar-e-Taiba operations commander Zaki Ur Rahman Lakhvi in a terror financing case, sentencing him to three five-year prison sentences, India called the process “farcical”, and accused Pakistan of carrying out quick prosecutions of various UN sanctioned terrorist leaders to avoid punitive action at the upcoming Financial Action Task Force (FATF) meetings, where it has been greylisted. “UN proscribed entities and designated terrorists act as proxies for Pakistani establishment to fulfil its anti-India agenda. It is for the international community to hold Pakistan to account and ensure that it takes credible action against terror groups, terror infrastructure and individual terrorists,” said MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava. “The timing of these actions clearly suggests the intention of conveying a sense of compliance ahead of the APJG (Asia Pacific Joint Group) meeting and next FATF plenxary meeting in February 2021. It has become routine for Pakistan to come up with such farcical actions prior to important meetings,” he added in response to a question from The Hindu on a spate of action from Pakistan. In December 2020, LeT chief Hafiz Saeed was given a second conviction on terror charges in cases involving terror financing. Lakhvi, who had been arrested on January 2 this year, five years after he was given bail in the Mumbai 26/11 terror attacks case in Pakistan, was also charged with terror financing. Thus far, Pakistan has cleared 21 of the 27 markers according to the FATF, and the APJG will submit its report on whether it has made progress on the remaining six. The FATF plenary session in February will then decide whether Pakistan should remain on the greylist, be downgraded to the “blacklist” of sanctioned “high-risk” countries like Iran and North Korea, or let off the list.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/action-against-lakhvi-a-farce-india/article33533508.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Use of a vaccine without knowing its protection potential is unethical’||Dr. Vineeta Bal , immunologist and Faculty, Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER), Pune, and former scientist, National Institute of Immunology, New Delhi, disagrees with the emergency use approval given to Covaxin, the COVID-19 vaccine by Bharat Biotech, on the grounds that there was no evidence yet on if and how it provided protection. Excerpts:      Two vaccine candidates have been given emergency use approval in India — Covishield and Covaxin. Both have weaknesses in terms of what is known about them. Two full doses of Covishield in overseas trials showed 62% efficacy, but we don't know how safe and immunogenic it is in Indians. Covaxin has some safety and immunogenicity data but absolutely no efficacy data. From what’s publicly known, are both these vaccines at least comparably safe? Is one ‘safer’ than the other? Both have undergone safety testing in experimental animals as well as in Phase-1 human trials. They appear as safe as most of the vaccines currently in use — both childhood vaccines as well as adult vaccines. It is not possible to compare safety between the two vaccine candidates in further minute detail based on data currently available in the public domain. However, while Covishield efficiency is based on clinical trials in more than one country, and is above the statutory limit put in by the Central Drugs and Standards Control Organisation (CDSCO) for emergency approval, there are no such data on Covaxin. The Indian Council of Medical Research and several scientists in the government have justified the roll-out of Covaxin in clinical trial mode because of the potential transmissibility of the U.K. strain of the virus. Is that reasonable? The justification provided is lame. It is not reasonable on a scientific basis. It has also violated norms set up for vaccine/drug approval for emergency use by the same CDSCO which has granted the permission. The sanctity of due process is violated. Since the Covaxin trial has not reached a stage where it can show protection from the existing strains of the virus, there is no reason to believe that it will do so for a mutant [strain]. In the context of COVID-19 in India, is any vaccine that’s at least not harmful but shows promise in animal studies and limited human trials, better than no vaccine at all? No. There are ethical concerns for the use of drugs, devices, vaccines, etc., and they need to be followed. Otherwise, we are losing out on what we have achieved as a civilised society over the years — we go back to a Hitlerian era. Experimenting on Jews, on prisoners, on blacks without consent was practised then and is not acceptable now. Providing a vaccine to a healthy person without knowing the statistical probability of protection is unethical. Besides, COVID-19 is not a highly dangerous disease, unlike some of viral diseases with very high mortality, such as Ebola. That kind of justification also cannot be invoked for such an approval. In fact, in India, the number of cases is steadily falling over the past many weeks. Thus, the so-called emergency-like situation, when infrastructure shortage was a major concern in September 2020, does not exist any longer. In such a scenario, why flout the rules set by authorities keeping safety and efficacy concerns in mind? From the perspective of immunology, is it true that a whole, inactivated virus could provide better protection against mutated strains, such as the B.1.1.7 ‘U.K.’ strain? Have we seen that happen with other viruses in history? We have come a long way in vaccine development during this pandemic. In the history of vaccines, each [vaccine] took roughly 5-20 years to complete clinical trials and reach the mass vaccination stage. And it was rare that more than one type of vaccine for the same disease was getting developed in parallel, unlike the present situation. What is needed is clinical trial data where native and mutant strains are spreading, and two vaccines are being tested — one with a small portion of the virus, such as the Receptor Binding Domain [RBD, or the part that latches on to the body’s cell to gain entry] as a vaccine, and the other with the whole virus. This is too hypothetical and unethical/impractical.  (For full interview, log on to bit.ly/VineetaBal)   What is needed is clinical trial data where native and mutant strains are spreading||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/use-of-a-vaccine-without-knowing-its-protection-potential-is-unethical/article33533521.ece
09 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC to hear plea against confession||The Supreme Court on Friday agreed to consider after three weeks a petition filed by a group of women against the compulsory nature of sacred confessions to priests in Christianity. Appearing before a Bench led by Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde, senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, for the petitioners, said “confessions are being abused”. But Chief Justice Bobde said the veracity of such allegations would depend on the individual facts in every case. “There cannot be a rule to impose confessions on a worshipper... Ladies are forced to confess before the priest... The court has to see whether confessions are an integral part of the religion,” Mr. Rohatgi went on to submit. He said forced confessions violated the right to privacy. When asked by the court why it should intervene in an obviously ecclesiastical issue like this, he reminded the court about its interventions in questions concerning the personal laws and customs of communities like the Bohra Muslims and Parsis. Legal ambit He said the court could examine the issues in the petition as they came within the ambit of the questions of faith, rights of women and equality referred to a nine-judge Constitution Bench in the Sabarimala case. Mr. Rohatgi then sought more time to amend the petition and add more facts. Attorney General K.K. Venugopal, when asked for an opinion by the court, said the whole issue stemmed from the Jacobite-Orthodox dispute. The Supreme Court had upheld the validity of the 1934 Constitution of the Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church to govern the parishes under the church. He suggested that the Kerala High Court should hear it. “The Kerala High Court knows the entire case history,” he said. Earlier, the court had agreed to examine a separate but similar plea by members of the Malankara Syrian Church in Kerala seeking a declaration that forced confessions were unconstitutional by nature. The petition had said these confessions may involve sexual exploitation of parishioners. “Church is forcing the members to mandatorily confess and mandatorily make payment of monies/dues and the said practises indulged in by the church are of public nature, affecting human dignity and liberty of thought and that the believers have been forced to remain meek and quiet out of fear of removal from parish membership, social ostracisation, etc,” it had stated. Open to exploitation “This pernicious practice of forced, compulsory and mandatory confession [not being voluntary] from every member, both men and women, is causing several other problems, including sexual exploitation of women and blackmailing,” the petition, filed by Mathew T. Mathachan and two others, had said. It had sought a judicial declaration that mandatory confession is a violation of the right to privacy, liberty and dignity of the parishioners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-to-hear-plea-against-confession/article33533530.ece
09 January 2021||Hyderabad,||Another youth ends life over loan app harassment||Yet another case of suicide due to harassment by unauthorised digital lending mobile apps was reported in Telangana on Friday. In Rajanna-Sircilla district, a 24-year-old youngster ended his life by hanging from a ceiling fan. This is the sixth case of suicide due to harassment by loan sharks existing only in mobile applications. According to district Superintendent of Police Rahul Hegde B.K., the victim, M. Pavan Kalyan Reddy, a graduate from Galipalli village of Illanthakunta mandal, borrowed a few thousand rupees from an online app and was unable to repay within the stipulated time. Messages to cousin When Reddy failed to clear the loan, the recovery tele-callers sent messages and called him. As he was not responding to their calls, the app company messaged his cousin, whose number was submitted as a secondary contact, he said. “Currently, we don’t know how much money he borrowed, but his cousin informed us that he was due to pay around Rs. 19,000 and Reddy borrowed Rs. 10,000 from her,” Mr. Hegde said. When the youngster asked for additional amount of Rs. 10,000, his cousin informed the family members about his debt, and he was reprimanded. Unable to bear the harassment from the loan app company, Reddy resorted to the extreme step on Friday afternoon. Fingerprint lock “To find out the exact amount he borrowed from these apps, we must get access to his mobile phone which has fingerprint lock. His phone will be sent to the forensic lab to extract the data,” the SP said. Further, Mr. Hegde requested borrowers to approach police and lodge complaint about the harassment and public shaming by app-based money lending companies rather than resorting to extreme steps. (There is always someone to listen at: +914066202000 or 6666 1117 in case of any emotional breakdowns at this Hyderabad-based suicide intervention centre Roshni.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/another-youth-ends-life-over-loan-app-harassment/article33533492.ece
09 January 2021||KHAMMAM,||RMP turns saviour for injured dog||Moved by the plight of an injured street dog, an animal lover of Singarayapalem village in Konijerla mandal designed a makeshift mobility aid using wheels of a kid’s stroller and pieces of plastic pipes helping the injured canine to move around. Mohammed Aasha, a Registered Medical Practitioner (RMP), turned saviour for a dog struggling to move with both its rear legs badly injured with suspected multiple fractures near his residence two days ago. He immediately shifted the dog to his home where he cleaned the injured legs and offered food to the canine. The idea of making an improvised mobility aid struck him after he noticed the dog desperately trying to crawl by dragging its injured hind legs.  Mobility aid The Registered Medical Practitioner translated his idea into action by making a two-wheeled mobility aid resembling a wheel-chair by using the components of a defunct children’s stroller and toys besides some unused household items. He then delicately attached the two-wheeled mobility aid to the dog enabling it to walk around providing the much-needed relief to the canine, albeit temporarily. “The plight of the injured female dog aged above six years prompted me to design the makeshift mobility aid to alleviate its suffering,” Mr. Aasha told The Hindu . “I rescued the street dog after finding it wreathing in pain on the roadside with its back legs injured,” the Registered Medical Practitioner said. He added that he would take the canine to the veterinary hospital in Khammam to ensure proper treatment for its injured legs and make it walk independently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rmp-turns-saviour-for-injured-dog/article33534322.ece
09 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Many Army personnel under stress’||More than half of Indian Army personnel seem to be under severe stress and the Army has been losing more personnel every year due to suicides, fratricides and untoward incidents than in response to any enemy or terrorist activities, according to the findings of a study by United Service Institution of India (USI), a Service think tank. “There has been a significant increase in stress levels amongst Indian Army personnel during approximately last two decades due to operational and non-operational stressors,” one of the findings says. “Prolonged exposure of Indian Army personnel to Counter Insurgency and Counter Terrorism (CI/CT) environment has been one of the contributory factors for increased stress levels,” the study notes. The research was undertaken during 2019-20 by Col. AK Mor, Senior Research Fellow at the USI, and presented at a webinar titled “Prevailing Stress Levels in Indian Army due to Prolonged Exposure to Counter Insurgency/Counter Terrorism environment”, organised in October 2020 and uploaded on the website on December 07 last. While operational stressors are well understood and accepted by Army personnel, the study says that non-operational stressors that add on “have compounding adverse effects on health and combat efficiency of soldiers and thus affecting their respective units too.” In this regard, officers experience comparatively much higher cumulative stress levels, compared to the Junior Commissioned Officers (JCO) and Other Ranks (OR) and the stress causative factors are also different. The study observes that the overall job satisfaction and pride in uniform remains high amongst JCOs and ORs. “It seems to be a growing matter of concern amongst Officers, requiring urgent interventions from the highest levels of government,” it says. “Despite harsh and challenging service conditions, Indian Army personnel remain highly motivated to serve in CI/ CT areas voluntarily... However, the Officers lack a similar level of trust, faith and confidence in their leadership that JCOs and ORs demonstrate,” it states. Management measures The study highlights that various management measures implemented by the Army and Defence Ministry in the last 15 years have not been able to achieve the desired results. “Units and sub-units under stress are likely to witness an increased number of incidents of indiscipline, unsatisfactory state of training, inadequate maintenance of equipment and low morale, motivation and esprit-de-corps, thereby, adversely affecting their combat preparedness and operational performance,” it says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/many-army-personnel-under-stress/article33533512.ece
09 January 2021||LUCKNOW,||Youth kill endangered dolphin in U.P.||A video of a group of men and boys in Uttar Pradesh’s Pratapgarh district beating to death a Gangetic river dolphin surfaced on social media on Friday. An endangered species, the Gangetic River Dolphin is recognised as the National Aquatic Animal. In the video of the incident, which took place on December 31, 2020, in the shallow waters of the Sharda canal near a village, a group of men and boys can be seen mauling the dolphin with axes and sticks. The group first trapped the dolphin with a net, following which one of them slammed the hapless creature with an axe. Others joined in with axes and thick sticks and held down the dolphin by its fin, while some locals punctured the dolphin with sharp objects leading to bleeding. The Pratapgarh police said they had arrested three persons and sent them to jail. Further legal action was being taken. In the FIR lodged at the Nawabganj police station against unknown persons, it was mentioned that a post-mortem on the dolphin was conducted. Killing the Gangetic River Dolphin is a punishable offence under Section 9/51 of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, the FIR said. The motive behind the crime is not yet known. On January 2, IFS officer Ramesh Pandey shared a link and photo of the incident and tweeted: “In an unfortunate incident a Gangetic Dolphin got killed by locals in Pratapgarh district of U.P. Locals thought the species a ‘fish’ which may be dangerous to their lives. Wildlife awareness is much needed for conservation.” In August, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced Project Dolphin, for the conservation of the aquatic mammal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/up-youth-beat-endangered-gangetic-dolphin-to-death/article33533561.ece
09 January 2021||New Delhi,||Decide on Rajoana mercy plea by R-Day, SC tells govt.||The Supreme Court on Friday pushed the government to take a decision on a mercy petition filed by Balwant Singh Rajoana, facing capital punishment for the assassination of former Punjab Chief Minister Beant Singh, before Republic Day. Appearing before a Bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde, senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, for Rajoana, said it should be possible for the government to spare time for the mercy petition, which had been pending for the past eight years, as there was no foreign guest coming on January 26 for the Republic Day celebrations. Additional Solicitor General K.M. Nataraj informed the court that the mercy plea file was being processed and had been submitted before the competent authority within the government. The President is empowered to take the final decision on whether Rajoana should live or not. Mr. Rohatgi said the petition was filed in 2012. The death penalty should be commuted on the sole ground of the delay on the part of the government to decide on the clemency petition. Chief Justice Bobde said the government was merely asking for another week or two before taking a call. “He has been in prison for 25 years,” Mr. Rohatgi said. “Another week or two will not change anything,” the Bench said. It was then that Mr. Rohatgi pressed for a decision on the mercy plea before January 26. The court agreed, even as the government said the file would be processed at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/decide-on-rajoana-mercy-plea-by-r-day-sc-tells-govt/article33533532.ece
09 January 2021||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan Cong. executive to face first test||The new executive of the Rajasthan Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) will face its first test after its reconstitution earlier this week in the upcoming urban local body elections to be held in 20 districts of the State. The PCC is sending its general secretaries appointed in the revamp to the 90 municipal bodies going to polls on January 28. The 39-member team in the PCC has been formed with a balancing act among different factions, in which the loyalists from the camps of both Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and former Deputy CM Sachin Pilot have been accommodated. The new PCC vice-presidents and general secretaries will be made in-charges of different districts. MLAs G.R. Khatana, Rakesh Pareek and Ved Prakash Solanki, who were among the 18 legislators who rebelled with Mr. Pilot and created a political turmoil in July last year, have found a place among the eight general secretaries. The PCC executive was reconstituted with the appointment of seven vice-presidents and 24 secretaries on Wednesday.  ‘Important role’ The Congress party contested the local body polls and panchayat elections during the last three months without the strength of its executive. PCC president Govind Singh Dotasra, who held the fort alone, said here on Friday that the members of the new body would play an important role in the selection of candidates and appointment of District Congress Committee presidents. Mr. Dotasra, who is also the Education Minister, was appointed the PCC chief in July 2020 after Mr. Pilot was sacked as both the Deputy CM and PCC president. The party had also dissolved the State executive and other departments and cells during the crisis which continued for a month. Though the uncertainty within the Congress had led to a setback in the panchayat elections, in which it won fewer Zila Pramukh posts than the Opposition BJP, the ruling party managed a good performance in the elections for 50 urban bodies in 12 districts last month. The Congress won 619 of the 1,775 ward councillor posts, compared to the BJP's tally of 548. In November 2020, the Congress won in four of the six Municipal Corporations in Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota cities, which went to polls for the formation of boards. The BJP could obtain a clear majority in only two civic bodies. The upcoming municipal body elections will be held in Ajmer, Banswara, Bikaner, Bhilwara, Bundi, Pratapgarh, Chittorgarh, Churu, Dungarpur, Hanumangarh, Jaisalmer, Jalore, Jhalawar, Jhunjhunu, Nagaur, Pali, Rajsamand, Sikar, Tonk and Udaipur districts. The process for filing of nomination papers will start after the issuance of election notification on January 11.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajasthan-cong-executive-to-face-first-test/article33533880.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Delhi asks Beijing to allow crew change for stranded sailors||Indian Ambassador Vikram Misri has raised with China the issue of stranded Indian sailors in ships off Chinese ports, asking the authorities to allow an early approval for a crew change. Mr. Misri took up the issue with China’s Vice Foreign Minister, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said on Friday, with details for changing the crew still being worked out. Two ships, MV Jag Anand and MV Anastasia, are among several carrying Australian coal that have been unable to offload their cargo after China essentially banned coal imports amid deteriorating relations with Australia. There are 23 Indian sailors on the bulk carrier MV Jag Anand which has been stuck off the Jingtang port on the Bohai Sea in northern China since June, and 16 others on MV Anastasia, which has been off the port of Caofeidian, also in Hebei, since September. New outbreak Complicating the situation is a new outbreak of COVID-19 cases in Hebei province, which has gone into “wartime” mode after more than 100 cases were reported this week and 11 million people in the city of Shijiazhuang have been put under lockdown.  The Sydney Morning Herald reported this week there are about 70 ships waiting, caught in between China not allowing them to unload and “importers and ship charterers [that] are demanding the ships wait regardless.” China has said the ships are free to leave and has placed the responsibility on freight forwarding companies for resolving the impasse. The companies neither want to incur the costs of the cargo nor lose their waiting spots, leaving the sailors caught in the middle. “In view of China’s strict COVID-19 pandemic control and prevention measures as well as various travel restrictions in place, the Chinese authorities have outlined detailed steps to ensure the smooth movement of new crew to China to effect crew change,” MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said on Friday. “These steps have to be complied with by the shipping companies concerned. With regard to the request of exploring alternative modes of crew change at sea, this possibility has also been taken up by with Chinese authorities, who have indicated that the details for this option are being worked out. We are awaiting these details from Chinese authorities.” India, he said, “will continue to remain in touch with various relevant Chinese authorities as well as shipping companies to ensure that the humanitarian needs of the crew are taken care of and that crew changes can be effected at the earliest.” On the situation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), Mr. Srivastava said both sides had maintained communication at the ground level “to avoid any misunderstandings and misjudgments” but did not say when the next round of talks between Corps Commanders would be held. Both sides had agreed on December 18, following a meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India-China border affairs, to hold the next round at an early date but have failed to agree on a date so far, underlining the broader impasse in taking forward disengagement and a return to the status quo prior to China’s transgressions last May. “The two sides have agreed to hold the next round of Senior Commanders meeting and are in constant communication through diplomatic and military channels in this regard,” he said. “In the meantime, both sides have maintained communication at the ground level to avoid any misunderstandings and misjudgments.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-asks-china-to-allow-crew-change-for-stranded-sailors/article33533501.ece
09 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM/KOCHI,||Keralite waved tricolour at Capitol storming||A video of someone waving the Indian tricolour amid the violent storming of the United States Capitol by supporters of U.S. President Donald Trump two days ago had led to much debate ever since. Now, it has emerged that one of the persons waving the tricolour was Vincent Xavier Palathingal, a Kerala-native, hailing from Kochi. Mr. Palathingal had put a detailed post on Facebook on Thursday, claiming that he was there to protest against a ‘stolen election’. The post, in which he claimed that he was not part of the violence, has now been taken down following widespread criticism from people inside and outside Kerala against him for insulting the country by carrying the tricolour to a violent protest in which five people have died. “Trump rallies are always a lot of fun. And today was not an exception. About 50 or so lawless people who breached the U.S. Capitol perimeter by climbing the walls, breaking the windows and attacking police inside this sacred temple to American Democracy is not a reason to throw the million-plus peaceful protestors under the bus,” he had written in the deleted post. “Some criminals had infiltrated our event and incited the violence. It was a peaceful protest by one million people. All Trump rallies are fun. I do not regret the decision to take the Indian flag to the protest. I am a very proud Indo-American, who had supported Trump. Violence is not part of us,” he told The Hindu . Mr. Palathingal has been settled in the U.S. since 1992 after graduating in Civil Engineering from the Government Engineering College, Thrissur. A member of the State Central Committee of the Republican Party in Virginia, he said the Trump Supporters were expecting the Congress to hold serious debate on the election fraud by making this unprecedented move at the Capitol. “We had expected about 12 hours of discussion, where all the proof on the rigged elections could have been presented. All that was thwarted because of the violence. After it, the Republican people did not support Trump as they feared losing their name,” he alleged. Mr. Palathingal recalled that he was a Democrat before and had voted for Barack Obama twice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/keralite-waved-tricolour-at-capitol-storming/article33533510.ece
09 January 2021||KOCHI,||Kevin murder: HC orders probe into plea of convict’s parents||Titto Jerome, the convict in the Kevin murder case, has tenderness on the left renal ankle suggestive of a renal injury and needs immediate treatment, reported a team deputed by the Kerala High Court. The team had N. Seshadrinathan, Additional District Judge 2, Thiruvananthapruam, Dr. Sajeev, consultant physician, and Dr. Gopikrishnan, surgeon, as its members. The team gave the report after inspecting the convict, who complained that he was manhandled on January 1 by a few officials in connection with an alleged incident of a few prisoners consuming alcohol on December 24. It was following a petition moved by the parents of the prisoner that they were not allowed to meet him that the court ordered an inspection. The prisoner informed the visiting team that he was beaten in the back of his chest. He showed one cane mark on his left plantar aspect of foot and three cane marks on his right plantar aspect of foot, the report of the district judge said. The doctors who examined the prisoner informed that there was tenderness on the left renal ankle, which was suggestive of renal injury, the report said. Considering the report, the Kerala High Court asked the Additional Director General of Police (Prison) or an officer of the rank not below Deputy Inspector General of Police to conduct an inquiry and file a report to the Additional District Judge 2, Thiruvananthapruam before 12 noon, Saturday. Court directive The court directed the Additional Director General of Police (Prison) and the Commissioner of Police, Thiruvananthapruam, to ensure that the convict was provided a guard from the police force at the Medical College Hospital and no Central prison personnel was allowed access to him. The Commissioner should ensure that the convict was given ample protection, the court directed.  The convict complained that he was manhandled on January 1 by a few officials in connection with an alleged incident of alcohol consumption||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kevin-murder-probe-ordered-into-plea-of-convicts-parents/article33533669.ece
09 January 2021||HYDERABAD,||SCCL to fill 651 posts by March-end||Nearly two weeks after announcing that it would fill all vacancies in the company over the next six months, the management of Singareni Collieries Company Ltd (SCCL) has decided to complete the process in respect of 651 posts by March-end. Conducting written tests and selection of eligible candidates as per the guidelines and completing the appointment process would be done by March-end. The 651 posts include 569 posts in the national coal wage category and the remaining 82 are various officer posts. Chairman and Managing Director N. Sridhar stated on Friday that 569 NCW posts include junior assistant (177), fitter (128), electrician trainee (51), welder trainee (54), turner/machinist trainee (22), motor mechanic trainee (14) and moulder trainee (19). Besides, there were posts of junior staff nurse (84), lab technician (7), pharmacist (5), x-ray, ventilator, ECG and physiotherapy departments (2 each). The 82 officer posts to be filled include management trainee – 39 in mining department, 10 in industrial engineering department, 7 in civil engineering and 6 in information technology, personnel officer (17) and junior forest officer (3). On the opportunities for internal candidates for 1,436 posts to be filled soon, the CMD said about 10,000 youths had joined the company on compassionate and dependant grounds in recent years with many of them working as badili workers and general mazdoors, in spite of several of them having higher qualifications. Following the Chief Minister’s assurance to the State Legislature last year, eligible among them would be selected for 1,436 posts in various departments. Stating that internal circulars would be issued soon for filling the 1,436 posts with internal candidates, Mr. Sridhar said the posts filled would include operator trainee (210), EP operator fitter trainee (178), junior assistant (177), ward assistant (175), driver (64), welder trainee (55), assistant foreman (mechanical) trainee (56), electrician trainee (51), EP electrician trainee (42), pit office assistant (36) and junior accountant (24). Further, turner-machinist trainee (22), moulder trainee (19), motor mechanic trainee (14), storekeeper (13), junior forest assistant (8), lab technician (7), law assistant (5), pharmacist (5), x-ray, ECG, ventilator assistant (2 each), dietician, physiotherapist and dialysis technician (one each)and others (94) would also be filled with internal candidates. On the posts filled since formation of Telangana, the CMD said 13,934 poster were filled including 10,879 on compassionate/dependant grounds and 3,055 through external recruitment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sccl-to-fill-651-posts-by-march-end/article33534254.ece
09 January 2021||Bengaluru,||When a conservator and stamp collector finds Buddha||It’s no surprise that many stamps of M. Lokeswara Rao are related to nature. As Nagaland’s former Principal Chief Conservator of Forest, he lived in the midst of wildlife. But about one-third of Mr. Rao’s stamp collection is on Buddhism. In his book, Buddhism on Stamps , which was released on Thursday, he discusses the life and teachings of Buddha through 1,134 philatelic material, including stamps and postcards. “I took to painting Buddha in 2014 as a stress-relieving hobby. Two years later, when I retired, I started the stamp collection. I am not a Buddhist but I like the teachings of Buddha because they are about peace and nature,” he said. Mr. Rao started working on the book six months ago. “COVID-19 resulted in destruction and crises across the world. And people were losing their peace of mind. So, I thought a book on the teachings of Buddha will be relevant for this time.” Sri Lanka’s stamps The Twelve Deeds of Buddha stamp, released by Bhutan in 2014, is among Mr. Rao’s favourites in his collection. “It talks about the complete life of Buddha from his birth till he attains mahaparinirvana,” he says. “Sri Lanka has issued 20 new postage stamps depicting remarkable Buddhist places of worship in 20 countries to commemorate the United Nations Vesak Festival of 2561 BE in 2017.” Mr. Rao’s collection has about 5,000 stamps from over 50 countries going back to the late 19th century. He has won several awards including a ‘large silver medal’ for his exhibit, Buddhism, at the Sydney Stamp and Coin Expo 2019. Apart from Buddhism, Mr. Rao also collects orchids and Penny Red stamps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/when-a-conservator-and-stamp-collector-finds-buddha/article33533482.ece
09 January 2021||KOCHI,||Customs dept. quizzes Kerala Speaker’s aide||Customs (Preventive) Commissionerate questioned K. Ayyappan, assistant private secretary (PS) to Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan, for nearly nine hours on Friday in connection with its probe into the foreign currency smuggling case. Mr. Ayyappan, who reached the office of the Customs here around 10 a.m, was let off by 7 p.m. The interrogation of the Speaker’s personal staff member had provided ammunition to the Opposition at the start of the Budget session of the Assembly in the morning. Even though the officials remained tight-lipped on the outcome of the interrogation, it is learnt that the Customs was pursuing the statements given by the drivers of the Consul General and admin attache' at the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram. The former finance head of the consulate had come under the scanner of the agency for the alleged smuggling of U.S. dollars out of the country. Swapna Suresh and P.S. Sarith, the key accused in the case, had given statements related to the involvement of the diplomatic officials in dollar smuggling. Mr. Ayyappan had failed to turn up before the Customs twice while saying initially that he had not received a notice from the Customs. In the second instance, he claimed to be busy with the preparatory works for the Assembly session. S.V. Unnikrishnan Nair, secretary, Legislature Secretariat, had informed the Customs that the agency needed Speaker’s permission to question his personal staff member. Permission Mr. Sreeramakrishnan had pointed out that a legal process, civil or criminal, cannot be served within the precincts of the Assembly without obtaining the Speaker’s permission. The Customs had responded by stating that the rules were incorporated to protect the majesty of the legislature and not shield the guilty or to cover up information being revealed to a competent legal authority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-speakers-aide-quizzed-for-9-hours/article33533497.ece
09 January 2021||TIRUPATI,||Christians appeal for peace in Tirupati||Alleging that attempts are being made to polarise the people on religious lines, the Christian community of Tirupati called for peace in the temple city. Members of the Tirupati United Christian Churches held a meeting at the Shekina Church in Kanaka Bhushanam layout on Friday and discussed the series of events happening in the State and its possible impact on the community. The recent desecration of Hindu idols and demolition of religious structures were unfortunate, they said and requested the government to arrest the culprits immediately. “Certain political parties are making unconstitutional remarks against the entire community for gains,” its honorary president Pastor Arul Arasu said.  Recalling former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu’s promise to accord SC status to the community from the present ‘BC(C)’ status and extension of sops such as ‘Chandranna Christmas Kanuka’, funds for renovation of churches, formation of Christian Minority Corporation and aid for the poor Christians travelling to Jerusalem, they wondered how he could now take a ‘U-turn’ and raise forced conversions issue. “Mr. Naidu should withdraw his remark and apologise,” the pastor said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/christians-appeal-for-peace-in-tirupati/article33533486.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||U.P. youth beat Gangetic dolphin to death||In the FIR lodged at the Nawabganj police station against unknown persons, it was mentioned that a post-mortem on the dolphin was conducted. Killing the Gangetic River Dolphin is a punishable offence under Section 9/51 of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, the FIR said. The motive behind the crime is not yet known. On January 2, IFS officer Ramesh Pandey shared photo of the incident and tweeted: “In an unfortunate incident a Gangetic Dolphin got killed by locals in Pratapgarh district of UP. Locals thought the species a ‘Fish’ which may be dangerous for their lives. Wildlife awareness is much needed for conservation.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/up-youth-beat-gangetic-dolphin-to-death/article33533498.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||LeT chief gets 5-year jail term for terror financing||“He and others also collected funds from the dispensary and used the funds for further terrorism financing. He also used these funds for personal expenses,” the CTD said. The Anti-Terrorism Court also directed law enforcement agencies to arrest the co-accused in the case, Abu Anas Mohsin, due to the availability of sufficient evidence against him. The U.S. had welcomed Lakhvi's arrest last week but said Pakistan should try him for the Mumbai attacks also. “We welcome Pakistan’s arrest of terrorist leader Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi as an important step in holding him responsible for his role in supporting terrorism and its financing,” the South and Central Asia Bureau of the State Department said in a tweet. “We will follow his prosecution and sentencing closely and urge that he be held accountable for his involvement in the Mumbai attacks,” it said on Tuesday. Interestingly, Lakhvi was presented before the Lahore ATC on Friday and was convicted the same day in the terror financing case registered against him some time ago. The court was told that Lakhvi, a resident of Renal Khurd Okara district of Punjab, was living in Islamabad before his arrest in the case by the Counter-Terrorism Department (CTD) of Punjab province on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/let-chief-gets-5-year-jail-term-for-terror-financing/article33533479.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Centre turns to SC as talks with farmers fail||Farmer leaders said policy issues should not be decided by the court, which is only examining the constitutional validity of the laws. “It's a sad day for democracy when an elected government in the middle of talks takes resort in the Supreme Court and says that we should fall back on the Court,” said Mahila Kisan Adhikaar Manch leader Kavitha Kuruganti. “This is a matter of the livelihoods of millions of farmers. It is a policy decision which should be taken in consultation with farmers.” “No matter what the decision of the court is, if it is against farmers, we will not accept it. We will go to jail if needed. These laws are a death knell for farmers,” said Hannan Mollah of the All India Kisan Sabha. The meeting got off to a tense start, with the Centre saying it cannot and will not repeal the three laws, as it needs to look at the interests of the whole country, including other farmers groups which support the laws. Mr. Tomar blamed the unions for their failure to come up with any alternative proposal apart from repeal. At this point, Balbir Singh Rajewal who heads his own faction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, raised his voice, accusing the government of being adamant. Union leaders vowed that they would not return home until the laws were repealed, repeating slogans such as, “ Ya jitenge, ya marenge” ( We will win or die in the attempt), and thumping their desks. The farmers refused to budge from the conference room while the government delegation left for an hour-long break. “I do not have any hope for the next meeting. The government is only repeating the same thing, they are not listening to us at all. But we will not be responsible for the breakdown of talks. That is why we will come back on January 15,” said Gurnam Singh Chadhuni, who heads a Haryana faction of the BKU. “We will all come into Delhi with our tractors on Republic Day. Perhaps they will listen to us then.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-turns-to-sc-as-talks-with-farmers-fail/article33533480.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||PM to chair meeting on vaccine rollout||“After the dry run on January 2, several States had raised concerns regarding software, connectivity and broadband issues, which were relooked into today,” said a senior Health Ministry official. India held its first dry run for the roll-out in eight districts on December 28-29, and the first countrywide drill covering 74 districts was held on January 2. “These drills are aimed to ensure efficient planning and management for vaccine delivery in each district of all States and Union Territories. For the drill, each district had identified three types of session sites, similar to the previous dry run including a public health facility (District Hospital/Medical College), private health facility and rural or urban outreach sites,” noted the Ministry. Dr. Vardhan, who was in Tamil Nadu to monitor the mock drill on Friday, had earlier, in a meeting with State Health Ministers, cautioned and stressed the need to be vigilant against rumours and disinformation campaigns regarding the safety and efficacy of the COVID-19 vaccines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-to-chair-meeting-on-vaccine-rollout/article33533499.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Govt. told to arm forest officers to fight poachers||The court said the Centre should consider involving premier organisations such as the CBI to help the forest staff. “There should even be a separate wing or wildlife division in the Enforcement Directorate with clean officials to track and investigate crimes of the poachers and the proceeds of their crime... The amounts involved are huge and justify the formation of a separate wing by the ED,” Chief Justice Bobde addressed Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, for the Centre. CJI Bobde pointed out how forest rangers in Assam were armed and “no one dares come near them”. “But in States like Madhya Pradesh, they roam around with lathis . In Karnataka, forest guards are in chappals and [carry] just lathis ... In these States, forest guards are slapped around by poachers,” the CJI said. He asked Maharashtra counsel Rahul Chitnis why forest officers in the State were not armed. Mr. Chitnis, however, insisted that they were. “But why this unequal situation among forest officials from State to State? Forest officers have larger responsibilities than police officers in cities. They patrol large tracts of uninhabited forests. A forest guard is alone in his duty, unlike a police officer in a city who can call for back-up,” CJI Bobde said.  Amicus curiae A.D.N. Rao said States did not utilise funds meant for arming the forest force. “Forest officers above a certain rank need arms for self-protection, bullet-proof vests, helmets and vehicles... the situation is serious. They are helpless and in danger. It is difficult to imagine how any law can be enforced by forest staff who are unarmed against heavily armed poachers,” the CJI said. The court asked the Solicitor General, Mr. Rao and Mr. Shyam Divan to make a joint submission on the measures that could be adopted to protect the forest staff. The court posted the case after four weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-told-to-arm-forest-officers-to-fight-poachers/article33533500.ece
09 January 2021||New Delhi,||Congress calls Centre inhuman and ruthless||As Friday’s talks between farmers and the Centre failed to break the deadlock over the farm laws, the Congress said the Narendra Modi government would go down as the most “inhuman and ruthless government in the history of India”. Separately, party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, while meeting MPs and MLAs from Punjab, asserted that there was no other solution than repealing the laws. “We have always stood by farmers and will continue to do so. The only solution is to repeal the laws,” she said. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala tweeted, “The Modi government has proved to be the most inhuman, egotistical and ruthless in the history of India... By playing a game of holding meetings, the Centre is trying to wear them out.” Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi tweeted, “those whose intentions are not clear, their strategy is to give date after date”. The party also launched a social media campaign Bole Bharat to rally behind farmers.  Former Finance Minister P. Chidamabaram said he was “saddened that the government remains adamant and refuses to relent”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-calls-centre-inhuman-and-ruthless/article33533505.ece
09 January 2021||LUCKNOW,||Hooch claims 4 lives in U.P.||Four people died after consuming suspected spurious liquor at Jeetgadi village in Uttar Pradesh. District Magistrate Bulandshahr Ravindra Kumar said 17 others also fell ill after consuming the liquor. Five of them were in a serious condition. Four policemen in Bulandshahr district, including a station house officer, were suspended on Friday in connection with the deaths. Police said a search was on for the main accused, identified as Kuldeep, who allegedly sold the liquor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hooch-claims-4-lives-in-up/article33533513.ece
09 January 2021||Jammu,||India, Pak. repatriate two youths who crossed LoC||India and Pakistan on Friday repatriated two youths, who had “inadvertently crossed the Line of Control” in December last year in Jammu’s Poonch Sector, to their respective territories. “With the support of the Jammu and Kashmir police and the civil administration, Ali Haider, a 14-year old boy from PoK’s Mirpur, was repatriated to Pakistan via the Poonch-Rawalakot crossing point. The Pakistan authorities also handed over Mohammed Bashir, after staying in Pakistan’s custody for 16 days,” an Army spokesman said. The spokesman said Haider had “inadvertently” crossed over to India in Poonch district on December 31, 2020. “The boy seemed innocent and was immediately provided with clothing, food and shelter,” the Army said. On January 3, the Army made a request with the Pakistani authorities to repatriate him. “The Pakistan authorities were also reminded of our request to repatriate an Indian boy, Mohammed Bashir, who had inadvertently crossed over to Pakistan from the Poonch Sector on December 24,” the Army said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-pak-repatriate-two-youths-who-crossed-loc/article33533525.ece
09 January 2021||Kolkata,||Stones hurled during BJP rally in Nandigram||A ruckus broke out at the mega rally of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) at Nandigram in Purba Medinipur district on Friday. Stones were hurled, barricades were breached and agitated supporters shouted slogans directed at the party leadership. The meeting, where senior BJP leaders Kailash Vijayvargiya, Dilip Ghosh, Mukul Roy and Suvendu Adhikari were present had to be hurriedly called off. Show of strength The meeting was a show of strength of BJP leadership particularly former Trinamool Congress Minister and Nandigram strongman Suvendu Adhikari who joined the BJP last month. The BJP leadership blamed the Trinamool Congress for inciting trouble at the rally by throwing stones.  Mr Adhikari said that he had never faced such a situation in his political career and that even the supporters of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) never disrupted any public meetings of the Trinamool Congress. The people who had raised slogans said that their anger was about the possibility of other Trinamool leaders joining the BJP. Families unite Another highlight of the rally was the presence of family members of those killed in police firing in Nandigram in March 2007. 14 persons were killed in the police firing when the Nandigram protests had turned violent during forcible land acquisition. “I thank the members of martyr families who joined us today. Out of 41 families 30 families have come to the BJP stage today,” Mr Adhikari said. He also spoke about the contribution of BJP leaders, particularly Lal Krishna Advani to the Nandigram movement. The Trinamool Congress was an ally of the BJP in 2007 and a BJP delegation comprising senior leaders had visited Nandigram after the police firing. The BJP leadership also accused the Trinamool Congress of betraying the National Democratic Alliance. Speaking at the venue, Mr Vijayvargiya said that none of the police officers responsible for firing in Nandigram were behind bars. The BJP leaders said that while one officer had joined the Trinamool after retirement, another was working with the Chief Minister. The Trinamool Congress leadership, which has challenged Mr Adhikari to seek a reelection from the Nandigram Assembly seat after he switched sides, will hold a public meeting in Nandigram on January 18.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ruckus-at-bjp-rally-in-nandigram/article33533527.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Plan to send 50K postcards signed by farmers to PM||Ms. Jattana decided to come to India after the “tear gas and violence in the last week of November”, and applied to travel on December 4. Four days later, she was here. “I had saved up money for a trip to Canada but have spent it all on this. The people here need support. I wouldn’t urge people to leave everything and come here but if they can, they must.” Born in Melbourne, Ms. Jattana spent seven years in Mohali before returning to Australia at the age of 14. She was studying filmmaking but dropped out twice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/plan-to-send-50k-postcards-signed-by-farmers-to-pm/article33534229.ece
09 January 2021||Chandigarh,||Ready to resign, says Chautala||Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) leader Abhay Chautala, a sitting MLA from Ellenabad in Haryana, on Friday said he would resign from his post in support of the farmers agitating against the Centre’s farm laws. “If by January 26 a decision in favour of the farmers is not taken, I’ll resign. On January 27, I’ll hand over my resignation from the post of MLA to the Speaker of Haryana Assembly and join the farmers in their movement,” Mr. Chautala told reporters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ready-to-resign-says-chautala/article33533881.ece
09 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Private schools to restart classes next week||While the State government has yet to take a call on whether students besides those in classes 10 and 12 should attend lectures on campus, many private school managements plan to open their doors to students in classes 8 and 9 as early as next week. At least six schools have asked parents to send consent letters stating that they want to resume classes soon. The State government, however, has given schools permission to run classes only for II PU and class 10 students as they will have to sit for the board examinations later this year. Officials had said a decision on resuming other classes would be taken after January 15. A parent whose daughter studies in class 8 at a private school at Vijayanagar said that he received a consent letter to sign from his daughter’s school. The letter, a copy of which is with The Hindu , stated that the school was planning to reopen for high school students from January 11. “Your consent to send your child is required on or before the 7th of January,” the letter read. It also stated that classes would be conducted in two batches — the first from 10 a.m. to 12.30 p.m. and the second from 2 p.m. to 4.30 p.m. Many parents are wary of sending their children back to school and are of the opinion that managements are pushing for it as they want them to pay the fees. “I have not paid my child’s school fees yet as I am not satisfied with the manner in which online classes are held. I feel that once students return to campus, we will be forced to pay the fees,” said a parent of a class 8 student at a private school in Bengaluru. A management member of a school in north Bengaluru said that it was the parents who were pushing for an early resumption of classes 8 and 9. “They feel that the education of their children has taken a back seat and that learning has halted. Health experts anticipate a second wave of COVID-19 infection, so we want to conduct at least a few classes this month before the cases increase,” he said. Vidyagama allowed Officials of the Department of Public Instruction, however, pointed out that action would be taken against school managements if they conducted regular classes before the State government took a call on the matter. “They can, however, conduct the Vidyagama programme on campus in an outdoor space to clear the doubts of students from classes 6 to 9. If we get complaints from parents that regular classes are being conducted, we will initiate action against those schools,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/private-schools-plan-to-restart-classes-8-and-9-next-week/article33533683.ece
09 January 2021||KOCHI,||Trial resumes in actor rape case||After a hiatus of over one month, the trial proceedings in the actor rape case resumed with the new public prosecutor appearing before the special court considering the case. V.N. Anilkumar, the public prosecutor, who came in place of A. Sureshan, who stepped down from the post after alleging that the trial court was acting in a biased manner, appeared before the special court on Friday. After Mr. Anilkumar completes the formalities, including the submission of the proposal for scheduling of witnesses to be examined, the trial court may resume the proceedings full-throttle from January 20. Pending petitions A batch of petitions, including the application filed by the earlier prosecutor for the cancellation of bail granted to actor Dileep, the eighth accused in the case, and the one filed by his lawyer seeking action against 10 media houses for allegedly reporting the in-camera proceedings in the case, are pending before the court. These petitions are to be considered by Special Judge Honey M. Varghese on Monday. Prosecution case The prosecution case is that the actor was raped in a moving car by the accused. Dileep has been charged with the offence of conspiracy in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trial-resumes-in-actor-rape-case/article33533748.ece
09 January 2021||Kolkata,||26th edition of Kolkata film fest kicks off||The 26th edition of Kolkata International Film Festival ( KIFF) began on Friday in Kolkata under the shadow of COVID-19 pandemic. The festival will pay tributes to cinema greats who passed away in 2020 including actor Soumitra Chatterjee, Argentine director Fernando Solanas, and South Korean director Kim Ki-duk, actors Rishi Kapoor and Irfan Khan, danseuse Amala Shankar, and filmmaker Basu Chatterjee. Inaugurating the festival, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said organising the festival amidst the pandemic has been challenge. A number of actors and film personalities were present at the inauguration which actor Shahrukh Khan joined virtually from Mumbai. The KIFF will showcase only 81 full length feature films from 45 countries during the week. Ms. Banerjee said cinema halls would be allowed 100% occupancy during the festival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/26th-edition-of-kolkata-film-fest-kicks-off/article33533506.ece
09 January 2021||Hyderabad,||MEA urged to address problems of migrants||Telangana State Planning Board vice-chairman B. Vinod Kumar has requested the Ministry of External Affairs to address the problems faced by non-resident Indians (NRIs), particularly Gulf migrants languishing in jails facing criminal charges. The Union Ministry should take steps to facilitate legal assistance to such migrants besides focusing on addressing issues like non-payment of wages. The State government was concerned about the problems faced by those who had migrated to the Gulf, he said. Mr. Vinod Kumar made the request to MEA OSD Rajasekhar during a meeting held here on Friday in the presence of Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar. The meeting discussed the opportunity presented by the States division of the MEA, headed by Mr. Rajasekhar, who hails from Nalgonda. The States Division created at the behest of Prime Minister Narendra Modi is mandated to help States and Union Territories be integral partners in the country's international engagement. The meeting, according to an official release, decided to strengthen the helpdesk created by the State government for helping Telangana citizens around the world in real time. The step was aimed at servicing people who were wrongfully confined by extending legal assistance to them if need be through the Indian Community Welfare Fund. It was accordingly decided to evolve standard operation protocols and database through the missions abroad. Given the fact that Gujarat, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu were in the forefront of international engagement, it was decided to emulate the best practices of these States. The meeting also resolved to scale up the celebrations of P. V. Narasimha Rao centenary by suitably drafting missions abroad in identified cities. Establishing e-library to project Telangana's heritage and celebration of Telangana formation day on June 2 in identified key international destinations were among other issues that figured in the discussions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mea-urged-to-address-problems-of-migrants/article33534258.ece
09 January 2021||New Delhi,||Speaker cites strength of Indian system||Smooth transition of power is India’s strength, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla said on Friday. Mr. Birla’s remarks came a day after the U.S. witnessed ugly scenes as supporters of President Donald Trump stormed and vandalised Capitol Hill in an attempt to stop House proceedings. “The smooth transition of power through 17 general elections and over 300 Assembly elections is our strength,” Mr. Birla said, adding, “since Independence, India is among the strongest and most empowered democracies.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/speaker-cites-strength-of-indian-system/article33533504.ece
09 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||82 infected with U.K. virus variant||The total number of people infected with the new strain of the novel coronavirus, first reported in the U.K., now stood at 82, said a release issued by the Health Ministry on Friday. India also reported 234 COVID-19 case fatalities in the past 24 hours with eight States/Union Territories accounting for 76.50% of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the most number of casualties (72). Kerala and Delhi followed with 25 and 19 daily deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/82-infected-with-uk-virus-variant/article33533517.ece
09 January 2021||New Delhi,||DGCA issues norms for vaccine cargo||The DGCA on Friday issued guidelines for safe carriage of COVID-19 vaccines, allowing airlines to pack them in dry ice in order to maintain temperatures ranging from -7 degree Celsius and -70 degree Celsius. The aviation safety regulator has allowed airlines to carry dry ice as a refrigerant material in aircraft belly and the passenger cabin. The special permission was necessary as dry ice is classified among dangerous goods as it turns into carbon dioxide under low pressure situations. Airlines are not allowed to fly travellers when dry ice is being transported in passenger cabin. In order to ensure the safety of cabin crew, the regulator has mandated that airlines take steps to protect them from carbon dioxide intoxication as well as train them in handling of hazardous items. Further, the aircraft must compulsorily have active oxygen systems for the crew before it is permitted it to take off.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dgca-issues-norms-for-vaccine-cargo/article33533522.ece
09 January 2021||Srinagar,||Army will soon move from Kargil plateaus||Fulfilling a long-pending demand of Ladakh’s Kargil district, the Army on Friday decided to relocate from the plateaus of Kurbathang and Mulbekh, which will allow the township to expand in an organised manner. A Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was signed between the Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council (LAHDC), Kargil, and the Army to evacuate the Kargil’s lower plateau. Six months to move out An official said the MoU was signed between Deputy Commissioner Baseer ul Haq and the Army’s Brigadier Vivek Bakshi of the 121 Infantry Division. The Army, as per the MoU, would move its Maratha Unit from Kurbathang and Mulbekh area within six months. ‘Historic decision’ Feroz Khan, chief executive officer of the LAHDC, Kargil, termed the Army’s decision a historic move. “It is a landmark decision. It will pave way for the establishment of a new and well-planned township in Kargil with all modern amenities under the Smart City Project,” Mr. Khan said. The Army will evacuate from 1,700 kanals (212.5 acres) of land and relocate to the outskirts of Kargil. Jamyang Tsering Namgyal, Member of Parliament from Ladakh, has thanked the Central government for the move.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/army-to-relocate-from-kargil-plateaus-soon/article33533523.ece
09 January 2021||HYDERABAD,||CM to address Collectors on Monday||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has convened the Collectors conference on Monday to discuss some key issues, including reopening of educational institutions after more than nine months of closure owing to COVID-19 scare. A release of the CMO said the conference would discuss when to resume class room teaching, which class upwards and how to conduct them. What was the policy adopted by other States and other related issues would also be discussed elaborately. The conference would also go into the action plan to administer COVID 19 vaccine to people. The plan would cover supply of vaccine to all parts of the State and administering the same to people by priorities. The release said the conference would deliberate on unresolved revenue issues which were discussed by the Chief Minister at an earlier meeting of a small group of Collectors and senior officials recently. The road map to complete pending mutations of land transactions, regularisation of transactions on plain paper and setting up of revenue tribunals headed by Collectors will be finalised. The progress in works taken up under Palle Pragathi and Pattana Pragathi programmes of government will be reviewed. The green cover improvement programmes in towns and villages will also be considered. The conference will broadly cover the activities of revenue, panchayatraj, municipal, health, education and forest departments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/collectors-conference-on-monday-to-go-into-schools-reopening/article33533485.ece
09 January 2021||Kochi,||Ebrahim Kunju granted bail||V.K. Ebrahim Kunju, the former Public Works Minister booked by the Vigilance and Anti Corruption Bureau in the Palarivattom flyover corruption case, was released on bail by the High Court considering his worsening health situation. Mr. Kunju submitted a medical report from the oncologist treating him, which stated that he was in the most advanced stage of multiple myeloma, a medical condition of cancer of plasma cells affecting the bone marrow, with renal failure. Incurable stage The report stated that he was in the terminal stage (stage 3) and the disease was an incurable one. The progression of the disease, in spite of the chemotherapy, was alarming and the cancerous cells had damaged the immune system and bones and caused a crack in the spine, it said. The number of chemotherapy procedures had been increased to twice a week, with stronger medicine, against the earlier once-in-a-fortnight. The report further submitted that on certain occasions the chemotherapy could be carried out due to low blood count. The doctor feared that sending him to jail, especially during the pandemic situation, would be dangerous as he was prone to various infections. While releasing him on bail, the court asked him to execute a bond for Rs. 2 lakh with two solvent sureties for the like sum. Mr. Kunju was asked to surrender his passport and not to leave India without permission of the court and not to commit an offence similar to the one which he was an accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ebrahim-kunju-gets-bail-in-flyover-case/article33533685.ece
09 January 2021||Mysuru,||FIR against Siddaramaiah for his beef remarks||The Madikeri Rural police have registered an FIR against former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah for his “provocative statements” on Kodavas consuming beef. The FIR was registered based on a complaint by Ravi Kushalappa that the remarks of the former Chief Minister had offended the Kodava community. The local police said that they had invoked the provisions of Section 153 of the Indian Penal Code, which pertains to wanton provocation. The issue had snowballed into a controversy with the Kodavas taking exception to his statements following which Mr. Siddaramaiah had clarified that his remarks were misinterpreted by the media. “I am aware of Kodava culture and I greatly respect it,” he had stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fir-against-siddaramaiah-for-his-beef-remarks/article33533806.ece
09 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Police question Kannada actor||Kannada actor and producer Radhika was questioned for nearly four hours by the Central Crime Branch (CCB) on Friday, in connection with her financial transactions with Yuvaraj Swamy, 52, a conman arrested last December for allegedly cheating people of huge sums of money by promising them seats in government boards . Shortly after her interrogation at the CCB headquarters in Bengaluru, Ms. Radhika told presspersons that she had cooperated with the police and answered all their questions to the best of her knowledge. “I hope I have answered all their questions and they have not asked me to come again. But if they do need me for the investigation, I will cooperate,” she said. According to sources, her mobile phone has been seized. The CCB had recently questioned Ms. Radhika’s brother Raviraj after it emerged that he was constantly in touch with the accused Yuvaraj Swamy, who claimed to be an astrologer and a right-wing leader close to the BJP high command. Mr. Raviraj was questioned on the financial transactions between Yuvaraj Swamy and his sister. Following this, Ms. Radhika held a press conference on Tuesday and accepted that she had known Yuvaraj Swamy for many years now and consulted him on astrological issues. She claimed he had paid her an advance of Rs. 15 lakh to act in a period film based on Natyarani Shantala. Ms.Radhika, during her interrogation on Friday, is learnt to have claimed that she received Rs. 15 lakh as advance for a film that Yuvaraj Swamy was producing, but couldn’t produce any documents to validate the claim. The police are also probing another financial transaction to the tune of Rs. 60 lakh, that is not directly attributed to Yuvaraj Swamy, but is suspected to be linked to him. Meanwhile, CCB officials also questioned Ms. Radhika on the veracity of a leaked audio clip of a purported conversation between her and Yuvaraj Swamy. She is learnt to have denied any such conversation, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/police-question-kannada-actor/article33533494.ece
09 January 2021||Budaun,||Police quiz accused priest in Budaun gangrape case||A priest was quizzed for his alleged role in the gangrape of an anganwadi worker in Budaun district of Uttar Pradesh after his arrest in the early hours of Friday, police said. ‘Mahant’ Satya Narayan, the main accused in the case, was hiding in a forest area near the house of one of his followers in Mewali village under the Ughaiti police station, from where he was picked up in a latenight crackdown, the police said, adding that he was on the run for five days. The priest, who is in his 50s, was immediately arrested.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/police-quiz-accused-priest-in-budaun-gangrape-case/article33533514.ece
09 January 2021||New Delhi,||ED attaches FDs of firm in money laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate has provisionally attached assets, in the form of fixed deposits, worth Rs. 20.26 crore of Crystal Crop Protection P. Limited in a money laundering case. Among the accused in the case were A.K. Singh, the then Joint Director with the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) in Ahmedabad; Nand Kishore Agarwal, Ankur Agarwal and Mohit Kumar Goel, directors of Crystal Crop Protection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-attaches-fds-of-firm-in-money-laundering-case/article33533519.ece
09 January 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Act against squatters on govt. housing: NHRC to Odisha||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has directed the Odisha government to take action against employees who have been occupying government quarters after retirement. Akhand, a human rights activist, had moved the Commission stating that due such illegal occupation of quarters at Bhubaneswar, many government employees were deprived of accommodation. In his petition, Mr. Akhand said as many as 308 retired officers and employees had illegally occupied government quarters in Bhubaneswar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/act-against-squatters-on-govt-housing-nhrc-to-odisha/article33533528.ece
09 January 2021||Aruppukottai,TAMIL NADU||Incessant rain continues in Tiruchuli, Narikudi||Incessant rain was reported in Kariyapatti, Tiruchuli and Narikudi areas affecting the standing crops. Officials did not succeed in plugging the breaches in the tanks as rain and water from upstream continued to hinder their work. Tiruchuli MLA, Thangam Thennarasu, who met several farmers said that many had complained that after Nivar and Buravi cyclones, the torrential rains in the last few days have adversely affected the crops. Fresh rain has wreaked havoc in extended farm lands in more villages he said. Stating the farmers have lost paddy that was in the advanced stage of harvest, Mr. Thennarasu said that the Government should provide compensation under Disaster Management over and above the insurance amount. “Officials claimed that the compensation under Disaster Management could be given only for the flooding under the impact of cyclones,” he added. Mr. Thennarasu took several farmers to the Taluk Office at Kariyapatti and submitted petitions. The MLA also pointed out that over 150 beneficiaries of Old Age Pension were not provided with smart ration card for long. “These people are now denied Pongal gift hampers, including Rs. 2,500. I have taken up this issue also with the Tahsildar to ensure that they get the Pongal gift hampers,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/incessant-rain-continues-in-tiruchuli-narikudi/article33533626.ece
09 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Dry run held at Apollo Vaccination Centre||As part of the second nationwide dry run of the COVID-19 vaccination, a mock drill was held at the Apollo Vaccination Centre on Friday. Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan visited the centre during the dry run. Multiple steps of vaccination were assessed. These included operational facility, assembling of beneficiaries with proper physical distance, checking of identity, administration of vaccine shots, cold chain maintenance, proper biomedical waste management, validation of data in the CoWIN app, observation for 30 minutes after vaccination and the management of adverse events following immunisation, according to a press release. Strong infection control practices, including screening for symptoms of fever, ensuring physical distance and hand hygiene, promoting safe coughing and safe use of masks, would be re-emphasised on vaccination day. Tamil Nadu Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar and Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan were present. Preetha Reddy, vice-chairperson, Apollo Hospitals Group, said it was a prestigious opportunity for the group to be a part of the entire process that would put it at the forefront of vaccinating frontline workers who were serving the country and its people during the pandemic. Suneeta Reddy, managing director of Apollo Hospitals Group, said, “It is our privilege to work with all governments, governmental agencies and healthcare networks to ensure that a large number of front-line workforce and people get the vaccine quickly and safely as per the prescribed phase-wise roll-out.”  It is a prestigious opportunity for the group to be a part of the process that will put it at the forefront of vaccinating frontline workers who are serving the country Preetha Reddy Vice-chairperson, Apollo Hospitals Group||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dry-run-held-at-apollo-vaccination-centre/article33534184.ece
09 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Industries Minister inspects north line of Metro Rail||Ahead of the inauguration of the phase I extension project in north Chennai, Industries Minister M.C. Sampath inspected the stations and took a ride on the 9 km- stretch on Friday. Built at an estimated cost of Rs. 3,770 crore, the project will connect Washermenpet with Wimco Nagar and is planned to provide better mobility for commuters from the northern suburbs of the city. Speaking to The Hindu, Mr. Sampath said, “Much of the work, including the arrival of trains, laying of tracks, lifts and escalators is almost complete. Only finishing work needs to be completed, which we will certainly be done in a month. We hope to inaugurate this stretch between February 15 and 25.” But sources said in some of the stations, the construction work had suffered delays and there was quite a lot of unfinished work. “The inauguration has already been deferred to February from the original plan of January but it seems like it will be very difficult to complete the construction in a few stations even by next month,” a source said. The signalling software will arrive by early February, after which the Commissioner of Metro Rail Safety will be called to inspect the stations during the first or the second week, sources said. When the certificate of approval stating this stretch is fit for passenger operations is issued, the operations will finally start.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/industries-minister-inspects-north-line-of-metro-rail/article33534166.ece
09 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||31,500 buses for Pongal festival||The Transport Department will run more than 10,250 buses from the city to various parts of the State from January 11 to 13 for Pongal festival. About 31,500 buses are to be operated throughout the State to cater to the festival rush. A meeting chaired by Transport Minister M.R. Vijayabaskar in the Secretariat on Friday along with Transport Secretary C. Samayamoorthy decided to operate 16,221 buses, including special buses. While 10,228 buses would be operated from the city to other parts of the State, 5,993 buses would be deployed between various destinations in the State. According to a press release, the department will run 4,078 special buses in addition to the 6,150 regular bus services from the city from five bus termini through the State Transport Corporations (STCs), including the State Express Transport Corporation (SETC). The long-distance buses would be operated from five bus termini located at Madhavaram, K.K. Nagar, Tambaram Arignar Anna bus terminus of MEPZ, Poonamallee and Dr. MGR bus terminus at Koyambedu. A senior official said the number of buses deployed for Pongal was up by 100 compared to 16,112 operated last year from the city. The special buses would be operated from the five termini in the city. From Madhavaram, buses would be operated to Uthukottai, Ponneri and Gumidipoondi via Red Hills, and buses for Puducherry via East Coast Road would start from K.K. Nagar bus terminus. The Tambaram MEPZ bus terminus would have buses bound towards Tindivanam, Tiruvannmalai, Vikravandi, Panruti, and Kumbakonam, and Poonamallee bus terminus would host buses towards Kancheepuram, Vellore, Arani, Arcot, Tirupathur, and Dharmapuri. The Koyambedu bus terminus would be operating buses to Nagapattinam, Velankanni, Tiruchi, Madurai, Tirunelveli, Salem, and Coimbatore. For return journey The Transport department has planned to run more than 9,500 buses for the commuters to return to the city and 5,727 buses between other parts of the State after the Pongal festival is over. The buses, including special buses, would be operated from January 17 to 19. The Transport department has opened 13 special advance booking counters in Koyambedu, Tambaram MEPZ and Poonamallee. Also a round-the-clock control room for helping passengers in Koyambedu and mobile complaint bearing 9445014450 and 9445014436, have been opened.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/31500-buses-for-this-pongal-festival/article33533643.ece
09 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. reverses decision allowing 100% seating in cinema halls||The State government on Friday reversed its January 4 decision allowing 100% seating capacity in cinema halls. Instead, it has said cinema halls can hold extra shows. The government allowed 100% seating after Tamil Nadu Theatre Owners’ and Multiplex Association requested it to increase occupancy limit from the previously allowed 50% for Pongal releases. This has come as a blow to producers, who were hoping to draw movie fans, in large numbers, to the halls for Pongal. Theatre owners were desperate to operate at full capacity, as big budget films such as actor Vijay’s Master and actor Silambarasan’s Easwaran were lined up for Pongal and producers did not want to release new films in theatres at 50% seating capacity. In a G.O. on Friday, the government explained that cinemas had been allowed to operate with 100% seating capacity, keeping in mind the welfare of the workers in the halls. However, a letter from the Home Ministry, to the Chief Secretary, urging the State to stick by the Centre’s recommendations regarding easing of lockdown norms seems to have forced the State’s hand on the issue. The G.O. added that people frequenting theatres should adhere to precautions such as wearing face masks and adhering to distancing norms inside the halls. R. Paneerselvam, general secretary of Tamil Nadu Film Exhibitors’ Association, said revenues would continue to go down, if theatres operate at 50% occupancy. He also said a representation would be made to the government on Monday, requesting flexi-pricing on tickets. Court intervenes Earlier in the day, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court directed that 50% seating occupancy should be maintained till January 11. The court had sought the State’s response on a batch of PIL petitions challenging the G.O. [since withdrawn] permitting 100% occupancy. A Division Bench of Justices M.M. Sundresh and S. Ananthi observed that COVID-19 pandemic knew no borders or consequences and hoped that the State government would consider the issue in the right perspective. In the principal seat of the HC, Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy advised caution. The judges, in an interim order, said it was advisable to err on the side of caution and avoid being complacent by allowing 100% occupancy in theatres. Senior counsel Satish Parasaran, arguing a PIL petition challenging the government’s decision, pointed out that it was in contravention of the Centre’s advisory. However, a letter from the Union Home Ministry, to the Chief Secretary, urging the State to stick by the Union government’s recommendations, regarding the easing of lockdown norms, seems to have forced the State’s hand on the issue. “Keeping in mind the Centre’s recent recommendation and that a case is pending regarding this issue in the Madras High court, single-screen theatres and multiplexes inside malls will be allowed to function with 50% seating capacity. Based on the orders of the Madras High Court, theatres can screen extra shows,” the G.O. said. The G.O. further added that people frequenting theatres should adhere to precautions such as wearing face masks and adhering to distancing norms inside the halls. R. Paneerselvam, general secretary of Tamil Nadu Film Exhibitors’ Association, said revenues would continue to go down, if theatres operate at 50% occupancy. “The permission to screen extra shows has come as a breather. This will help cover loses to an extent and will infuse confidence among families to walk in to watch films,” he said. Mr. Paneerselvam also pointed out that a representation would be made to the State government on Monday, requesting flexi-pricing on tickets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-reverses-decision-allowing-100-seating-in-cinema-halls/article33533623.ece
09 January 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Metrowater builds walls to protect water conduit lines||Metrowater is constructing walls along its sites at various points to protect infrastructure used to transport water to the Kilpauk treatment plant. The agency is carrying out the work along stretches vulnerable to encroachment. The three huge conduit lines, in place since the British period, form one of the oldest existing infrastructure to carry raw water from the Red Hills reservoir to the Kilpauk Water Works. It is from here that water is treated and distributed to various points such as Valluvar Kottam, Anna Poonga (Washermenpet), Kannapar Thidal (Choolai) and Triplicane. Officials of the agency said work is being done at sites in Surapet, Water Canal Road, Rajamangalam and New Avadi Road, where these pipelines are located. The work is being done in phases in the 10-km portion to secure the conduit lines amidst challenges like the pandemic, encroachment and waterlogging, said officials. They recalled that nearly five acres of land was reclaimed after encroachments were cleared three years ago. The water agency is considering plans to landscape the secured portion. One of the damaged conduit lines may soon start carrying water again. Work to reconstruct the pipeline, which collapsed a decade ago, is nearing completion. “We are building a 4-m-wide twin concrete channel for a distance of 5.2 km. Two conduit lines have been combined during reconstruction and are being linked to the existing lines near Rajamangalam, Villivakkam. It would have a capacity to carry up to 250 MLD water,” said an official. The project is expected to be finished by the end of January or early February.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/metrowater-builds-walls-to-protect-water-conduit-lines/article33534174.ece
09 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Senganthal Poonga to be opened shortly||Those who have not heard of Senganthal ( Gloriosa superba ), the State flower of Tamil Nadu, will see this name more often in Chennai, especially in Gopalapuram and Royapettah. The Horticulture Department has created a new spacious park in the land it retrieved from the private Horticultural Society after a legal battle in the Supreme Court. It is located between Radhakrishnan Salai and Avvai Shanmugam Salai. “We have quietly done the work. The project cost is Rs. 5 crore.The place has turned out to be a lovely park,” said Gagandeep Singh Bedi, Principal Secretary of the Agriculture Department. “It has been named after the State flower. We have sought an inaugural date from the Chief Minister and it will be opened shortly,” said N. Subbaiyan, Director of Horticulture and Plantation Crops. The 6.3 acre park with a shell-shaped entrance on Avvai Shanmugam Salai has a self-contained waterbody, where rainwater can be collected. It also has solar panels to run the motors. “There is a gathering point for people and an open gym,” he explained. “The walls of the park are being decorated with traditional paintings and there will be space for playing traditional games like paramapadham ,” Mr. Subbaiyan said. Mr. Bedi said besides old trees, a lot of new species had been planted. “The park will house 150 species of trees and 34,000 ornamental plants,” he said. The government has also spent money to improve the condition of the Semmozhi Poonga, created on the land which once housed the Woodlands drive-in restaurant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/senganthal-poonga-to-be-opened-shortly/article33534179.ece
09 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC bars giving political flyers along with Pongal gift||The Madras High Court on Friday directed the State government to ensure that no publicity material relating to any party is either displayed in ration shops or given along with Pongal gift hampers, comprising Rs. 2,500 cash, being distributed from the public exchequer to every family possessing a rice ration card. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy issued the direction on a public interest litigation petition filed by the DMK, complaining about the ruling AIADMK trying to gain political mileage out of the gifts being distributed at the State’s cost. Senior Counsel P. Wilson played a few videos on his laptop to the judges and showed how ruling party pamphlets were being distributed in some of the ration shops. On the other hand, Advocate General Vijay Narayan said that even the petitioner party had been claiming credit for the cash gift given by the government. He gave an undertaking to the court that the State government would ensure that no leaflets or any other publicity material relating to parties would be either displayed in ration shops or made over along with the Pongal gift hampers. However, he sought exemption for the cloth bags in which the gifts were distributed. The A-G told the court that the government had already printed the cloth bags containing photographs of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa and Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami for distributing the gift hampers. Recording his submission, the Bench said: “At this stage, it may not be feasible to require the bags to be replaced. In such circumstances, other than what appears on the bags in which the gifts are to be distributed, no other material indicating any party or the like should be made over to the recipients, along with the gift hamper, nor any leaflet or other political advertisement displayed within the ration shops or the precincts thereof.” On complaints of the ruling party having erected flex boards, arches and cut outs too outside many ration shops, the Division Bench said they were indeed a cause of concern because they could lead to accidents. “Such materials cannot be put up at public places without obtaining permission from the local administration in accordance with law,” the Bench said. Disposing of the writ petition, the Bench went on to add that the court order would “apply to all parties and their material” and that it should be implemented uniformly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-bars-giving-political-flyers-along-with-pongal-gift/article33533615.ece
09 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cases in State fall under 800; 8 deaths recorded||Tamil Nadu’s daily case count dropped under 800 on Friday. A total of 790 persons tested positive for the infection, taking its tally to 8,24,776. As many as 897 persons were discharged following treatment, while eight more persons succumbed to the infection. Till date, 8,05,136 persons have been discharged. The State’s toll stood at 12,208. Among the fresh cases, Chennai reported 208, followed by Coimbatore (79) and Chengalpattu (58). There were 34 cases in Tiruppur, 32 in Tiruvallur and 31 in Kancheepuram. While Perambalur recorded no new case, 15 districts saw under 10 each. Two returnees from the U.A.E. tested positive for COVID-19. Presently, there are 7,432 active cases in the State, including 2,231 in Chennai, 731 in Coimbatore, 419 in Chengalpattu and 335 in Tiruvallur. Of the eight fatalities, Chennai accounted for four. Coimbatore, Dindigul, Erode and Theni reported one death each. All of them were aged over 50 and had co-morbidities.  In the last 24 hours, 64,231 samples were tested in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cases-in-state-fall-under-800-8-deaths-recorded/article33533625.ece
09 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM unveils new infrastructure projects, lays foundation stones||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Friday unveiled new bridges, laid the foundation stones for various irrigation projects and also launched the distribution of Pongal gift hampers for members of the Tamil Nadu Construction Workers’ Welfare Board, under the Labour Department. During a series of video conference events at the Secretariat, the Chief Minister unveiled a bridge on the Tiruchengode-Ariyanur Road, constructed at a cost of Rs. 45 crore. He also unveiled six new bridges in Virudhunagar, Thoothukudi, Pudukkottai, Theni, Coimbatore and Salem districts, at a total cost of Rs. 40.73 crore. Mr. Palaniswami also released a handbook, Ready Reckoner for Highway Engineers, for the benefit of engineers. Mr. Palaniswami virtually laid the foundation stone for projects to construct a regulator in Mayiladuthurai district, at Rs. 9.76 crore; a reservoir in Virudhunagar district at Rs. 10.10 crore, and two checkdams in Madurai district, at a total cost of Rs. 4.92 crore. He also launched the distribution of Pongal gift hampers for members of the Tamil Nadu Construction Workers’ Welfare Board, under the Labour Department. The gift hamper includes dhotis/saris, raw rice, cereals, edible oil, ghee, jaggery, cardamom, cashew and dry grapes. There are over 12.69 lakh construction workers and pensioners, including 6.75 lakh women, registered under the board.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-unveils-new-projects/article33534176.ece
09 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Potential vaccine beneficiaries being tracked’||The electronic vaccine intelligence network (eVIN), now converted into a CoWIN platform, is tracking potential beneficiaries of the COVID-19 vaccine, the places where they are likely to get vaccinated, pre and post-vaccination procedures, including issuance of electronic certificates and follow-ups for the second dose through detailed text messages and reminders, said Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan. Noting that this was a detailed exercise, he said, “eVIN has now been converted into a CoWIN (COVID-19 vaccine intelligence network) platform. Earlier, during routine immunisation, we were only tracking the vaccine, along with the places and temperatures at which it was being stored.” The Union Health Minister was in Chennai on Friday to review the dry run for COVID-19 vaccination. He, along with Tamil Nadu Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar, inspected the mock run at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital and the Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate. At the Tamil Nadu Government Multi Super Speciality Hospital, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan made a presentation on “Tamil Nadu strategy, present status and way forward”. “In the shortest possible time, India has done extremely well on the front of developing vaccines. Right now, two of our vaccines have been given emergency-use authorisation. We are in the process of ensuring that in the next few days or so, we are able to give the vaccines to our countrymen, starting with prioritising those who are most at risk — health professionals and healthcare workers in the public and private sector, followed by frontline workers who helped us in the containment zones,” the Union Minister said. Dr. Vardhan said it had been a year since the country began responding to new of the COVID-19 outbreak. He also visited the General Medical Store Depot in Periamet and the Integrated Vaccine Complex in Chengalpattu. Mr. Vijayabaskar said, “The Union Minister visited the integrated vaccine complex. We believe that such a full-fledged facility will be taken to the notice of the Prime Minister and measures to make it fully functional will be taken.” TB eradication Dr. Vardhan said on Friday that he had asked Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami to focus on the elimination of tuberculosis. Shortly after meeting the Chief Minister, Dr. Vardhan told reporters, “We have asked the Chief Minister to specifically focus a little more on TB elimination. We have said this to some States that have the potential and capability to eliminate TB by 2025, five years ahead of the international goal....” “We have also requested the Chief Minister to pay attention to health and wellness centres,” Dr. Vardhan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/potential-vaccine-beneficiaries-being-tracked/article33533613.ece
09 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cleanliness workers, overhead tank operators want pay to be revised, services regularised||Hundreds of cleanliness workers and overhead tank operators employed by the Rural Development Department staged a protest in Chennai on Friday, pressing for various demands. They demanded time-scale pay and a minimum pay of Rs. 18,000 a month. Monthly pension They also insisted on a monthly pension of Rs. 5,000. In case of death during work, their wards should be granted a job on compassionate grounds, they demanded. Pointing out that their pay scale has not been revised in the light of the Seventh Pay Commission, they wanted District Collectors to be instructed in this regard. Revising the pay scale of over 16,000 cleanliness workers in the wake of the Rural Development Department’s G.O. dated January 1, 2020, granting a special time pay scale for those employed before 2013 and completing three years of service were also among the demands. Underlining that the announcement made to grant additional pay for overhead tank operators and cleanliness workers has not been implemented yet, they wanted an order to be issued immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cleanliness-workers-overhead-tank-operators-want-pay-to-be-revised-services-regularised/article33534170.ece
09 January 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Online fitness training is not just an add-on||The current form of online fitness coaching is not just an add-on to the training module, but a business model in itself, said Shwetambari Shetty, fitness expert at cure.fit. Ms. Shetty, along with Sarvesh Shashi, founder of SARVA, and Ashish Bhushan, Director, Business Development, Procam International, was part of The Hindu ’s sixth episode of ‘Conversations’, speaking about the future of personal fitness in the verticals of training, yoga and running. ‘Conversations’, organised as part of The Hindu Group’s ongoing campaign, ‘Tamil Nadu Smiling’, are aimed at bringing together the people of the State, its traders, retail organisations and government authorities to find ways of emerging from the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. For the fitness industry, the digital transformation is here to stay. “At cure.fit, 500,000 sessions are done daily, with over 100,000 subscribers to online workouts alone,” Ms. Shetty said. “One of the mindsets pre-pandemic had been that health and wellness going digital would be a contradiction. That has changed,” said Mr. Bhushan. The strength of the digital fitness programmes, however, would be reflected in how useful they remained even after fitness centres opened up to their full capacity. Using them as a stop-gap solution would make them redundant, he said. Additionally, Mr. Sashi pointed out, this was a good time for young fitness start-ups to take part in the digital revolution because post-pandemic, attention to fitness was becoming an important part of our lifestyles. The capital required to start up and the risks involved would be minimum, helped by the digital medium’s inherent ability to course-correct dynamically. With a hybrid of digital workouts and in-person training becoming the norm, Ms. Shetty foresaw a steady rise in the at-home equipment business. “Resistance bands, yoga mats, dumbbells, kettlebells, all these are equipment that we see are doing good business,” It may be slow initially, given that these are mostly bought by intermediate or advanced students, but it’s definitely here to stay,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/online-fitness-training-is-not-just-an-add-on/article33533610.ece
09 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||High-tech command centre to be set up soon: Police Commissioner||City Police Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal on Friday said a command and control centre with modern facilities will be set up for surveillance and monitoring activities soon. Mr. Aggarwal inaugurated a self-employment centre for families of police personnel at the police quarters in Pudupet. He said the city police had been implementing a slew of measures for the welfare of police personnel and their families. Children’s parks, playgrounds and community halls have been set up at police quarters. Now, the employment centre has been set up with tailoring machines in Pudupet. Responding to queries by the reporters on maintenance of CCTV devices, Mr. Aggarwal said the State government had sanctioned funds for the maintenance of CCTV cameras and a protocol had been drafted to check all devices regularly. “The condition of all CCTV devices in each police station limits will be checked once in 10 days. Steps have been taken to install additional CCTV devices from government sanctioned funds under the Nirbhaya Scheme,” he said. “These devices will be connected to the control room and will stream footage in real time. The command and control centre will be set up with all facilities. If something unusual happens, it will send alerts. It will be useful for us to direct the patrol vehicle in nearby areas,” Mr. Aggarwal said. The Commissioner said the Central Crime Branch had registered two cases against eight persons — four, including two Chinese nationals, have been booked for harassing and extorting exorbitant interest rates by running online loan apps, and four more for procuring and supplying 1,100 SIM cards to them. A first information report had been sent to the Enforcement Directorate for probes into the money trail, he added. He also said restrictions will be implemented on beaches and other roads on Kanum Pongal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-tech-command-centre-to-be-set-up-soon-police-commissioner/article33534164.ece
09 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Include transpersons with approved IDs in Pongal gift scheme, activists write to CM||As many transpersons in the State do not have ration cards, members of the community have requested Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswai to provide the Pongal gift of Rs. 2,500 to those who have approved transgender ID cards. Rakshika Raj, a transgender rights activist, has written a letter to the Chief Minister seeking the cash gift which is being provided to ration card holders across the State. “Many of us do not have smart [ration] cards. But during the COVID-19 pandemic, the government provided Rs. 1,000 relief to transpersons who have an authorised identity card. A similar process can be followed now too,” she said. Ms. Rakshika, a nurse in the city, requested the Chief Minister to help members of the transgender community to get their consumer smart cards quickly. “Many transpersons, especially the elderly, have been impacted by the pandemic. This Rs. 2,500 will be of great help to them,” she added. R. Jeeva, founder, Transgender Rights Association, charged that many transpersons were not able to get smart cards . “There is a long delay in getting the card. Due to this, we are forced to spend Rs. 3,000 on groceries alone every month. Many are struggling,” she said. Since many families have abandoned transpersons, they are not able to get identity proof. “We cannot go ask our parents for proof as they will not give it to us,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/include-transpersons-with-approved-ids-in-pongal-gift-scheme-activists-write-to-cm/article33534172.ece
09 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||20% of Tamil Nadu’s population is targeted for vaccination this year||A total of 1.60 crore persons, or 20% of Tamil Nadu’s population, is targeted for vaccination against COVID-19 from January to December this year. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan made a presentation on ‘Tamil Nadu strategy, present status and way forward’ during the visit of Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Friday. According to the presentation, the targeted population are healthcare workers, front-line workers and prioritised age groups (those aged above 50 and those aged below 50 with co-morbidities). A total of 2,729 cold chain points were available in the State. These included one State vaccine store, 10 regional vaccine stores, 50 Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation walk-in coolers, 44 district vaccine stores, 24 government medical college hospitals, 303 government hospitals, 2,286 primary health centres, 27 private medical college hospitals. As many as 5,307 cold chain equipment were available, while a request was made to the Centre for 1,144 ice-lined refrigerators, 992 deep freezers, 10 walk-in coolers and 10 walk-in freezers. “The way forward for the State is to suppress the transmission of COVID-19, fatality mitigation by effective clinical management, strengthening essential non-COVID healthcare services and COVID-19 appropriate behaviour in the community,” Mr. Radhakrishnan said. Now, the focus was on working around COVID-19, he said. “We want to slow down the spread, reduce test positivity and COVID-19 mortality, equip health systems for the worst case scenarios, bring about a behaviour change in the community and institutional strengthening and capacity-building.” Case load COVID-19 cases were gradually coming down. “At one point, we touched 60,000 active cases. Now, we have 7,547 active cases. The death rate is 1.48%. The cases peaked during July-August, while we had 127 deaths per day on August 15. Today, we have less than 15 deaths, mostly on account of co-morbidities. Some districts have nil deaths,” he said. The State’s doubling time was 593 days, while Chennai that hit nearly 2,500 cases at one time had a doubling time of 685 days. So far, 6,17,937 fever camps had been held, in which 3,26,64,841 persons were screened. On test positivity rate, he said the aim was to reach 1%. “Some districts have above 2%, and we want to intensify focussed testing here.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/20-of-tamil-nadus-population-is-targeted-for-vaccination-this-year/article33533614.ece
09 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Youth ends life after police enquiry||A 24-year-old ended his life on Thursday allegedly after the police questioned him about a second-hand mobile phone he had bought for his mother, which turned out to be a stolen device. The victim has been identified as Lakshmanan. He was a resident of Aminjikarai and worked at a private steel manufacturing company in Ambattur. He was found dead on a railway track near Nungambakkam. According to police sources, he had bought a second-hand mobile phone last month for his mother’s use. He was unaware that it had been stolen. Personnel form the Basin Bridge police station traced the device using its IMEI number. On Tuesday, the police enquired with Lakshmanan’s mother about the mobile phone. Lakshaman later contacted the police himself and said he had no idea that the phone was stolen. He was asked to provide information on the seller. The police suspect a quarrel between him and his family members over the purchase of the stolen device could have led him to the extreme decision. The Government Railway Police, Egmore, registered a case and sent the body to the Rajiv Gandhi Government Hospital for post-mortem examination.  Those in need of counselling may contact State’s health helpline 104 or Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050 for counselling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-ends-life-after-police-enquiry/article33534168.ece
09 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Retired IAS officer appointed Ombudsman for local bodies||Governor Banwarilal Purohit on Friday administered the oath of office to retired IAS officer M. Malik Feroze Khan as Ombudsman for local bodies in the State. Mr. Khan will hold the post for three years. Minister for Municipal Administration and Rural Development, S.P. Velumani, Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam and senior officials were present. The Tamil Nadu Local Bodies Ombudsman Act, 2014, was enacted for the establishment of an Ombudsman for conducting enquiries on allegations against elected members, officers and employees working with the local bodies, under the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994, the Tamil Nadu District Municipalities Act, 1920, and other relevant Acts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/retired-ias-officer-appointed-ombudsman-for-local-bodies/article33534185.ece
09 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Only ruling party has the prerogative to induct people into Union Cabinet: Vasan||Tamil Maanila Congress (TMC) leader G.K. Vasan on Friday dismissed reports that he was being inducted into the Union Cabinet, saying such issues were the prerogative of the ruling party at the Centre. “The TMC is not involved in the decision. We are maintaining a good relationship with the BJP and the AIADMK. Do not spread rumours that will spoil our relationship,” he said. ‘Will match our strength’ Mr. Vasan, who was chairing the zonal meeting of the party, said the TMC was an important ally of the AIADMK in Tamil Nadu and it would strive hard to ensure the victory of the ruling party and other alliance partners in the forth coming Assembly election. “We are also gearing up for the election and would secure seats to match our strength,” he said. Asked whether the TMC would contest on its own symbol or on the AIADMK’s symbol, Mr. Vasan said a political party contesting on its own symbol was not a problem in the AIADMK alliance. “The issue is a problem only in the DMK alliance,” added Mr. Vasan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/only-ruling-party-has-the-prerogative-to-induct-people-into-union-cabinet-vasan/article33534186.ece
09 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK general council meeting today||The ruling AIADMK’s general council will meet in Chennai’s suburb today ahead of the Assembly election. There is talk of a likely impact on the party due to the expected release of former interim general secretary V.K. Sasikala from a Bengaluru prison later this month. However, several functionaries of the party said the Sasikala factor is unlikely to figure in the meeting. The general council is expected to authorise Chief Minister and AIADMK co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami and Deputy Chief Minister and party coordinator O. Panneerselvam to decide the seat-sharing arrangements with other parties during the Assembly election. Some of them refer to the recent “authoritative statement” of the Chief Minister that Ms. Sasikala’s release will not have any impact on the party. Not many are expecting a rapprochement between the camp of the present leadership and that of Ms. Sasikala any time soon. But a senior office-bearer said there was a possibility of the former Chief Minister’s aide backing the idea of the AIADMK and the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) working together to defeat the “common enemy” – the DMK – in the election. Another ruling party office-bearer said there was a perception in the party that the AMMK had toned down its criticism of the Union government in recent times. Around 4,500 people have been invited to the meeting. About 2,300 members of the general council and 320 members of the executive are among the invitees. In addition, a large number of office-bearers of rural local bodies and various associate bodies, all called special invitees, are expected to attend the meeting. ‘No fireworks likely’ Apart from resolutions on a host of matters, key office-bearers, including deputy co-ordinators K.P. Munusamy and R. Vathilingam, are expected to address the meeting of the general council. “No fireworks are likely. We expect it to be a smooth meeting,” the office-bearers said, and added that the council may ratify the nomination of Mr. Palaniswami as the Chief Minister candidate and the constitution of the 11-member steering committee. The previous meeting of the council took place in November 2019 when the party amended bylaws on the eligibility of candidates for contesting in the organisational poll for posts, including that of coordinator and co-coordinator. The stipulation of “uninterrupted duration of membership” for five years was reiterated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-general-council-meets-today/article33533659.ece
09 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Heavy rain may continue in a few places in delta districts, south T.N.||Heavy rain may continue to lash delta districts and south Tamil Nadu for the next four days. Many places in the State and Puducherry are likely to receive moderate rainfall till January 12, according to the Meteorological Department. With easterlies strengthening due to the presence of a cyclonic circulation over Sri Lanka and the neighbourhood, many parts of the State may receive rain. During the past 24 hours ending at 8.30 a.m. on Friday, Andipatti (Theni district), Natham (Dindigul) and Pulipatti (Madurai) received 6 cm of rainfall each, the day’s highest. Heavy rain continued in several places on Friday and some places such as Orathanadu and Athiramapattinam in Thanjavur district and Natham recorded nearly 2 cm of rainfall till 2.30 p.m. Meteorological officials said thunderstorms with moderate rain are likely to continue at many places over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal till January 12. The intensity of rain may increase over delta and southern districts from Sunday and one or two places in such districts may experience even very heavy rain for two days till Monday. Chennai may experience light to moderate rain in some areas and a generally cloudy sky during the weekend. The city has already accumulated nearly 17 cm so far this January, against its monthly quota of nearly 3 cm. Weather bloggers noted that there may be a dip in the rainfall intensity over north Tamil Nadu over the next few days. Heavy rain spells are less likely over the northern region. K. Srikanth, blogger with Chennaiyil Oru Mazhaikalam, said the easterly waves were constantly fed with moisture due to pulses from the South China sea. This sustained the moisture content and pushed rain clouds towards the coastal areas of Tamil Nadu. “Bay of Bengal, which is one of the warmest ocean bodies, also aids in high moisture content. This helped easterly waves sustain for a long spell and dump massive amounts of rain,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/heavy-rain-to-continue-over-several-places/article33534190.ece
09 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Data on waste collection to be made public: Corpn.||The Greater Chennai Corporation will provide all data pertaining to garbage collection in the public domain for residents, said Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash. Announcing the launch of a central command centre for conservancy operations in Alandur, he said the civic body had started collecting all conservancy data using the web-linked system. “The central command centre for south Chennai zones is located in Alandur. The centre will collect data on garbage collection in seven zones in southern Chennai. The centre will track all aspects of conservancy operations, including door to door collection, battery operated vehicles and compactors,” he said. “Urbaser Sumeet has started conservancy operations in the seven zones. We will even be able to know the reason for any delay in garbage clearance in a locality using the web-linked system. We will provide such data in the public domain shortly,” Mr. Prakash said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/data-on-waste-collection-to-be-made-public-corpn/article33534177.ece
09 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK sets up NRI welfare wing of party||The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) on Friday announced its decision to constitute an NRI (non-resident Indian) welfare wing of the party. Secretary appointed In a statement, party general secretary Duraimurugan said Mannargudi MLA T.R.B. Raaja had been appointed secretary of the wing. Dharmapuri MP Senthilkumar and party minority wing deputy secretary M.M. Abduallah would function as deputy secretaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-sets-up-nri-welfare-wing-of-party/article33534187.ece
09 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||10-year-old girl drowns in Tiruttani||A 10-year old girl drowned in a village near Tiruttani on Thursday. The police said Nagarajan and his wife Veni are residents of Illuppur village. Their children Subashini, 10, Rohit, 8, and Surya, 11, went for a bath at a nearby pond on Thursday. Subashini fell in and drowned. The police are investigating. ChildLine operates a toll-free helpline for children in distress, 1098.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/10-year-old-girl-drowns-in-tiruttani/article33534171.ece
09 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Damaged stretch of road to be restored by Saturday morning||Coimbatore Corporation will complete by Saturday morning the work to restore the damaged Perks School Arch Road. The road, on which the Corporation was laying an underground sewer line, was damaged in Wednesday’s rain. It caved in at a few places, leaving some vehicles stuck. Sources said heavy rain on Wednesday night inundated a vacant site adjacent to a four-metre deep trench the Corporation had dug on the road to lay a sewer line. Rain water from the vacant site flowed into the trench and damaged the road. Though the civic body began the restoration work on Thursday morning to allow vehicle movement, a loose packing of the earth led to the surface caving in. The Corporation continued the work on Friday and by Saturday the road should be ready for traffic, the sources said. A Corporation release said Commissioner P. Kumaravel Pandian inspected the site and ordered immediate restoration of the road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/damaged-stretch-of-road-to-be-restored-by-saturday-morning/article33534196.ece
09 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 vaccine dry run held in Coimbatore, Tiruppur districts||The Health Department conducted the second dry run for COVID-19 vaccination at five sites across Coimbatore district on Friday. A total of 125 healthcare workers participated as dummy beneficiaries in the dry run held at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH), Government Hospital at Mettupalayam, Karpagam Medical College and Hospital, Primary Health Centre at Nallattipalayam near Kinathukadavu and Primary Health Centre at Samathur near Pollachi. Deputy Director of Health Services (Coimbatore) G. Ramesh Kumar said that the details of the healthcare workers were registered in the CoWIN online portal, which was introduced by the Central government for the vaccination process. This is the second dry run conducted in the district after January 2, he said. More than 30,000 healthcare workers are estimated to receive the COVID-19 vaccine across the district, Dr. Kumar said. At CMCH, Dean P. Kalidas supervised the dry run. He told reporters that 3,314 healthcare workers comprising doctors, staff nurses, paramedical workers and technicians would be registered in the CoWIN portal to receive the COVID-19 vaccine from CMCH. Dr. Kalidas said that the vaccine would be administered to 100 beneficiaries a day as per the protocol issued by the Central government. Tiruppur In Tiruppur district, the dry run was held at the Government Medical College Hospital, Urban Primary Health Centre at T.S.K. Colony and at a private hospital in Poyampalayam, Government Hospital at Udumalpet and Primary Health Centre at Pongalur. Deputy Director of Health Services (Tiruppur) K. Jegadeesh Kumar said that the planning and implementation of the dry run was successful in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-vaccine-dry-run-held-in-coimbatore-tiruppur-districts/article33534204.ece
09 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Corporation’s explanation denying encroachment in lakes comes in for criticism||Denying reports in the media that the water spread area of tanks it had taken up for development and restoration under the Smart Cities Mission had reduced, the Coimbatore Corporation, a few days ago, issued a statement. The civic body said that it had divided into three areas each of the six tanks it had taken up for development – catchment, water spread area and area near bund. After removing encroachment near the tanks, it had restored storage capacity and taken steps to prevent flooding and stop erosion of bund. Temporary bunds During the execution of work, the Corporation said it had built temporary bunds. Once it completed the work, it would remove them. Without having complete information or understanding of the work, people have alleged encroachment, which was contrary to truth, the Corporation said and added that it abided by court orders on preventing encroachment of water bodies. Taking objection to the Corporation’s explanation on the lake development project, Coimbatore Consumer Cause had said while it welcomed the project that would give a facelift to the city, it was worried about encroachment and reduction in water spread area. The encroachment that the Corporation claimed to have cleared on the lakes were based on directions that the court had passed while hearing its petition seeking removal of encroachments from all the 24 water bodies that were a part of the Noyyal basin in the district. If there was no encroachment in the water bodies that the Corporation had taken on lease from the Public Works Department (PWD) for the lake development project, the Coimbatore Consumer Cause would have no objection. But it was for the PWD to come on record to say that there was no encroachment, for the Corporation and the district administration had failed to report their progress every three months on removing encroachment, the consumer body’s Secretary K. Kathirmathiyon said. During the hearing of the case, the court had given exemption to only seven structures built encroaching water bodies and they included the railway track across Valangulam, a few Tangedco sub stations and TNSTC depots. There were many more encroachments that the Corporation had failed to clear. The PWD’s records would show the encroachments, he said and added that the Corporation would do well to realise that the houses it demolished were only based on court order and not a suo moto action for water body restoration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-corporations-explanation-denying-encroachment-in-lakes-comes-in-for-criticism/article33534200.ece
09 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. experiments with new machine to process wet waste||Coimbatore Corporation has been experimenting with a new machine to process wet waste to explore the possibility of using it in its micro compost centres. According to sources, the Corporation had joined hands with a few enthusiasts to develop the machine that would shred and dewater the waste, remove the moisture to send the liquid to a biogas plant and dry and powder the remaining solid waste. The machine that the Corporation had helped develop could process up to three tonnes of wet waste a day without odour, which was what the Corporation was looking for, the sources said and pointed out that one of the people’s objections that it faced while trying to establish the micro compost centres (MCC) was odour. The sources also said the machine occupied a smaller area compared to the MCC that relied on traditional method to compost waste. In the three months that the Corporation had installed the machine at the processing centre in Bharathi Park, the Corporation had found the machine to be effective. If the experiment were to succeed the Corporation was looking at buying 20 such machines. The cost of a machine, built locally, worked out to around Rs. 20 lakh, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-experiments-with-new-machine-to-process-wet-waste/article33534212.ece
09 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Second edition of ‘Birds of Coimbatore’ released||A book carrying photographs and details of 409 different species of birds found in Coimbatore district was released as part of the ongoing Coimbatore Vizha here on Friday. The second edition of ‘Birds of Coimbatore’ was authored by A. Pavendhan, P.B. Balaji and G. Prakash and was brought out by CII-Young Indians Coimbatore Chapter and Coimbatore Nature Society. The book was released in the presence of District Forest Officer D. Venkatesh, Chairman of Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan Coimbatore Kendra B.K. Krishnaraj Vanavarayar, Principal Scientist at the Salim Ali Centre for Ornithology and Natural History P. Pramod and Landscape Coordinator of WWF-India, Coimbatore D. Bhoominathan. Introducing the book, Mr. Pavendhan from ‘The Nature and Butterfly Society’ said that the first edition was released five years ago and works for the second edition began in September 2020. The photographs were submitted by 48 contributors, he said. Mr. Prakash explained the features of the book namely the ‘habitat icons’ for each bird to distinguish their habitats and the QR codes given for each bird that would enable the readers to listen to the calls of the individual birds when scanned. Mr. Balaji said that the second edition of ‘Birds of Coimbatore’ contained detailed information on each of the 409 bird species such as its local name, conservation status, behaviour and distribution. Appreciating the authors and the team for bringing out the book, Mr. Venkatesh said that this would help in creating awareness among the public on the importance of birds in the ecosystem. Mr. Vanavarayar has penned the introduction of this book. Managing Director of Coimbatore Pioneer Fertilizers Ltd. D. Vidyaprakash and Chairman of CII Coimbatore Zone J. Ganesh Kumar also participated in the event held at PSG College of Technology on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/second-edition-of-birds-of-coimbatore-released/article33534215.ece
09 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Price of hosiery products goes up by 10 %||The South India Hosiery Manufacturers’ Association in Tiruppur has asked the hosiery product producers to increase the prices by 10 %. According to a press release from the Association, it was decided last month that all the manufacturers will increase the prices to meet the higher cost of production, because of the hike in raw material prices. Companies that had not announced the increase so far were asked to do so to ensure uniformity in prices of hosiery products. It was also decided at a recent meeting of the Association to monitor the movement of raw material prices continuously and revise the product prices in the future, if needed. The Association members plan to have a meeting with hosiery manufacturers in other States, since the prices of yarn were going up across the country. It was decided to urge the spinning units to fix the yarn price once in three months to ensure stability in prices. Also, the issue should be taken up with the respective State governments and the Central government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/price-of-hosiery-products-goes-up-by-10/article33534201.ece
09 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Applications invited||The district administration has invited online applications for starting private industrial training schools, extension of recognitions and to start any new divisions in the existing industrial training schools for the academic year 2021-22. The applications are available on www.skilltraining.tn.gov.in and the last date to submit the applications is April 30, a release said. Contact the Directorate of Employment and Training at 044-22501006 for more details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/applications-invited/article33534198.ece
09 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||200 special buses for Pongal||The Coimbatore Division of the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation has announced operation of 200 special buses on Salem and Tiruchi routes for Pongal from January 12 to 14. These buses will be operated from a temporary bus terminus set up at Codissia Trade Fair Complex on Avinashi Road, a release said. The temporary terminus is expected to reduce traffic congestion in the city as many passengers will board the buses at Gandhipuram and Singanallur ahead of Pongal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/200-special-buses-for-pongal/article33534206.ece
09 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Contract workers complain about delayed wage payment||Men and women, who were engaged on contract on behalf of the Coimbatore Corporation for deployment as support staff at the 32 urban primary health centres here, have complained of delayed payment of wages.  The workers, who went to the Corporation office on Friday to raise the issue with the Commissioner, complained that the contractor who had engaged them had not paid the wages for the last three months. Meeting denied When they wanted to highlight this fact in their petition to the Corporation Commissioner, they were being denied a meeting, the workers alleged and sought an early solution to the problem. The workers worked as housekeeping staff at primary health centres and at Corporation schools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/contract-workers-complain-about-delayed-wage-payment/article33534210.ece
09 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Devotees must manage temples’||Founder of Isha Foundation Jaggi Vasudev said in a tweet on Thursday that devotees must manage the temples in the State instead of “bureaucratic and political forces.” Sanctity He alleged that the temples were “in the clutches of the government administration” who are “impinging on the sanctity” of the places of worship.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/devotees-must-manage-temples/article33534213.ece
09 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Book released||A book on industrialist A. Somasundaram, titled ‘The Iron Man of Coimbatore’, was released recently in the presence of Vignesh Chaitanya from Chinmaya Mission, Coimbatore, and former president of CODISSIA A. Kandasamy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/book-released/article33534197.ece
09 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man killed in wall collapse||A 29-year-old man was killed after a portion of one of the walls in his residence collapsed on Thursday. P. Rajasekar (29), a resident of Siddhapudur, was sleeping inside the tile-roofed house next to his mother Saraswathi (55) when the incident occurred. The wall had weakened following Wednesday’s rain. At 11 p.m. on Thursday, a portion of the wall collapsed and the debris fell on Rajasekar killing him on the spot, police said. Police rescued Saraswathi from the debris. Rajasekar’s body was retrieved and sent to Coimbatore Medical College Hospital for autopsy. Kattoor police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-killed-in-wall-collapse/article33534202.ece
09 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Woman held for cheating||The K.G. Chavadi police on Friday arrested a woman on charges of cheating four farmers of Rs. 30.72 lakh.  Police said that Lourdemary (40) allegedly approached the farmers through an online portal last year to procure crops such as corn, turmeric and pepper. While she paid them a portion of the total value of the produce, she defaulted payment of Rs. 30.72 lakh. Based on a complaint lodged by one of the farmers, she was booked under Section 420 (Cheating) of the Indian Penal Code and was remanded in judicial custody on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-held-for-cheating/article33534205.ece
09 January 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Town Planning official held on graft charge||Muthukrishnan, an officer in the rank of Assistant Director, Town and Country Planning, was caught red-handed by the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption police here on Thursday, when he allegedly received bribe of Rs. 1 lakh from an applicant seeking approval for his land. Following a complaint from Natraayan of Karur district, the police registered a case. According to the complainant, he owned four acres land in Eriodu, Dindigul district and had planned to promote it into housing plots. He had approached the Town and Country Planning officials, who had directed him to meet Muthukrishnan. It was alleged that the officer demanded bribe of Rs. 1lakh. Hence, he had approached the V&AC police. When the complainant handed over the chemical coated money to Muthukrishnan at a designated location, the police team led by DSP Nagarajan and Inspector Sundararajan caught him red-handed. They detained the officer and confiscated the cash.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/town-planning-official-held-on-graft-charge/article33533639.ece
09 January 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Town Planning official held||A driver, Manikandan (29), of Pulikuthikaadu, near Oddanchatram, here was sentenced to undergo seven years in jail and imposed fine of Rs. 10,000 for rape by a court here on Friday. According to the prosecution, the man had promised to marry a 22-year-old girl. After he realised that the girl had become pregnant, he vanished following which she lodged a complaint with the police. After the woman had delivered the child, Inspector Lakshmi Prabha obtained scientific evidence and certificates from doctors. The Judge Purushothaman, who heard the case, directed Manikandan to undergo seven years in prison and imposed Rs. 10,000 fine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/town-planning-official-held/article33533632.ece
09 January 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Electoral roll revision process reviewed||Director of Handlooms and Textiles M. Karunakaran, who has been appointed as electoral roll observer for the district, on Friday held discussions with officials on the roll revision process at the Collectorate. Chairing a meeting in the presence of District Election Officer and Collector C. Kathiravan, he said that there are 19,16,809 electors in the eight Assembly constituencies in the district and 93,264 forms were received during the special camps conducted in November and December. A total of 21,229 forms were received from new electors from November 16 to December 15, he said. He verified the forms and instructed officials to follow the process while revising the roll. District Election Officer S. Kavitha, Election Officer and Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan, Personal Assistant to the Collector (General) Balaji, Gobichettipalayam Revenue Divisional Officer C. Jayaraman, Election Tahsildar Sivagami and other officials attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/electoral-roll-revision-process-reviewed/article33533648.ece
09 January 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Guidelines for Jallikattu issued||A consultative meeting to review the guidelines ahead of Jallikattu and Erudu Vidum Vizha was held here under the aegis of Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy. Jallikattu and Erudu Vidum Vizha are being conducted in various parts of the district as part of Pongal festivities. In a bid to regulate the conduct of the events, the administration has set guidelines. The bulls participating in the sport, will have to brought to the site at 9 a.m. for registration. The arena should be a straight stretch without any bends. Jallikattu should start at 10.30 a.m and conclude by 1.30 p.m, according to the administration. The leash around the cattle should not be less than 10 feet to 15 feet long. The participating bulls shall not be less than 3 to 4 years of age, it said. The bulls will be tested by the animal husbandry team and for every 1,000 spectators, 50 volunteers will be appointed to monitor the conduct of the event. Volunteers will be issued identity cards and their details submitted to the police. Spectators will be tested for COVID-19 upon entry, and the participants will be allowed to take part only on providing test negative certificate from the government testing centres. Superintendent of Police Bandi Gangadar was present at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/guidelines-for-jallikattu-issued/article33533649.ece
09 January 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Bulls and tamers go through a rigorous drill ahead of jallikattu||With less than a week left for Pongal festival, bull owners and tamers have intensified their practice to ensure that they are well prepared for the slew of jallikattu events this season. M. Stalin, a bull rearer from Madakulam, says that his bull - ‘karuppu’ - is given a swimming practice at least twice a week in the run-up to the jallikattu events. “Swimming is an important workout for the bull as it aids better agility during jallikattu,” he says. As part of the practice routine, the bulls are also made to ‘gore’ a mound of earth with their horns, he adds. A nutrituous diet for the bulls are followed for two months prior to the jallikattu events, says S. Subash, a bull owner from Vadipatti. “Bulls are given cotton seeds, wheat husk mixed with water and date palms. Many rearers also feed their bulls a mixture of various millets,” he says. While the bull rearers are happy that jallikattu events are conducted this year amid the COVID-19 pandemic, the restriction of allowing only two caretakers for each bull during the jallikattu event poses a problem, says the president of Tamil Nadu Jallikattu Peravai, P. Rajasekar. “At least four persons are required to take care of one bull. The caretakers reach the venue the previous night of the jallikattu event. It will be extremely difficult for two persons to release the bulls through the ‘vadivasal’ (the place through which bulls are let into the arena) and to get hold of the bulls at the collection points,” he says. Mr. Subash says the jallikattu organising committee members must assess the number of bulls that were released into the arena in the previous years and accordingly issue tokens this year. Mock ‘vadivasal’ The bull tamers have also stepped up their practice for jallikattu events. Members of ‘Jallikattu Training Centre,’ a centre which trains tamers, have been practising by setting up mock ‘vadivasal.’ President of the Centre B. Manikandaprabu says experienced players share techniques and their expertise with young bull tamers. “If a player knows how to approach a running bull in the arena, it will reduce the possibilities of accidents,” he says. The players have intensified their workout routine in the past three months, says P. Ranjith, a bull tamer. “For the past several years, the bull tamers have been urging the officials to ensure that proper facilities are available for players during the jallikattu event. The officials must focus on providing better amenities for bull tamers this year,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bulls-and-tamers-go-through-a-rigorous-drill-ahead-of-jallikattu/article33534290.ece
09 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 vaccine dry run held||A dry run for COVID-19 vaccination was completed at five centres in Madurai district on Friday. A total of 25 beneficiaries took part in each of the five centres - Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH), Melur Government Hospital, Kovil Pappakudi Primary Health Centre, K. Pudur Urban Primary Health Centre and Apollo Hospital. Deputy Director of Health Services K.V. Arjun Kumar and Dean J. Sangumani inaugurated the dry run at the GRH. All the beneficiaries were healthcare workers. The list of beneficiaries was uploaded on the CoWIN (COVID-19 Vaccine Intelligence Network) platform. The beneficiaries received an SMS on their mobile phones mentioning the date, venue and time for their vaccination. Each centre had five vaccination officers under a nodal officer. Each centre had a beneficiary waiting room, vaccination room and observation room. At the centre, an officer verified the identity of the beneficiaries with voter ID, employee ID, driving licence or PAN card. After verification, the beneficiaries were sent to the vaccination room where another officer verified their details on the CoWIN platform. After that, a mock vaccination was held, after which the beneficiaries were sent to the observation room where they were put under the surveillance of an officer for 30 minutes. A health official in one of the centres said issues pertaining to internet connectivity, lack of a clock in observation room, and the need to deploy police to regulate the beneficiaries were identified. The health officials also performed a mock exercise during which ‘a beneficiary developed adverse effects after vaccination.’ “If any beneficiary develops any adverse effect after vaccination, a team of doctors will immediately attend to the person. The vial of dose will be kept aside and the other beneficiaries will be checked to see if they had developed any symptom,” said Dr. Arjun Kumar.  Issues pertaining to internet connectivity, lack of clock in observation room, and the need to deploy police to regulate beneficiaries were identified during the dry run Health official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-vaccine-dry-run-held/article33534284.ece
09 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Rain leaves problems in its wake||Several streets in the city were inundated and standing paddy crop was submerged across the district following the heavy downpour witnessed on Thursday night and incessant showers on Friday. Residents faced severe hardship in wading through stagnant knee-deep water at Balamurugan Nagar of Officers Colony. S. Easwaran, a resident, said water overflowed from a channel connecting Mudakathan and Sellur tanks. “The channel was choked with garbage. After the heavy downpour, rainwater flooded the streets,” he said. Similarly, water overflowed from a garbage-choked channel onto the streets of Koodal Nagar. “Had the channels been cleared before the rainy season, such a problem would not have arisen at all,” said P. Gopi, a resident. Water logging was reported in several low-lying areas across the city. Several streets that were riddled with potholes and craters were filled with rainwater, making it difficult for vehicle users. Paddy fields were submerged under rainwater across the district, causing concern for farmers. An official from the Agricultural Department said paddy fields at Madurai East, Madurai West, Chellampatti, Tirupparankundram, Vadipatti and Melur blocks were inundated. M. Tirupati, a farmer from Kulamangalam, said that in most fields the paddy crop was at a matured stage and was ready for harvest in a few days. “The government must give compensation to farmers whose crop has been damaged due to the rains,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rain-leaves-problems-in-its-wake/article33534292.ece
09 January 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Medical aspirant secures seat on court’s direction||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has held that an aided school in Thanjavur district came within the meaning of a government school under Section 2(c) of the Tamil Nadu Act 34, 2020, in view of the fact that it was managed by the Revenue Department/district administration. The court was hearing the writ petition filed by D. Arun of Thanjavur district who sought to be considered eligible for medical admission under 7.5% horizontal reservation for government school students who had cleared NEET. His request for issue of certificate that he had studied in a government school was denied by authorities. Justice G.R. Swaminathan took into account the fact that the Thanjavur Collector was the president of the school committee, the Special Tahsildar was the secretary, and the other committee members included officials of the district administration. It was entirely funded by the government, the judge observed. The judge said the school no doubt had been treated as a private school under the Tamil Nadu Recognised Private Schools (Regulation) Act, 1973. The staff were not government servants. But, the fact remained that it was managed by the Revenue Department/district administration. The school came within the ambit of Section 2(c) of the 2020 Act that defined government schools and students who had studied in government schools as it was managed by a ‘government department’, the judge said. The Tamil Nadu Admission to Undergraduate Courses in Medicine, Dentistry, Indian Medicine and Homeopathy on Preferential basis to Students of Government Schools Act, 2020, was enacted to extend the benefit of reservation to economically disadvantaged students. The definition under the Act would have to receive a purposive construction. Taking note of the fact that the High Court had earlier directed the authorities to consider the candidate for admission to MBBS course, and subsequently the candidate had secured a seat at Government Sivagangai Medical College, the seat allocation in his favour was made absolute, the judge said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/medical-aspirant-secures-seat-on-high-courts-direction/article33534288.ece
09 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Include Tamil in recruitment exam of Department of Posts’||Su. Venkatesan, Madurai MP, has flayed the Centre for not including Tamil in the medium of examination for recruitment in the Department of Posts. In a letter addressed to Union Minister for Communication Ravi Shankar Prasad, he said the present move contravened the earlier declaration of the Central government that examinations for recruitment in the Department of Posts would be conducted in regional languages, including Tamil. Regional languages have been omitted in the recruitment notification, though it was announced on July 16, 2019 on the floor of Parliament that those examinations for the recruitment in Department of Posts would be conducted in regional languages also, he pointed out. “This announcement was made following stiff opposition from MPs against the earlier decision of conducting tests only in English and Hindi. Mr. Ravi Shankar Prasad had intervened and assured that examinations will be conducted in regional languages,” Mr. Venkatesan said. Consequently, the notification issued earlier was annulled for the issuance of a fresh one. The same stance was confirmed by the Union government before the Madras High Court also when the case came for hearing on July 30, 2019. But, the Department of Posts has now issued a notification for the examination scheduled on February 14 and the choices of the medium is confined only to Hindi and English. This would affect candidates from Tamil Nadu, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/include-tamil-in-recruitment-exam-of-department-of-posts/article33534433.ece
09 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Fish hook removed from eye||Doctors of Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) in Madurai successfully removed a metal fish hook that was stuck inside the left eye of a four-year-old girl. A press release from Dean J. Sangumani said the fish hook accidentally got stuck inside the eye of the child when she was playing. The girl was rushed to Government Sivagangai Medical College and Hospital from where she was referred to the GRH. The hook was dangling from the torn ocular tissues. A surgery was performed by a team led by U. Vijayashanmugam, Head, Department of Ophthalmology and Selvakumar, Head, Department of Anaesthesia. The hook was removed and the damaged ocular tissues were repaired. The vision of the girl had been restored.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fish-hook-removed-from-eye/article33534280.ece
09 January 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Death sentences referred to HC||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday ordered notice on two referred trials. The death sentences awarded by trial courts in the case of rape and murder of a seven-year-old girl in Pudukottai and the case of murder of a 19-year-old pregnant woman by her 36-year-old husband in Theni were referred to the High Court for confirmation. A Division Bench of Justices K. Kalyanasundaram and G. Ilangovan ordered notices to the State and adjourned the hearing in the cases. In December last year, Pudukottai Mahila Court awarded death sentence to M. Samivel alias Raja, 25, for the rape and murder of a seven-year-old girl in Embal village. Similarly, in December last year, Theni Additional Sessions Fast Track Court awarded death sentence to Suresh for the murder of his 19-year-old pregnant wife in 2015.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/death-sentences-referred-to-hc/article33533628.ece
09 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Office-bearers elected to association||New executive committee members and officer-bearers to the Kappalur Industrialists’ Association (KIA) have been elected at its annual general meeting held on Wednesday. Twenty members have been elected and they will be in charge till 2023. The office-bearers are: N. Ragunatha Raja - president, R. Ramasamy - vice-president, R. Vasudevan - secretary, S. Senthil - joint secretary and S. Elankeeran - treasurer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/office-bearers-elected-to-association/article33534281.ece
09 January 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Appointment orders issued||Appointment orders on compassionate grounds were given to 53 persons - all legal heirs of police personnel who died in harness in Madurai Rural District Police, here on Friday. Superintendent of Police Sujit Kumar handed over the appointment orders which were given on seniority basis. The legal heirs have been appointed as Data Entry Assistant in a rank equivalent to Grade II police constable with a basic pay of Rs. 18,200. Their salary would be Rs. 22,974, a statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/appointment-orders-issued/article33534287.ece
09 January 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Meet discusses restoration of Vaigai||Chairman and Managing Director of Tamil Nadu Water Resources Conservation and Rivers Restoration Corporation K. Satyagopal chaired a review meeting at the Madurai Collectorate on Friday to discuss restoration of Vaigai river. Collector T. Anbalagan and Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan were present at the meeting. Public Works and revenue departments’ officials from Madurai, Theni, Dindigul, Sivaganga and Ramanathapuram participated in the meeting. It is learnt that the discussions revolved around removal of encroachments along the Vaigai. Earlier, Mr. Sathyagopal inspected Mariamman Teppakulam which receives water from the Vaigai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/meet-discusses-restoration-of-vaigai/article33534293.ece
09 January 2021||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Woman raped on temple premises||A 40-year-old woman was allegedly raped by two men on the premises of a temple in Vandipettai, Nagapattinam town, on Wednesday night. The crime was reported to the Velipalayam police on Thursday. The accused — M. Appas alias Arunraj, 25, of Vandipettai, and K. Anand, 24, of Akkaraikulam — have been arrested. The police said the woman, a widow and mother of two children, was on her way to her sister’s house, when the two men accosted her. They forcibly took her inside the temple premises and allegedly raped her. They threatened her by brandishing a knife before escaping from the spot. The woman later lodged a complaint with the Velipalayam police, who registered a case under Sections 294 (b) (uttering obscene words in or near any public place), 376 (rape) and 506 (II) (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-raped-on-temple-premises/article33533611.ece
09 January 2021||Nagercoil,TAMIL NADU||Two held for cheating investors of several crores of rupees||The Economic Offences Wing (EOW) police have arrested two directors of a private firm for allegedly cheating investors to the tune of several crores of rupees after failing to return the investment with the sum assured. Sources in EOW said, that Nagercoil-based Unique Asset Promoters and Estates India Limited received investments from the public with the promise that the investors would get attractive sum for their investments. Investors who paid Rs. 1,000 a month for five years, were promised Rs. 96,000 or residential plots equivalent to the returns. Believing it, more than 500 persons from Kanniyakumari, Vellore, Thiruvannamalai, Kancheepuram and Ramanathapuram districts invested to the tune of several crores of rupees. However, the promoters of the firm closed down the operations in mid-2019. When one of the investors Vasanthakumar of Nagercoil lodged a complaint with the EOW recently, the fraud came to light, the police said. They arrested directors of the firm T. Edwin Sudhakaran and T. Jaya Sashidharan and remanded them in judicial custody on Thursday night. The hunt is on to arrest Syed Ali, managing director of the firm, another director Ramesh and the agents who collected the money from the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-for-cheating-investors-of-several-crores-of-rupees/article33534432.ece
09 January 2021||NEW DELHI,TAMIL NADU||Plea in SC seeks review of order on Chennai-Salem highway project||The Supreme Court has received a petition to review a December 8 decision giving the go-ahead to the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) and the Centre to acquire land for the construction of the 277.3 km-long Chennai-Krishnagiri-Salem national highway project, worth over Rs. 10,000 crore. The top court had set aside the Madras High Court’s apprehensions about the environmental harm the project would cause. The original petitioner in the High Court and Tamil Nadu resident, Yuvaraj S., said projects meant to be for “public purpose” should give maximum benefit to the largest number of people. This project does not meet that criterion set forth by the Supreme Court itself in past judgments. The review petition said a mere decision to form a greenfield road/highway/national highway taken in a committee meeting cannot claim to be a “policy decision” made in public interest when the decision ultimately violates the law. The petition said the highway project was in fact a violation of the larger policy of the Bharatmala Pariyojna project. The review petition said the government authorities acted beyond their powers by not obtaining the Ministry of Finance-Department of Expenditure (DOE)-prescribed appraisal by the Public Investment Board for projects that cost over Rs. 500 crore. The authorities also did not obtain the Ministry of Finance-Department of Economic Affairs (DoEA)-prescribed appraisal from the Public-Private Partnership-Appraisal Committee for projects with a civil construction cost of more than Rs. 1,000 crore. Mr. Yuvaraj also claimed that the approval from the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs and the Comptroller and Auditor General’s audit was not completed. The eight-lane highway (NH179A and NH179B) is part of the first phase of the ‘Bharatmala Pariyojna’ project, which stretches across 24,800 km and has an estimated outlay of Rs. 5.35 lakh crore. The project aims at improving the efficiency of freight and passenger movement across the country by bridging critical infrastructural gaps. The highway intends to cut travel time between Chennai and Salem by half. “By its very nomenclature, a national highway is to link the entire country and provide access to all in every remote corner of the country for interaction and to promote commerce and trade, employment and education, including health-related services,” the Supreme Court had said in its December 2020 judgment. The project had faced opposition from locals, including farmers, over fears of losing their land, besides environmentalists who were against the felling of trees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-in-sc-seeks-review-of-order-on-chennai-salem-highway-project/article33534193.ece
09 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Dry run tests preparedness for vaccination||The second dry run ahead of the nationwide rollout of the COVID-19 vaccination programme was held at select hospitals in the Union Territory on Friday. The exercise was carried out at seven select centres, which included the General Hospitals in Puducherry, Karaikal and Yanam, and targeted 175 volunteers. Each centre conducted the test on 25 volunteers. “The second round of mock vaccination was tested out as the efficacy of immunisation requires repeating the dose after 28 days of the first jab being administered for immunity to develop,” Director of Health S. Mohan Kumar said. The first and second dry run exercises have been successfully completed in the Union Territory, he said. During the first round, the dry run had been held in nine centres in the Union Territory, including four in Puducherry, three in Karaikal and one each in the Yanam and Mahe regions. The two-stage dry run aimed at evaluating logistical preparedness, including cold chain networks and plugging gaps between intent and implementation. The drive also helped to test the robustness of CoWIN, a data management platform, set up for the vaccination drive. A text message is sent out to the targeted beneficiaries to report to a designated location with details of the vaccinator and the expected time of immunisation. Once they are given dummy vaccines, a report is generated to the Task Force for review before submission to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. On Thursday, the Health Ministry held a video conference to assess the preparedness of the Union Territory. Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy said recently that the first batch of vials were expected to be made available by the Centre to Puducherry in the next few days. Around 14,000 health workers and frontline staff have been identified to be covered under the first phase of the vaccination programme, once the vials are made available from the Centre. About 13,000 health workers have already signed up for vaccination on the CoWIN portal in Puducherry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dry-run-tests-preparedness-for-vaccination/article33534373.ece
09 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Parents for early hearing in MBBS quota case||The Pondicherry State Students and Parents Welfare Association has urged the government to approach the Madras High Court for an early hearing in the case seeking 50% seats in MBBS course under the government quota in three private medical colleges, given the little time left for concluding the counselling process. Association president V. Bala Balasubramanian said even though the stated position of the government was that 50% reservation under the government quota would be implemented in three private medical colleges, it was unfortunate that when the case filed by a student was taken up for hearing by the Madras High Court, the government lawyers did not request for an early hearing. Whereas in the case filed by another student with the prayer to reserve 10% of seats for students of government schools, the government lawyers had sought an early hearing and judgment, and the case was posted for January 11. There are seven NRI seats and six other seats in the Government IGMC and around 42 NRI seats and six management quota seats in private medical colleges after the allotment in the second round of counselling. A few more seats are expected to remain vacant after the second round of admissions. “Thus, enough seats are available,” Mr. Balasubramanian said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/parents-for-early-hearing-in-mbbs-quota-case/article33534374.ece
09 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Case shifted to CB-CID||The Police Department has transferred to the Crime Branch CID the case filed in connection with the alleged detection of a colourless “toxic” substance in the water bottle distributed at a recent meeting convened by the Puducherry District Collector. The D-Nagar police had earlier registered a case under Section 284 of the IPC based on a complaint filed by the Department of Revenue and Disaster Management.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/case-shifted-to-cb-cid/article33534376.ece
09 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T.’s daily tally drops to 20||New COVID-19 cases in the Union Territory of Puducherry dropped to 20 while no deaths were reported on Friday. The distribution of the new cases, which were confirmed from testing 3,411 samples, was 11 in Puducherry and nine in Mahe. No new cases were reported in Karaikal and Yanam in the last 24 hours. With 36 patients discharged, the active cases stood at 343. Of these, 168 were in hospital and 175 in home isolation. The coronavirus tally in the Union Territory is 636 deaths, a total of 38,389 cases and 37,410 patients discharged. The Health Department has to date tested an estimated 5.09 lakh samples, of which 4.66 lakh were negative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/uts-daily-tally-drops-to-20/article33534371.ece
09 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘Kiran Bedi’s interference hit govt. work’||Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Friday said the day-to-day interference by Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi is hampering the government’s development and welfare programmes. Inaugurating the day-and-night stir called by the Secular Democratic Alliance seeking the recall of Ms. Bedi, the Chief Minister said several of the programmes, including those in the election manifesto, could not be implemented due to the obstructions created by the Lt. Governor. Free rice could be distributed only for six months because of the insistence of the Lt. Governor to transfer money to the beneficiaries’ accounts. Even when the government agreed to procure rice from the Food Corporation of India at Rs. 28 per kg for distribution through Public Distribution System outlets, the Lt. Governor did not agree. The government proposal to procure rice from FCI was mooted after the Lt. Governor observed that buying rice from open market would lead to corruption, the Chief Minister said. Rice preferred Women in villages prefer to obtain rice as the men in the families would take the money from banks and use it for “other” purposes. Sometimes, money transferred to the beneficiaries would not be sufficient because of price fluctuations in the market, he added. The Chief Minister also held the Lt. Governor responsible for the closure of textile mills and the delay in recruitment of police constabulary and clerical posts, as well as in getting funds. He also accused Ms. Bedi of not following the Cabinet’s order and subsequent directions of the Centre to delegate more financial powers to Cabinet members, Chief Secretary and Secretaries. “The intent of the protest is to seek removal of the Lt. Governor and for that the government is willing to sacrifice anything. The rights of people have been taken away and we will do everything to protect it,” he added. The Chief Minister also questioned the necessity of deployment of Central forces. The idea was to scare people away from the protest, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bedis-interference-hampered-govt-work/article33534378.ece
09 January 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||BJP thanks T.N. govt. for declaring Thai Poosam a public holiday||Thanking the Tamil Nadu government for declaring Thai Poosam a public holiday, the BJP State president L. Murugan said that the BJP (TN unit) as part of celebrating Pongal, would organise ‘Namma Ooru Pongal’ for two days across the State on Saturday and Sunday. Speaking to reporters, here on Friday, he said that the BJP would join the people in all villages across Tamil Nadu and celebrate Pongal. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi has a great regard for the people of Tamil Nadu and he always enquires about the welfare of the State. Even today, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan visited Chennai and Chengalpattu to oversee the arrangements for COVID-19 vaccine administration,” he said. The MSME sector in the State had benefited from the Centre, about 41 lakh farmers had received Rs. 6,000 directly to their bank accounts, 65 lakh beneficiaries received LPG refill and among others, he responded to a query. Claiming that the Vel Yatra was a success, he said the BJP would go for a special campaign in the next 100 days and enrol a million cadre. Also, from January 18 to 25, the party would conduct awareness campaigns at the booth levels across Tamil Nadu. He urged Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami to open the 22 theerthams in the Ramanathaswamy Temple for the devotees. He welcomed the arrest of the accused in the Pollachi rape case and stated the police have done their job as per the laws. Attacking the DMK MP Kanimozhi for not coming to the rescue of a woman, who was abused by the DMK men in a meeting addressed by its president M K Stalin in Coimbatore recently, he described the DMK as a party with double standards. Asked to comment on M. K. Alagiri's announcement that Mr Stalin can never become Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu in Madurai recently, he said that it was a bold and correct statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-thanks-tn-govt-for-declaring-thai-poosam-a-public-holiday/article33533634.ece
09 January 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Swapping of babies at GH suspected||In a petition submitted to the Superintendent of Police here on Friday, N. Minor (33) of Sakkarakottai has demanded a thorough probe as he suspected that some nurse had changed the newborn male baby, born to his wife Nagalakshmi and given her a female child. He said that his wife was admitted to the GH on Dec 14, 2020. After four days, she delivered a male child through cesarean. While the duty doctors told that she had delivered a boy, later they claimed it was a girl. When they came home with the girl baby, an anonymous letter he received stated that Nagalakshmi had actually delivered a boy and that the records were altered. Hence, he lodged a complaint with the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/swapping-of-babies-at-gh-suspected/article33533627.ece
09 January 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||CM inaugurates Ariyanur flyover||The Ariyanur flyover on Salem-Coimbatore National Highway was inaugurated here on Friday. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami inaugurated the flyover through video conferencing from Chennai. District Collector S.A. Raman, MLAs and senior officials attended the event. According to officials, the flyover was constructed at Tiruchengode - Ariyanur road here at a cost of Rs. 45 crore. The Ariyanur junction is one of the busiest spots on the Salem - Coimbatore National Highway and a flyover was proposed here to decongest the stretch and reduce accidents. It is expected to ease traffic movement at the junction, especially for vehicles moving towards Bengaluru. It is the fourth flyover constructed on the Salem - Coimbatore National Highway. The Chief Minister also inaugurated bridges constructed at Vazhapadi in Puzhuthikottai - Santhumalai Road at a cost of Rs. 3.5 crore and another one built at Attur at Narikuravar Colony Road across Vashishta River at cost of Rs. 5 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-inaugurates-ariyanur-flyover/article33533652.ece
09 January 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Sentenced||The Additional Sessions Court in Namakkal on Friday sentenced four persons to 10 years of imprisonment for murdering a youth in 2018. Police said the deceased Ajith (20) was attacked and murdered by his friends Jagadish, Rajesh, Prabhu and Soundarajan near Jedarpalayam following a quarrel. The court also imposed a fine of Rs. 25,000 each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sentenced/article33533653.ece
09 January 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Pieces of nuts removed from trachea||Rajah Mirasdar Government Hospital doctors removed pieces of groundnuts from trachea of a two-year-old girl here recently. Anumithra, daughter of Arun of Periyakannamangalam near Thirumarugal in Nagapattinam district, consumed a handful of groundnuts at her house on January 6. A few pieces of ground nuts got stuck in her trachea leading to breathing problem. She was taken to the Primary Health Centre at Thirumarugal from where she was rushed to the Government Hospital in Nagapattinam. After preliminary investigations and treatment, she was referred to the Tiruvarur Medical College Hospital from where she was brought to the GRMH, Thanjavur, by around 7.30 p.m. As scan results showed some blocks in her right trachea, the GRMH doctors decided to remove the nuts by subjecting her to bronchoscopy procedure and succeeded in their attempt by around 10 p.m., sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nut-pieces-removed-from-trachea/article33533595.ece
09 January 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Minister’s bullock carts win the rekla race||Minister for Information Kadambur C. Raju’s bullock carts won the first prizes in ‘rekla race’ (bullock cart race) held here on Friday for small and big bullock carts as part of the 262nd birth anniversary of freedom fighter Veerapandia Kattabomman. While the big bullock carts had to cover 10 miles distance from Muthiahpuram to Thoothukudi Port Trust, the small bullock carts covered six miles on the same route. Bullock carts from various southern districts participated in the race. In both the sections, the bullock carts of Mr. Raju won the first prizes. In the big bullock cart section, trophies and cash awards of Rs. 30,001, Rs. 25,001, Rs. 20,001 and Rs. 3,001 respectively were given to the owners of the winning carts. In the small bullock cart section, trophies and Rs. 20,001, Rs. 17,001, Rs. 15,001 and Rs. 4,001 respectively were given to the winners. Mr. Raju handed over the trophies and the cash awards to the winners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ministers-bullock-carts-win-the-rekla-race/article33534437.ece
09 January 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||‘Kanimozhi failed to condemn the attack on a woman at DMK’s meet’||Asserting that the AIADMK had nothing to hide in the Pollachi sexual assault case, Minister for Information Kadambur C. Raju said the DMK MP Kanimozhi, who portrays herself as an ‘activist’, should have condemned the attack unleashed on a woman who questioned party president M.K. Stalin during the gram sabha meeting held recently at Thondamuthur in Coimbatore Speaking to reporters after inaugurating a bullock cart race at Muthiahapuram on Friday, Mr. Raju said the Tamil Nadu Government, to ensure impartial and transparent probe and to unravel the entire truth behind the Pollachi sexual assault case had handed over the investigation to CBI. When the AIADMK functionaries were arrested in connection with this case, the party high command immediately removed them from the primary membership of the party and hence there was no question of anyone helping the accused, as was being alleged by Ms. Kanimozhi, the Information Minister said. “We are for a fair probe and are keen on punishing the real culprits. If the MP (Ms. Kanimozhi) is really concerned about women and their safety, she should have raised her voice when a woman was assaulted by the DMK men for having raised a question at the gram sabha meeting chaired by party president Mr. Stalin recently. After verbally abusing her, the DMK men evicted her from the meeting and misbehaved with her. Ms. Kanimozhi should have condemned this act of her party functionaries. But she did not do so and it only shows her partiality when it comes to women’s rights and their safety,” Mr. Raju charged. 100% occupancy in cinema halls On the Union Ministry of Home Affairs directive that the Tamil Nadu Government should revoke its order of allowing 100% occupancy in cinema halls, the Minister for Information said the State Government had relaxed the lockdown norms for the public visiting malls, parks and other public places in the wake of sharp fall in the number of fresh COVID-19 cases. In this line, cent per cent occupancy in the cinema theatres was also allowed following request from the actors, producers, cinema theatre owners in the wake of Pongal celebrations. “Against this backdrop, we’ve received the Union Government’s directive which is neither a ban nor a warning. The Chief Minister, after discussing it with the officials concerned will take an appropriate decision,” Mr. Raju said. Later in the evening, he told the reporters at Kovilpatti that Udhayanidhi, DMK youth wing president and son of Mr. Stalin, had crossed all limits when he said that Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami was hand-picked by late Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s confidante V. K. Sasikala, for the post. “M. Udhayanidhi’s nauseating remarks against Mrs. Sasikala only shows the DMK’s respect for women,” Mr. Raju said.  We are for a fair probe and are keen on punishing the real culprits in the Pollachi sexual assault case. We have nothing to hide Kadambur C. Raju Minister for Information||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kanimozhi-failed-to-condemn-the-attack-on-a-woman-at-dmks-meet/article33534435.ece
09 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination dry run held across central region||A mock vaccination exercise was conducted at select hospitals and primary health centres across the central districts on Friday ahead of the COVID-19 vaccination drive expected to be taken up soon. It was conducted at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital and four other healthcare facilities in Tiruchi. It was held to check the quality of the facility, the software used to register beneficiaries, among other aspects. Collector S. Sivarasu instructed the staff at the MGMGH to ensure that the vaccine administration is seamless once the clearance is given by the government. Dean K. Vanitha, W. Edwina Vasantha, Medical Superintendent and Maternal and Child Health Officer, Usha Rani were present. A waiting room has been prepared at the GH where 25 people can be accommodated in view of social distancing norms. A data entry operator would check their identity and once it is confirmed, they would be asked to move to a vaccination room, manned by a staff nurse and an assistant where the vaccine would be administered. An observation room to check the patients’ vitals after vaccination, along with 20 beds, have been kept readt in case they need rest. In Phase 1 of vaccination, healthcare workers and frontline workers would be covered. The subsequent phases would cover the elderly and people with comorbidities. Apart from the MGMGH, a private hospital in Ariyamangalam, Ramalinga Nagar Urban Primary Healthcare Centre, Inamkulathur Primary Healthcare Centre, and the Manapparai Government Hospital conducted the dry run in Tiruchi. The Collector told reporters that a total of 5542 employees from the MGMGH, K.A.P Viswanatham Government Medical College, Primary Healthcare Centres and other government hospitals had registered for the vaccination. Meanwhile, 2,728 anganwadi workers and 6,553 of 7,000 private healthcare workers have registered. The remaining workers will be registered in the next few days. Perambalur Collector P. Sri Venkada Priya said that 2,060 government healthcare workers and 2,533 from private facilities were registered for the vaccination drive. The District Headquarters Hospital, Thoramangalam PHC, Labbaikudikadu PHC, Kolakkanatham PHC and one private hospital conducted the dry run. It was held to identify challenges and ensure that Internet facilities, electricity and the software run smoothly, she said at the event. Pudukottai In Pudukottai district, the Government Medical College Hospital, Kovilpatti PHC, Arimalam PHC, Viralimalai Government Hospital and one private hospital conducted the dry run. A total of 7,000 beneficiaries, consisting of both private and government healthcare workers have registered so far, senior officials here said. Tiruvarur A total of 6,897 health workers in Tiruvarur district will be vaccinated first. Disclosing this after supervising the dry run exercise held at the Tiruvarur Government Medical College hospital on Friday, Collector V. Santha said vaccination of health workers would be carried out through 100 centres throughout the district. Subsequently, senior citizens would receive the dose and they would be followed by persons above 50 years of age with comorbidities. Stating that the dry run was held at five centres set up at TGMC hospital, Tiruvarur, Government hospital, Thiruthuraipoondi, Town Primary Health Centre, Mannargudi, PHC at Sangethi Idaiyur and a private hospital, she said the process was carried out as per directions from the governments and it was recorded. Thanjavur Collector M.Govinda Rao supervised the dry run at the Medical College Hospital here. A similar exercise was held at Government Hospital, Kumbakonam, PHC at Ammapettai, Government Hospital and a private hospital at Pattukottai. Karur The staff of 48 government healthcare facilities including primary healthcare centres and 405 private hospitals have registered for the drive in Karur district.The dry run was carried out at Government Medical College Hospital here, Government Hospital in Kulithalai, a Primary Health Centre at Vangal, and the Kasthuribhai Maternity Hospital and a private hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-dry-run-held-across-central-region/article33533599.ece
09 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||73 test positive for COVID-19||The central region on Friday recorded 73 fresh cases of COVID-19. It recorded no death, according to the bulletin released by the Department of Health and Family Welfare. All districts reported less than 20 fresh cases. Tiruchi reported 19 cases. Patients were isolated asymptomatic cases, senior health officials said. So, there were no major risk and active cases were stable and recuperating, they said. Four patients who had been undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital were discharged. Tiruvarur reported 15 fresh cases, Nagapattinam 11 and Thanjavur 10. Among them were local index cases and patients with symptoms of Influenza-Like Illnesses and Severe Acute Respiratory Illnesses. In Karur, nine patients tested positive. Among them were residents hailing from Gandhigramam and Thanthonrimalai. In Pudukottai, five fresh cases were reported while in Ariyalur four tested positive. In Perambalur, no fresh case was reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/73-test-positive-for-covid-19/article33533600.ece
09 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||2.62 lakh children to get polio drops||An estimated 2.62 lakh children below the age of five would be administered the oral polio vaccine during the Pulse Polio campaign in the district to be held on January 17. About 1,67,641 in rural areas and 94,716 in urban centres would be covered. Though no polio cases have been reported in the country since January 13, 2011, the campaign was being carried out under the Central government programme in association with the World Health Organisation, Collector S.Sivarasu said in a press release. The vaccination would be done through 1,569 centres in the district, including 1,279 in rural areas, 247 in Tiruchi Corporation limits, 23 in Manapparai and 20 in Thuraiyur municipal limits. The drops would be administered in all primary health centres, urban health centres and government hospitals from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. Special camps would be set up at 55 places including Srirangam, Gunaseelam, Samayapuram, Vayalur and other prominent places of worship, tourist spots, railway stations, bus stands and at the airport to administer the vaccine. The vaccination would also be given to all children travelling in trains passing through Tiruchi. Sixty-nine mobile teams would be deployed to administer the drops to children in remote areas, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/262-lakh-children-to-get-polio-drops/article33533604.ece
09 January 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||He takes to the cloud to guide farmers on organic farming||There are people who follow their passion, and then there are those who are passionate about disseminating their knowledge for the benefit of others, spending their own time and resources generously. Organic farmer Mahendra M. Manivaasan falls under both categories. His love for organic farming began during a village stay, as an undergraduate student of agriculture, about two decades ago. Ever since, his passion has grown stronger, making him a strong proponent of organic farming. Not even the pandemic could stop him from reaching out to farmers. For the 41-year-old, residing in Kurumbalur, Perambalur district, the lockdown was just a practical challenge, similar to any other in his field. He quickly found a way around, tapping into technology to continue his advocacy virtually. For more than eight months now, Mr. Manivaasan, the managing director of a farmers’ producers’ company, WEFSA (an acronym signifying the five elements of Nature — water, earth, fire, sky and air), and advisor on organic agriculture to a dozen other FPOs, has been hosting virtual farm meets, through a cloud-based video communication app, almost every day. He hit upon the idea after his weekly radio programmes, ‘ Unnaal Mudiyum Thozha ,’ on All India Radio, Tiruchi, and Coimbatore, based on field visits, had to be suspended for some time due to the pandemic. Regular listeners started missing it and soon he hit upon the idea of going online. “Whatever I did through the radio, I was able to do online. I even added video demonstrations. The response has been very good,” he said. Since April 14 last year, Mr. Manivaasan has done over 220 such virtual meets, christened ‘ Velaan Muttram ,’ covering a range of topics such as soil enrichment and seed selection and treatment. “Typically, the one-hour programmes feature a talk by a special invitee or a progressive farmer who shares their experiences and best practices, followed by an interaction for 20 minutes when participants clarify doubts. On average, about 70 farmers from the State participate in every programme, which starts at 7 p.m. As soon as the meetings are over, the videos are uploaded on YouTube too. They have been watched by over 75,000 people so far,” he said. The topics are usually identified based on seasonal crops/issues and are circulated, in advance, through social media. “At times, the topics are based on farmers’ requests — they seek discussions on specific problems,” he said. He spends two to three hours, every day, for preparation — making slides, presentations and videos or referring to literature and text, taking inputs from scientists and successful farmers to provide “authentic information.” Mr. Manivaasan also follows up on the interactions, visiting fields of farmers who seek his advice. A not-for-profit company run by him, VFarm Organic Foundation, metes out the expenditure incurred for his programmes. “We spend about Rs. 30,000 a month, including on the salaries of a couple of staff who help me,” he said. A Governor-nominated board member of the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, Mr. Manivaasan said farmers too were adapting well to the online medium. Mr. Manivaasan, who is currently pursuing his doctoral research in the management of pests and diseases using organic inputs, also runs his own company, VFarm Plant Sciences Pvt Ltd., which manufactures organic farm inputs such as humic acid. He has undergone a leadership course at the International Federation of Organic Agriculture Movements, Germany, and is also an advisor to the Malaysian government. Though he concedes there is scepticism over organic farming, he believes it is the way ahead for sustainable agriculture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/he-takes-to-the-cloud-to-guide-farmers-on-organic-farming/article33533621.ece
09 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Pension Adalat on January 28||The Department of Posts will conduct a Pension Adalat at 11 a.m. on January 28 when grievances relating to delay or non-settlement of pension of retired officials of the Department of Posts and receipt of pension and family pension through post offices by retired officials of other departments such as railways will be taken up. Only those cases that were taken up with divisions or units and where the complainant or pensioner was not satisfied with the response from the divisional level can be brought to both adalats. No fresh cases will be entertained. Grievances should be sent by ordinary or registered posts to Shantha Kumaravelu, Senior Accounts Officer, Office of the Postmaster General, Central Region, Tiruchi-620001 before January 20, says a press release. Grievances should be sent only through ordinary, registered or Speed Post. Complaints sent through private couriers will not be accepted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pension-adalat-on-january-28/article33533607.ece
09 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Convicts harvest sugarcane||Inmates of the Tiruchi Central Prison on Friday harvested sugarcane raised on two acres as part of farming activities taken up within the prison campus. The initiative to grow fully organic edible variety of sugarcane (senkarumbu) has been under way for a few years and was expanded to a large area this time around with vegetables such as eggplant, radish, beans, chickpeas, pumpkin, okra and fruits like mango, banana, guava. Two acres were allotted for sugarcane and the work began in March, senior officials said. Twenty inmates took up the work. The sugarcane will be sold at the prison market where vegetables, fruits and greens harvested here are sold to the public at nominal prices. Harvest of the sugarcane began on Friday and would be completed in a couple of days. After sales to the public or to wholesalers, some sugarcane would be reserved for inmates to eat during the special Pongal lunch served on the festival. With adequate rainfall in the district this year, the four wells in the farming grounds have enough water for the cultivation of the crops, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/convicts-harvest-sugarcane/article33533593.ece
09 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Ponneri brimming with water||The Ponneri tank at Kuruvalapparkoil in Udayarpalayam taluk in Ariyalur district, one of the biggest ones, has reached its full capacity thanks to rain during this month. With a storage capacity of 114.46 million cubic feet (mcft), it is said to have been dug by Rajendra Chola over a 1000 years ago and it was originally known as Cholagangam, according to Public Works Department officials. This is the third consecutive year that the tank has reached its full capacity. It has an ayacut of about 1,370 acres in Pichanur, Kuruvalapparkoil, Elayaperumalnallur, Gangaikondacholapuram, Ulkotttai and Ayuthakalam villages in Udayarpalayam taluk. The tank’s storage depth is 5.20 metres at full level and its bund runs a length of 4,800 metres. Its catchment area is spread over about 168 square kilometre. PWD officials said the surplus waters from Ponneri will flow into Valavan tank and Vadava channel before running into the Veeranam lake. Although the recent rain has caused inundation of fields in some places in Andimadam and Jayamkondam blocks, the filling up of the Ponneri would help farmers and local residents to tide over summer without much problem with respect to availability of water for drinking and other purposes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ponneri-brimming-with-water/article33533606.ece
09 January 2021||Tiruchi/Salem,TAMIL NADU||Vice-Chancellors of two varsities get extensions after tenure||In an unusual development, the Vice-Chancellors of Bharathidasan University in Tiruchi and Periyar University in Salem were on Thursday granted extensions in service “until further orders”, after their tenure ended. Bharathidasan University V-C P. Manisankar received the extension order hours after handing over the charge to the Convener Committee, headed by Higher Education Secretary Apporva. Mr. Manisankar, after attending to official work on his last day as the V-C, returned to his residence in Karaikudi in the evening. It was only after reaching his residence that he received an official communication from the Governor’s office stating that his tenure had been extended until further orders. Mr. Manisankar said that he would return to the University on Friday to discharge his duties as V-C.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vice-chancellors-of-two-varsities-get-extensions-after-tenure/article33534443.ece
09 January 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 vaccination dry run conducted for the second time||Following the first dry run conducted on January 2, the second dry run for administering the COVID-19 vaccine was conducted at five places across the district on Friday. After conducting the dry run at the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital, Urban Primary Health Centre at Samathanapuram and the Primary Health Centre at Reddiyarpatti in the first phase on January 2 to identify possible challenges or practical difficulties involved in the vaccination of frontline health workers, the second phase dry run was conducted at five places in the district on Friday. Moreover, the dry run was conducted with the objective of preparing the medical team involved in the exercise for possible adverse reactions to the vaccine. In Tirunelveli city, the dry run was conducted at two places – Urban Primary Health Centres at Mela Veeraraghavapuram and Peace Health Centre, a private hospital on the South Bypass Road near the Vaeinthaankulam new bus-stand, and three places in rural Tirunelveli – Primary Health Centres at Kallidaikurichi, Munanjipatti and the Government Hospital at Koodankulam. As per the plan, 25 persons for every two hours with the maximum of 100 persons per centre per day would be vaccinated. In the first phase, the frontline health workers fighting against the dreaded viral infection since March last would be vaccinated and other officials involved in the work – personnel from police and revenue departments – would receive the dose in the second phase. In the third phase, senior citizens above the age of 60 and those who are suffering from ailments for long would get it. The public would receive the vaccine in the fourth and the final phase. In Thoothukudi, the dry run was conducted at Government Medical College Hospital in the presence of Deputy Director of Health Services Krishna Leela, Dean, Thoothukudi Government Medical College Hospital Revathi Balan, Resident Medical Officer Silas Jayamani and others. The dry run was also conducted in nine more places - Tiruchendur Government Hospital, Upgraded Primary Health Centre, Pudukottai, Urban Primary Health Centre, Mullakkaadu, Arputhuam Hospital, Thoothukudi, all coming under Thoothukudi Health Unit District and Government Hospital, Kovilpatti, Upgraded Primary Health Centre, Keezha Eeraal, Upgraded Primary Health Centre, Pudur, Urban Primary Health Centre at Sri Ram Nagar, Kamala Mariammal Hospital, all under Kovilpatti Health Unit District. In Tenkasi district, the dry run was conducted at five places – Government Hospital, Tenkasi, Government Hospital, Shencottai, Urban Primary Health Centre, Tenkasi, Upgraded Primary Health Centre, Chokkampatti and Shanthi Hospital, Tenkasi. District Collector G.S. Sameeran monitored the dry run conducted at Tenkasi Government Hospital. In Kanniyakumari district, the dry run was conducted at Government Medical College Hospital, Aasaaripallam, Padmanabhapuram Government Hospital, Shenbagaramanpudhur Primary Health Centre, Vattavilai Urban Primary Health Centre and Dr. Jayasekaran Hospital in Nagercoil. District Collector M. Aravind participated in the dry run conducted at Vattavilai Urban Primary Health Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-vaccination-dry-run-conducted-for-the-second-time/article33534439.ece
09 January 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||‘In south, communalism will not work as political mobilisation strategy’||Highlighting the harmonious relationships between the different indigenous groups of the Nilgiris, N. Ram, Director, The Hindu Group of Publications, said such unity proved that communalism would not work as a political mobilisation strategy in south India. At an event to release the special calendar on ‘Indigenous Badagars of the Nilgiris’ organised by the Nilgiri Documentation Centre (NDC) in Udhagamandalam on Friday, Mr. Ram said there were many “attractive features in the social life of the Badagas,” including basic equality between men and women in the community and the fact that there was no dowry system. Stating that communalism was being used by Hindutva groups as a political mobilisation strategy in other parts of India, Mr. Ram said there was no chance for such ideologies to take root in southern India. “The Badagas have had good relationships with other communities who live in the district, such as the Todas and the Kotas,” he said. Nilgiris MP, A. Raja, who was another special guest at the event, said the Badagas of the district had had progressive laws within their communities for hundreds of years prior to the introduction of Anglo-Saxon jurisprudence in India. “When Babasaheb Ambedkar tried to introduce the Hindu Code in the 1950s, he was defeated in his efforts to ensure that women had the right to divorce, right to adopt and the right to inherit. However, the Badagas have had these progressive laws in their community for thousands of years,” said Mr. Raja, who spoke of the “uniqueness” of the Dravidian family of languages, and quoted C.N. Annadurai’s maiden speech in the Rajya Sabha in 1962. “I belong to the Dravidian stock. I am proud to call myself a Dravidian. That does not mean that I am against a Bengali or a Maharashtrian or a Gujarati…I say that I belong to the Dravidian stock and that is only because I consider that the Dravidians have got something concrete, something distinct, something different to offer to the nation at large,” he said quoting Mr. Annadurai. Venugopal Dharmalingam, honorary director of the NDC, spoke of the history of the Badagas as well as of John Sullivan, considered to be the founder of the modern Nilgiris. “The Badagas have been vilified by claims over the last 200 years that we are from Mysore. The NDC has been working for many decades to dispel these false claims and misconceptions,” said Mr. Dharmalingam. He also added that the NDC had played a vital role in highlighting the contributions of the colonial administrators of the district, such as John Sullivan, and W.G. McIvor, the founder of the Government Botanical Garden in Udhagamandalam. Mr. Dharmalingam said the Badagas had been demanding that they be included among the list of Scheduled Tribe communities in Tamil Nadu, and said the community had been added to the United Nations’ International Mountain Partnership, which would help in the protection of the Nilgiris and support their claims for inclusion into the list of Scheduled Tribe communities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/unity-among-nilgiris-communities-proves-communalism-will-not-work-as-political-mobilisation-strategy-n-ram/article33533658.ece
09 January 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Unity among Nilgiris communities proves communalism will not work as political mobilisation strategy: N. Ram||Highlighting the harmonious relationships between the different indigenous groups of the Nilgiris, N. Ram, Director, The Hindu Group of Publications, said such unity proved that communalism would not work as a political mobilisation strategy in south India. At an event to release the special calendar on ‘Indigenous Badagars of the Nilgiris’ organised by the Nilgiri Documentation Centre (NDC) in Udhagamandalam on Friday, Mr. Ram said there were many “attractive features in the social life of the Badagas,” including basic equality between men and women in the community and the fact that there was no dowry system. Stating that communalism was being used by Hindutva groups as a political mobilisation strategy in other parts of India, Mr. Ram said there was no chance for such ideologies to take root in southern India. “The Badagas have had good relationships with other communities who live in the district, such as the Todas and the Kotas,” he said. The Nilgiris MP, A. Raja, who was another special guest at the event, said the Badagas of the district had had progressive laws within their communities for hundreds of years prior to the introduction of Anglo-Saxon jurisprudence in India. “When Babasaheb Ambedkar tried to introduce the Hindu Code in the 1950s, he was defeated in his efforts to ensure that women had the right to divorce, right to adopt and the right to inherit. However, the Badagas have had these progressive laws in their community for thousands of years,” said Mr. Raja, who spoke of the “uniqueness” of the Dravidian family of languages, and quoted C.N. Annadurai’s maiden speech in the Rajya Sabha in 1962. “I belong to the Dravidian stock. I am proud to call myself a Dravidian. That does not mean that I am against a Bengali or a Maharashtrian or a Gujarati…I say that I belong to the Dravidian stock and that is only because I consider that the Dravidians have got something concrete, something distinct, something different to offer to the nation at large,” he said quoting Mr. Annadurai. Venugopal Dharmalingam, honorary director of the NDC, spoke of the history of the Badagas as well as of John Sullivan, considered to be the founder of the modern Nilgiris. “The Badagas have been vilified by claims over the last 200 years that we are from Mysore. The NDC has been working for many decades to dispel these false claims and misconceptions,” said Mr. Dharmalingam. He also added that the NDC had played a vital role in highlighting the contributions of the colonial administrators of the district, such as John Sullivan, and W.G. McIvor, the founder of the Government Botanical Garden in Udhagamandalam. Mr. Dharmalingam said the Badagas had been demanding that they be included among the list of Scheduled Tribe communities in Tamil Nadu. The community had been added to the United Nations’ International Mountain Partnership, which would help in the protection of the Nilgiris and support their claims for inclusion in the list of Scheduled Tribe communities, Mr. Dharmalingam added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/unity-among-nilgiris-communities-proves-communalism-will-not-work-as-political-mobilisation-strategy-n-ram/article33534209.ece
09 January 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Police return lost bag with Rs. 2.2 lakh to owner||Personnel from the G-1 Town West Police Station in Udhagamandalam found and returned Rs. 2.27 lakh cash that was misplaced by a 75-year-old man at the Ooty Bus Stand on Thursday evening. Police said that B. Nanjan, a resident of Summerdale near Udhagamandalam, had withdrawn Rs. 2.27 lakh from his Provident Fund and pension to pay for his grandson’s medical treatment. He then misplaced the money at the Ooty Bus Stand on Thursday. A woman police constable, Ajeetha Kumar, along with Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation officials, found the bag with money. They then contacted other police personnel from the Town West Police Station, who took the money into their possession for safekeeping. They then managed to track down Nanjan. He was asked to come to Udhagamandalam town to collect the money. Police personnel learned that Mr. Nanjan had consumed alcohol prior to misplacing the bag. They advised him to be more careful and handed over the money to him in the presence of his family members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-return-lost-bag-with-rs-22-lakh-to-owner/article33534217.ece
09 January 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Dry run held in Vellore, neighbouring districts||To assess the preparedness before the actual roll-out of the COVID-19 vaccine, a dry run was conducted in Vellore, Tirupathur, Ranipet and Tiruvannamalai districts on Friday morning. Collectors of the respective districts inspected the arrangements. The COVID-19 dry run was conducted at 17 sites in five districts on January 2. According to officials from the health department, all health workers, including those in the private sector, have registered in the CoWIN portal. “The dry run is to ensure the smooth implementation of the actual vaccination process once the vaccine arrives. Each person will get two doses. Those who registered in the portal will get a message about when and which centre to go for getting vaccinated. The vaccinator will also get the intimation about the people who will be visiting the centre,” said P. Sumathi, COVID-19 Nodal Officer, Tirupathur district. On Friday, the officials checked the efficacy of the process. In Vellore, Tirupathur and Ranipet districts, five centres were set up for the dry run and in Tiruvannamalai there were nine. “Each centre had selected 25 beneficiaries for the rehearsal. We checked the design of the rooms meant for waiting, vaccination and observation. The entry and exit are separate,” said A. Kanmani, medical officer, Sathuvacheri Urban Primary Health Centre. She said that after the vaccination, the beneficiary would be monitored for any symptoms or complications. “If there are any, we will provide the necessary treatment or else they can go,” added Dr. Kamini. Vellore Collector A. Shanmuga Sundaram said that 50 centres would be set up in the district for vaccination and each of them would cover 100 persons a day. “On Friday morning, I checked if the necessary resources are available for the vaccination project. Priority will be for health workers, then for people aged above 60 and then for persons with co-morbidities,” he said. Tiruvannamalai Collector Sandeep Nanduri said he inspected the dry run process and cold storage facilities meant for storing the vaccine. “The database of healthcare workers is ready,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dry-run-held-in-vellore-neighbouring-districts/article33534448.ece
09 January 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||27 new cases reported in Vellore||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 20,396 with 27 new cases being reported on Friday. While a total of 19,870 have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 185. The district's death toll is 341. In Ranipet district, 13 cases were reported positive taking the total to 15,994. In Tirupathur district, the total number of positive cases stood at 7,499 with eight new cases on Friday. In Tiruvannamalai district, 9 new cases were reported, taking the tally to 19,231. Out of this, 18,865 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 83.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/27-new-cases-reported-in-vellore/article33534377.ece
09 January 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||27 new cases reported in Vellore||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 20,396 with 27 new cases reported on Friday. While a total of 19,870 have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 185. The district's death toll is 341. In Ranipet district, 13 cases were reported positive taking the total to 15,994. In Tirupathur district, the total number of positive cases stood at 7,499 with eight new cases on Friday. In Tiruvannamalai district, 9 new cases were reported, taking the tally to 19,231. Out of this, 18,865 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 83.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/27-new-cases-reported-in-vellore/article33534446.ece
09 January 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Dry run of COVID-19 vaccination held in Virudhunagar||Dry run of COVID-19 vaccination was held at 10 health facilities, including two private hospitals, in Virudhunagar district on Friday. Virudhunagar Collector R. Kannan, inspected the arrangements made for the dry run that was conducted to ensure physical distancing and provision of facilities like waiting hall, hall for verification of personal details, identification of beneficiaries and injection room. “A facility where vaccinated people would be kept for 20 minutes under observation by a medical team was also be set up,” said Joint Director of Medical Services, R. Manoharan. This was done to study the preparedness put in place at the facilities to scan people for fever and also check with pulse oximeter before allowing them into the hospital. Waiting hall would have adequate space for physical distancing, he added. “COVID-19 vaccination programme will not be like other vaccination programmes. The documentation needs to have 100% details of the beneficiary and this would be checked with any one of the permitted proof of identity,” he added. All the personal data of the beneficiary would be entered into the computer so that the details of the vaccinated person could be verified easily from any part of the country. The vaccinated beneficiary would be kept under observation for 20 minutes by a team of doctors. “If the beneficiary develops any health complication, he/she would be immediately taken to the nearest hospital by a waiting ambulance and vaccination would be suspended at that particular centre,” he added. “Besides, transportation and storage of the vaccination was also focused during the dry run,” Dr. Manoharan added. In the initial phase, doctors, health workers from Government and private sector, frontline staff would be vaccinated. Training has been given to the health workers on this process. Every day two sessions – one in the morning and other in the evening – would be taken up at all the identified centres. In each session, 25 persons would be vaccinated. Each person would have to spend at least 30 minutes at the vaccination centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dry-run-of-covid-19-vaccination-held-in-virudhunagar/article33533636.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Vaccine dry run held in districts||A dry run for COVID-19 vaccine administration was held at the District Headquarters Hospital and four other centres in Erorde on Friday. Collector C. Kathiravan inaugurated the trial run at the GH during which Joint Director of Health Services G. Gomathi, Deputy Director of Health Services M. Soundammal and other health officials were present. He said that trial run was conducted at Erode GH, Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai, Siruvalur Primary Health Centre, Surampatti Nagar Welfare Centre, and at Care 24 private hospital. Each centre has a five-member team, including a supervisor, a staff who verifies the beneficiary details and vaccinator, who were trained in smooth conduct of the vaccination programme. Details of all the frontline workers were entered in the CoWIN (Covid Vaccine Intelligence Work) app and SMS would be sent to them regarding the date, venue and time of vaccination. Each centre has a waiting hall, vaccination area and an observation room. Mr. Kathiravan said that vaccination was planned in four stages, first for all doctors and medical staff, second for frontline staff, third for persons over 50 years and fourth for general public. The dry run for administering COVID-19 vaccination was held at various places in Salem and Namakkal districts on Friday. In Namakkal, the dry run was held at four places, Namakkal district headquarters hospital, Namakkal Urban Primary Health Centre, Kumarapalayam Government Hospital, and Maharaja Speciality Hospital, a private facility here. A total of 25 healthcare workers whose details have been registered with the portal were selected for the dry run. District Collector K. Megraj visited Namakkal GH and reviewed the arrangements and vaccination process. Mr. Megraj told presspersons that healthcare workers would receive the vaccination in first phase. He said that about 100 persons would be vaccinated a day. The second dose of vaccination would be administered on the 28th day, from receiving the first dose. In Salem, the vaccination process was conducted at 10 places in Salem and Attur health districts. According to health officials, the dry run was held at Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital, Mettur GH, Magudanchavadi Primary Health Centre, Kumarasamipatti PHC, and Gokulam Hospital. In Attur, it was held at Thamampatti PHC, Attur PHC, Pethanaikenpalayam government hospital, and Geeth Ragunath Hospital. Salem Corporation Commissioner N. Ravichandran inspected the progress at Kumarasamipatti PHC. Health officials said the process takes about two minutes and the person would be made to wait at an observation room for half-an-hour to monitor whether there are any issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccine-dry-run-held-in-districts/article33533646.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||79 new cases, one death in Coimbatore district||The 79 new COVID-19 cases reported in Coimbatore on Friday, took the district’s overall tally to 52,978 cases. A 74-year-old woman died during treatment and the district’s toll rose to 660, the Health Department said. While 731 persons are under treatment, as many as 81 patients were discharged from various treatment centres on Friday. Tiruppur district reported 34 new cases, and the overall tally rose to 17,326. No deaths were reported in the district. As many as 16,834 persons have recovered and 272 were active cases. The district has so far reported 220 deaths. On Friday, 36 patients were discharged. The Nilgiris district reported 10 new cases on Friday. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed COVID-19 cases in the district stood at 8,031. The number of deaths so far in the district was 47. As many as 101 persons are under treatment as on Friday. Erode district reported 18 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 13,926. While 36 persons were discharged, 261 persons are under treatment. One person died, taking the toll to 146. Twenty-five persons tested positive for the disease in Salem on Friday. According to health officials, 20 cases were indigenous and five persons had returned from Namakkal. Namakkal district reported 20 cases, all indigenous. Krishnagiri district recorded eight new cases and saw 12 discharges on Friday. The total number of active cases in the district increased to 63. Dharmapuri district recorded six new cases and saw 13 discharges. The total number of active cases in the district rose to 76 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-reports-25-new-cases/article33533656.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Congress and allies launch protest seeking Bedi’s recall||Though public participation was greater than it was in 2019, the agitation was marred by the absence of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, an ally of the Congress, apparently due to its differences with the Congress leadership on various issues. The DMK had also kept away from the recent agitation in support of farmers. Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy and Ministers A. Namassivayam, M.O.H.F. Shahjahan, M. Kandasamy, R. Kamalakannan and Malladi Krishna Rao were among those who participated in the agitation. Among the other prominent leaders to take part in the protest were Puducherry MP V. Vaithilingam, Congress MLAs and leaders of the CPI, the CPI(M), the VCK, the CPI (ML) and the MDMK. All-India Congress Committee in-charge for the Union Territory Sanjay Dutt was present. Central forces have been deployed in a large number near the venue and at Raj Nivas. The roads leading to Raj Nivas were barricaded. Morning walkers were compelled to take a detour to the Promenade Beach. Meanwhile, the constituents of Secular Democratic Alliance (SDA), including the Congress, later in the evening passed a resolution urging the Centre to withdraw Central forces deployed for the agitation. ‘Panic created’ The resolution passed by the leaders at the venue of agitation said the deployment of Central forces with arms had created panic among the people. The SDA had accepted the request of the District Collector and shifted the venue of protest from Raj Nivas to the designated place. The deployment of Central forces put a question mark on the efficiency of territorial police in crowd control. The deployment of forces would lead to additional expenditure when the Union Territory was facing financial crisis, the resolution also said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/congress-allies-launch-protest-seeking-kiran-bedis-recall/article33533594.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||T.N. reverses its decision on cinema halls||However, a letter from the Union Home Ministry to the Chief Secretary, urging the State to stick by the Union government’s recommendations regarding the easing of lockdown norms, seems to have forced the State’s hand on the issue. “Keeping in mind the Centre’s recent recommendation and that a case is pending regarding this issue in the Madras High court, single-screen theatres and multiplexes inside malls will be allowed to function with 50% seating capacity. Based on the orders of the Madras High Court, theatres can screen extra shows,” the G.O. said. The G.O. further added that people frequenting theatres should adhere to precautions. R. Paneerselvam, general secretary of Tamil Nadu Film Exhibitors’ Association, said revenues would continue to go down, if theatres operate at 50% occupancy. “The permission to screen extra shows has come as a breather,” he said. He also said that a representation would be made to the State government on Monday, requesting flexi-pricing on tickets. Court intervenes Earlier in the day, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court directed that 50% seating occupancy should be maintained in theatres till January 11. The court had sought the State’s response in a batch of public interest litigation petitions challenging the G.O. [since withdrawn]. In the principal seat of the Madras High Court, Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy advised caution. The judges, in an interim order, said it was advisable to err on the side of caution and avoid being complacent by allowing 100% occupancy in theatres. Senior counsel Satish Parasaran, arguing a PIL petition challenging the government’s decision, pointed out that it was in contravention of the Centre’s advisory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-reverses-its-decision-on-cinema-halls/article33534159.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||EVMs verified||First-level verification of EVMs was conducted here by Collector Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy in the presence of representatives of political parties. The machines are being kept in safe custody at the Collectorate, Revenue Divisional Office campus, and the Agricultural Marketing and Commerce building here. There are 4,007 EVMs, 2,854 control units, and 3,200 VVPAT machines for the district as six Assembly constituencies will go to polls this summer. In order to ensure fair conduct of elections, the machines were verified. A total of 9,961 machines were verified between January 2 and 6.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/evms-verified/article33533650.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Guest of honour||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/guest-of-honour/article33534182.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Season’s harvest||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seasons-harvest/article33534191.ece
09 January 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||No confirmation about Cabinet expansion: Savadi||“There is no confirmation about Cabinet expansion after Makara Sankranti. But senior leadership will take a decision soon,” Laxman Savadi, Deputy CM and BJP leader, said in Belagavi on friday. According to him, the visit of Home Minister Amit Shah to Karnataka on January 16 and 17, was not related to the expansion. He is coming to felicitate BJP workers who have won GP polls and to encourage the cadre as part of the Jan Sevak events. CM B.S. Yediyurappa will inaugurate the Jan Sevak rally in Mysuru on January 11. Mr. Shah will participate in valedictory event on January 16 in Bengaluru. He is expected to visit Belagavi on January 17, to speak to party workers, Mr. Savadi said. He described as uninformed, the statement of Ramesh Jarkiholi, district in-charge Minister that the BJP had lost a majority of GP seats in Chikkodi, Nippani and surrounding areas. “BJP may have lost a few seats in Nippani, but not in Chikkodi, he said. We have won 75-80% seats in Chikkodi region,” the Dy.CM said. On Yuvaraj Swamy “Yuvaraj Swamy, the alleged swindler, met and wished me at my swearing-in,” Mr. Savadi said in Belagavi on Friday. “Though Swamy told others that he had worked in the BJP and RSS, he did not tell me that. Several people come to meet me as I am a legislator and Minister. Thousands come to us with garlands and take pictures and we cannot say no,” he added. “I did not know his character then. If I did, I would not have met him. Though he has claimed before others that he knows some leaders in the BJP due to his work, he did not make such claims before me. In fact, he has not claimed his alleged BJP RSS links before BJP members like us. He has claimed those links before his victims who he has allegedly cheated,” Mr Savadi said. To a question he replied that there was no clear information about the complaint that a leader from Belagavi had given money to Swamy for the BJP ticket. “That is all hearsay. Has any investigation officer confirmed this? Truth will come out only after a detailed inquiry,” he said. Bengaluru CCB police have arrested Swamy on charges of defrauding and swindling money from influential persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-confirmation-about-cabinet-expansion-savadi/article33533670.ece
09 January 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Handloom expo opens||Sheetal Prakash Chilami, president, Rotary Club of Darpan, inaugurated the Exhibition cum Sale of Handlooms and Handicrafts by Prayatna at Mahesh Foundation in Belagavi on Friday. The exhibition will help local weavers. She urged women to be self-reliant. Madhu Jadhav, founder of Prayatna, spoke of projects that would help targeted communities. It has been organised to support the education of the children of Mahesh Foundation and women weavers and will continue till January 12.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/handloom-expo-opens/article33533678.ece
09 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Suburban rail to KIA not in Phase I||While sanctioning the suburban rail project, the Central government had directed that the KSR Bengaluru to Devanahalli line, which links Kempegowda International Airport, be prioritised and completed in three years. However, the plans have now been altered. Instead of taking up work on the airport line, the Rail Infrastructure Development Company (Karnataka) Limited (K-RIDE) has decided to start with the Baiyappanahalli-Chikkabanavara and Heelalige-Rajankunte lines in the first phase of implementing the suburban rail project. K-RIDE Managing Director Amit Garg told The Hindu that as per directions from the government, the 25-km line from Baiyappanahalli to Chikkabanavara (corridor 2) and the 46-km line from Heelalige to Rajankunte(corridor 4) have been considered for construction in the first phase. “The notification for acquiring the land will be issued in less than a fortnight. For the entire project, we need 102 acres of private land. The sanctioned amount for land acquisition is Rs. 1,470 crore. Tender for the project will be issued in two to three months.” When asked why the Devanahalli line will not be taken in the first phase, he said, “There is no specific reason.” While sanctioning the 148-km suburban rail project, the Union government had directed the K-RIDE to ‘prioritise’ KSR Bengaluru-Devanahalli via Yeshwantpur and Yelahanka, with a total length of 41 km. “Work on corridor 1 [KSR Bengaluru to Devanahalli] will be taken take up after corridors 2 and 4,” Mr. Garg added. The official maintained that the agency is working in “full swing” to implement the project. “We have a staff strength of 55 people that includes engineering staff. The process of filling the rest of the vacancies is ongoing,” he said. The third planned corridor from Kengeri to Whitefield has a length of 35.5 km. It was on January 4 that South Western Railways had introduced a local train service to Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) by utilising the newly built halt station near the airport. Rail activists feel that a suburban rail on the corridor will provide better infrastructure and help not just air passengers but also people living on the outskirts of the city. The total cost of the suburban rail project is Rs. 15,767 crore. The Central and the State governments will each bear 20% of the cost and the rest will be borrowed from financial institutions. In November, the State government gave approval to borrow Rs. 7,438 crore for the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/suburban-rail-to-kia-not-in-phase-i/article33534146.ece
09 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Over 1,800 small, medium projects to be merged into fewer heads||Following the Centre’s model, the State government has decided to merge 1,863 projects/schemes into fewer numbers to ensure higher allocation of funds, effective implementation, and utilisation of manpower. Addressing mediapersons after a meeting of the State Planning Board presided over by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa here on Friday, Principal Secretary, Planning, Programme Monitoring and Statistics Department, Shalini Rajneesh said the Centre had merged several programmes and projects into 18 major programmes. The State too has decided to adopt a “convergence approach” and merge over 1,800 programmes. Ms. Rajneesh said there were 368 projects, each costing less than Rs. 1 crore (19.7%), 616 projects costing between Rs. 1 crore and Rs. 10 crore (33.06%), 612 projects costing between Rs. 10 crore and Rs. 100 crore (32.85%), and 267 projects costing more than Rs. 100 crore (14.33%). All these small and medium programmes would be merged under some major heads, she said. Some departments have multiple projects with the same objective of social welfare and all these projects would be merged into a fewer numbers to ensure proper allocation of funds and better implementation and use of manpower, she said. To be renamed Planning Board Deputy Chairman B.J. Puttaswamy said the Chief Minister, who is the Chairman of the board, had given approval for renaming the board as ‘Karnataka State Policy and Planning Commission’. On the lines of Niti Aayog, the State would set up a Development Monitoring and Evaluation Office, he said. Noting some poor development indicators in some districts/taluks, the Deputy Chairman said that more allocations would be made to these backward districts/taluks based on outcomes under development schemes. He said Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) Outreach Centres would be established in universities to achieve SDG of the U.N. by 2030. Skill development, development of planning, and schools at gram panchayat level would be given more attention in the coming days, Mr. Puttaswamy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/over-1800-small-medium-projects-to-be-merged-into-fewer-heads/article33533826.ece
09 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Entry fee rule on M-sand and more struck down||The High Court of Karnataka has struck down the new rule enacted to collect Rs. 70 per tonne from persons who transport processed building stone materials such as aggregates or jelly, size stones, boulders, M-sand, and other varieties from other States with a valid permit. The court held that under neither Section 15 nor Section 23-C of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act of 1957 was power vested on the State government to make up rules for regulating the entry and to levy fee on entry of lawfully excavated minerals from other States. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty delivered the verdict striking down the Rules 42(7) of the Karnataka Minor Mineral Concession (Amendment) Rules, 2020, which came into force from June 30 last year. Sri Sai Keshava Enterprises and 37 others, who are engaged in the business of stone crushing and manufacture of M-sand in Krishnagiri district of Tamil Nadu, the Karnataka Tipper Lorry Owners’ Association, and others had questioned the legality of the rule. The Bench observed that the State government did not have authority under Section 23C of the 1957 Act to make rules for the regulation of transport of legally excavated minerals from other States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/entry-fee-rule-on-m-sand-and-more-struck-down/article33533681.ece
09 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Horticulture fair from February 8-12||This year’s edition of National Horticulture Fair of Indian Institute of Horticultural Research (IIHR) will held in Bengaluru from February 8 to 12, in both physical and virtual formats. Though the Mela had registered nearly one lakh footfall last year, turning out to be the country’s biggest horticultural fair, the IIHR has decided to restrict the number of visitors to the physical version of this year’s fair to 30,000 in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. To compensate for this, measures are being taken to attract nearly 25 lakh visitors to the virtual edition. The physical entry would be mostly confined to farmers from Karnataka and neighbouring States, with prior registration. Pointing out that the theme of this year’s fair is “Horticulture: For start-up and stand-up India”, IIHR Director M.R. Dinesh explained that the main intention is to turn horticulture into a business enterprise in a bid to increase the income of farmers. He said the proposed fair would try to cater to the needs of aspirational youth, who had shown keen interest in farming since COVID-19 days, by showcasing the latest and cutting edge technologies. 216 technologies The fair, being organised in collaboration with various agencies, would involve all the Krishi Vigyan Kendras of the country, he said. The event’s organising secretary and Principal Scientist Dr. M.V. Dhananjaya said 216 technologies developed by the IIHR would be showcased during the fair. Various NGOs and FPOs were being involved in the fair, which would have about 100 stalls, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/horticulture-fair-from-february-8-12/article33534141.ece
09 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Police stations, depts. have become extensions of BJP offices: Congress||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D.K. Shivakumar on Friday alleged that police stations and government departments in the State had become “extensions of BJP offices” and accused the police of filing false cases against party workers. The State Congress held a Bengaluru divisional-level party meeting here to chalk out its future struggles and protests against the “anti-people policies” pursued by Union and State governments. False cases Speaking to mediapersons after the daylong meeting with office-bearers of blocks and district Congress committees and frontline outfits of the party, Mr. Shivakumar alleged that the police had been filing false cases against party workers and threatening them with dire consequences if they declined to join or support the ruling BJP. The party had decided to stage protests in front of police stations to take action on the party lines, he said. He said the State government had withdrawn some of the social welfare programmes launched by the erstwhile Congress governments led by Siddaramaiah and later the JD(S)–Congress coalition government. Party workers had been told to launch protests against the departments seeking restoration of such schemes, he said. Stating that the party should represent the voice of the people and the KPCC president should represent the voice of the block Congress committee presidents, Mr. Shivakumar said booth-level, ward-level, and gram panchayat-level committees would be formed soon to transform the Congress into a cadre-based party. The KPCC chief said Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah and other party leaders would tour 100 to 150 Assembly constituencies this year to establish connectivity with party workers and voters. The objective of these divisional meetings were to hear the grievances of the common people against the State and Union governments, Mr. Shivakumar said.The Union government had announced a Rs. 20 lakh crore package to people affected by COVID-19 and lockdown. But a majority of the people in unorganised sectors had not benefited from the package, he alleged. During the pandemic, the government instead of helping the poor levied more taxes and burdened the common man. Taxpayers’ money had been looted by the State government by procuring medical equipment at a higher price during the pandemic, the Congress leader alleged. The Belagavi divisional-level meeting would be held in Hubballi on January 11 and the Kalaburagi division party meeting would be held on January 18, he said. The party held the Mysusu divisional-level meeting in Bantwal in Dakshina Kannada on January 7.  Siddaramaiah and other party leaders will tour 100 to 150 Assembly constituencies this year to establish connectivity with party workers and voters. D.K. Shivakumar,KPCC president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-stations-depts-have-become-extensions-of-bjp-offices-congress/article33533824.ece
09 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Ensure students get benefit of talking laptop scheme: HC||The High Court of Karnataka on Friday directed the State government to device a mechanism to ensure that eligible visually challenged students get the benefit of the scheme of distributing talking laptops as per the scheme launched in 2014. Observing that there is no proper mechanism to inform about the existence of the scheme of distributing talking laptops to students of class 10 and pre-university course, the court said a comprehensive mechanism involving block education officers, authorities of schools and pre-university colleges, and other government officials was required to be put in place to ensure that students get the benefit of the scheme. Lack of information A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Sachin Sankar Magadum issued the direction during the hearing of a PIL petition filed by Umapathi S., a city-based advocate. Referring to data of the scheme submitted by the government, the Bench observed that budgetary allocation as well as the number of students given talking laptops were on the decline since 2015. This was because of lack of information about the existence of such a scheme among parents and students, the Bench observed. The petitioner had contended that there was no proper implementation of the scheme as no talking laptops were distributed in 2018–19 and 2019–20 despite budgetary allocation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ensure-students-get-benefit-of-talking-laptop-scheme-hc/article33533821.ece
09 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Road widening: HC sets deadline to issue TDR||The Karnataka High Court on Thursday set February 15 as deadline for the State government to file a report on compliance of directions issued by the Supreme Court and HC for granting Transfer of Development Right (TDR) certificates to eligible persons to use land of the Bangalore Palace Grounds for widening Ballari and Jayamahal roads. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum issued the direction while hearing a PIL petition by Samarpana, a cultural and social service organisation. The petitioner had sought direction for widening Ramana Maharshi Road (commonly known as Ballari Road) as per clearance given by the apex court in 2014. The government produced before the court a decision taken on July 17, 2019 permitting the BBMP to take over 64,653 sq.m. of Palace Grounds for widening of these roads as per the TDR rules existing in July 2019. However, the Bench pointed out that grant of TDR certificates should be as per the rules existing when the Supreme Court permitted grant of TDR certificates in 2014 and as noted by the HC in its September 2016 order indicating that TDR certificates should based on the then existing rules. The High Court in 2016 had said that the TDR rule should of the then existing ones in response to government’s statement it had not yet given TDR certificates despite taking permission from the apex court way back in 2014 as it was contemplating to revise the TDR rules and zoning areas. Meanwhile, the government informed the Bench that it had on March 4, 2020, granted permission for the BBMP to accept the bid of a company, which had agreed to widen the Jayamahal Road between Mekhri junction underpass and Jayamahal Hotel, and Ballari Road stretch between BDA junction and Mekhri junction underpass at cost of around Rs. 52.8 cr.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/road-widening-hc-sets-deadline-to-issue-tdr/article33534131.ece
09 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Seed portal clocks Rs. 45L in four months||The Indian Institute of Horticultural Research (IIHR), which has launched the country’s first ever seed portal by a public sector unit, has recorded a turnover of Rs. 45 lakh in just four months. IIHR Director Dr. M.R. Dinesh said the seeds had been sold to farmers in 23 States of the country. Seeds of about 60 crop varieties are available through the seed portal. IIHR has now set a target of more than doubling the quantum of its seed sales from the present 20 tonnes a year to 50 tonnes, Dr. Dinesh explained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/seed-portal-clocks-rs-45l-in-four-months/article33534142.ece
09 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Sandalwood thieves held||The police have arrested a gang of sandalwood thieves and cracked a recent case of two trees being felled and wood being smuggled out of a farm in Channasandra. A total of 175 kg of sandalwood, valued at Rs. 9.75 lakh, have been recovered. The accused are Rajesh, Lokesh, Govindaraj, and Ravi, all in their late twenties. The police have also recovered multiple saws and other tools the gang allegedly used to fell the trees. The police are now interrogating the gang on their possible involvement in other cases of sandalwood theft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sandalwood-thieves-held/article33534154.ece
09 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||A push to fisheries sector||The State government has decided to give a push to ‘Make in India’ in the fisheries sector and has appealed to industrialists to manufacture mechanised boats, engines, fishnets, deep sea fishing equipment, and establish freezing plants by using the Centre’s fund, amounting Rs. 3,000 crore to Rs. 4,000 crore, inthe next five years. Under the Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana, Karnataka is expected to avail Rs. 3,000 crore to Rs. 4,000 crore during the next five years, Minister for Fisheries, Ports and Inland Transport Kota Srinivas Poojary told presspersons on Friday. Mr. Poojary held a meeting with industrialists, experts, and senior officials of the department and suggested that industrialists and fishermen come out with plans to manufacture boats and other fishing-related equipment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-push-to-fisheries-sector/article33533682.ece
09 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Disruption on Green Line on account of repair work||To facilitate structural repair work on the Green Line, metro train services will be suspended from 7 a.m. to 9 a.m. on Sunday between National College and Yelachenahalli metro stations. Train services will run in the rest of the line from National College to Nagasandra metro stations. In a release issued on Friday, BMRCL stated that services will be restored on the entire line once the repairs are completed. “Services on Purple Line will run as scheduled,” stated the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/disruption-on-green-line-on-account-of-repair-work/article33534144.ece
09 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘522 para-legal volunteers inspected COVID care centres’||A team of 522 para-legal volunteers, along with 257 advocates on the panel of the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority (KSLSA), inspected COVID-19 Care Centres across the State during the pandemic to ensure proper facilities were provided. Elaborating its activities duringthe pandemic, the KSLSA, in a press released issued here on Friday, said it had assisted in speedy disbursement of about Rs. 58.69 crore from the government’s COVID-19 compensation scheme to the accounts of washermen and hairdressers through direct debit transfer in five stages. A panel, headed by A.V. Chandrashekar, a retired judge of the High Court of Karnataka, which was set up to undertake the task of providing legal assistance to workers in the unorganised sector, had issued direction to the government departments concerned to act swiftly to ensure that benefits of the schemes announced during the pandemic reached the needy at the earliest, the release added. Among the other activities, the KSLSA said that a panel headed by a retired judge on subjects of legal services to senior citizens had asked the Director-General and Inspector-General of Police to comply with the provisions of the Karnataka Maintenance of Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Rules, 2009. A mega e-Lok Adalat was conducted in September and a mega Lok Adalat was conducted in December.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/522-para-legal-volunteers-inspected-covid-care-centres/article33533822.ece
09 January 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Founder’s Day celebrated||REVA University celebrated ‘Founder’s Day’ on its campus on Wednesday. The event was held to commemorate the birthday of P. Shyama Raju, Chancellor, REVA University. On the occasion, the REVA Lifetime Achievement Award 2020 was conferred upon R. Sundaram, chairman and MD of Sundaram Architects, Bengaluru. Actor Sudha Rani and scientist P. Visweswara Rao were presented with the REVA Excellence Award 2020. According to a release, the REVA Lifetime Achievement Award 2020 was accepted by Shalini Sundaram, director (Designs), Sundaram Architects, on behalf of Mr. Sundaram, her father. Ms. Rani, accepting the REVA Excellence Award 2020, said such awards were a motivation for women to do good work. She shared the key learnings that helped her career growth. “Never compare your journey with others and don’t try to compete based on comparisons. Also, never be judgemental about others and their journey, and never approach anything in life with preconceived notions,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/founders-day-celebrated/article33534147.ece
09 January 2021||bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Science Club session||The Jawaharlal Nehru Planetarium in the city will organise a Science Club session on science communication through visualisation on Sunday. The session will be held from 4 p.m. to 5.30 p.m. on the planetarium’s premises on Sri T. Chowdaiah Road, High Grounds. Entry is free. For more details, visit www.taralaya.org.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/science-club-session/article33534150.ece
09 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Applications invited||The Department of Posts, Karnataka Postal Circle, has invited applications for filling 2,443 posts of Gramin Dak Sevak, out of which 15 Dak Sevak posts belong to the Bengaluru General Post Office. Candidates aged between 18 and 40 with a minimum qualification of SSLC are eligible. Those interested may register onhttp://appost.in/gdsonline. For details, call 080-23392599 or mail torectt.karbg@indiapost.gov.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/applications-invited/article33533820.ece
09 January 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||KHDC seeks land in Tirupati||Karnataka Handicrafts Development Corporation (KHDC) Chairman Belur Raghavendra Shetty on Friday asked the Department of Muzrai and Endowment to allot 10,000 sq.ft. of land for the proposed Cauvery showroom in Tirupati. He met Minister for Muzrai Kota Srinivasa Poojari in this regard and the latter assured him of allotment of space. Further, the release said that Dr. Shetty would meet Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to discuss sanctioning of funds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/khdc-seeks-land-in-tirupati/article33534132.ece
09 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Youth killed in hit-and-run case||A youth was killed when a lorry rammed into his motorcycle near Outer Ring Road on Thursday night. The lorry driver sped away, sources said. The deceased, Janardhan Reddy, 25, was from Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/youth-killed-in-hit-and-run-case/article33534138.ece
09 January 2021||Benglauru,KARNATAKA||High-quality onions flood the markets||After a severe shortage for over three months, fresh stock of onions have flooded markets in the city, bringing a price correction, much to the relief of households and hoteliers. The wholesale price of onions that had reached Rs. 90 a kg over the last two months, is now down to Rs. 30 a kg, said Ravi Kumar from the Bangalore Onion and Potato Traders’ Association. At present, onions are retailing at around Rs. 45, but a price correction over the next two weeks is expected. Onions are a staple ingredient but consumers were upset not only by the high prices but also by the low quality that was being sold. The new onions, a fresh harvest from Maharashtra, are dry and of a high quality. Shubha J., a software engineer, said that for the three months when the price of onions peaked, it had been tough cooking. “We use onions almost every day. Even if you were ready to pay, there were no quality onions available in the market. Most of them were wet and sprouted, and would spoil in just a matter of days. The arrival of new onions is something to celebrate,” she said. Chandrashekhar Hebbar, president, Karnataka Regional Hotels and Restaurants’ Association, said they were happy that good quality onions had come back with a price connection. “Onionsare a staple, especially in North Indian and Chinese cuisines. Even South Indian too, we had stopped selling onion dosas over the last three months, which we will reintroduce now. The ideal price for us would be at Rs. 25, a kilo, which we hope it will come down to in the next few weeks,” he said. According to Ravi Kumar, a new crop has been harvested in Nashik and surrounding districts of Maharashtra, which has been flooding the State’s markets over the last one week. “The previous crop was severely damaged due to heavy rains and floods, which had made the onions wet. Thankfully, there were no untimely rains this season, and the onions are of a good quality,” he explained. After the previous crop was damaged due to floods, leading to a price escalation in the market, many farmers have planted a second crop in the State in the hope of cashing in on the rally in prices, sources said. “The second crop in our State — in Belagavi, Haveri, and Molakalmuru — is expected to be harvested by month end. There are crops that have been harvested in Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, most of which are flooding markets in North India already. So the harvest of the crop in the State is unlikely to have a market in other States, and this will likely create a glut in the market, crashing the prices further,” explained a senior onion trader at Yeshwantpur APMC yard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/high-quality-onions-flood-the-markets/article33534152.ece
09 January 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Potato plantlets grown on special plots in Hassan dist.||Potato growers of Hassan, who depend on seeds from Punjab for procuring seed tubers, may become independent soon, thanks to the research on potato plantlet production taken up b the Horticulture Research and Extension Centre at Somanahalli near Hassan. The research centre, a unit of the University of Horticulture Sciences at Bagalkot, has found it successful after producing the plantlets and cultivating them in demonstration plots. The research centre held a demonstration of the technology at a farm in Tejuru in Hassan taluk on Friday. In the presence of the villagers and elected representatives, scientists and officers of the Horticulture Department stressed on the benefits of the technology in the long run, given the difficulties and the cost involved in bringing seed potatoes from Jalandhar of Punjab every year. H. Amara Nanjundeshwara, head of the research centre, said the project involved plantlet production through tissue culture in the first stage and production of mother plants and rooted apical stem cuttings in the second stage. Farmers could earn up to Rs. 1.6 lakh by spending Rs. 60,000 per acre. “Farmers can produce a minimum of 8 to 10 tonnes of seed tubers in an acre, which can accommodate around 33,000 plantlets”, he said. The production of each plantlet would cost 35 paise and it could be sold at 60 paise each.  Hassan MLA Preetham Gowda, Zilla Panchayat vice-president H.P. Swaroop and others participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/potato-plantlets-grown-on-special-plots-in-hassan-dist/article33533815.ece
09 January 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Dry run in Malnad||The dry run for COVID-19 vaccination was done at several centres in Hassan, Chikkamagaluru and Shivamogga districts on Friday. The seven centres in Hassan included Hassan Institute of Medical Sciences, Rajeev Nursing Home, SDM Ayurveda Hospital, M. Krishna Hospital, Community Health Centre at Mosale Hosahalli, taluk hospital at Holenarsipur and primary health centre at Palya in Alur taluk. In Chikkamagaluru district, the six centres included the district hospital in Chikkamagaluru town, city health centre, Holy Cross Hospital, taluk hospital at Mudigere, PHC at Hulikere in Kadur taluk and Community Health Centre at Ajjampura. As many as 150 health workers participated in the exercise. The exercise was conducted at nine centres in Shivamogga district. The district administration has prepared a list of 22,300 health workers to be covered in the first phase.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dry-run-in-malnad/article33533808.ece
09 January 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||22,000 health staff, COVID-19 warriors to get vaccine in Dharwad||Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil has said that it had been planned to administer the COVID-19 vaccine to 22,000 frontline health staff and COVID warriors in Dharwad district and 110 vaccine centres have been set up in the district for this. Speaking to presspersons in Dharwad on Friday after initiating the mock trials of the vaccine, Mr. Patil said that every centre would have five staff members. The plan was to administer the vaccine to 100 persons daily. On Friday they held mock trials in eight hospitals in the district. After getting the vaccine, the person will be under observation for 30 minutes. “If there is any variation in their health condition, emergency healthcare will be provided immediately. As a precaution, three ambulances will be ready at the centres,” he explained. The DC inspected the registration process using the designated software application, storage and transportation of vaccine and defreeze process, and preparations for the administration. He said that after adapting the guidelines issued by the government, it was planned to administer the vaccine to 50,000 COVID warriors comprising the police, Home Guards, and Army personnel in the second phase. In the third phase, it would be administered to persons above the age of 50 and those from weaker sections, he said. He said that private hospitals had already been contacted and asked to provide information on staff. If any names were left out, they should communicate the same to the district administration. He clarified that based on government guidelines, the vaccine would be administered how polling stations are operated. District Health and Family Welfare officer Yashwanth Madeenkar, District Reproductive Child Health Officer (RCHO) S.M. Honakeri, district surgeon Shivakumar Mankar, Taluk Health Officer Ranjuja, and others were present. Mr. Patil subsequently visited District Civil Hospital, SDM Hospital Sattur, KIMS Hospital, and Suchirayu Hospital in Hubballi and others to oversee the mock trials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/22000-health-staff-covid-19-warriors-to-get-vaccine-in-dharwad/article33533673.ece
09 January 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Two-day music festival from today||Vocalists Pt. Venkatesh Kumar and Arati Anklikar will be paying musical tribute at the two-day music festival organised as part of the 66th death anniversary of Sitar Ratna Rahimat Khan in Dharwad on Saturday and Sunday. In the festival at ‘Srujana’ auditorium on the Karnatak College campus in Dharwad, senior sitar exponent Usman Khan will be felicitated on the inaugural day, a release by the Sitar Ratna Samiti said. The festival will begin with a concert by shehnai exponent Sadashiva Thippanna Mule of Miraj at 5.30 p.m. on Saturday and he will be accompanied by Sridhar Mandre on the tabla. The second concert of the day will be by vocalist Arati Anklikur of Pune and she will be accompanied on the harmonium by Tanmay Devchake and on the tabla by Pt. Raghunath Nakod. On the second day on Sunday, there will be sitar jugalbandi by the mother-and-daughter duo of Rukiya Khan Deshmukha and Madhyami Deshmukh of Pune at 5.30 p.m. and they will be accompanied on the tabla by Nissar Ahmed. The festival will conclude with the concert of Pandit Venkatesh Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-day-music-festival-from-today/article33533672.ece
09 January 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Custody extended again||The Special CBI Court on Friday extended the judicial custody of Congress leader and former Minister Vinay Kulkarni and his uncle Chandrashekhar Indi alias Chandu Mama till January 22. Mr. Kulkarni and his uncle have been arrested in connection with the murder of ZP member Yogeeshgouda Goudar. Arrested on November 5, Mr. Kulkarni has been remanded in judicial custody and is presently lodged at Hindalaga jail in Belagavi. Mr. Indi, arrested on December 15 is presently lodged in Dharwad Central Prison. With their judicial custody ending on Friday, both were presented before the Special CBI Court through video conference. The CBI counsel appealed to the court to extend the judicial custody as the investigation into the murder case was still underway. Third Additional District and Sessions Judge and Special CBI Court Judge C.M. Gangadhar conceded to their demand and extended the judicial custody of both till January 22. The Dharwad Bench of Karnataka HC is scheduled to hear the bail petition of Mr. Kulkarni on January 23. The HC has adjourned the hearing twice, after as the CBI counsel have sought more time to file detailed objections to the bail plea.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/custody-extended-again/article33533671.ece
09 January 2021||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||BJP’s Telkur is president of Kalaburagi-Yadgir DCC Bank||With a margin of four votes, the BJP has registered a victory for the Kalaburagi-Yadgir District Central Cooperative Banks here on Friday. Sedam MLA and NEKRTC chairman Rajkumar Patil Telkur emerged victorious to the post of president, whereas Suresh Sajjan won the vice president post. In a shocking development, three directors of Kalaburagi-Yadgir DCC Bank backed by the Congress were disqualified amidst polls being held to the key posts on Friday. The Joint Registrar of Cooperative Societies has issued an order in this regard owing to which they could not cast their vote. Somashekar Gonaik, Gautam Patil, and Bapugowda Patil were disqualified for violating the norms of the cooperative societies. Mr. Telkur, who was nominated as director to the bank two days ago, filed his nomination paper for the bank president’s post and Shivaraj Sajjan filed nominations for V-P.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjps-telkur-is-president-of-kalaburagi-yadgir-dcc-bank/article33533675.ece
09 January 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Six dry run sites in Kalaburagi||As many as 150 identified beneficiaries were at the second dry run for the COVID-19 vaccination, conducted at six sites across Kalaburagi district on Friday. The sites were Gulbarga Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) Hospital, MRMC Medical College, Primary Health Centre at Shivaji Nagar, Sedam taluk hospital, Ratkal Primary Health Centre, and Chitapur Community Health Centre and 25 health workers participated. The District Health and Family Welfare have registered details of 17,400 beneficiaries’ for the first phase. In Ballari, the dry run was conducted at eight sites including Vijayanagara Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS), District Hospital, Siraguppa taluk Hospital, Sanjeevini Hospital at Jindal Steel Works, and TMAE Ayurvedic Medical College at Hospet, and three primary health centres - Moka, Miler Pet, Chellagurki. VIMS Director Gangadhar Gowda inaugurated the dry run site established at the hospital. A total of 200 identified beneficiaries (health workers) were administered a dummy vaccine on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/six-dry-run-sites-in-kalaburagi/article33533676.ece
09 January 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||KCCI opposes MESCOM’s power tariff hike proposal||The Kanara Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI) has opposed Mangalore Electricity Supply Company’s (MESCOM) proposal to increase power tariff by Rs. 1 at a time when BESCOM did not propose any increase and also proposed reduction in tariff for high-tension industrial consumers. In a memorandum to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, who holds the Energy portfolio, chamber president Isaac Vas said MESCOM’s proposal for a tariff hike would severely affect power consumers in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Shivamogga, and Chikkamagaluru. At a time when micro, medium and small enterprises (MSMEs) were contributing to over 29% of GDP across the country and employing crores of people, a power tariff hike would affect their existence. In Dakshina Kannada alone, over 1 lakh people were employed in MSME as against a mere 10,000 by mega industries, he pointed out. Multiple challenges With COVID-19 and the lockdown impacting their cash cycles, MSMEs that were the backbone of India’s inclusive growth story have received a severe jolt and faced multiple bottlenecks and retardation. The country-wide lockdown dragged MSME owners, employees and external stakeholders to unexpected repulsions. The extended lockdown hurt the supply of finished goods, procurement of raw material, and employees’ availability to work in production and supply processes. Post lockdown, MSMEs face challenges related to debt repayments, wages/salaries, statutory dues, etc.  ‘Conflict of interest’ Mr. Vas said the Karnataka Electricity Regulatory Commission that approves tariff hikes comprises mainly of retired government servants and ESCOM executives. Thus, there was always ‘conflict of interest’ while considering a power tariff hike. Industry and professional bodies should have adequate representation in KERC so that the commission could advise ESCOMs to follow the best practices in distribution and efficiency in power management. It is not just MSMEs that get affected if tariff was hiked. The common man would also considerably be affected. With many losing their jobs or getting salary cuts, people would find it difficult to bear the increased bill. If a hike was allowed, it would be nothing but rewarding the inefficiency of ESCOMs in reducing their overheads and distribution losses, Mr. Vas said, adding that MSMEs would collapse if the hike was allowed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kcci-opposes-mescoms-power-tariff-hike-proposal/article33534303.ece
09 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Students distribute roses to discourage tobacco use||Students from Karnataka Public School and personnel from the Health and Family Welfare Department on Friday conducted a campaign to gift roses to shop owners in Koteshwara town, Kundapura taluk and ask them to abandon tobacco. The rose campaign was held as part of anti-tobacco awareness drive. The students and the department staff raised slogans on the need for a tobacco-free society. District Disease Surveillance Officer Vasudeva Upadhyaya said tobacco consumption was harmful to the body and a tobacco consumer was susceptible to various infections, including COVID-19. The health and other departments were raiding shops every month and imposing fines on establishments selling cigarettes and other tobacco products without putting up warning boards. These shops hve been made to install warning boards, he said. Taluk Health Officer Nagabhushana Udupa and the school’s Physical Education teacher Manjunath Holla took part in the rose campaign.  Fined A team of personnel from the District Tobacco Regulation team raided several shops in Koteshwara and collected a fine of Rs. 1,700 from 17 cases of alleged violations of Section 4, 6 (A) and 6 (B) of the Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act, 2003.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/students-distribute-roses-to-discourage-tobacco-use/article33534309.ece
09 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||MCC continues to be poor in solid waste management: Ex-MLA Lobo||Blaming the BJP-controlled Mangaluru City Corporation council for the poor state of solid waste management in the city, J.R. Lobo, former Mangaluru City South MLA, on Friday said solid waste management had reached a new low and was bringing a bad name to the city. Mr. Lobo said personnel from Antony Waste Handling Cell Private Ltd. were not collecting waste from houses daily in several areas and the waste is getting dumped by the roadside. Dumping was also happening on Fridays when the personnel collect only dry waste. He added that MCC was not properly paying the private firm the charges for the door-to-door collection and this was leading to protests by the personnel. No action has been taken by the MCC to collect solid waste management cess from people, he said. “There were problems in solid waste management when our party ruled the MCC. But we ensured day-to-day collection of waste and timely payment of charges to the firm. We never allowed disruption of collection of waste,” Mr. Lobo claimed. More than a year since the damage was caused due to the garbage slip at the landfill site in Pachhanady, the State government is yet to properly compensate the residents and address their needs. “The BJP came to power by showing that the Congress failed to properly govern the city. You have failed the people. The solid waste management is in very bad shape now,” he said. The BJP has to give a serious thought on the issue and take steps to improve it in the second phase of the Swachh Bharat Mission, which is presently on, he said. Senior councillor Shashidhar Hegde and Leader of Opposition in MCC Council Abdul Ravoof also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mcc-continues-to-be-poor-in-solid-waste-management-ex-mla-lobo/article33534307.ece
09 January 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Centre of Excellence in Naturopathy to be inaugurated today||Union Minister for Ayush Shripad Yesso Naik will inaugurate the new building of Centre of Excellence in clinical Research for Naturopathy and Yogic Sciences at the Sri Dharmasthala Manjunathewhswara College of Naturopathy and Yogic Sciences and Hospital in Ujire near Dharmasthala on Saturday. The inauguration at Shanthivana, Ujire at 10 a.m., will be followed by a programme at Amruthavarshini Sabha Bhavana in Dharmasthala. Dharmadhikari D. Veerendra Heggade will preside over it. Harish Poonja, MLA, K. Harish Kumar, Prathap Simha Nayak, MLCs, and others will be present, said a release here. The Centre of Excellence has come up with grants from the Ministry of Ayush and offers training in leadership, research and best practices in naturopathy and yoga. It will help the institution to take research to international standards. With the opening of the Centre on Saturday, the Dharmasthala institute will be the first in the country to be recognised by the Ministry. The COE status would offer the college help to establish the research centre, procurement of equipment for laboratories, treatment wing, and a 60-bed hospital for three years along with manpower.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/centre-of-excellence-in-naturopathy-to-be-inaugurated-today/article33534302.ece
09 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||A host of beach events to be organised tomorrow||A host of events comprising beach cleaning, bike stunts, surfing, cardio-pulmonary resurrection, zumba, beach workouts and cycling have been organised by team Big Bang and like-minded organisations in Mangaluru on Sunday. According to a communiqué from ‘We R Cycling’, one of the organisations supporting the event, the programme would be held at the Pine Tree Tannirbhavi Beach, off Sultan Bathery Ferry Line, from 6.30 am to 11 a.m. Mayor Divakar would be the chief guest at the programme. Those riding bicycles would assemble in front of Mangala Stadium and start towards Tannirbhavi at 6.30 a.m. or in the alternative, they may directly ride to the venue. Participants are advised to bring a pair of gloves and drinking water. The organisers of the event, with support from Yojaka (India) Pvt., Ltd, intend to promote environment and health awareness, going eco-friendly and healthy by cycling, women empowerment, promoting tourism, vocal for local and help growth of business. Riders may WhatsApp WERC’s Harniish Raj on 9343560204 for details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-host-of-beach-events-to-be-organised-tomorrow/article33534304.ece
09 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Sweet festival’ till Jan. 14||The Karnataka Milk Federation that had commenced ‘Sweet Festival’ during Christmas and New Year till January 7, has extended it till January 14 to facilitate Sankranthi. During this period, all sweets under Nandini would be sold at 10% discount on the MRP across all Nandini dealers in the State, said an official release from Dakshina Kannada Milk Producers’ Cooperative Union. Products would also be available on Nandini on Wheels vehicles at select locations. The Cheese Festival would be on till February 6.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sweet-festival-till-jan-14/article33534313.ece
09 January 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||78 new cases in Udupi, Dakshina Kannada||With 62 new COVID-19 cases and 38 patients discharged, the number of active cases in Dakshina Kannada stood at 449 on Friday. A fine of Rs. 22.75 lakh has so far been collected in 21,434 cases from people not wearing face masks, stated a bulletin from the Dakshina Kannada district administration. In Udupi, 16 new cases were reported and 15 patients were discharged on Friday. Active COVID-19 cases in the district stood at 94. A fine of Rs. 21.19 lakh was collected from 19,609 cases of not wearing masks and violation of social distance norms, stated a bulletin by the Udupi district administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/78-new-cases-in-udupi-dakshina-kannada/article33534308.ece
09 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||All set for COVID-19 vaccination||Mysuru is all set for the much-awaited vaccination against the COVID-19 pandemic as the second dry run conducted across eight centres in the district, including five sites in the city, was successful. The first vaccine dry run was held at three centres. The dry run was carried out to check the vaccine preparedness ahead of the impending rollout. Unlike the first dry run, private hospitals were roped in for the second one as 18,033 healthcare workers registered to receive the vaccine belonged to private hospitals. The second dry run was conducted at the State-run K.R. Hospital, District Hospital (which is a designated COVID-19 Hospital), JSS Hospital, Apollo BGS Hospitals, Primary Health Centre at Kumbarakoppal in Mysuru city; MCH Hospital in Nanjangud; Community Health Centre at Mugur in T. Narsipur taluk; and Primary Health Centre at Kadakola near Mysuru city. Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri inaugurated the vaccination centre and supervised the dry run at the Apollo BGS Hospitals. Mysore Medical College and Research Institute Director and Dean C.P. Nanjaraj led the dry run at the K.R. Hospital. In Kodagu, the dry run was held at the district hospital in Madikeri, community health center in Kushalnagar and at the primary health centre at Katooru in Virajpet taluk. Deputy Commissioner Annies Kanmani Joy supervised the drill in Madikeri. The district hospital and JSS Hospital in Chamarajanagar town; Taluk Hospital in Gundlupet; and Primary Health Centre in Hanur were the sites in Chamarajanagar district where the dry run was carried out. Deputy Commissioner M.V. Venkatesh supervised the dry run in Mandya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/all-set-for-covid-19-vaccination/article33533810.ece
09 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Healthcare workers top priority list||The first dose of COVID-19 vaccine after its formal rollout was expected to be administered to the healthcare workers (HCWs), including doctors, nursing and paramedical staff and other staff members in the sector, in about three days. All arrangements for the vaccination of those in Priority 1 were in place in the district. In Mysuru district, around 33,000 HCWs had been registered for getting the vaccine. Among them, 18,000 belong to private hospitals. The healthcare workers are defined as healthcare service providers and other workers in healthcare settings, including the ICDS workers such as anganwadi assistants, both in government and private sectors. The number of registrations for receiving the vaccine may go up by about 2,000 with the inclusion of those handling biomedical waste as beneficiaries. Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri, after inspecting the vaccine dry run at Apollo BGS Hospitals and inaugurating the vaccination centre here on Friday, said 26 private hospitals would function as vaccination centres. This is in addition to the centres to be set up in government hospitals and primary health centres (PHCs) across the district. Around 100 beneficiaries would be vaccinated in each centre and about 70 vaccination sites had been identified for carrying out the immunisation as mandated by the government. The dry run is being carried out to achieve successful vaccine delivery, she added. The first dry run was done in three government PHCs in the district. Now, the private hospitals had been roped in for the second dry run as they had been also identified for administering the vaccine to the healthcare workers in the private sector.  Ms. Sindhuri said she has no information on when the vaccine would be delivered to the district but the administration and the health authorities are fully prepared for the task. There was no shortage of cold storages for storing the vaccine, including in the rural areas. “All arrangements had been made. Healthcare providers will get the vaccine for free,” the DC replied. Prioritised population groups identified for COVID-19 vaccination also include frontline workers (Priority 2) and Prioritized Age Group (Priority 3), according to the National Expert Group On Vaccine Administration for COVID-19 (NEGVAC). The frontline workers include personnel from the State and central Police department, Armed Forces, Home Guards and civil defence organisations including disaster management volunteers, Revenue Department and municipal workers. Persons above 50 years of age and persons below 50 years of age with comorbidities fall in the Priority 3 list.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/healthcare-workers-top-priority-list/article33533813.ece
09 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||New parking rule appears certain||The four-hour parking rule on the busy D. Devaraj Urs Road, the city’s major commercial hub, appears imminent as consensus was reached among the shopkeepers and other stakeholders who came together here at a meeting on Thursday over the proposal of Mysuru traffic police for easing parking woes, particularly during peak hours. As a majority of the four-wheelers parked on the road belonged to the shopkeepers, depriving parking space for the shoppers and tourists, the police came up with the idea of introducing the rule where no four-wheeler could be parked beyond four hours. The vehicles would be wheel-locked if parked for a longer time and penalty would be imposed on the erring vehicle owner. Assistant Commissioner of Police (Traffic) S.N. Sandesh Kumar, who proposed the new parking rule, told The Hindu that all shopkeepers have agreed to the idea and have promised to cooperate with the police in easing parking problems on the road. The meeting organised by the Devaraja Traffic Police was attended by traders, shopkeepers, members of the traffic advisory committee and other stakeholders. “The proceedings of the meeting will be sent to the Commissioner of Police, who will take a final call,” Mr. Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-parking-rule-appears-certain/article33533817.ece
09 January 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||A rich collection at Silk India 2021 expo||More than 90 weavers have come on a common platform at Silk India 2021, an exhibition of handloom and ethnic wear. Organised by New Craft, the expo which is underway at Nanjaraja Bahadur Choultry from January 1 to January 17 features a rich collection of handlooms from across the country. The organisers have also roped in 90 weavers and artisans to expose them to consumer demand so that it could get reflected in the future productions. The exhibition also features a collection of handicraft items.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-rich-collection-at-silk-india-2021-expo/article33533811.ece
09 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Three from T.N. killed in accident||Three persons died and 11 were injured when the vehicle by which they were travelling from Tamil Nadu fell into a roadside ditch at Gudibore, near Suvarnavati reservoir in Chamarajanagar district, early on Friday. The dead belonged to a family from Kanakkampalayam in Tirupur, Tamil Nadu. Subramanya, 75, Amaravathi, 65, and Kokila, 36, all from Kasturibai Nagar in the town, died in the accident. The injured were shifted to the district hospital in Chamarajanagar. The driver is learnt to have lost control over the vehicle, leading to the accident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-from-tn-killed-in-accident/article33533827.ece
09 January 2021||Udupi,KARNATAKA||briefly||Udupi Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha on Friday said people need not panic about avian flu (bird flu) as no cases were reported in the district so far. Yet people must exercise caution to prevent possible spread, he said, chairing a monitoring committee meeting at the district office complex. People were asked to immediately call the district control room on 0820-2534024 if they found a dead bird or animal.    The second round of meetings in the run up to the budget preparation for Mangaluru City Corporation would be at 11 a.m. at MCC’s Mangala Auditorium on January 13. Representatives of registered RWAs, registered NGOs, Chamber of Commerce and people’s representatives may attend to give suggestions on the budget.    Scholar K. Lakshminarayana Kundanthaya on Friday said there was no difference between folklore and Vaidika system. Releasing Shree Chamakabharanam work containing Samhita-Pada-Krama-Jataa-Ghana Paatha authored by Vidwan Prabhakara Adiga of Kadri Temple, Mr. Kundanthaya said people like Charvaka opposed the Vedas existed during the Vedic period and it was not a big issue if Vedas were opposed today.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/briefly/article33534305.ece
09 January 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||DC inaugurates dry run in Yadgir||Deputy Commissioner R. Ragapriya inaugurated the dry run of the COVID-19 vaccination at the district hospital here on Friday. Dr. Ragapriya inspected the reversal for registration, the vaccine room, the vaccine storage, transportation, and other facilities. In the first phase, five government hospitals and one private hospital were identified. In the second, 53 centres will be established. “We have already asked private hospitals to join hands with the programme. They can inform the department,” Dr. Ragapriya said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dc-inaugurates-dry-run-in-yadgir/article33533677.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 vaccine dry run: Mostly smooth, but for minor technical glitches in some centres||The second dry run conducted on Friday to assess the State’s preparedness at all levels before the actual roll out of COVID-19 vaccine witnessed some minor logistical and technical glitches during beneficiary verification on the Co-Win portal. The BBMP has now recommended to the State Health Department that more number of vaccination sites be set up in medical and nursing colleges, apart from holding the vaccination drive on weekends. Power supply issues In BBMP maternity and referral hospitals that were identified as vaccine sites, the dry run clashed with the ANC (antenatal care) Day held on Fridays. Moreover, there were power supply issues and network issues apart from technical problems with the software. The second run was conducted in 263 vaccine session sites involving all districts in the State. Vaccine session sites were set up in 24 district hospitals, 20 medical college hospitals, 43 taluk hospitals, 31 community health centres, 87 primary health centres, 30 urban primary health care centres and 28 private health centres. The first dry run on January 2 was conducted in three vaccine session sites in each of five districts. Minister visits sites Sources said the mock exercise was delayed by an hour in some vaccine sites in a few districts because of the software glitches and power supply issues. However, Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar, who visited some vaccine sites in Bengaluru, said arrangements and preparedness were good. “All protocols have been followed as per the guidelines issued by the Centre,” he said. BBMP’s Chief Health Officer (Public Health) Dr. Vijayendra admitted that the dry run clashed with the ANC day that is held every Friday at the Ulsoor Referral Hospital. “There was some difficulty in managing the crowd owing to space constraints. Usually, every Friday, pregnant women come to the hospital for a check-up,” he said. Remedial measures Rajendra Cholan, Special Commissioner (Health), BBMP, said that with regard to power supply issues, the civic body had recommended UPS backup and coordination with Bangalore Electricity Supply Company (Bescom) for uninterrupted supply. He said that the civic body had mapped the beneficiaries to the various medical facilities that have been shortlisted for vaccination sites. “The sites have been divided according to the number of beneficiaries – less than 100, 100-500, 500-1,000, more than 1,000,” he said and added that some slight modifications to the earlier shortlisted site locations were being made. The locations will be finalised by Saturday, he said. Mr. Cholan said that BBMP was coordinating with the various medical colleges and nursing colleges for the setting up of the vaccination sites. Given the infrastructure, more sites may be set up within one location. “We have recommended to the government to ensure that vaccination is taken up during weekends, when colleges have holidays, and also so that there is no clash with the regular activities of the institution,” he said.  There was some difficulty in managing the crowd owing to space constraints. Usually, every Friday, pregnant women come to the hospital for a check-up Dr. Vijayendra, Chief Health Officer (Public Health), BBMP   We have recommended to the government to ensure that vaccination is taken up during weekends, when colleges have holidays, and also so that there is no clash with the regular activities of the institution Rajendra Cholan, Special Commissioner (Health), BBMP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-vaccine-dry-run-mostly-smooth-but-for-minor-technical-glitches-in-some-centres/article33534135.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Quantum of wet waste doubles||Segregation levels seem to have improved over the past month based on the quantum of waste that processing plants on the outskirts of the city have been receiving. On January 5, for instance, more than 1,250 tonnes of segregated wet waste was sent to five waste processing plants, including one private plant. This is double the amount when compared to barely a few months ago, when the quantum of waste sent to the processing plants was around 600 tonnes a day. That apart, nearly 14 tonnes of wet waste have been processed in the seven biomethanisation plants that have recently begun operating again. Data from the BBMP shows that of the four processing plants, the 150-tonne capacity plant at Doddabidarakallu receives around 180 tonnes of waste per day. The Kannahalli plant that has an installed capacity of 350 tonnes is receiving almost 300 tonnes. The Chikkanagamangala plant, which has an installed capacity of 300 tonnes per day, receives around 230 tonnes while Karnataka Compost Development Corporation (KCDC) is operating at 41% of its capacity. Three processing plants – Lingadheeranahalli, Seegehalli and Subbarayanapalya – continue to remain shut. BBMP Special Commissioner (Solid Waste Management) D. Randeep attributed the increase in segregation levels to the new tenders that are in place in around 50 wards in the city. The new tenders mandate separate collection and transportation of different streams of waste. Despite the increase in segregation levels, the BBMP continues to depend on landfills for mixed waste. Nearly 2,200 tonnes of mixed waste from the city, excluding 60-odd tonnes sent to MSGP mixed waste plant, is sent to the Mittaganahalli landfill, data shows. Meanwhile, efforts are being made to revive the remaining six biomethanisation plants in the city. According to BBMP Joint Commissioner (SWM) Sarfaraz Khan, seven biomethanisation plants are already operational. They have a total processing capacity of 65 tonnes per day, but are operating at 21% of their capacity. The remaining six plants need some repairs due to not being in use all these years. Mr. Khan said the biomethanisation plant at K.R. Market needs a complete overhaul.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/quantum-of-wet-waste-doubles/article33534140.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Air India women pilots set to script history||An all-women pilot team of Air India will fly over the North Pole as part of the world’s longest air route. The flight from San Francisco (SFO) will reach Bengaluru on Saturday covering a distance of about 16,000 km. “Flying over the North Pole is very challenging. Airline companies send their best and experienced pilots on this route. This time, Air India has given the responsibility to a woman captain for the journey from San Francisco to Bengaluru via the polar route,” an official said. AI captain Zoya Agarwal, who will be commanding the flight, and her team are eagerly waiting to make history on Saturday. “Most people in the world will not see the North Pole, or even its map in their lifetime. I feel truly feel privileged and humbled by the trust vested in me by the civil aviation ministry and our flag carrier. It is a golden opportunity to command the Boeing 777 inaugural SFO-BLR, one of the world’s longest flights, over the North Pole,” Captain Zoya Agarwal told ANI . “I am extremely proud to have with me experienced women team comprising Captains Thanmai Papagari, Akanksha Sonawane and Shivani Manhas. This is the first time an all-women pilots’ team will fly over the North Pole and create history of sorts. It is indeed a dream come true for any professional pilot,”she added. The longest flight over the North Pole will be another feather in her cap as she was the youngest woman pilot to fly a Boeing 777 in 2013.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/air-india-women-pilots-set-to-script-history/article33534153.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||970 new cases, three deaths||The State on Friday reported 970 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total number of cases to 9,25,868. With three deaths, the toll rose to 12,134. This is apart from 19 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 657 persons were discharged on Friday, taking the total number of recoveries to 9,04,286. Of the remaining 9,429 active patients, 203 were being monitored in ICUs. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.73%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 0.30%. Two deaths in city Bengaluru Urban reported 479 cases, taking its tally to 3,91,663. With two deaths coming from Bengaluru, the toll in this district rose to 4,343. Active cases in Bengaluru reduced to 5,859. As many as 1,32,517 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 1,22,140 RT-PCR tests taking the total number of tests to 1,50,50,771. U.K. returnee Meanwhile, another primary contact of a U.K. returnee tested RT-PCR positive for COVID-19 taking the total number of positive primary contacts to 26. A total of 40 returnees have tested positive so far of which 11 are positive for the new strain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/970-new-cases-three-deaths/article33534136.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Message from the past||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/message-from-the-past/article33534149.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Ready to cook||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ready-to-cook/article33534312.ece
09 January 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||No new case of bird flu reported||The avian influenza (H5N8) outbreak in Alappuzha and Kottayam districts is under control, K.M. Dileep, Director of Animal Husbandry, has said. Mr. Dileep said no fresh case of bird flu had been reported from anywhere in the State. “Bird culling and sanitisation of the infected areas have been completed. If birds are found dead, samples will be sent for testing,” he told The Hindu . Mr. Dileep said that more than 70,000 birds, mostly ducks, had died/been culled in the two districts due to the outbreak. P.K. Santhosh Kumar, District Animal Husbandry Officer, said the department would continue to carry out a surveillance activity over a radius up to 10 km from the hotspots. Samples collected The bird flu was detected from five places in Kuttanad at Nedumudi, Thakazhi, Pallippad and Karuvatta in Alappuzha district and Neendoor in Kottayam district. Earlier, authorities collected samples from eight places following the mass death of ducks in December and sent it to the National Institute of High-Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD), Bhopal, for analysis. Five samples tested positive for bird flu. Following this, authorities decided to cull birds, including domestic birds within a 1-km radius of the infected areas. Central team’s visit A two-member team from the Centre will visit Alappuzha on Saturday. Minhaj Alam, joint secretary, Ministry of Food Processing Industries and S.K. Singh, Director, National Centre for Disease Control will hold discussions with the respective district administration authorities regarding bird flu and COVID-19 outbreaks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-new-case-of-bird-flu-reported/article33533709.ece
09 January 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Four get 10-year jail term for drug seizure||District and Sessions Court Thodupuzha has sentenced four accused to ten years imprisonment and a fine in the case related to the seizure of 17 kg hashish oil worth Rs. 20 crore in the market in 2017. The first accused Nedumkandam resident Abin Divakaran was sentenced to ten years in prison and a fine of Rs. 1.5 lakh while Idukki residents Biju Raghavan, Shino John and Anjumon were sentenced to ten years in prison and a fine of Rs. 1 lakh. Of the nine accused in the case, four were released and another person committed suicide This was the largest drug haul in the district, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/four-get-10-year-jail-term-for-drug-seizure/article33533752.ece
09 January 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||SSGs to be strengthened in Wayanad schools||A meeting of senior officials of various departments, chaired by district panchayat president Samshad Marakkar, decided to strengthen School Support Groups (SSGs) to rejuvenate the public school sector in the district . SSGs will be strengthened in all government and aided high schools, and higher secondary and vocational higher secondary schools after reconstituting them. Retired teachers, alumni, representatives of civic bodies, and serving teachers will be included in the groups. As part of the initiative, the services of members will be utilised to address issues such as dearth of teaching staff. Physical distancing The meeting also decided to address issues pertaining to travelling by students and physical distancing in buses and bus shelters to contain the spread of COVID-19. The meet also directed school authorities to ensure compliance with the COVID-19 protocol at schools.  Issues pertaining to travelling by students and physical distancing in buses to be addressed||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ssgs-to-be-strengthened-in-wayanad-schools/article33533704.ece
09 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Intense surveillance in schools||A two-tier monitoring system has been activated in schools under the Education Department in Ernakulam as part of precautionary measures against the pandemic initiated after their reopening on January 1. The Deputy Director of Education is leading the first team by overseeing the overall functioning of schools, while the second-rung comprises educational officers in each sub-district under the department. “I am conducting random visits to schools to ascertain whether the COVID-19 protocol is implemented. It is a daily process, and I cover at least two schools,” said Honey G. Alexander, Deputy Director of Education, Ernakulam. Educational officers at the sub-district level visit all schools under their jurisdiction. They interact with teachers, non-teaching staff, and students and take stock of the academic and infrastructural requirements. Each school has a COVID-19 monitoring cell comprising the principals, teachers, parents, and representatives of local bodies. Ms. Alexander said a health report was being filed daily. “The data is uploaded to the directorate in Thiruvananthapuram as part of the State-wide process,” she added. Preliminary estimates showed that four teachers and one student tested positive after schools reopened on January 1. But officials said they did not get infection from anybody in schools, as teachers were from different schools. All safety guidelines, including isolating primary contacts, are being followed in such cases, they added. M. Narayanan, State president of the Indian Academy of Paediatrics, reminded of the need to comply with safety precautions and guidelines issued by the government. “Ensure physical distancing, wear masks, use sanitisers, and disinfect classrooms. Students should not share their learning materials or food items. Crowding has to be avoided while having lunch or in break hours,” he said. Suggesting that outdoor games be avoided, Dr. Narayanan said care should be taken not to breach the Break the Chain protocol. “We could continue holding classes for the existing Class 10 and 12 students only for the rest of this academic year by maintaining all safety precautions,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/intense-surveillance-in-schools/article33534271.ece
09 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Vaccine dry run goes without hitch||A dry run in anticipation of administering the vaccine for COVID-19 went off without a hitch at three centres in the district, health officials said. The dry run was conducted at the Chengamanad community health centre, Angamaly taluk hospital, and Kinder Hospital. At each centre, 25 heath care workers, who have registered on the CoWIN (COVID Vaccine Intelligence Network) platform were part of the two-hour long dry run. “So far, 61,300 health workers have registered on the platform in the district, and more registrations are under way to ensure that no health worker is excluded from the process. This is the highest figure for a single district in the State,” said Dr. M.G. Sivadas, District Reproductive and Child Health Officer, who is also the nodal officer for vaccination in the district. Among the health workers who will be included in the first phase of vaccination are anganwadi and ASHA workers, and security staff at government health facilities, Dr. Sivadas said. At each centre, five staff members will be present to complete the vaccination process. Around 2,000 health workers have been trained for the process so far, and training for health workers in the private sector is under way. A total of 625 centres, both private and government health facilities, have been identified in the district to administer the vaccine, Dr. Sivadas added. Vaccination centres have been identified considering the availability of three separate rooms — a waiting area, a room for vaccination, and another to monitor the recipient for half an hour after receiving the vaccine. Ambulances will be available at the vaccination centres in case of an adverse reaction. The recipient’s identification card is verified with the registration on the CoWIN platform before the vaccine is given. Existing vaccine storage facilities at the Ernakulam General Hospital and another at the Karunya pharmacy on the premises, and the facility at the Aluva District Hospital will be put to use for the COVID-19 vaccine. Another storage facility is being readied at the regional vaccine storage centre at Edappally, said a communication from the district administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vaccine-dry-run-goes-without-hitch/article33534268.ece
09 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Kochi flyovers all set to welcome traffic||The State government will not single-handedly fund any more infrastructure projects on national highways, according to Public Works Minister G. Sudhakaran. He visited the Vyttila flyover on the eve of its opening. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate the Vyttila and the Kundannoor flyovers along the NH Bypass. The two structures were built at a cost of Rs. 165 crore using funds from the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB). Traffic movement While vehicles in the Aroor-Vyttila direction and back will rely on the six-lane flyover at Kundannoor, vehicles in the other directions will bank on service roads beneath the structure. A signal system installed by Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML) will regulate traffic flow beneath the flyover. At Vyttila, where vehicles move in over a dozen directions, the PWD (NH Wing) has built traffic islands and a roundabout to streamline the flow of vehicles which will not be using the flyover at the junction. “This will help vehicles from the Palarivattom side to enter SA Road, those from Thripunithura side cross over to SA Road or proceed towards Palarivattom, vehicles from SA Road enter the Vyttila Mobility Hub or proceed towards Thripunithura and motorists from the Kundannoor side turn towards Thripunithura,” official sources said. Direction boards have been placed atop the flyovers and on side roads to guide motorists. Vehicles from the Vyttila Hub wanting to cross over to Ponnurunni will be permitted to use RSAC Road to gain access to the underpass beneath the Vyttila railway overbridge. Those in the opposite direction will have to use service roads of the NH Bypass to proceed towards the hub, it is learnt. In Vyttila, a height gauge has been erected to prevent entry of vehicles taller than 5.50 metres into the flyover, since this is the height difference between the surface of the flyover and the girders of the metro viaduct which crosses it. Traders and bus operators, who were among the worst affected by the construction of the flyover at Vyttila, hoped that the situation will improve once the structure is commissioned. While many shops, including hotels, had downed shutters on the narrow eastern side of the flyover, the business of many others fell since regular customers began avoiding the heavily barricaded junction, where traffic snarls were intense. “We hope footfalls will improve once the structure is commissioned and traffic snarls end at the junction. Many regular customers began avoiding the junction for fear of snarls,” said P. Ravi of Anugraha Hotel at the junction. T.J. Raju of KMTC, a private bus company, hoped that traffic movement at Vyttila would improve from Saturday. “Most bus operators had to cancel two daily trips owing to serpentine traffic hold-ups at the junction since December 2017 when the flyover work began. I hope public transport is accorded priority in using the junction,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/twin-flyovers-all-set-to-welcome-traffic/article33534276.ece
09 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||House surgeons call off strike||Following a meeting with the District Collector, house surgeons and students of Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Kalamassery, withdrew their strike demanding that inpatient (IP) facilities for non-COVID patients be resumed at the hospital. District Collector S. Suhas told representatives of the students union and house surgeons association that the MCH could go back to its regular functions with IP facilities for non-COVID patients once the District Hospital at Aluva was converted into a COVID-19 care centre by January 31. Emergency inpatient services can resume immediately. An amount of Rs. 35 lakh has been allotted from the State Disaster Response Fund and an additional Rs. 45 lakh from the National Health Mission to upgrade the District Hospital at Aluva into a treatment centre for COVID-19 patients. Nameer K.K., chairman of the students union, said so far the institution’s administration had not been able to give them a date by which regular clinical postings would be restored, which prompted the strike. Regular theory classes resumed on January 4, he said, but the clinical aspect is a crucial part of the training. The house surgeons had suggested that the cath ICU and burns ICU be used for non-COVID patients, said Siby Manuel Jose, president of the house surgeons association at the medical college. The Collector has ordered that an internal committee be formed to consider their suggestions, he said. To be upgraded With the number of COVID-19 cases on the rise, the Aluva District Hospital is being upgraded to house 100 ICU beds in 10 cubicles, said Dr. Mathews Numpeli, district programme manager, National Health Mission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/house-surgeons-call-off-strike/article33533690.ece
09 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||‘Walkway project will be executed with legal sanctions’||The existing bund in the Chilavanoor lake will be demolished in compliance with the High Court order, and the Padmasarovaram walkway and cycle track project will be implemented with all permissions and legal sanctions, Mayor M. Anilkumar said after a visit to the project site. The initial idea for the project had been to construct a cycle track and walkway on poromboke land alongside private property without affecting the lake. But obstructing water flow, the cycle track was being constructed without permission from the Coastal Zone Management Authority, and the High Court ordered its demolition, said a release. “The construction has caused a loss of Rs. 1 crore,” Mr. Anilkumar said. Working out a timeline for the demolition would be discussed, he said. The Mayor, along with District Collector S. Suhas and Greater Cochin Development Authority (GCDA) Chairman V. Salim, also visited the site of a prospective memorial for poet G. Sanakara Kurup near the High Court. Mr. Anilkumar also asked engineers at the corporation and part of the Operation Breakthrough to come up with a report on preventing waterlogging in the area around the KSEB substation at Kaloor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/walkway-project-will-be-executed-with-legal-sanctions/article33534274.ece
09 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Call for deeper probe into land transactions||The Central police has sought the permission of a trial court for a detailed probe into the controversial land transactions in the Ernakulam-Angamaly Archdiocese. The Chief Judicial Magistrate Court, Ernakulam, had earlier directed the police to probe the land deal on a complaint filed by Polachan Puthuppara. The police submitted that more inquiries need to be made based on the statements of the petitioner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/call-for-deeper-probe-into-land-transactions/article33534269.ece
09 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||708 new cases in district||Ernakulam district on Friday recorded 708 new COVID-19 cases and 686 recoveries. Ten of the new patients are health workers. Spike in Thrikkakara Thrikkakara witnessed another spike with 45 new infections, followed by Ashamannur (30), Chengamanad (29), Thripunithura (25), and Kalady and Kizhakkambalam (20 each). Active cases There were 8,926 patients in the district and new hospital / FLTC admissions stood at 125. A fresh batch of 6,692 samples were sent from the district for testing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/708-new-cases-in-district/article33534278.ece
09 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||KCBC launches news portal||Cardinal George Alencherry, president of the Kerala Catholic Bishops’ Council (KCBC), on Friday launched a news portal,kcbcnews.comas the mouthpiece of the catholic body. In his editorial, Fr Jacob Palakkappilly, deputy secretary general, discusses the question of justice in recent cases, welcoming the High Court order allowing reinvestigation of the Walayar siblings death case and rues the practice of media trial against people arraigned as accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kcbc-launches-news-portal/article33533707.ece
09 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||BPCL Kochi Refinery gets new chief||Sanjay Khanna has taken over as the executive director of BPCL Kochi Refinery, India’s largest public sector refinery. He was heading BPCL Mumbai Refinery earlier. A chemical engineering graduate from the National Institute of Technology, Tiruchirapalli, and a postgraduate in finance management from Mumbai University, his immediate challenge at Kochi Refinery will be to successfully commission the process units under the Propylene Derivative Petrochemical Project and Motor Spirit Block Project amid the pandemic situation, according to a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bpcl-kochi-refinery-gets-new-chief/article33533691.ece
09 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Interviews postponed||Interviews for various posts scheduled to be held on January 11 stand postponed, principal of Maharaja’s College, Ernakulam, said in a press release. A fresh date will be intimated later. For details, log in towww.maharajas.ac.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/interviews-postponed/article33534270.ece
09 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||2 youths arrested with MDMA||The Kochi City police on Monday arrested two youngsters allegedly with 2.20 grams of the premium drug MDMA from near Oberon Mall on Friday. The arrested are Sharon, 24, of Edappally and John Joseph, 25, of Ponekkara. They allegedly procured the drug from Bengaluru at a low price through middlemen and sold it among youngsters at Vyttila and Palarivattom. The seizure was made following a tip-off received by District Police Chief (Kochi City) Nagaraju C.H. The police urged the public to pass on any information on drugs through the app ‘Yodhav’ by way of audio or video alerts to the WhatsApp number 99959-66666 or to 94979-80430. The identity of informants will be kept confidential. Hit-and-run case The Aluva West police on Friday arrested a person who was accused in a hit-and-run case. The arrested is Jaleel, 59, of Thayikkattukara at Aluva. He stands accused of fatally knocking down a woman while driving his car on the night of January 4 at Aluva and fleeing the scene.  Theft The Aluva East police arrested three youngsters on the charge of stealing a motorcycle. The arrested are Aromal, 19, of Vadakkekara, Sathesh, 22, of Kunjithai, and a 15-year-old. While Aromal has theft cases and a sexual abuse case against him at Chalakudy, Nedumbassery and Varapuzha stations, Satheesh was an accused in an attempt to murder case registered by the Vadakkekara police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-youths-held-with-mdma/article33534279.ece
09 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Customs seeks copy of confession statement||The Customs (Preventive) Commissionerate has filed a petition before the National Investigation Agency (NIA) special court here seeking a copy of the confession statement given by the accused in the diplomatic gold smuggling case under Section 164 of the CrPC. The NIA had already filed its chargesheet in the case. Investigation by the Customs is yet to be concluded and can be finalised only after obtaining further evidence and documents, including the confessional statements by the accused Sandeep H.N., Mohammed Anwar, Mustafa, Abdul Azeez, and Nandagopal, it said. The Customs has also sought copies of the digital evidence secured from the accused. It is learnt that certain electronic gadgets were seized by the NIA and they contained incriminating material supporting the active involvement of the accused in the case, the petition said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/customs-seeks-copy-of-confession-statement/article33533710.ece
09 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Effluents being let into the open at Mulanthuruthy||The State Pollution Control Board (PCB) has informed the State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) that untreated waste water was being discharged into the open by some private companies at Mulanthuruthy. PCB officials had inspected the units on a directive from SHRC Chairman Antony Dominic. Abi Kunjumon, a local resident, had submitted a complaint before the commission, alleging that the untreated effluents were a threat to people and natural resources. The board had inspected companies including OEN India and FCI OEN.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/effluents-being-let-into-the-open-at-mulanthuruthy/article33534272.ece
09 January 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Vaccination dry run in Kollam||A dry run for COVID-19 vaccine administration was held at three centres including Government Victoria Hospital, Travancore Medicity Medical College and Anchal Community Health Centre in the district on Friday. All procedures of the vaccination except injecting the medicine were followed in the mock sessions held in preparation for the vaccine rollout. Provisions for disinfecting were set up at the entry of the centres and seating was arranged maintaining six-feet distance. Only one person was allowed inside the vaccination room to ensure privacy. Vaccine carriers with required vials and Auto Disable (AD) syringes, hand sanitisers, masks, vial openers and hub cutters were also made available. “The aim of the dry run is to identify the challenges and shortcomings and address them before the actual implementation,” said District Medical Officer Dr.R Sreelatha. Twenty-five selected health workers participated in the exercise held from 9 a.m. to 11 a.m. at each centre and the details of the participants were added in the COVID-19 vaccination online portal. In future vaccination officers can check the details of the recipients by entering the portal using their user id and password. Separate rooms were set up in all three centres for the recipients to wait for and after vaccination. The participants were allowed to go home only after a 30-minute observation time and all the arrangements were in place to provide emergency treatment in case of any probable side effects. The adverse event following immunization (AEFI) committee included two physicians, one cardiologist, one neurologist and one epidemiologist from various government facilities in the district. Health inspectors verified the identity of vaccine recipients while doctors, nurses and junior public health nurses handled the vaccination. Monitored Another team including junior health inspectors and nurses were in charge of monitoring the participants after vaccination while health supervisor led the awareness sessions. District Collector B.Abdul Nasar, district panchayt president Sam K Daniel, DMO R.Sreelatha and deputy DMO Dr.R.Sandhya were present during the dry run held at Government Victoria Hospital. The Health Department has also opened a 24-hour COVID-19 vaccination control room in the district and the public can contact the department by dialling 0474-2797609.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vaccination-dry-run-in-kollam/article33533764.ece
09 January 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Bumper harvest at KMML||The organic farming project of Kerala Minerals and Metals Ltd. (KMML) produced a bumper yield of various tubers in the harvest held this week. The company had first started integrated paddy farming on 7.5 acres of fallow land, later launching Thalir, another initiative as part of Subhiksha Keralam project that aims to achieve self-sufficiency in food production. High yielding varieties that include Varada ginger, Parthibha turmeric, elephant foot yam Gajendra and cassava were among the crops that offered a great harvest. The farm next to company guest house also functioned as a farm school, helping farmers and agricultural students. According to officials of the company, the objective of the project is extending organic farming to more area in order to promote the indigenous Onattukara crops. Onam, a seed variety developed by the Onattukara Regional Agricultural Research Station, was used for paddy farming and KMML had launched its organic rice brand earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bumper-harvest-at-kmml/article33533770.ece
09 January 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kundara water project to be commissioned soon||Kundara drinking water project will be commissioned shortly and various rejuvenation works funded by Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) will be completed soon, said Fisheries Minister J.Mercykutty Amma here today. “This will solve the severe drinking water shortage in the area,” she added at a review meeting held at the Kollam Collectorate. The Minister also instructed the officials concerned to complete the projects in a time-bound manner after assessing their progress. “Works to ensure drinking water in all households as part of Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM) will be expedited. A water treatment plant will be constructed near the Perinad starch factory for Thrikkaruva-Panyam-Perinad-Munroe Thuruthu drinking water project,” she said. Residents of four panchayats from Kollam, Kundara and Kunnathur constituencies facing water scarcity will benefit from the water project that’s expected to provide drinking water to all houses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kundara-water-project-to-be-commissioned-soon/article33533757.ece
09 January 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Farmers to join Delhi protest||A group of 50 farmers from the district will travel to Delhi to join the farmer’s protest, said Kerala Karshaka Sangham district president Biju K. Mathew and secretary C. Balduin. The participants will be accorded a farewell on January 10 at the ongoing indefinite protest site organised by the joint front of trade unions in Chinnakkada. The amount collected by Karshaka Sangham through a fund-raising drive will be handed over to the farmers in Delhi, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/farmers-to-join-delhi-protest/article33533758.ece
09 January 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||462 new cases in Kottayam||As many as 462 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Friday Of the fresh cases, 457 contracted the disease through local contact. The fresh cases also included 36 children and 87 people aged above 60. With 54 cases, Kottayam municipality led the tally, followed by Changanassery with 31 cases. Pathanamthitta As many as 433 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Friday. Of the fresh cases, 418 people contracted the disease through local contact and among these, the contact source of 25 cases were yet to be identified. Among the local bodies, Pandalam reported 38 cases, followed by Thiruvalla with 34 cases. Meanwhile, the disease claimed three more lives in the district. The victims were identified as a 74-year-old Koyipram native, 48-year-old woman from Mallapuzhassery and a 90-year-old woman from Kottanad Kollam The district reported 377 new COVID-19 cases and 323 recoveries on Friday. Those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 include 369 contact cases, one person with no known source and six health workers. A total of 815 people completed home quarantine on Friday. Alappuzha The district reported 341 COVID-19 cases and 366 recoveries on Friday. The fresh cases include 331 people who contracted the disease through local transmission. The source of infection of another three persons remains unknown. Six persons who came from abroad and one from another State also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Idukki A total of 301 positive cases were reported in the district with the Kattappana municipal area having the highest single day spike of 70 cases. The grama panchayats with large number of cases were Kanchiyar, Adimali, Bisonvalley and Chakkupallom. The source of six COVID-19 cases was untraceble, said a release here. ( With contributions from Pathanamthitta, Kollam, Alappuzha and Idukki bureaus )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/462-new-cases-in-kottayam/article33533753.ece
09 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Illegal money lending thrives in Kozhikode||Despite rising instances of fake online credit schemes and loss of money, not many complaints have reached the police for a comprehensive probe. Since a majority of borrowers are reportedly those who obtained loans below Rs. 5,000 as one-time instalment, they tend to keep their details confidential fearing legal complications. Online deals Though a State-level team may be formed to probe illegal online money lending schemes and the charging of exorbitant interest rates violating RBI regulations, the victims are yet to hand over any incriminating evidence to the police. Meanwhile, the government is considering a probe to expose Kerala-based executives assisting illegal credit schemes. A preliminary probe found that mostly social media users from poor families fell prey to such schemes. Many of them had even installed a fraudulent android application, providing their complete details and identity proofs for processing loans. Though loans were instantly credited to their accounts, the high interest rates drove them into distress. “We learnt that there are also a few WhatsApp groups managed by Keralite youths to communicate with borrowers. A few borrowers are also victims of social media defamation for failure to pay interests,” said a police officer in Kozhikode city. He added that several borrowers had been trapped after the pandemic outbreak and the consequent financial crisis. A relative of a borrower from Vadakara said he came across the problem after getting a call from an executive of an online credit distribution agency. “He said I was a guarantor for the money borrowed by my relatives. Many people had been contacted by fraud agents in a similar fashion,” he added. Identity documents A cyber cell official warned that sharing of identity documents with the third party could land individuals in unforeseen legal issues and the resultant loss of money. “Anyone can access bank account details or create fake accounts using the documents and siphon off money. It is wise to avoid clicking unfamiliar social media links promising quick money,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/illegal-money-lending-thrives-in-kozhikode/article33533689.ece
09 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||COVID-19 vaccination dry run conducted in Kozhikode||The Health Department on Friday conducted a successful dry run as part of testing its preparedness to administer the COVID-19 vaccine. The dry run was conducted in five selected locations with the support of the Health Department officials and health workers. Community health centres, family health centres and primary health centres were covered in the dry run conducted between 9 a.m. and 11 a.m. on Friday to check the efficiency of the distribution mechanism. Officials said the dry run was successful and the same model would be adopted for the administration of the vaccine. The District Medical Office said the vaccine would be administered to 33,285 people in the first phase in Kozhikode. Registered health workers, employees in government and private hospitals, lab technicians and workers in the dental sector would be given priority, said the officials. In Kozhikode city, the Government General Hospital was the main centre selected for conducting the full-fledged dry run. A team of 94 selected health workers, including doctors and nurses, turned up for the trial run. It was organised mainly to explain a convenient protocol for the vaccine distribution. The staff members were also told about crowd management, safety protocol and safe handling of medicines. A Health Department official said any issue experienced by the staff during the trial run would be addressed ahead of the formal vaccine distribution. There would be arrangements to monitor the vaccinated persons for at least for half an hour, he said. In Wayanad All arrangements are being made for the COVID-19 vaccination drive in Wayanad district. The vaccine would be administered to health workers in public and private hospitals and as many as 7,658 had registered for the purpose, said District Medical Officer R. Renuka. The department had organised dry runs in two phases in various parts of the district and it was a huge success, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-19-vaccination-dry-run-conducted-in-kozhikode/article33533701.ece
09 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Four CNG pumps to be opened in district by Feb.||Construction work for the medium-density polyethylene (MDPE) pipeline for distribution of compressed natural gas to domestic units in Kozhikode district began at Ekaruur in Unnikulam grama panchayat. Balussery MLA Purushan Kadalundi inaugurated work on the City Gas Distribution (CGD) project being implemented by Indian Oil-Adani Gas Pvt. Ltd. (IOAGPL), the joint venture of Indian Oil Corporation Limited (IOCL) and Adani Gas Limited (AGL). By February, four CNG pumps will be established in the district. They will be at Nadakkavu, Chemmenchery, Ulliyeri, and Parambil Bazaar. Officials said the project being implemented in eight districts was secure, cost-effective, and environment-friendly. Besides, round- the-clock service will be available. In Kozhikode district, the first phase of the project involves laying of steel pipelines on the 25-km stretch from Ekaruur to Karanthur. The Central and State governments and local bodies are thus giving huge importance to the CGD project that will revolutionise the fuel sector, officials said. The MDPE network along with associated facilities will provide CNG to industrial, commercial and domestic units. The plan is to set up more than 450 CNG stations to cater for the transportation sector. Under the project, CNG stations in dealership model (dealer owned dealer operated - DODO) will be set up in Ernakulam, Thrissur, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Kannur and Kasaragod districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/four-cng-pumps-to-be-opened-in-district-by-feb/article33533698.ece
09 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||469 more test positive||The Health Department on Friday recorded 469 cases of COVID-19 in Kozhikode district. With this, the total number of patients undergoing treatment for the infection reached 5,743. Of the new cases, 441 persons contracted the virus through local transmission. There were five health workers and one Gulf returnee among the infected. Eighteen new patients had arrived from other States. As many as 574 persons who were undergoing treatment in various hospitals were discharged on Friday. The test positivity rate stood at 9.44%. In Wayanad As many as 238 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad district on Friday. Of the new cases, 234 patients, including one health worker, were infected through local contact and four persons had returned from other States. With 126 patients recovering on the day, the number of active cases stood at 2,556.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/469-more-test-positive/article33533703.ece
09 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Weather dashes hopes of paddy farmers||Intermittent rainfall within a week time has caused huge loss to paddy farmers who had been waiting for a good ‘Mundakan’ harvest next month to overcome the financial crisis caused by the pandemic outbreak. Joint farmer groups and those who took loans for cultivation were among those hit by the unexpected weather change. There were also youngsters who turned to paddy farming after losing their job in the pandemic period. Mukkom, Kodiyathur and Karassery villages have the highest number of such paddy fields hit by the downpour. Local administrators are also in shock as they had eagerly been waiting for the success of model farming projects supported by various government schemes. A farmer from Chennamangaloor  said there were many youths who took up paddy farming ventures after converting large acres of fallow land into cultivable fields. Land earlier used for only plantain farming and areca nut cultivation also had been prepared for resuming paddy farming with the support of local bodies, he said. Villages like Pulparambu, Cheruvadi and Pottassery also witnessed perishing of large acres of paddy. Farmers with exclusive varieties also suffered huge loss. Crop insurance Local body members from Karassery and Kodiyathur said farmers would be able to claim crop insurance assistance to compensate the loss. But, it would never be sufficient to console them and compensate for their hard work on the field, they said. Officials from the Agriculture Department said the areas where crop loss had already been confirmed would be assessed soon by their team for submitting a report to the State government. It would take a few more days to get an accurate figure of the total loss in the field in Kozhikode district, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/weather-dashes-hopes-of-paddy-farmers/article33533706.ece
09 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Officials take stock of loss||Agriculture Department officials have begun assessing the loss suffered by paddy farmers in Kozhikode following intermittent rain over the past few days. In Thalakkulathur grama panchayat, paddy in around 25 acres has perished. Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran who visited the affected areas in Thalakkulathur asked District Collector Seeram Sambasiva Rao to take appropriate relief measures for the farmers. He sought suggestions from the district administration to minimise the impact of natural calamities in the future. Mr. Rao also visited the affected areas and interacted with farmers. A report will be submitted to the government soon. Meanwhile, farmers organisations demanded the immediate release of aid.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/officials-take-stock-of-loss/article33533699.ece
09 January 2021||Malappuram,KERALA||Thangal Award presented to N.K. Premachandran||N.K. Premachandran, MP, has won the eighth Shihab Thangal Award in recognition of his virtuous and committed public life. Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) national chairman Sayed Hyderali Shihab Thangal presented the award to Mr. Premachandran at a function held here on Friday. The award was instituted by the Shihab Thangal Relief Cell, Edappal. Mr. Thangal said those who fought against injustices in society should be recognised and honoured. He congratulated Mr. Premachandran on his selfless service. IUML district president Sayed Sadikali Shihab Thangal presided over the function. IUML national general secretary P.K. Kunhalikutty, MP, organising secretary E.T. Mohammed Basheer, MP, Muslim Youth League State president Sayed Munawwarali Shihab Thangal, Abdurahman Randathani, and writer P. Surendran were present. Mr. Surendran delivered the keynote address. Mr. Premachandran returned the cash award for charity work of the Shihab Thangal Relief Cell. He said receiving the award in the name of Shihab Thangal was a proud moment in his life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shihab-thangal-award-presented-to-mp/article33533694.ece
09 January 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||A drape full of life in COVID times||COVID-19 pandemic has brought in a plethora of records for Sindhu Saptavarna, costume designer from Vendallur, near Valanchery. She holds the Golden Book of World Record, Asia Book of Record, India Book of Record and Best of India Record for the longest hand-painted pictorial sari. Ms. Sindhu has surprised the fashion world by painting four dozen iconic COVID-19 images from across the world on a 9.36-metre-long saree. Painting All the images she used for painting on the saree were so deeply rooted in the minds of the people that at a first glance, anyone could recognise the COVID-19 theme of her design. “I started the work out of curiosity in the peak of the lockdown. But when I completed the work, I could not believe myself that I had transferred a big message onto a global canvas,” she said. Her canvas was the extra-large sari specially made by the Kuthampully weavers. She chose each image after considering their lasting relevance. Begun with the infamous Wuhan market in China, where the COVID-19 originated, Ms. Sindhu went on to portray the initial travel of the virus to Italy, America and Britain. The panic caused by the Nizamuddin meet, the arrival of a few Malayali passengers from Italy, blocking of the road on Kerala-Karnataka border, passengers giving biscuits to tired policemen on COVID-19 duty, and a son in quarantine watching his father’s funeral on live video were some of the paintings she used from people’s recent memory about the pandemic. “I used Gateway of India to highlight Mumbai, because Mumbai had the highest number of cases when I was designing the sari,” she told The Hindu . Ms. Sindhu chose the image of a pregnant Earth wearing gloves and a mask to conclude her series of paintings. “It’s an indication of the precautions that we need to take if we want a healthy future for mother Earth and its children,” she said, describing her painting. She has carefully crafted her sari border also with COVID-19-related images. Masks, gloves, sanitisers, hand washes, and social distancing, are among those little images carefully crafted into the border. Recognition and records soon started coming Ms. Sindhu’s way. First it was the Best of India Record, followed by the India Book of Record, the Asia Book of Record, and of late the Golden Book of World Record. Textile giants have approached Ms. Sindhu for the sari, which she is keen to display at the Lalitha Kala Akademi at Thrissur. “I will be happy to donate whatever I get from this to the Chief Minister’s Disaster Relief Fund,” she said. Sayed Abid Husain Thangal, MLA of Kottakkal, who visited her house on Thursday, was excited to see her work. “It is exceptional brilliance of Ms. Sindhu. She has done us all proud,” said Mr. Thangal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-drape-full-of-life-in-covid-times/article33534429.ece
09 January 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||VISWAS celebrates eighth anniversary||The Victims Information, Sensitisation, Welfare and Assistance Society (VISWAS), a unique organisation offering help to the victims of crimes and excesses, celebrated its eighth anniversary here. District panchayat president K. Binumol inaugurated the celebrations. Legal issues She also inaugurated a legal forum exclusively to handle legal issues faced by indigent women. District Collector D. Balamurali presided over the function.  Debate competition The occasion also marked a debate competition for law students and distribution of N.R. Madhava Menon Award. Former District Judge T. Indira was the chief guest at the function. VISWAS secretary P. Premnath, vice presidents S. Santha Devi and V.P. Kuriakose, K. Vijaya, M. Devadas, N. Rakhi, B. Jayarajan, C. Sreekumar, and Indu Lekha spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/viswas-celebrates-eighth-anniversary/article33534430.ece
09 January 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Palakkad has 267 new cases||As many as 267 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Palakkad district on Friday. When 98 of them contracted the virus through direct contact, there were 157 cases with unknown source. There were five health workers and seven persons who came from across the borders. The district reported 207 recoveries. Officials said 4,153 active cases were under treatment and 101 persons from here were being treated in Malappuram, 42 in Ernakulam, 45 in Thrissur, 14 in Kozhikode, two in Alappuzha, and one in Kottayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/palakkad-has-267-new-cases/article33534367.ece
09 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||More city walls to host art works, says Minister||The Arteria project, an initiative of the Tourism Department to turn the city’s walls into a canvas for artists, will be extended to more places in the city, Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran has said. He instructed the District Tourism Promotion Council (DTPC) to prepare a special project for this purpose. He was speaking after inaugurating the work on the third phase of the Arteria project near LMS Junction on Friday. The new art works will be coming up on the compound walls of the Central Stadium at Statue, the compound walls of the Accountant General’s office, the walls of the cooperative bank building, SMV Higher Secondary School and UCO bank in Overbridge, the compound walls of the Napier museum, St. Joseph’s school, Palayam underpass walls, the walls near the MGM School on the bypass, compound walls of Travancore Titanium Ltd., and the Disaster Management Authority. Mr. Surendran said beautification of the city was an important focus point. It was only owing to the support of the city residents that the art works made five years ago on the city walls were still protected. The project also created an opportunity to see good works of art without visiting a gallery. The works adorning the public spaces of the city were simple and accessible to the common population. Along with this project, the renovation of the old buildings in the city, with modern lighting facilities, will be taken up, he said. The then District Collector Biju Prabhakar had proposed the idea for the Arteria project in 2015, at a time when many of the walls were disfigured with posters. Following this, a collective of artists from the city came forward and the DTPC took up the project. 25 artists The first batch of art works appeared on the compound walls of the Chandrasekharan Nair stadium, Mascot Hotel, Tourism directorate, and the Corporation office. A group of 25 artists had taken up the work in two phases in 2015 and 2016. But with weed growth and other issues, there was a need for renovation work to be carried out. Steel Industrials Kerala Ltd. will be coordinating the renovation work. V.K. Prasanth, MLA, who heads the renovation committee, presided over the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-city-walls-to-host-art-works-says-minister/article33534406.ece
09 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Green audits from January 11||Green audits for grading and issuing certifications to government offices will begin in the district on January 11. Mayor Arya Rajendran will launch the first level of the exercise by performing the audit at the office of the Director of Panchayats. The Haritha Keralam Mission has given shape to a programme whereby green audits will be conducted at 1,300 offices, D. Humayun, district coordinator, Haritha Keralam Mission, said on Friday.  State-level declaration The distribution of the green certification will begin once Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan makes the formal State-level declaration on January 26. Eco-friendly government offices that avoid the use of disposable materials and plastic and encourage the use of recyclable/reusable materials will be declared as green offices. The green office initiative envisages a ban on plastics and disposable items in government offices and public sector institutions and introduction of eco-friendly materials for everyday use. Government offices will be issued green certificates on the recommendation of green audit committees that will scrutinise the reports submitted by the offices. The green audits will begin on January 11 and conclude on January 20. The audits in district/taluk-level government offices and local self government-level offices will begin on January 12. District panchayat president D. Suresh Kumar will kick off the green audit at the Athiyannoor block panchayats office at 10.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/green-audits-from-january-11/article33534415.ece
09 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Two wildlife sanctuaries on the anvil||Two new wildlife sanctuaries will soon come into being in Kerala as part of the government’s efforts to expand its network of protected areas. In his policy address, Governor Arif Mohammed Khan said the endeavour is vital to conserve endemic and rare species of plant and animal species, and to provide connectivity between existing protected areas in order to mitigate human-animal conflict. Kallar sanctuary, the first of the proposed wildlife sanctuaries, which will provide connectivity with the Shendurney Wildlife Sanctuary on its north, Kalakkad-Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve on the east and Peppara Wildlife Sanctuary on the south will come up along Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam districts. The forest areas that surround the Silent Valley National Park, providing connectivity with Mukurthi National Park in Tamil Nadu on its north, Karimpuzha Wildlife Sanctuary on its north-west and Silent Valley National Park on its south, will also be declared a wildlife sanctuary after public consultation. Around 9% of the State’s geographical area is now managed as protected areas including national parks, tiger reserves, and wildlife sanctuaries. Digitising borders The Forest Department will collaborate with the Forest Survey of India for a pilot project to digitise boundaries of the forests in one of the forest divisions of the State. The project is aimed at integrating forest boundaries with that of private properties to conserve forest land and minimise litigation on boundary disputes. Sixteen interstate check-posts established at entry and exit points of sensitive forest areas will be upgraded as integrated forest check-posts. These inspection points are meant to check the illegal flow of timber and other forest produce. Plant species Species conservation programmes aimed at preserving or recovering 83 plant species, listed as critically endangered in the Red Data Book published by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), will also be taken up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-wildlife-sanctuaries-on-the-anvil/article33534424.ece
09 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Governor sticks to script, reads passages critical of Centre laws||Governor Arif Mohammed Khan on Friday stuck to the script and read out portions of the State administration's policy address that was critical of the Central government and its recent legislations. Addressing the 22nd session of the 14th Kerala Legislative Assembly, Mr. Khan said, “The agrarian laws will undermine regulated markets, result in the eventual demise of minimum support price and tilt the balance of bargaining power definitively in favour of corporate middlemen. Kerala being a consumer State is also going to be adversely affected by the amendment of Essential Commodities Act, 1955, and the resultant hoarding and profiteering.” On Central agencies The Governor also read out the portion that denounced the Central agencies pursuing UAE gold smuggling case for jurisdictional overreach. The agencies had “overstepped the constitutional contours and are impeding the development activities and flagship programmes undertaken by the State. This has had a demoralising effect on honest and hard-working officers. In such a situation, cooperative federalism will lose its content and remain only in the form.” Inaugurating the 21st session of the Assembly in January last, Mr. Khan had created political controversy by veering away from the policy address approved by the Cabinet. He objected to the government’s view that the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) was unconstitutional. He had found the observation out of place and not part of policy or programme. Mr. Khan said he disagreed with the passage. Nevertheless, he read it in defence to the wish of the government. The Speaker, later, ruled that the Governor's meanderings from the script would find no place in Assembly records. More recently, Mr. Khan had questioned the need to convoke the Assembly for an extraordinary one-day session to discuss and reject the Parliament's farm laws. ‘Equal partners’ He felt the Assembly lacked the ‘jurisdiction to offer a solution’ to the farmers’ agitation prompted by the Central legislations. Mr. Khan gave his assent only after the Speaker and two Ministers called on him and explained the government’s stance in person. The Governor dwelled on the spirit of cooperative federalism and said the Centre and the State were equal partners. He noted that several recent Central legislations had infringed on the rights of States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/governor-sticks-to-script-reads-passages-critical-of-centre-laws/article33533777.ece
09 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Kerala Culture Museum to come up in Palakkad||In one of the major announcements regarding Department of Culture, Governor Arif Mohammad Khan in his policy address on Friday said a Kerala Culture Museum would be set up in Palakkad while a literary museum would come up in Kottayam. A Handloom Museum would be set up in Kannur to narrate the history, traditions and evolution of weaving and looms of Kannur. A new scheme to support young artists who organised cooperative collectives in the seven districts of the State was being considered by the Culture Department. The scheme sought to support the cooperative societies of the artists with share capital contribution that would help sustain the artists' collectives. Conservation lab A conservation laboratory would be established attached to the Sree Chitra Art Gallery to undertake conservation works of the paintings collection of the gallery, and to conserve paintings in other public collections in the State. The Tagore Theatre in Thiruvananthapuram would soon witness a transformation into an info-cultural hub, by incorporating some of the best in multimedia technologies to showcase, learn, share, experience, and enjoy the many facets of the State’s art, culture and theatre. A comprehensive conservation plan would be prepared for the Edakkal Caves by the Archaeology Department, giving importance to its ethnic nature. Structural conservation would be undertaken on the exposed excavated structures of Feroke Fort in Kozhikode, Kattilmadom in Palakkad, and Pazhassikudeeram in Wayanad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kerala-culture-museum-soon-in-palakkad/article33533695.ece
09 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||SARPA app gaining popularity||The SARPA app (Snake Awareness Rescue and Protection Application) launched by the Forest Department to ensure the scientific rescue of snakes is becoming popular. The department, in collaboration with the Wildlife Trust of India (WTI), developed the app to make the trapping of snakes foolproof and safe. Once the sighting of a snake is recorded on the app, officials of the Forest Department and snake-catchers cleared by the department are alerted. They will rush to the spot to trap the snake and release it into a safe environment. Forest officials can also monitor the rescue operation using the app. Further, the SARPA app also provides information regarding emergency contacts, list of hospitals offering treatment for snake bites with their telephone numbers, and contact numbers of trained snake catchers and Forest Department officials. The app also provides valuable information on snakebites and the different types of snakes found in Kerala, and how to identify them. As per the guidelines issued by the State government, only snake catchers trained by the Forest Department are allowed to trap snakes in the State. So far, around 800 individuals have been trained, the department said on Friday. The app can be downloaded from Google PlayStore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sarpa-app-gaining-popularity/article33534408.ece
09 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||313 new cases in capital||The district recorded 313 COVID-19 cases and 307 recoveries as the number of active cases stood at 3,552 on Friday. While almost all newly diagnosed patients have believed to have contracted the disease through local transmission, four health care workers have also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The death toll in the district remained at 681, according to available statistics. The district administration placed 1,415 people in quarantine on the day, taking the number of people being supervised for COVID-19 symptoms to 19,588 at houses and 72 in various institutions. As many as 1,046 people were excluded from the quarantine list after completing the mandated self-isolation period.  Containment zones The Kallampally-Mavarthalakonam residents’ association area in Edavacode ward and Kesavadasapuram ward in Thiruvananthapuram Corporation have been declared containment zones. The existing containment zones in the Sadanam Nagar areas in Beemapally East ward, St. Xaviers lane and Vellamkanni junction in Beemapally ward, and Kochuthoppu area in Valiathura ward in Thiruvananthapuram Corporation; Chettiyampara in Tholicode grama panchayat; Eruthinadu in Pulimath grama panchayat; Puthusserimadam and Eaithukondakani in Kollayil grama panchayat; and Valakkadu in Mudakkal grama panchayat have been withdrawn.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/313-new-cases-in-capital/article33534411.ece
09 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||A nod to tough fiscal challenge||Governor Arif Mohammed Khan has said it is highly gratifying to tell the world at large that the government has lived up to its promise that no one shall go hungry during the lockdown period induced by COVID-19. Addressing the 22nd session of the 14th Kerala Assembly on Friday, the Governor said this was despite the hardships in the economic front due to the adverse impact of the pandemic. He said this was made possible with the active participation of local bodies and community volunteers. Community kitchens were opened in all parts of the State to provide food to the needy and it was ensured that guest workers got food of their choice, he said. “Kerala has almost 9% of its population living abroad. The impact of the pandemic has been quite severe on the State economy. The State receives remittances from abroad at 12% of its Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP). The return of around six lakh emigrants has hampered the flow of remittances and this will dampen the private consumption expenditure in the State,” he said. The Governor said a direct consequence of this was a downward slide in the economic growth. An expert committee appointed by the government has estimated the loss in GSDP for the financial year 2020-21 at about 10% (Rs. 80,000 crore). The dent in economy is bound to adversely affect the revenues at various levels. Kerala will face the double whammy of lower own tax revenue collections and reduction in devolution of Central taxes due to the economic down turn. Along with reduced revenue inflows, the expenditure burden has also gone up, he said.  ‘Return of six lakh emigrants has hampered flow of remittances’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-nod-to-tough-fiscal-challenge/article33533783.ece
09 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Reward for fishermen who rescued whale shark||It was on December 4 that a hefty whale shark, reportedly weighing nearly three tonnes, was trapped in a fishing net at Shanghumughom. Recognising it as an endangered species, the fishermen had sliced the shore seine net and released it. On Friday, the Forest Department and the Wildlife Trust of India (WTI) commended the fishermen who disregarded financial loss to save the whale shark, which is also the largest fish species. Chief of Forest Force P.K. Keshavan handed over the Forest Department’s reward of Rs. 10,000 to fishers John Martin and Joy Anjelose who had led the ‘rescue operation’. Chief Wildlife Warden Surendra Kumar handed over the citation. WTI marine projects head Sajan John presented the WTI’s reward of Rs. 10,000 to them. Mr. Martin and Mr. Anjelose recalled that they were a bit frightened at the sight of the huge creature initially. Then the thought that they should rescue it took over. Everyone was happy when it swam off into the sea, they said on Friday. In releasing the whale shark, the fishers have sent across an important message to the world, Mr. Keshavan said, addressing the function held at the headquarters of the Forest Department here. Whale sharks (Rhincodon typus) are a protected species under Schedule 1 of the Indian Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. This is the third instance of a whale shark being rescued on the Kerala shores. Similar rescues were reported from Malappuram in 2018 and Kozhikode in January 2020. Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Planning and Development) Devendra Kumar Verma, Conservator of Forests B.N. Anjan Kumar, and WTI representative Sethu G. were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fishermen-who-rescued-whale-shark-rewarded/article33533750.ece
09 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State’s tally crosses eight lakh mark||The cumulative COVID-19 case burden of Kerala crossed the eight lakh mark on Friday when the State reported 5,142 new cases when 59,569 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The cumulative case burden of Kerala has risen to 8,01,075 cases. The test positivity rate, which had been staying around 9-11 % and which fell below 9% on Thursday for the first time in several weeks, stayed at 8.63% on Friday. With a significant number of recoveries — 5,325 patients leaving hospitals — reported on the day, the active case pool in the State remains stabilised around 64,236 cases. The cumulative recoveries reported till date in the State rose to 7,33,384 cases. 23 deaths The COVID toll in the State has risen to 3,257 with 23 new deaths in the past several days added to the official list of fatalities on Friday. Palakkad accounted for five deaths, Thrissur four, Ernakulam, Kottayam and Kozhikode three each, Malappuram two while one death each was reported from Kollam, Idukki, and Thiruvananthapuram. The number of critically ill patients currently being treated in ICUs is 797 on Friday, according to official reports, with 231 of them requiring ventilator assistance. Of the 5,142 new cases reported on the day, the Health Department has reported a history of travel outside the State in 88 cases while 5,054 are locally acquired infections. Amongst the locally acquired infections, in 424 cases the source of infection remains untraced while the number of healthcare workers who acquired the infection is 67. Among districts, Ernakulam reported the maximum number of new cases with 708 cases, Thrissur 500, Kozhikode 469, Pathanamthitta 433, Malappuram 419, Kollam 377, Alappuzha 341, Thiruvananthapuram 313, Idukki 301, Palakkad 267, Kannur 249, Wayanad 238, and Kasaragod 65.  U.K. variant Three more persons who arrived in the State between December 9 and 23 from the United Kingdom tested positive for COVID-19 in the past 24 hours. With this, a total of 50 persons who arrived from the U.K. during the specified period to the State have tested positive for COVID-19. Till now, National Institute of Virology, Pune, has found the presence of the U.K. virus variant in only six samples from the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/states-tally-crosses-eight-lakh-mark/article33533775.ece
09 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Police set to implement AI projects||A pioneer in adopting technology in policing, the Kerala Police will implement artificial intelligence projects this year, Governor Arif Mohammed Khan said. A cybersecurity centre and a virtual police station will be established in Thiruvananthapuram and Ernakulam. The government has also decided to set up 15 new cybercrime police stations. The Cyberdomes in Thiruvananthapuram, Kochi and Kozhikode will be strengthened. While 30% women reservation has been implemented for home guard recruitment in the Fire and Rescue Department, the government will appoint 100 women in the department. The Home Department set up 79 child-friendly police stations and three women police stations in Pathanamthitta, Idukki and Kasaragod last year. The police introduced a citizen-centric mobile application, POL-APP that provides 27 services. A new task force will be constituted to handle major disasters. Among the 28 fast-track special courts sanctioned to dispose of rape and POCSO cases, 20 have already started functioning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-set-to-implement-ai-projects/article33533780.ece
09 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||‘Karmapadham’ job portal for the differently abled||A portal ‘Karmapadham’ will be launched by the Social Justice Department to help qualified and skilled differently abled people secure employment, Governor Arif Mohammed Khan said. The differently abled can register their details on the portal so that employers in the private sector can choose those with requisite skills. A portal solely for the elderly will be developed to exploit fully their experience. The elderly can register on the portal ‘Paithrikam’ and give information about their domain of expertise. A programme namedIT@Elderlywill be launched to bring forth total digital literacy among the elderly. The Grand Care project was launched by the department to address the issues faced by residents of old-age homes and the elderly with co-morbidities who are in reverse quarantine in the wake of the pandemic. Anganwadi workers reached out to 45 lakh elderly over phone to get updates about their health and other needs. Vayokshema call centres were launched in each district. A new scheme, Parivarthanam, will be launched to provide psychosocial intervention to former prisoners and women offenders. The programme will be implemented with the help of technical agencies such as Bengaluru-based NIMHANS and non-governmental organisations. Transgender people For the transgender people, the department plans to implement a housing project named Sukrutham. It will benefit transgender persons who own land or get land through local self-governments. An online portal named Kiranam will be launched for the benefit of qualified, skilled, and semi-skilled transgender persons.  ‘Parivarthanam’ will provide psychosocial intervention to former prisoners and women offenders||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/karmapadham-job-portal-for-the-differently-abled/article33534419.ece
09 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||New model home for child sexual abuse survivors||The Women and Child Development Department is starting a model home for 200 children who have survived sexual abuse. It will become the largest welfare institution under the department, Governor Arif Mohammed Khan said . Educators, skill developers, and vocational trainers will support children through their education and rehabilitation. The home is being started with the aim of segregating each category of survivors and providing individual care. At present, there are 16 Women and Children’s Homes and one SOS home in the State. Food kits The department’s Nirbhaya programme is also intended at hand-holding and rehabilitating the survivors of sexual abuse. During the pandemic, the department ensured that recognised welfare institutions received food kits, thereby ensuring the health of the residents. Pre-school children As many as 5.2 lakh children under the age of three and 4.4 lakh children in the 3-6 age group were provided uninterrupted take-home ration under the supplementary nutrition scheme. The department helped provide online education under the name Kilikonchal for preschool children in anganwadis so that their early education was not disrupted during the pandemic. Posters based on preschool themes were printed and delivered to the anganwadi children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-model-home-for-child-sexual-abuse-survivors/article33533790.ece
09 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Tovino Thomas to be brand ambassador of volunteer force||Actor Tovino Thomas will be the brand ambassador of the Samoohika Sannadha Sena (community volunteer force) set up by the State government last year to be deployed during exigencies. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan lauded the actor in a Facebook post for coming forward to take up the responsibility. He said the presence of Mr. Thomas, who had been an active presence in the relief efforts after the unprecedented floods in the State, could take the message of the Samoohika Sannadha Sena to more people.  Massive response In March last year, following the COVID-19 outbreak, the Chief Minister’s call to the youth to be part of the volunteer force in the fight against COVID-19 received a massive response with lakhs of youth in the 20-40 age group joining in. The group, a mixed bag ranging from techies, health workers, engineers, sportspersons, and autorickshaw drivers, has manned community kitchens and call-centres, delivered commodities such as food, medicines, essential supplies, seeds and fertilizers to doorsteps, ensured physical-distancing norms outside retail outlets, and organised blood donation camps during the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tovino-to-be-ambassador-of-volunteer-force/article33533749.ece
09 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||EC to seek report from Kasaragod Collector||The State Election Commission will seek a report from the District Collector, Kasaragod, on a complaint lodged by a presiding officer that he was threatened by Udma MLA K. Kunhiraman when he attempted to stop vote fraud during the local body polls. State Election Commissioner V. Bhaskaran confirmed that the commission had received a complaint in this regard from K.M. Sreekumar, Professor, Agricultural Entomology, Kerala Agricultural University (KAU). Prof. Sreekumar was assigned election duty as presiding officer at the polling station at GLP School, Cherkapara - Kizhakkebhagam, in Kasaragod district. “We will ask the Collector for a report. Further course of action will be decided on the basis of the report,” Mr. Bhaskaran said on Friday. Threat K.M. Sreekumar, a presiding officer during the local body elections, had accused Udma MLA K. Kunhiraman of threatening him when he attempted to stop an alleged fraudulent voting in Alakode village of Kasaragod district.  (With inputs from Kasaragod Bureau)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ec-to-seek-report-from-kasaragod-collector/article33533692.ece
09 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KSEB to establish eight more charging stations||With electric vehicles expected to take over the roads in the near future, the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) too is preparing for the transformation. The State-run power utility will establish eight more charging stations in the district for powering electric vehicles. With this, the number of stations will go up to nine in the district, the KSEB said. The new stations are planned at Vydyuthi Bhavan (KSEB headquarters), airport, College of Engineering Thiruvananthapuram, Coconut Development Corporation at Attingal, Power House, Neyyattinkara, Nedumangad, and Vizhinjam. The KSEB is planning to open 156 charging stations across the State. The KSEB had established a station in Thiruvananthapuram district under the Nemom electrical section. Construction of the eight stations will be completed as quickly as possible, the power utility said on Friday. The charging station at Nemom has two filling units of 20 and 60 kilowatts each. The KSEB has also started charging stations in each of the six Corporations. Since they are fast-charging facilities, electric cars can be fully charged in an hour. The KSEB is also offering technical expertise to institutions in this area. The KSEB has also undertaken various activities for promoting electric vehicles which considerably reduce environmental pollution and fuel expenses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kseb-to-establish-eight-more-charging-stations/article33534414.ece
09 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||2,000 public Wi-Fi hotspots to come up||Remarking that the government’s Kerala Fibre Optic Network (K-Fon) project has become ‘the target of vicious propaganda by vested interests,’ Governor Arif Mohammed Khan said in his policy address that the government was committed to its implementation. Elaborating on projects planned in the Information Technology sector, he said 2,000 public Wi-Fi hotspots will be set up to provide free internet in public places. The K-Fon project that aims at providing last-mile connectivity to government offices and educational institutions and facilitating high-speed Internet connectivity to poor families is progressing. The State’s IT infrastructure is in the midst of a revamp and data centres will be upgraded this year. International Centre for Free and Open Source Software will set up a research centre to make effective use of Malayalam language technology in the field of e-governance.  K-Fon, a target of vicious propaganda||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2000-public-wi-fi-hotspots-to-come-up/article33533778.ece
09 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Rebuild Kerala enters implementation stage||The rebuilding process under Rebuild Kerala Initiative (RKI) has entered the implementation stage and administrative sanctions have been issued for Rs. 6,679.20 crore for projects under 11 departments. The RKI which is mandated to develop, coordinate, facilitate and monitor the Rebuild Kerala Development Programme (RKDP) has mobilised funds from bilateral funding agencies like the World Bank and the German Bank KfW. Many of the sanctioned projects are now in various stages of implementation, Governor Arif Mohammed Khan said in his address to the 22nd session of 14th Kerala Assembly on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rebuild-kerala-enters-implementation-stage/article33533784.ece
09 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||COVID vaccine dry run goes off smoothly||The second dry run for COVID-19 vaccine administration in the State, held as part of a nationwide exercise, went off smoothly at all 46 sites in 14 districts on Friday. In districts, the dry run was held from 9 a.m. till 11 a.m. at medical college/ district/ private hospital and urban/rural government health facility. In Kozhikode, the dry run was held at five sites, while in Thiruvananthapuram, the sites chosen were Parasala Taluk Headquarters Hospital, Family Health Centre, Aruvikkara, and NIMS Medicity . Health Minister K.K. Shylaja congratulated department officials and employees for conducting the dry run for vaccine administration successfully. ‘Excellent facilities’ Kerala has the advantage of vast experience and expertise in vaccination programmes as well as an excellent vaccine storage and cold chain infrastructure across the State. Hence, COVID-19 vaccination can take off in the State as soon as the vaccines are supplied by the Centre, she added. At every session site, 25 healthcare workers participated in the dry run, which tested every process involved in vaccine administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-vaccine-dry-run-goes-off-smoothly/article33533793.ece
09 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Centre trying to unsettle non-BJP-ruled States: CPI(M)||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] on Friday resolved to drum up popular resistance against the Central government’s blatant misuse of federal law enforcement agencies to target political opponents and unsettle non-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled States. CPI(M) acting State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan said Kerala was a victim of Central power abuse. Federal agencies pursuing the UAE gold smuggling had used the investigation as a pretext to vilify leaders of the government and party. They had Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan among others in their crosshairs for political reasons. The agencies had catalysed the vilification campaign unleashed against the government by the Congress and the BJP.  Mr. Vijayaraghavan said people had seen through the lies floated by the Central agencies and endorsed the LDF in the local body elections. The CPI(M) would find common cause with other non-BJP States and Opposition parties to counter the Centre’s exploitation of Central agencies for political gain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/centre-trying-to-unsettle-non-bjp-ruled-states-cpim/article33533708.ece
09 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Water cannon used on BJYM protesters||Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) activists took out a demonstration to the Assembly demanding Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan’s resignation in the foreign currency smuggling case on Friday. The protesters, numbering around 100, were blocked by the police near the Chandrasekharan Nair stadium as they neared the Assembly shortly after the Governor’s policy address concluded. The protest turned unruly when the agitators attempted to topple the barricades that were erected on the road to block their passage. Water cannons were used on the protesters at least five times, leaving one agitator injured and others running for cover.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/water-cannon-used-on-bjym-protesters/article33534412.ece
09 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Road infra given thrust||Governor Arif Mohammed Khan on Friday said the government was able to restart the development of National Highway 66 by upgrading to four/six-lane across 568 km . The total project cost was Rs. 45,000 crore, including anticipated land acquisition cost of Rs. 21,000 crore. While works on the Kazhakuttam-Mukkola stretch had been completed and inaugurated, works on the Thalassery bypass and Mukkola to Karode on the Tamil Nadu border were proceeding. Addressing the Assembly on Friday, the Governor said Kerala was the only State that had agreed to bear 25% of land acquisition cost for upgrading of the NH. The long awaited and delayed projects such as the Vytilla and Kundanoor flyovers in Kochi and the Alappuzha bypass had been completed. Mr. Khan said an all-weather semi-elevated Alappuzha-Changanassery road (AC road) would be ready this year. He said survey works had been inaugurated for the Anakkampoyil- Kalladi- Meppadi tunnel road connecting Kozhikode and Wayanad. The 6.8-km bypass for the Thamarassery ghat road would be the third longest underpass in the country and was expected to be commissioned within four years. The Governor said the government was in the process of implementing the wayside amenities project to provide world-class facilities along national and State highways for travellers. The wayside amenities would have fuel stations, restrooms, repair centres, food courts, and convenience stores for travellers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/road-infra-given-thrust/article33534418.ece
09 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Early flood warning system planned||The State government will develop a flood forecasting and early warning system integrated with real-time reservoir operations for the Periyar basin and a real-time decision support system (DSS) for flood and drought management in the Bharathapuzha basin this year. This is part of the government’s proposal to develop a full-fledged inflow forecasting and flood early warning system for all river basins in the State under the National Hydrology Project (NHP), Governor Arif Mohammed Khan said. The Water Resources Department would be restructured on the basis of river basin groups, the policy address said. Coordination between the department and key agencies, including the Kerala State Electricity Board and stakeholder departments, including Agriculture, Fisheries and local self government institutions would be strengthened. The Irrigation Department would focus on more lift irrigation projects in 2021, since the total irrigated area in the State is just four lakh hectares against the cultivable command area of 22 lakh hectares.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/early-flood-warning-system-planned/article33534422.ece
09 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Colleges made smart, says Governor||The State ranked first in the National School Education (NSE) Index by the NITI Aayog, Governor Arif Mohammed Khan said in his policy address on Friday. During the pandemic, the General Education Department launched a digital classes programme, with classes for grades 1 to 12 being telecast on Victers channel right from the start of the academic year. Work on 50% of the targeted 2,000 schools as part of a campaign to improve their physical infrastructure with the support of people’s representatives, local bodies, and the public has been completed. All classrooms for Classes 8 to 12 in government and aided schools had been converted into smart classrooms, while high-tech labs have been set up in primary and upper primary schools. Buoyed by the success of its Public Education Rejuvenation Mission, the government has focused on digitising the higher education sector and making colleges ‘smart’. In his address, Mr. Khan provided indications of the government’s objective and said the government would initiate a comprehensive programme similar to that in the general education (sector) to improve infrastructure and enhance the quality of education.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/colleges-made-smart-says-governor/article33534425.ece
09 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Nation’s first solar ro-ro service soon||The country’s maiden solar electric ro-ro (roll-on roll-off) service and Kerala’s first amphibious water bus will be introduced during 2021-2022, Governor Arif Mohammed Khan has said. The Department of Water Transport has plans to introduce barge service for cargo movement utilising the National Waterway corridors. The department is also planning to introduce more solar-powered boats. The Governor said the department would introduce more high-speed passenger -cum- tourist services to tap the tourism potential of Alappuzha, Ernakulam, Payyannur, and Kollam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nations-first-solar-ro-ro-service-soon/article33534426.ece
09 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Public toilets in State to be renovated||The Local Self Government Department will renovate the public toilets across the State, including in KSRTC bus stands, and construct new ones, said Governor Arif Mohammed Khan in his policy address on Friday. A total of 1,235 toilet blocks are being constructed or renovated in the first phase. In the 25th year of the launch of the People's Plan campaign, the focus will be to strengthen the local government disaster management plans into climate action plans including strategic energy saving interventions like the installation of LED street lights. For this the Department will be embedding geospatial mapping and spatial planning into the urban planning process. Digitised HR index Digitisation of local biodiversity registers, setting up of an online gramasabha portal, preparation of a digitized local human resource index, will be some of the digital interventions undertaken. There will be investment in developing long term institutional capability for waste management particularly in liquid waste management including sewage and septage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/public-toilets-in-state-to-be-renovated/article33534427.ece
09 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||COVID fight dominates address||Kerala’s management of COVID-19 dominated a major part of the Governor Arif Mohammed Khan’s policy address. There were no new announcements of projects for the health sector. Mr. Khan said while Kerala had won worldwide acclaim for the manner in which it contained COVID-19, the State had a tough task ahead, as disease transmission levels needed to be brought down to more manageable levels at 5%. The State initiated its fight against COVID-19 much ahead of time when it set up a control room at the Directorate of Health Services on January 24 last year. Adequate testing facilities were set up in all districts. The government established COVID-19 first-line and second-line treatment centres. Post-COVID care and management was attended to through special clinics set up at periphery and referral clinics at the secondary level. The elderly and those with chronic diseases were cared for.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-fight-dominates-address/article33533781.ece
09 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Integrated revenue portal soon||A comprehensive revenue portal will be rolled out by integrating various related systems such as Kerala Building Tax Online, Social Security Pension, and Relief (Disaster Management Portal). Governor Arif Mohammed Khan also announced the setting up of a Devaswom tribunal to restore the alienated land of Devaswom Boards. A project management unit Kerala Land Records Modernisation Mission has been constituted for the integration of revenue, survey and registration departments to deliver revenue services online. End-to-end computerisation that involves digitisation of revenue records in villages including maps and registerswill be implemented in Vanchiyoor in Thiruvananthapuram and Kaduthuruthy in Kottayam. As many as 1.63 lakh title deeds have been issued since this government came into power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/integrated-revenue-portal-soon/article33533786.ece
09 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||SilverLine termed prestigious||Hinting at the government’s commitment towards SilverLine, Governor Arif Mohammed Khan said the semi-high speed rail connecting Kochuveli, near Thiruvananthapuram, and Kasaragod was a prestigious project. Its detailed project report and alignment were awaiting Central approval, he said. The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation had drawn up plans to convert diesel buses to CNG and LNG and purchase electric buses in the next five years. This would reduce air pollution and cut fuel consumption by 30%. It was proposed to operate non-diesel buses in Thiruvananthapuram city. As an initial step, KSRTC buses were being modified. The works of Kochi Metro Rail Phase I extension from Petta to Thripunithura were progressing well. Metropolitan transport authorities would be established in Thiruvananthapuram and Kozhikode on the lines of the Kochi Metropolitan Transport Authority (KMTA).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/silverline-termed-prestigious/article33533788.ece
09 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KU union office-bearers||Anila Raj, first-year MCom student of TKMM College, Nangiarkulangara in Alappuzha has been elected chairperson for the Kerala University (KU) union for 2019-2020. Ayesha Babu, second-year BA Philosophy student of SN College, Kollam; Drishyamol T.K., first-year MSc Physics student of NSS College, Pandalam; and Sruthy P.V., a BEd student of Iqbal Training College, Peringamala, will become the vice chairpersons in the newly elected council. The nominees to the Students Council and Senate of the University of Kerala were also elected on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ku-union-office-bearers/article33534405.ece
09 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||MLA moves breach of privilege notice||Raju Abraham, MLA, of the CPI(M) has served to Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan a breach of privilege notice against the Customs. In his notice, Mr. Abraham said the Customs had leaked communications with the Legislative Secretariat to the media. Thus it had lowered the esteem of the House.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mla-moves-breach-of-privilege-notice/article33534409.ece
09 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Worksheet for Vidyajyothi released||District panchayat president D. Suresh Kumar released the worksheet prepared for this year’s Vidyajyothi project to provide special attention and extra training to academically backward students in the district. The district panchayat had launched the project to improve the grades of the low-performing students back in 2015-16, in association with the District Institute of Education and Training (DIET). In 2018-19, following the success of the programme, it was extended to the higher secondary level too. District panchayat vice president Shailaja Begum presided over the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/worksheet-for-vidyajyothi-released/article33534413.ece
09 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Power supply disruption||Power supply will be disrupted in the Peroorkada electrical section limits from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. on Saturday owing to repairs being undertaken on transformers, the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/power-supply-disruption/article33534416.ece
09 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Certificate course on fitness training||The SRC Community College has invited applications for a six-month certificate course on fitness training. The fee is Rs. 18,000. There is no age limit. January 31 is the last date for applying. For details, call 9847444462 or visitwww.srccc.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/certificate-course-on-fitness-training/article33534417.ece
09 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Plea to ensure welfare of senior citizens||The Senior Citizens Service Council has urged the government to create a department for the welfare of the elderly who constitute about 15% of the total population in the State. A press note issued by the council appealed to the government to include the proposal in the forthcoming Budget, along with pension for all senior citizens, free medical treatment, and commission for the elderly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plea-to-ensure-welfare-of-senior-citizens/article33533754.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Getting it right||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/getting-it-right/article33534369.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Stiff resistance||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stiff-resistance/article33534421.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||High-decibel protest||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/high-decibel-protest/article33533792.ece
09 January 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Schools, offices to become session sites for COVID-19 vaccination||The dry run for COVID19 vaccination began at Neeruganti Street Urban Health Centre in the city and at 140 session sites identified in Anantapur district on Friday. It will cater to the needs of close to 40,000 primarily healthcare workers in government and private sector. Anantapur Joint Collector (V&WS) A. Siri and District Medical and Health Officer Y. Kameswara Prasad oversaw the arrangements made for the dry run and preparedness of the identified staff for conducting the process either by the January-end or the first week of February. In the second phase, all mandal level schools and offices would become the session sites for administering the vaccine. Software glitch fixed A glitch during the registration of the beneficiaries on the Co-WIN portal did not allow the officials in Anantapur, Kadapa and Nellore districts to conduct an online live ‘dry run’, but with the software bugs rectified on Friday, 70 names were registered by Friday morning and the beneficiaries at the UHS, were made to sit keeping a safe distance, show their identity proofs. A digital assistant matched the documents with the information on the app. In the simulation exercise, a waiting room was arranged where people after the vaccination were made to wait for 30 minutes to observe any side-effects. “A number of hospitals and CHCs were tied up with the 140 vaccination sites so that in case of any complications they could be treated. A team of experts such as pulmonologist, cardiologist and others has been constituted to refer the severe cases to them,” said Ms. Siri. “The Government General Hospital has kept 20 beds ready for any eventuality to treat patients from the contraindications due to vaccination,” said GGH Superintendent M. Ramaswamy Naik.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/schools-offices-to-become-session-sites-for-covid-19-vaccination/article33534325.ece
09 January 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mounting debt a Gordian knot for Dharmavaram weavers||Aruna has no clue as to how she would run her family. Her world turned upside down after her 35-year-old husband Avvaru Balachindambara Swamy, a weaver, ended his life on August 31 last year. Running family has never been easy for the weavers of Dharmavarm in Anantapur district, even though the handloom products from this place, especially silk sarees, have carved a niche for themselves in the markets. Pandemic blues The outbreak of coronavirus in March last year followed by the nationwide lockdown and dull market conditions delivered a blow on the weavers like Swamy. The income went down as the orders plummeted and the products found no takers, even as the debt kept mounting. Given the tough competition from the powerloom products and paltry income they make, the weavers take loans not only to stay relevant in the market but also to run their families. “My husband was honest when it came to the repayment of loans, though our family suffered. With the Rs. 24,000 he got as assistance under the YSR Nethanna Nestham scheme, he had repaid a bank loan entirely in the hope that the bank would refinance him. He also repaid Rs. 2,000 that I had borrowed from a neighbour. But the other debts mounted up to Rs. 5 lakh by April last year. Lack of work owing to pandemic made it worse. He could not endure it any more,” Ms. Aruna told The Hindu . Swamy is among 14 weavers from Dharmavaram and its surrounding areas, who reportedly resorted to the extreme steps for the same reason last year. Four weavers reportedly ended their lives in the district in December alone. “I had no choice but to discontinue studies of my two daughters. The house rent has not been paid for the last 10 months. One of my relatives is helping us with Rs. 2,000 a month. My father is not in a position to support me. He is a weaver too,” said Ms. Aruna. Hemavathi Pabbathi, a 25-year-old weaver, reportedly resorted to the extreme step for lack of work during the pandemic. She had been taking care of her elder sister Poojavathi, who is seriously ill, and old mother. She was the sole breadwinner of the family. Such stories of miseries are unending, said Pola Ramanjaneyulu, State president of A.P. Chenetha Karmika Sangham.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mounting-debt-a-gordian-knot-for-dharmavaram-weavers/article33534329.ece
09 January 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bid to murder case against Tadipatri MLA quashed||An attempt to murder case registered against Tadipatri MLA Kethireddy Pedda Reddy in October, 2018 was struck down by Fourth Additional Sessions Court Judge B. Sunitha here on Friday. A resident of Thimmampalli in Yellanur mandal, Kanala Sharada, had lodged a complaint against Mr. Pedda Reddy and 10 others alleging an attempt on her life. The police registered a case 85/2018 in Yellanur police station under Sections 147, 148, 354, 307 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bid-to-murder-case-against-tadipatri-mla-quashed/article33534323.ece
09 January 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Arrangements being made at 150 institutions in Chittoor||Joint Collector (Development) Veerabrahmam on Friday launched the second dry run of COVID-19 vaccination at Government Area Hospital at Puttur and Primary Health Centre at Narayanavanam. Inspecting the dry run, he expressed happiness that foolproof arrangements were under way at about 150 health institutions in the district, including PHCs, community health centres, area and teaching hospitals. Mr. Veerabadram said in each centre, at least 25 personnel of the medical and health wing had taken part in the dry run. ‘Action plan ready’ The arrangements included entry and exit points for the target personnel, reception and registration, vaccination room, emergency room with required kits and ambulance service. COVID-19 Special Officer P. Ravi Raju said a full-fledged action plan was ready for the practical vaccination drive expected to be grounded very soon. He said while 30,000-plus personnel of the medical and paramedical wings would be administered vaccine in the first phase, the second phase included frontline force of over one lakh, and third phase would cover those above 50 years of age, and those with comorbid conditions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/arrangements-being-made-at-150-institutions-in-chittoor/article33534326.ece
09 January 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman drowns children, self in well||A woman allegedly drowned her two children and then jumped into a well at Obanapalle village on the outskirts of Chittoor. The bodies were fished out on Friday. According to the Chittoor II-Town police, Dhanalakshmi (28) along with her children, Uday (6) and Jhansi (8), had been living with her mother for the last three years, after reportedly developing differences with her husband. To support the family, Dhanalakshmi used to work at a hotel in Chittoor. During COVID-19 lockdown, she lost her job, which allegedly forced her into depression and financial stress. She left her mother’s house along with children on Wednesday evening. As she did not return home even by Friday morning, neighbours launched a search in the surroundings, besides making inquiries with relatives. Some youth found the bodies of two children floating in a well near Obanapalle locality. When the police arrived at the spot and initiated steps to fish out the bodies, Dhanalakshmi’s body also surfaced. The police suspect financial problems coupled with family troubles could have driven the woman to resort to the extreme step. A case was registered and investigation is on. Those in distress can call Dial 100 fao rcounselling and guidance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-drowns-kids-self-in-well/article33533484.ece
09 January 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Farmer injured in wild elephant attack||Chandrachari (55), a farmer, was critically injured when a wild elephant attacked him at a forest fringe area close to Bandladoddi village of Bangarupalem mandal on Thursday night. As his condition turned serious, he was rushed to a hospital in Tirupati on Friday. According to information, Chandrachari along with his neighbour Kuppaiah ventured close to the forest on Thursday night in search of a missing cow. Seeing a herd of wild elephants on prowl in the fields, they decided to return. Disturbed at the sight of two men, the herd started advancing towards them. While Kuppaiah escaped, Chandrachari was stranded in the fields. An elephant reportedly lifted him with its trunk and flung him to a distance. The herd then left the place. He was rescued by villagers in the early hours of Friday. As he complained of breathlessness, he was rushed to the area hospital at Bangarupalem, and later rushed to a hospital in Tirupati.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/farmer-critical-after-attack-by-wild-elephant/article33533483.ece
09 January 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||A dream come true, at last||People of the Lime City, Piduguralla, finally set to get potable water at their houses as decade-old dream of getting piped water supply to households has been realised. A drinking water project of supplying potable water drawn from Govindapuram to 16,800 households is being launched by Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development Botcha Satyanarayana on Saturday. Kasu Mahesh Reddy, MLA of Gurazala and grandson of former Chief Minister Kasu Brahmananda Reddy, said the dream to get a piped water for Piduguralla has remained unfulfilled for long.  Free water connections “Now, we have given free water connections to 18,600 homes and this has been done in just 18 months of coming to power. In comparison, bigger towns like Narsaraopet, have 18, 832 connections out of 29,930 households, Vinukonda has 12,400 water tap connections, and Macherla has 6,750 water tap connections. I realised that Piduguralla has not even a single water connection. The scheme to bring potable water from Govindapuram has been lying in cold storage for over 10 years,” said Mr. Mahesh Reddy. YSR’s initiative Mr. Mahesh Reddy also said that it was former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy, who has taken the initiative of a drinking water project to Piduguralla when Janga Krishnamurthy was an MLA, but later the project was put in backburner. Other projects “We want to end the travails of people of Palnadu, who have no access to drinking water. Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy will soon lay the foundation stone for a water grid project at Buggavagu, being taken up at a cost of Rs. 140 crore. The Varekipudisila Lift Irrigation scheme will also be grounded with an outlay of Rs. 7,000 crore. A medical college is being set up at Gurazala and several LI schemes are being grounded this year,” said Mr. Mahesh Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/piped-water-a-dream-come-true-at-last/article33533563.ece
09 January 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Collector asks Tahsildars to get ready with database||District Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar has asked Tahsildars to be ready with mandal level task force committees and a database to administer COVID vaccine. During a video conference with Revenue Divisional Officers, Municipal Commissioners and Tahsildars on the administration of COVID vaccine, the Collector said every mandal level committee would be headed by a Tahsildar, and consist of senior medical officer, mandal development officer, mandal education officer, station house officer, executive engineer of electricity department, and an officer from Transport Department. First preference would be given to healthcare workers, second preference would be given to frontline workers and third preference to those above 50 years. The Tahsildars should prepare a mandal level database and register the people in the mobile application. Every day, 100 vaccinations should be administered. People who have side effects would be treated for mild effects in the room itself. Joint Collectors A.S. Dinesh Kumar, P. Prasanthi, DRO K. Chandrasekhara Reddy, DMHO J. Yasmin and GGH superintendent Prabhavati were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/collector-asks-tahsildars-to-get-ready-with-database/article33534461.ece
09 January 2021||K. UmashankerCHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Bachelors’ group’ of elephants give sleepless nights to villagers in Chittoor||The three-member herd of wild elephants, called “bachelors’ group” in forest department parlance, which entered Chittoor district near Vellore in Tamil Nadu a fortnight ago, is now on the prowl in the hilly terrain of Karvetinagaram range. As the group moved into the interior, nearly 70 km away from its entry point, tense situation prevailed in villages in Karvetinagram and Puttur ranges, as jumbo presence is unheard of in the region so far. The three tuskers emerging from the Tamil Nadu forests crossed Gudiyattam (Tamil Nadu), Yadamarri, Gudipala, Chittoor and S.R. Puram mandals, before entering the Karvetinagaram range, which holds very thin vegetation, considered unsuited for wild elephants. Interestingly, except for foraying into the fields occasionally, the group is confining itself mostly to hillocks. Having advanced into the densely populated areas with denuded jungle cover, the herd is moving forward, without showing any sign of making a retreat into its habitation. Divisional Forest Officer (Chittoor East Wildlife) G.G. Narentheran, who is monitoring the situation with about 25 forest watchers, said the situation required more caution. “It’s not easy to drive the herd back into its habitation after it strayed several kilometres. Our men are cautiously handling the situation. Fortunately, due to heavy rains since six months, there is a considerable fodder in forests. The herd is able to sustain on them, not creating much trouble for the farmers,” he said. Referring to the options of capturing the animals if the situation went out of control, the DFO said such an action required the permission from the Central authorities. “Even if we want to go for a ‘kumki’ operation (by trained elephants) to drive the herd into the thickets, it does not sound workable as its habitation is at least 40 km away. On the positive side, the Bachelor’s Group’s (an adult male member leading juvenile animal) is not menacing like regular herds. We will handle it smoothly,” Mr. Narentheran said. Forest personnel at Karvetinagaram said the group is currently camping close to Ammapalle hamlet near Krishnapuram reservoir.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bachelors-group-of-elephants-give-sleepless-nights-to-villagers-in-chittoor/article33534455.ece
09 January 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vinayaka idol goes missing in CM’s constituency||An idol of Lord Vinayaka was found missing on Friday at Chagaleru village in Vemula mandal, falling under the Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s Pulivendula constituency. The incident in the remote village triggered shock waves in the district and surcharged the State’s political atmosphere, in the wake of the series of instances of desecration of idols. The idol was reportedly lifted by unidentified miscreants late on Thursday night, but the locals observed the missing idol on Friday morning and alerted the police. A team led by Vemula Sub-Inspector Sanjeeva Reddy rushed to the village and inspected the CCTV footage in the vicinity, but reportedly did not find any clue. ‘People hardly visit it’ When contacted by The Hindu , he sought to downplay the incident, pointing out that the temple sans any compound and gate was hardly visited by anybody. “An old man living nearby visits the temple to light the lamp, which is visited only during weddings in the village”, Mr. Sanjeeva Reddy said. Meanwhile, BJP Kisan Morcha state President Sasibhushan Reddy expressed concern over the incident and saw a pattern in the turn of events in the last few days. “The instances of attack on temples is certainly a form of undermining Hindu dharma, but the State government has failed to curtail it,” he said. Taking a dig at the police for failing to arrest even one person accused of vandalism in the events, he demanded that the government award exemplary punishment to the culprits. Mr. Reddy warned that the YSR Congress Party would have to pay a heavy price if it continued to remain indifferent to the serious issue and continue to turn the tables on the opposition parties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vinayaka-idol-goes-missing-in-cms-constituency/article33534336.ece
09 January 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Conditional nod for Pawan’s public meeting||Conditional permission has been granted to the public meeting to be addressed by JSP president Pawan Kalyan on Saturday at the place adjacent to the site where the unit of Divi’s Laboratory Limited is proposed in Thondangi mandal in East Godavari district, Superintendent of Police Adnan Nayeem Asmi has said. “Permission has been given to conduct the public meeting, subject to the conditions that there should be minimum gathering and there should be no provocative speech, and no law and order problem should arise. The visit should not lead to any violence,” Mr. Nayeem Asmi told The Hindu . Two weeks ago, protesters had set fire to the machinery of the company on the project site, the SP recalled and said that Section 144 was in force in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/conditional-nod-for-pawans-public-meeting/article33534331.ece
09 January 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Groundwater report to be ready by Feb.||East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy on Friday said the District Groundwater Assessment Report-2020 would be prepared by February-end and submitted to the State government for planning conservation measures. The assessment is done once in three years. As many as 12 areas have been found where groundwater has been exploited more than the actual requirement. The first assessment was carried out in 2004-05.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/groundwater-report-to-be-ready-by-feb/article33534381.ece
09 January 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two held for ‘burglaries’||The Kakinada city police on Friday arrested two persons in connection with various house burglaries over the past one and half year in the Kakinada police division limits in East Godavari district. In a press conference, East Godavari SP Adnan Nayeem Asmi said that duo had been identified as Chukka Mahesh 32, a TV mechanic, and Rustum Khan, 35, a painter, who were allegedly involved in house burglaries, during which they reportedly stole gold, silver ornaments and TV sets worth of Rs. 35 lakh. The duo belonged to Kakinada city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-held-for-burglaries/article33533564.ece
09 January 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Amma Vodi phase 2 launch on Jan. 11||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will launch the second phase of the Amma Vodi scheme in Nellore on January 11. Reviewing the arrangements for the visit with Ministers M. Goutham Reddy and P. Anil Kumar, and District Collector K.V.N. Chakradhar Babu, Adviser (Public Affairs) S. Ramakrishna Reddy said all sections of people were happy with the welfare schemes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/amma-vodi-phase-2-launch-on-jan-11/article33534332.ece
09 January 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police intensify probe into Singarayakonda case||The police on Friday intensified investigation into the case relating to alleged spreading of disinformation that the arch of the Lakshminarasimha Swamy temple was vandalised by miscreants at Singarayakonda in Prakasam district recently. Close on the heels of the arrest of six persons, including five journalists, the police picked up several TDP leaders and a few more journalists as part of the probe, sources in the police department said. “We are collating all details relating to the incident going viral on the social and electronic media, and those responsible for it,” said Additional Superintendent of Police B. Ravichandra. Deep conspiracy: SP He saw a deeper conspiracy to bring disrepute to the government, and said none would be allowed to go scot-free. The case related to hatching of a criminal conspiracy to allegedly cause disharmony among communities and “defame” the government through deliberate and malicious acts with a view to causing breach of peace. Social media platforms and electronic media channels were hauled up for posting “conspiratorial posts” in connection with the incident. ‘Arrests undemocratic’ Meanwhile, TDP Ongole Lok Sabha unit president N. Balaji condemned the alleged “undemocratic arrests.” “The YSRCP government is trying to stifle the voice of the media and resorting to witch-hunt. 'In such a situation, none will come forward to share information with the police at a time when a series of temple attacks continues unabated across the State,” he opined.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-intensify-probe-into-singarayakonda-case/article33534333.ece
09 January 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP holds novel protest to press for Kodali Nani's resignation||Activists of the Telugu Desam Party women’s wing staged a novel protest by playing cards in full public view here on Friday to press for the resignation of Civil Supplies Minister Kodali Sri Venkateswara Rao (Nani) for justifying the alleged involvement of his followers running gambling dens in Gudivada. The activists led by TDP women’s wing State secretary K. Kusumakumari came in a big procession from the party office to the busy NTR Statue Centre on the arterial Kurnool Road shouting slogans against the Minister and demanding that he be dropped from the Cabinet forthwith by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy who had taken the lead in banning online games.  Then they spread a towel and started playing cards for money to highlight the plight of women in the State as their menfolk lost heavily by visiting gambling dens. TDP women’s wing Prakasam district secretary Ravula Padmaja asked how could the Minister justify the seizure of huge cash by the task force sleuths by reportedly stating that even if his followers were arrested during raid, they would be produced in court and they would come back after paying fine. If the government was serious on curbing gambling, the Minister should be immediately sacked, said TDP women’s wing city unit president P. Sunitha while highlighting the menace of real money online card games.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-holds-novel-protest-to-press-for-kodali-nanis-resignation/article33533566.ece
09 January 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ex-MP points a finger at YSRCP and BJP||The YSRCP government in the State and the BJP-led government at the Centre are deliberately avoiding a thorough investigation into the desecration of idol at the Lord Rama temple at Ramateertham in Vizianagaram district for gaining political mileage, former Amalapuram MP and Congress leader G.V. Harsha Kumar has alleged. Addressing the media here on Friday, Mr. Harsha Kumar alleged the the State government failed in identifying the accused in recent instances of attacks on temples despite boasting of robust technology and investigation tools. The way the temples were targeted showed that it was part of a conspiracy, he observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ex-mp-points-a-finger-at-ysrcp-and-bjp/article33534330.ece
09 January 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||OBC status sought for Sistakaranas||The Andhra Pradesh Sistakarana Sangham will hold a meeting on January 10 to press for the demand for Other Backward Class (OBC) status for the community, according to its State President Polumahanti Umamaheswara Rao here on Friday. Mr. Umamaheswara Rao said that OBC Sadhana Committee would meet the Ministers and the officials concerned in New Delhi in this regard soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/obc-status-sought-for-sistakaranas/article33534383.ece
09 January 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Non-local constables seek posting in native districts||Constables posted in the non-local category have reiterated their appeal to the State government to post them in their native districts so that they could stay closer to their families. Around 1,000 constables were selected in the recruitment process conducted in 2008 and nearly 200 of them hailing from Uttarandhra region got posting in Tirupati Urban, Chittoor, Kadapa, Kurnool, Nellore, Prakasam other districts. “It is difficult for us to travel to our native places and look after our families. It takes two days to reach my village which is in the other corner of the State and our casual leaves of 15 days get exhausted in no time. For the last eleven years, we have been facing difficulties to visit our aged parents and take care of our kin for this reason,” rues constable Ch. Satya Raju. The constables also submitted a memorandum to YSRCP honorary president Y.S. Vijayamma in Tirupati on Friday, seeking her intervention in the issue. Similar representations were submitted to Ministers M. Sucharitha, Botcha Satyanarayana and MP V. Vijaya Sai Reddy in the past, but to no avail, they said. One-time option “We request the government to give us one-time option for moving back, similar to the one given to the Armed Reserve constables to move to civil wing on the completion of 15 years of service,” said another constable M. Kishore Kumar. The constables ppealed to the government to consider their pleas during the formation of proposed new districts or transfer the eligible personnel to Visakhapatnam where the executive capital has been proposed by making it a ‘free zone’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/non-local-constables-seek-posting-in-native-districts/article33533568.ece
09 January 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Christian community calls for peace in Tirupati||Alleging that attempts are being made to polarise the people on religious lines, the Christian community of Tirupati called for peace in the temple city. Members of the Tirupati United Christian Churches held a meeting at the Shekina Church in Kanaka Bhushanam layout on Friday and discussed the series of events happening in the State and its possible impact on the community. The community members dubbed the desecration of Hindu idols and demolition of religious structures as ‘unfortunate’ and requested the State government to arrest the culprits immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/christian-community-calls-for-peace-in-tirupati/article33533567.ece
09 January 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘It’s improper to blame CM on idols issue’||Janata Dal (Secular) former Secretary and TTD trust board ex-member O.V. Ramana has said that it is improper to blame Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for the incidents of desecration of idols reported in the State. Addressing the media here on Friday, Mr. Ramana, who earlier served as the YSR Congress party’s State spokesperson, said that leaders from outside vitiated the political atmosphere of the peaceful city. He also expressed concern over religious seers taking sides with political parties. “It is unfortunate that the BJP is trying to whip up passions in the name of religious conversions in the State,” Mr. Ramana added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/its-improper-to-blame-cm-on-idols-issue/article33533569.ece
09 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan performs ‘bhoomi puja’ for reconstruction of nine temples||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy performed ‘bhoomi puja’ here on Friday for the reconstruction of nine temples that were demolished as part of the developmental works during the Krishna Pushkarams in 2016. The Chief Minister also laid the foundation for eight other developmental works costing Rs. 77 crore at the Kanaka Durga temple, besides unveiling two plaques at the construction site of the Saneeswara Swamy temple. Later, he visited the Kanaka Durga temple, where the priests and vedic scholars extended him a traditional welcome. They also presented the Chief Minister a memento, a photograph of Goddess Kanaka Durga, a ‘sesha vastram’, and ‘prasadam’. Calendar released Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy later released the Endowments Department calendar, and congratulated the officials for bringing out a nice calendar that depicted all the important rituals of the main temples in the State. Temple tourism He suggested to the officials to focus on temple tourism and chalk out plans accordingly. The reconstruction projects are as follows: Rahu - Kethu temple; Sri Anjaneya Swamy temple (on the way to Kanaka Durga temple); Sri Seethamma Vari Paadaalu; Sri Dakshinamukha Anjaneya Swamy temple; Sri Saneeswara Swamy temple; Sri Dasanjaneya Swamy Vaari temple; Boddu Bomma; Sri Veera Babu Swamy temple (near Police Control Room); and Sri Gosala Krishna temple. It is estimated that Rs. 1.79 crore is required for the reconstruction of these temples. In addition, donor works costing Rs. 2 crore will also be taken up, taking the total expenditure to Rs. 3.79 crore. The developmental works being taken up at the Kanaka Durga temple and their estimated cost are as follows: ‘potu’ (temple kitchen) – Rs. 5.6 crore; Anna Prasadam Complex – Rs. 19.7 crore; Keshakhandana Sala (tonsuring hall / building) – Rs. 23.6 crore; Sivalayam extension works Rs. 2 crore; and Sivalayam (Rs. 5.6 crore). Toll plaza This apart, Rs. 6.5 crore will be spent on fencing and other works to protect the ghat road area from landslips / boulder slides. Also, a toll plaza, on the lines of the one in Tirumala, is being planned at a cost of Rs. 5.25 crore. Of the total Rs. 77 crore, the devasthanam will bear Rs. 7 crore and the remaining will be borne by the State government. Ministers V. Srinivasa Rao, B. Satyanarayana, K. Sri Venkateswara Rao, and P. Venkatramaiah, Endowments Secretary Girija Shankar, Commissioner Arjuna Rao, Krishna District Collector Md. Imtiyaz, Brahmin Corporation Chairman Malladi Vishnu, Kanaka Durga temple chairman Pyla Somi Naidu, and Executive Officer Suresh Babu were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-performs-bhoomi-puja-for-reconstruction-of-nine-temples/article33533490.ece
09 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police step up vigil to prevent cockfights during Sankranti||With no clarity on according permission for organising cockfights during the Sankranti festivities, the police have stepped up vigil to prevent the traditional sport and other banned games in the State. The police are conducting raids in villages and are booking cases against punters, cockfight organisers and manufacturers of knives at several places in West Godavari and Krishna districts. “No permission has been granted for organising cockfights during the Sankranti festival. Villagers have been requested not to lease out their fields and orchards for conducting such events. Instructions have been issued against selling or buying fowls tamed for the competitions and making arrangements for organising such events,” said a police officer. Eluru Range DIG K.V. Mohan Rao said that instructions have been issued to SPs to take all measures to prevent cockfights, gambling, ‘gunduata’ and other banned games in Krishna, West Godavari, Rajamahendravaram and East Godavari districts.  Raids intensified “We have conducted raids in many villages and booked cases against those who were preparing knives, selling fowls and the organisers who are making arrangements for conducting the banned game,” said West Godavari Superintendent of Police K. Narayan Naik. About 3,000 knives have been seized, more than 3,000 persons have been bound over in the district. Cases have been registered against the event organisers and punters, he added. Instructions have also been issued to the Deputy Superintendents of Police (DSPs), Circle Inspectors (CIs) and SIs to identify the arenas, habitual cockfight organisers, vulnerable villages and the knives manufacturing units, he said, adding that raids have been conducted in the villages in Jangareddygudem, Eluru Rural, Tadepalligudem, Narsapuram, Bhimavaram, Tadepalligudem, Tanuku, Denduluru, Dwaraka Tirumala and other mandals. Krishna Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu said that the police had bound over about 700 persons in Gudivada, Kalidindi, Avanigadda, Kaikalur, Mudinepalli, Nagayalanka and other mandals. “We have seized more than 600 knives and booked cases against the manufacturers. Stern action will be taken against those who organise cockfights. We are taking all measures to prevent such events,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/move-to-prevent-cockfights/article33534404.ece
09 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19: lone death reported from Krishna||The State reported one COVID-19 death and 319 new infections in the 24 hours ending Friday morning. The toll stands at 77,127 and the tally reached 8,84,490 with a death rate of 0.81% and a recovery rate of 98.87%. As many as 308 more patients recovered in the past day leaving 2,832 patients under treatment across the State as of Friday morning. The total number of recoveries stands at 8,74,531. The overall positivity rate of 1.22 crore samples tested so far remains at 7.24% and that of 59,671 samples tested in the past one day was 0.53%. The single death was reported in Krishna district which also reported 46 infections, highest single-day tally among the districts. It was followed by Chittoor (44), Guntur (39), West Godavari (27), East Godavari (26), Kurnool (26), Visakhapatnam (25), Nellore (23), Anantapur (22), Kadapa (14), Srikakulam (12), Prakasam (10), and Vizianagaram (5). The district-wise tallies are: East Godavari (1,23,903), West Godavari (94,035), Chittoor (86,530), Guntur (75,048), Anantapur (67,475), Nellore (62,204), Prakasam (62,079), Kurnool (60,652), Visakhapatnam (59,386), Kadapa (55,093), Krishna (48,110), Srikakulam (46,014), and Vizianagaram (41,066).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-19-lone-death-reported-from-krishna/article33534460.ece
09 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Intermediate first year classes to commence from January 18||Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh on Friday said that classes for the Intermediate first year students would commence on January 18. At a press conference, the Minister said in view of the High Court directive, Intermediate admission process was being carried out in offline mode this year. From next year, however, the admissions would be done in online mode, he clarified, adding that the Intermediate examination schedule would be released soon. The Minister said Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy would launch the second phase of Jagananna Amma Vodi programme in online mode on January 11. The Minister said the academic year 2020-21 would continue till May this year. The Intermediate exams would be conducted either in April or in May, keeping in view the competitive exams. He said in view of COVID-19 pandemic that led to the lockdown, 30% of the syllabus had been reduced and details of subject-wise syllabus were sent to the college managements. Mr. Suresh said strict action would be initiated against the managements that violated the government directive to extend 30 % concession in fee. He said recognition of the educational institutions flouting norms would be cancelled. Inspection He said based on complaints, a surprise inspection was conducted on Narayana Educational Institute at Gollapudi on January 5 and certain issues were identified. Based on a report to be submitted by the department officials, action would be taken against it, he said. The Minister said due to the impact of the caronavirus, the government decided not to increase the Intermediate examination fee this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/intermediate-first-year-classes-to-commence-from-january-18/article33534463.ece
09 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘STARS’ helps under-privileged students shine in higher education||Vice-president of VIT-AP Sekar Viswanathan on Friday urged students to invest hard work with focus on skill enhancement to gain an edge over others in this competitive world. He was speaking at the inaugural of the fourth batch of STARS (Support the Advancement of Rural Students), a novel programme that provides opportunities to students coming from the rural and underprivileged sections to pursue quality higher education. Students of all 13 districts of the State are extended the benefits of the scheme. The VIT-AP has been implementing the initiative from 2017-18 selecting one boy and one girl student from government junior colleges located in the rural areas in each district as beneficiaries who are given free education and hostel accommodation on the campus. Every year, 26 students from the 13 districts benefit from this programme. Addressing the students, Mr. Viswanathan said utilising the facilities, students could learn foreign languages like French, Spanish and German. There were different clubs to strike a balance between academics and extra-curricular activities. “Quality education, good faculty and right ambience are of great importance and VIT-AP ensures this and more for its students,” he said. Vice-Chancellor S.V. Kota said through STARS, the institute was trying to use education to emancipate, enlighten and empower students who otherwise would not have access to quality education. Registrar C.L.V. Sivakumar spoke about the innovative initiatives introduced by VIT like engineering clinics. Assistant Director, admissions, Thahiya Afzal, and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stars-helps-under-privileged-students-shine-in-higher-education/article33534464.ece
09 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Interim stay on finalisation of tenders for solar power projects||A single-judge Bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court, comprising Justice M. Ganga Rao, has stayed till the next hearing on February 15 the finalisation of tenders pertaining to the solar power projects proposed to be developed by the State government for supplying free power to the farm sector. The case was filed by the TATA Power Renewable Energy Limited (TPREL), which argued that the dispute resolution mechanism provided for in the Requests for Selection (RfS) and the draft Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) had an effect of defeating the jurisdiction of the AP Electricity Regulatory Commission (APERC) under Section 63 of the Electricity Act. ‘Quash RfS’ In its writ petition, TPREL prayed for quashing the impugned RfS for a total capacity of 6,400 megawatts and the draft PPAs issued by the AP Green Energy Corporation Limited (APGECL). TPREL sought a direction to the APGECL to issue fresh RfS strictly in accordance with the guidelines for tariff-based competitive bidding process for procurement of power from grid connected solar photovoltaic projects stipulated by the Ministries of Power and New & Renewable Energy. The State government issued RfS for setting up solar power projects with a total 6,400 MW capacity in 10 solar parks (four in Kadapa, three in Anantapur, two in Prakasam and one in Kurnool district). The private sector power giant argued that the modification of certain directions pertaining to the tenure of the draft PPAs, sale of assets, revision of lease rents for private and assigned lands, generation compensation for back down, passing of safeguard and basic custom duties through tariff adjustment etc. by the State was in violation of the Electricity Act and Central guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/interim-stay-on-finalisation-of-tenders-for-solar-power-projects/article33534341.ece
09 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||GVL questions need for harmony panels||The State government is tricking the people in the name of communal harmony committees, BJP Rajya Sabha member G.V.L. Narasimha Rao has alleged. Addressing the media here on Friday, Mr. Rao questioned the need for the constitution of such committees comprising members of all religions when attacks were being made only on Hindu temples. “There are no communal clashes in the State. People of all the faiths are leading harmonious lives. About 90% of the people in the State are Hindus. Hindu temples alone are targeted. As such, what will be the role of representatives from all religions?” he asked. The government failed to collect evidences and nab the culprits, he alleged, and said that the BJP would take the “anti-Hindu policies” of the YSRCP to the people’s court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gvl-questions-need-for-harmony-panels/article33534337.ece
09 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Restart work on Balaji temple in Amaravati’||The TDP has asked the government to recommence the construction of Sri Venkateswara Swamy temple at Amaravati if it is really sincere in respecting the sentiments of the Hindus. Addressing the media on Friday, TDP general secretary P. Anuradha alleged that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was enacting a drama in the name of reconstruction of temples in the city. “The fact is that all these temples had already been relocated and developed during the TDP term,” Ms. Anuradha claimed. Accusing the government of shedding crocodile tears on the series of attacks on the temples, she alleged that it had no respect for Hindu dharma. “There are numerous instances that vouch for it, and the appointment of a person of an alien faith as TTD Chairman is one such,” Ms. Anuradha alleged. The government should also start works on the Kalyanamandapam, Annadana Satram and silver door at the Amaravati temple immediately, she said. “All these works have been stalled after Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy came to power,” she alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/restart-work-on-balaji-temple-in-amaravati/article33534339.ece
09 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Data on quality of power supply just a click away||Andhra Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (APERC) chairperson justice C.V. Nagarjuna Reddy on Friday inaugurated a new transparency measure that provides insights into the quality of electricity supply to the people in the State. This is achieved by exhibiting an analysis of the standards of performance of each DISCOM as per the regulations set forth by the APERC. This feature can be accessed athttps://www.aperc.gov.in /SoP. Commission member Rama Singh Thakur said this was the first of its kind transparency initiative. He said on clicking thelink from the side navigation menu bar in the home page of the website, a page displaying the links to each of the DISCOMs appears. On clicking a DISCOM's link, the user is redirected to a Google Data Studio page displaying all the SoP areas. A click on an SoP area will display a graph showing the performance of the DISCOM. On the top right of the graph will be seen an up arrow and a down arrow. To see the performance of circles, divisions, sub-divisions and sections in the entire DISCOM, one would have to click on the down arrow, Mr. Rama Singh Thakur said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/data-on-quality-of-power-supply-just-a-click-away/article33534462.ece
09 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||IRCTC comes up with air tour packages for Kerala, Kashmir||The Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) has announced a special air tour packages to Kerala and Kashmir in February and March respectively. The Majestic Kerala with Sri Padmanabha Swamy temple tour includes a visit to the Dutch Palace, St. Louis Francis Church, The Santa Cruz Basilica, Mattupetty dam, Echo Point, Tea museum, Rose garden and Kovalam Beach apart from Sri Padmanabha Swamy temple. This tour will begin in Visakhapatnam on February 25 and return to the city on March 2. The cost per person for single occupancy is Rs. 35,860, for double occupancy Rs. 26,960 and for triple occupancy, it is Rs. 25,870, according to Chandra Mohan Bisa, Area Officer, IRCTC South Central Zone, Visakhapatnam. Kashmir tour The ‘Kashmir – Heaven on Earth’ tour covers a visit to Mughal Gardens, Cheshmashahi, Parimahal, Botanical Gardens, Shalimar Gardens, Char-Chinar, Gulmarg, Son Marg and Pahalgam. The tour will begin in Visakhapatnam on March 13 and conclude on March 18, 2021. The cost per person for single occupancy is Rs. 27,985, double occupancy Rs. 23,660 and for triple occupancy is Rs. 23,045. The package for both tours includes air tickets in economy class, accommodation in 3 Star hotels, breakfast and dinner, all applicable parking charges, toll charges and GST. Contact details Interested travellers can call Chandan Kumar on the mobile No. 8287932318 or Gananadha on 8287932281 or over landline on 0891-2500695 for booking.  The package for both tours includes air tickets in economy class, accommodation in 3 Star hotels, breakfast and dinner, all applicable parking charges, toll charges and GST Chandra Mohan Bisa Area Officer, IRCTC||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/irctc-comes-up-with-air-tour-packages-for-kerala-kashmir/article33534343.ece
09 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tension prevails at Peda Jalaripeta over use of ring nets for fishing||Tension prevailed at Peda Jalaripeta on Friday, when hundreds of traditional fishermen gathered to protest against ring net fishing. This is for the second time in recent times that fishermen took up protest over ring net fishing. It all started when there were reports that a few fishermen were using ring nets for fishing off Uppada coast. A group of fishermen rushed to the spot at sea in 50 boats and after a heated argument seized the ring nets and came back to the shore. They alleged that despite the ban on use of ring nets several fishermen were using them. Even small fishes are caught in this net and it does not allow the growth of fishes, this is why these nets are banned, said a fisherman. Meanwhile, anticipating some trouble, a police contingent reached the spot and pacified the agitating traditional fishermen who alleged that fishermen from Yendada Jalaripeta, Uppada and Managamaripeta were using ring nets. Meanwhile, officials said there are 13 licensed fishermen and 56 other fishermen were using ring nets illegally. It may be remembered that Minister for Animal Husbandry, Dairy Development and Fisheries Seediri Appalaraju had recently announced a ban on use of ring nets within eight km from the coast. However, the traditional fishermen are now demanding total ban on ring nets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ring-nets-tension-prevails-at-peda-jalaripeta/article33534466.ece
09 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Online orientation programme for AU integrated management course begins||The week-long online orientation programme for the newly-started integrated BBA-MBA programme, began at Andhra University campus here on Friday.The new integrated management programme started by AU at Andhra University School of Business, provides an undergraduate degree (BBA) after three years followed by a master’s degree (MBA) after two years with an exit option. Administrative Officer S. Sarabandi said that a total of 65 students have registered for the programme, including 40 international students from 21 different countries and 25 Indian students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/online-orientation-programme-for-au-integrated-management-course-begins/article33534380.ece
09 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Practise yoga to keep stress at bay, says Minister||Minister for Tourism and Youth Advancement Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao released an abstract in Telugu on the Fit India fitness protocol and guidelines for different age groups through video conference from his camp office at Seethammadhara here on Friday. Speaking on the occasion, he said that the Fit India Movement was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in August 2019. The guidelines pertain to physical exercises, yoga and pranayama for different age groups with the objective of promoting a ‘Fit India’. An age-appropriate progressive curriculum was designed. He said hat the practise of yoga and physical exercise was a must in these days of growing stress in day-to-day lives. “Yoga and pranayama, which were handed over to us by our ancestors, would go a long way in preventing lifestyle diseases. The objective of the Fit India campaign was to make people healthy and strong,” he said. He said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, who was himself a sportsman and fitness enthusiast, was according top priority to the promotion of sports in the State. The Union Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sport had launched the Fit India School Week, Fit India Quiz, Prabhat Pheri and Fit India Cyclothon as part of the Fit India Movement in December 2020. Schools in the State had launched the Fit India School Week campaign on December 1, 2020. Principal Secretary Sports and Youth Affairs K. Ramgopal said that the curriculum would be printed in Telugu and made available to the public. Sports stadium Sports Authority of AP Managing Director B. Rama Rao said that a sports stadium would be developed soon at Kommadi in the city. Deputy Director of Fit India Mission Vishnu Sudhakaran, Sports Authority of India, Southern Region, Assistant Director S. Himabindu, DEO Lingeswara Reddy, SETVIS CEO Srinivasa Rao and Chief Coach Surya Rao were among those who attended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/practise-yoga-to-keep-stress-at-bay-says-minister/article33534379.ece
09 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District records 25 new COVID cases||The district recorded 25 new COVID-19 positive cases taking the total number of cases to 59,898 and active cases to 219 here on Friday. There were no deaths in the last 24 hours, which keeps the total death tally to 526, since the outbreak of the pandemic in March last year. According to the health bulletin, 26 persons were discharged or have recovered, taking the total recoveries to 59,153, in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-records-25-new-covid-cases/article33534471.ece
09 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||More police personnel to be deployed on Beach Road||To maintain law and order and regulate traffic on Beach Road, especially on weekends and days when footfalls are very high, the city police will be deploying a huge contingent of police, on those days. Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Ch. Adinarayana, said that over 190 police personnel drawn from traffic, law and order, armed reserve and home guards, will be deployed. As per a conservative estimate by the police, over one lakh people visit Beach Road on weekends and on festive days, and this is creating a huge traffic and enforcement issue. The bandobust will be enforced from Naval Coast Battery to Rushikonda. A contingent of community guards will also be deployed to protect the persons entering into the sea. Additional patrol vehicles will be deployed on the stretch on those days, he said. There will be four teams and they will be deployed on Saturdays, Sundays and holidays from 4 p.m. to 8.30 p.m., he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/more-police-personnel-to-be-deployed-on-beach-road/article33534465.ece
09 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister: steps will be taken to develop Yelamanchili||Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao has said that steps will be taken for the industrial development of Yelamanchili town in the district. He distributed house sites pattas to the beneficiaries in Yelamanchili constituency. He recalled that during the tenure of Y.S Rajasekhara Reddy an SEZ was set up at Atchutapuram in the constituency and Brandix and other companies were established. Rajya Sabha Member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy said that the patta distribution programme would result in more colonies and residential areas coming up with basic infrastructure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minister-steps-will-be-taken-to-develop-yelamanchili/article33534469.ece
09 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special trains to clear festive rush||East Coast Railway (ECoR) will run two special trains during the festive season to meet the rush of passengers. One will originate in Visakhapatnam while the second will pass through Visakhapatnam. Train no. 07451 Hyderabad-Visakhapatnam Sankranthi special train will leave Hyderabad on January 9,10,11,12,13,14,15 and16 at 10.15 p.m. to reach Visakhapatnam on the next day at 12 p.m. In the return direction, 07452 Visakhapatnam-Hyderabad Sankranthi special train will leave Visakhapatnam on January 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15 ,16, 17 at 8.45 p.m. to reach Hyderabad on the next day at 10.50 a.m. This train will have one 2nd AC coach, three 3rd AC coaches, 12 Sleeper class, two Second Class and two Second Class-cum-luggage coaches, according to Senior Divisional Commercial Manager of Waltair Division A.K. Tripathi. Similarly, train no.07449 Secunderabad-Brahmapur Sankranthi special express will leave Secunderabad on January 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15 and 16 at 5.50 p.m. to arrive in Visakhapatnam on the next day at 6.30 a.m. and leave at 7 p.m. and will reach Brahmapur at 12.05 p.m. In the return direction, 07450 Brahmapur-Secunderabad Sankranthi special will leave Brahmapur on January 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 and 17 at 1.30 p.m. to arrive Visakhapatnam at 6.40 p.m. and departure at 7.30 p.m. to reach Secunderabad on the next day at 7.15 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/special-trains-to-clear-festive-rush/article33534344.ece
09 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||AMC PG student bags award||Jyothi Mariam Jose, a second-year postgraduate student of the Department of Pulmonary Medicine, Government Hospital for Chest and Communicable Diseases, Andhra Medical College, secured the second prize at the national level for her E poster titled ‘Immuno nutritional status and pulmonary cavitation in patients with tuberculosis.’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/amc-pg-student-bags-award/article33534468.ece
09 January 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police beef up security at inter-district borders||With a view to ensuring peace in and around the Lord Rama temple at Ramateertham and avoiding traffic snarls and protests on the Vizianagaram - Nellimarla - Ramateertham route, the police have beefed up security at all the inter-district borders. Prohibitory orders The aim is to prevent the entry of political leaders and activists, who have of late been descending on the route in large numbers from various districts and resorting to protests in violation of Section 30 in force, following the recent desecration of the idol at Sri Kodandarama Swamy temple located on the Ramateertham - Bodikonda - Neelachalam hills. The police have set up a security point at the Rajapulova junction after observing that many political leaders have been coming from Visakhapatnam, Anakapalli and other places. DIG directive Deputy Inspector General L.K.V. Ranga Rao and Vizianagaram Superintendent of Police B. Rajakumari directed the officials to prevent violence and ensure normal life for the people living in the area. “The political leaders and people have to extend their support to the police since investigation into the vandalism is under way on the Neelachalam hill. The leaders should not provoke anyone by raising sensitive religious issues,” Mr. Ranga Rao said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-beef-up-security-at-inter-district-borders/article33534335.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||APSPDCL to ensure no load shedding in summer||Andhra Pradesh Southern Power Distribution Company Limited (APSPDCL) has initiated measures to ensure uninterrupted power supply during the coming summer months. At a review meeting on Friday with the officials , APSPDCL Chairman and Managing Director H. Haranath Rao asked the engineers to prepare estimates on the projected rise in power consumption during the peak summer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apspdcl-to-ensure-no-load-shedding-in-summer/article33534342.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Game for it||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/game-for-it/article33534458.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Catch n save||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/catch-n-save/article33533573.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||City girl bags 11th rank in CAT||Bhavana Pagaria of the city bagged the 11th rank at the all-India level and 3rd rank among women by securing 99.8 percentile in CAT-2020, conducted by Indian Institute of Management(IIM).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/city-girl-bags-11th-rank-in-cat/article33534470.ece
09 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Science and Technology Hyderabad cluster launched||Science and Technology Hyderabad Cluster, one of the four such geographic clusters the Centre has proposed to boost science, research and innovation through a collaborative environment, was launched on Friday. Industries and IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao and Principal Scientific Adviser to the government of India K. VijayRaghavan jointly inaugurated the Cluster, which will be led by Research and Innovation Circle of Hyderabad (RICH). The Prime Minister’s Science, Technology and Innovation Advisory Council (PM-STIAC) had recommended the setting of the clusters, in Hyderabad, Bengaluru, NCR-Delhi and Pune, as a measure to encourage scientific enterprise and push individual institutional excellence towards collective performance. These cities were considered as they host strong organisations, institutions and industries focused on science and technology, an official release on the virtual inauguration said. “Creation of mega clusters that leverage local science and technology expertise will pave the way for a faster and more efficient deployment of scientific outcomes. We believe the Hyderabad cluster will enable and empower patents, products and profits, while solving problems that afflict society,” Mr. VijayRaghavan said. While proposing the setting up of science and technology focused clusters, a high-level committee, constituted by the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO), in its report in April, said that the clusters could create strong linkages between existing networks of academic institutions and national research laboratories, along with relevant ministries, industry partners, State governments, philanthropic foundations and international institutions of excellence. According to the report, “all existing institutions (academic and laboratories) or existing clusters supported by government of India in the city/region will automatically become a part of the cluster. The objective is to bring together ‘islands of excellence’ spread across academia, industry and government to create a collaborative, enabling and flexible environment that breeds cutting edge scientific research in Indian universities and research labs, leading to technological innovation and entrepreneurship, through seamless leveraging of complementary strengths.” Speaking at the launch programme, Mr. Rao said, “Scientific advancement is at the core of our progress as a State. For the science from the labs to be truly effective, it has to benefit people at large.” The Hyderabad Cluster will help discovery and invention in laboratories to move to implementation. “We are looking to help launch at least five large impactful companies over a period of the next 5-7 years, which will benefit millions, generate wealth and create over 1,00,000 jobs across the country. In the long term, our goal is to make Telangana the best centre of excellence for life sciences, agriculture and digital technology,” the Minister said. The release said that Telangana has one of the highest growth rates in the country due to its focus on innovation in all sectors and from all constituents. Hyderabad is home to over 60 government, multinational and private research institutions besides being one of the largest digital technology hubs. The city contributes about 35% of the country’s pharmaceutical output and is known as Pharma capital of the world, hosts India’s largest bio-cluster in Genome Valley, with around 200 companies, and is also the ‘Seed capital of India’. RICH Director General Ajit Rangnekar said that the Hyderabad Cluster will foster multi-disciplinary research and entrepreneurship towards a more prosperous and equitable future. “We will work with MSMEs, start-ups, researchers and industries to rapidly commercialise promising ideas,” he said.  Scientific advancement is at the core of our progress as a State. For the science from the labs to be truly effective, it has to benefit people at large.  K.T. Rama Rao IT Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/science-and-technology-hyderabad-cluster-launched/article33534243.ece
09 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||High Court issues notices to govt. over Jiyaguda dumping yard||Telangana High Court on Friday issued notices to State government, Telangana State Pollution Control Board, GHMC and others over a PIL plea seeking relocation of Jiyaguda dumping yard. A bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice M.S. Ramachandra Rao instructed them to file a status report on the dumping yard within four weeks. It appointed lawyer Avinash Desai as amicus curiae to assist the court in adjudication of the plea. A letter earlier written by a law student Kasturi Pavan to the HC CJ seeking relocation of the dumping yard was converted into PIL petition. The petitioner wanted the court to instruct the PCB to immediately act upon the issue. He also requested the court to pass directions awarding compensation to the residents living in the dumping yard vicinity as they were being deprived of the fundamental rights under Article 21 of the Constitution. The student stated that everyday hundreds of trucks carrying garbage, which includes human excreta cleared from septic tanks, dump waste at the yard. Animal carcasses and litter from different parts of the city is shifted there. This resulted in pollution of air, soil, groundwater in and around the dumping yard. The area became a breeding ground for mosquitoes and house flies. Entire area gets engulfed in unbearable stench whenever winds blow. Despite submission of several representations, the GHMC authorities turned a deaf ear to the pleas of people for past six years, he mentioned in the letter. Citing a Supreme Court verdict, the petitioner said that right to pollution-free-air fell within Article 21 of the constitution. “A petition under Article 32 for the prevention of pollution is maintainable at the instance of the affected persons or even by a group of social workers or journalists, the verdict said. The petitioner stated that National Green Tribunal criticised the State government on March 7, 2020 for failing to treat solid and liquid waste in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/notices-to-government-on-jiyaguda-dumping-yard/article33534264.ece
09 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Vaccination must to avert future infection: experts||SARS-COV-2 virus is here to stay, hence those refusing to be vaccinated or not having access to an effective vaccine, will remain susceptible to infection. The infection will persist in the human population at a lower intensity called the endemic phase. However, future virus waves can be averted if vaccination of the population is initiated soon, say public health experts. “We still see around 20,000 new cases every day at the national level and over 300 in Telangana. Subsequent waves will depend on proportion of the population with antibodies to COVID and the time it takes for antibodies to disappear and the population becoming vulnerable again,” asserts Public Health Foundation of India’s Indian Institute of Public Health-Hyderabad Director Dr. G.V.S. Murthy. This coupled with factors like crowding, partying in close contact, and amenable weather conditions, among others, can result in the next waves, he says, and points out that a vaccine has become a reality in 10 months as against more than 10 years. It is because of the pandemic that clinical development, safety, dosage, and vaccine efficacy phases got “dovetailed and telescoped” to make it a reality. The director says there are 30 vaccines in clinical trials and more than 200 in various stages of development with platforms of RNA, DNA, non-replicating viral vectors and inactivated vaccines. RNA and DNA based vaccines have not been developed and licensed for human use in the past and ‘transformational’. There is no virus particle either live attenuated or killed virus particles in them and can be made rapidly in a lab. Since, they are based on genetic sequence of the virus development process to be fast tracked in the event of a pandemic. They are also able to generate a robust immune response and the vaccine currently being rolled out in United States and United Kingdom is of this type. However, they have to be kept at extremely low temperatures during storage, transportation and at the point of administration, so there are logistic challenges. Non-replicating viral vector vaccines can also be made fast, are safe and effective immunologically as seen with an Ebola vaccine candidate, explains Dr. Murthy. Third kind is inactivated virus technology that have been licensed previously but “they do not generate as strong of an immune response unless used alongside, as an example, an aluminium adjuvant. Conventional vaccines like DPT or TT vaccines are of this kind and are easier to administer as they do not require stringent cold chains,” he maintains. “Overall efficacy of such vaccines may be lower than the other two kinds. But, because it may be possible to administer these vaccines to a larger number of people in a shorter period of time, they also are very useful to increase ‘herd immunity’ substantially to prevent high infection rates due to quick coverage overall,” he says. The big task with all the vaccines is administering in two doses, one month apart. Priority should be for frontline workers, aged, and those with co-morbidities. It should also be provided free-of-cost to those who cannot afford it. As initial production may not match the needs of the population like ours, it “may be useful to couple vaccine administration with an antibody test preceding the vaccine in the first few months as a short term measure,” suggests the director. By year-end, the vaccine should be made available at government designated vaccination centres and provided universally. Those who can afford to pay may be directed to the private sector where a wider choice of vaccines at different costs may be available, he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vaccination-must-to-avert-future-infection-experts/article33534129.ece
09 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Second dry run kicks off in State||The State embarked on the second dry run of COVID vaccination on Friday at 1,200 centres in 33 districts. The earlier one was held in seven centres in Hyderabad and Mahbubnagar. Friday’s dry run was done on the directions of the Centre to understand the processes connected to the CoWIN, a platform for the rollout of the vaccine. According to a press release issued by Director of Public Health (DPH) Dr. G. Srinivasa Rao, 917 sessions were conducted across the State and a total of 21,777 beneficiaries were covered. Issues related to CoWIN were detected on Friday. The dry run also brought to the fore issues connected to location of beneficiaries in neighbouring facilities and districts. Further, names of planned beneficiaries were not being uploaded. Dr. Rao observed the dry run at MGM Hospital in Warangal. The dry run was conducted at Osmania General Hospital and Gandhi Hospital, among many others in city. In Sangareddy, Collector M. Hanumantha Rao said that the dry run was successful in the district. He visited the primary health centre (PHC) at Kondapur and examined the facilities and inquired on how it was being implemented, like collecting details of the person, visiting the PHC, registering them in COVID portal, vaccination and other arrangements. Informing that dry run was held in 24 hospitals in the district, the Collector said that about 9,000 health workers, Anganwadi teachers, aayas, ANMs, staff nurses and medical staff registered themselves.  (With inputs from our Special Correspondent in Sangareddy)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/second-dry-run-kicks-off/article33534251.ece
09 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||I-T officers attacked during searches||Two Income Tax officers were attacked by the staff of an infra company at Nandi Medaram of Dharmaram in Peddapalli district during searches at the firm’s camp office on Thursday night. Ramagundam Commissioner of Police V Satyanarayana said that at around 8 p.m. I-T Officer Venugopal Rao, inspector Dandaboaina Lingaiah along with their colleagues conducted searches at C5 company camp office.  Inebriated condition ,While searches were on, supervisor Samanthula Rajesh and cook Dhadi Srinivas, who were in an inebriated condition, abused the I-T sleuths and attacked them with stones and sticks. As a result, Mr. Venugopal suffered bleeding injury on his head, while Lingaiah and other two escaped with minor injuries, the Commissioner said. Mr. Venugopal was rushed to a private hospital in Karimnagar for better medication. Taken into custody A case was registered under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and both Rajesh and Srinivas have been arrested and remanded to judicial custody. Condemning the attack, officials of the Income Tax Department staged a protest in front of their office in Basheerbagh here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/i-t-officers-attacked/article33534265.ece
09 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||20,000 litre free water launch on Monday||Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development K.T. Rama Rao is scheduled to launch the scheme for providing 20,000 litres of water per month free of cost to each family in Hyderabad, on Monday. Election promise This is in fulfilment of the GHMC election promise spelled out in the TRS manifesto. While the location of the launch is yet to be finalised, officials from the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) are positive that the launch would be on Monday as per schedule. Three locations in close vicinity of one another, namely Borabanda, Yusufguda and SPR Hills, are being mulled over for the launch, and a final decision might be taken on Saturday. The HMWS&SB has not generated water bills so far for this month, in anticipation of the launch of the scheme from the Minister’s hands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/20000-litre-free-water-launch-on-monday/article33534247.ece
09 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Contestants told to submit expense details||Ahead of notifying the list of successful candidates in the recent elections to Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), Telangana State Election Commission (TSEC) has asked all the candidates who had contested the election to submit their poll expenditure details by January 18. In a meeting with the Election Authority/Commissioner Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation, election officers/zonal commissioners and election expenditure observers held here on Friday, State Election Commissioner C. Parthasarathi asked the officials to issue notices to the contestants who fail to submit their expenditure details by the given date. File early He also suggested the contestants to file the affidavits at the earliest keeping in mind the Sankranti holidays. He stated that of the 1,122 contestants, 999 had already submitted their poll expenditure details but another 123 candidates were yet to file the details. Those who fail to submit their expenditure details would face disqualification, he cautioned. Proper scrutiny Mr. Parthasarathi asked the officials verifying the expenditure details submitted by the candidates to compare the costs with the expenditure monitoring committee report and finalise them after proper scrutiny. He also suggested the election authority to submit final report to the SEC by January 25. GHMC Commissioner D.S. Lokesh Kumar, Secretary of SEC Ashok Kumar, GHMC zonal commissioners and election expenditure observers participated in the meeting. The SEC had disqualified all ward members of Jiyapally and Jiyapalli Tanda in Bibinagar mandal of Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri district for failing to submit the election expense details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/contestants-told-to-submit-expense-details/article33534240.ece
09 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Traders body organising meeting with Karimnagar MP||The Telangana State Federation of Chambers of Commerce & Trade will organise a virtual interaction with BJP State president Bandi Sanjay at 5 p.m. on January 10. TSFCCT pesident Prakash Ammanabolu said the members of the federion deal in 29 major trades, including textiles, footwear, electricals, electronics and jewellery. There are 11 lakh large, medium and small traders in Telangana. They face various challenges, with many of problems remaining unresolved for many years. The pandemic had hit the traders badly. While some are struggling to revive their businesses, others are struggling to survive, a release said. The idea behind organising the interaction with Mr.Sanjay is to apprise him of the traders problems, he said in a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trade-body-to-meet-state-bjp-chief/article33534252.ece
09 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘I don’t know,’ says Lambo, one of the suspects, in loan app case||The Chinese national Zhu Wei alias Lambo, one of the key suspects in alleged financial irregularities by instant loan app companies cases, was defiant and answered ‘I don’t know’ to each and every question that was posed to him by Hyderabad Cyber Crime police. Zhu Wei and K Nagaraju were granted five-day police custody by a local court on Thursday. While Zhu Wei from Jiangxi, China, was the overall head of operations of loan apps managed by four companies. Nagaraju, who hail from Kurnool in Andhra Pradesh, played a key role in operations of recovery call centres. The Chinese national who was picked from Delhi airport while trying to flee the country claimed that he knew only Mandarin language. He made police scout for interpreters and spoke broken English. A long time Chinese hand based in Hyderabad came to the rescue of police, a senior officer said. “All that Zhu Wei disclosed so far is that Yuan Yuan alias Jennifer had assigned him the task of operations in India and he knows nothing beyond this,” the investigator told The Hindu . “We have enough technical evidence to prove his role in the financial fraud which claimed the life of at least six people in the State,” he said. Police believe that Yuan Yuan had established operations of the loan apps in the country before she flew back to China. However, Nagarju was believed to have revealed details of major current accounts operated by the loan app companies in question and said he was paid a monthly salary of Rs. 2 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/i-dont-know-says-loan-suspect-from-china/article33534259.ece
09 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘KTR’s letter on ITIR lacks sincerity’||AICC secretary and former MLA Sampath Kumar has termed the letter of Minister for IT K.T. Rama Rao to the Central government on reviving the Information Technology Investment Region project for Hyderabad as one lacking sincerity. He said Mr. Rama Rao deliberately ignored the project sanctioned by the previous UPA government to Hyderabad and has never put pressure on the BJP government at the Centre. Now writing letters will not yield any results as the BJP government also knows the lack of sincerity in those letters, he claimed. Such an important project was not taken up with Prime Minister Narendra Modi by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao even during his recent visit, he said adding that the TRS government was never serious about it. Mr. Sampath reminded that the project was sanctioned in 2008 when Mr. Kiran Kumar Reddy was the Chief Minister and Mr. Ponnala Lakshmaiah was the Minister for IT and necessary permissions were also given to spread IT industry around the districts connected to the city. It was also included in the AP Reorganisation Act to ensure the project is taken up to benefit lakhs of unemployed in Telangana. However, the TRS government has totally neglected in in the last six years and has now suddenly woke up writing letters to the Central government. Both the TRS and the BJP are responsible for denying jobs to youngsters in Telangana, he claimed. He also reminded that he as an MLA had raised this issue four times in the Assembly and the government didn’t respond positively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ktrs-letter-on-itir-lacks-sincerity/article33534391.ece
09 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Pact for open access to Manuguru solar power||A tripartite agreement on the open access to solar power generated in Manuguru area by Singareni Collieries Company Ltd (SCCL) was signed on Friday between SCCL, Transmission Corporation of Telangana Ltd (TS-Transco) and Northern Power Distribution Company of Telangana Ltd (TSNPDCL). The agreement enables Singareni Collieries Company Ltd (SCCL) to avail the solar power generated in the 30 megawatt Manuguru area plant for its needs in Manuguru and Illendu areas through transmission and distribution lines of TS-Transco and the Northern Discom and the purchase of the remaining power by the discom. According to officials of Singareni Collieries Company Ltd (SCCL), although the Manuguru solar plant has generation plans for the next 25 years, the agreement was signed for two years with the provision to renew it every two years. For local needs About 90% of the power generated in the Manuguru solar plant would be utilised for local needs including 65% by the company’s residential quarters and offices and another 25% for running the machinery in mines in Manuguru area and the remaining 10% for mining activity and residential quarters in Illendu area. Singareni is utilising 4 million units of energy for the mining activity in Manuguru area and another 1 million units for domestic needs from the Northern Discom. However, after the commissioning of Manuguru area solar plant, about 3.3 MU for mining activity and about 0.9 MU for domestic needs is being drawn from the plant, saving about Rs. 1.2 crore on energy bills per month. Once the establishment of 300 MW capacity solar plants is completed by Singareni Collieries Company Ltd , the company could save about Rs. 100-120 crore per annum on power bills. Singareni Collieries Company Ltd (SCCL) General Manager (workshops and energy management) N. Nageshwar Rao, Chief Engineer Vivekanand, SE Ch Prabhakar (commercial) and Karunakar (of Transmission Corporation of Telangana Ltd ) and CGM Madhusudan Rao (Northern Discom) signed the agreement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pact-for-open-access-to-manuguru-solar-power/article33534255.ece
09 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Maj. Gen. Bhaskar passes away||Major General SN Bhaskar (retd), ‘AVSM’, ‘Padma Shri’ of the Corps of Electronics and Mechanical Engineers, passed away at his residence in Banjara Hills on Thursday. Commissioned into the MCEME on Dec. 10, 1948, he was awarded ‘Ati Vishisht Seva Medal’ on Jan. 26, 1979, and retired on November 30 1980. After retirement from army, he took over Chairman & MD of Bharat Earth Movers Limited (BEML) and turned it around into a success story for which he was awarded Padma Shri on Jan. 26 1984. The last rites were performed on Friday at Swarg Vatika crematorium, Secunderabad. Senior military dignitaries laid wreath on behalf of the Indian Army fraternity, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/maj-gen-bhaskar-passes-away/article33534401.ece
09 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||UoH professor only Indian in international editorial team||Pramod K. Nayar, a professor in the Department of English at the University of Hyderabad (UoH), has been appointed to the editorial board membership for a book series, Critical Posthumanism, from Brill. Prof. Pramod, who is also an alumnus of the UoH, is the only Indian on the board. Brill of Leiden, Netherlands, founded in 1683, is one of the most respected publishers in Humanities and Social Sciences, International Law and selected areas in the Sciences, according to a statement. Brill publishes close to 1,400 books and reference works per year in both print and electronic format apart from over 330 journals including 22 E-Only titles and 24 fully Open Access titles. The majority of Brill’s journals are indexed by major abstracting and indexing services, such as Web of Science and Scopus. Prof. Pramod has also been included, based on his published work in the area, as a researcher on the Algorithmic Governance Research Network, hosted primarily at Oslo Metropolitan University, Norway and funded by Norwegian Research Council. This interdisciplinary research network is dedicated to understanding the social implications of Artificial Intelligence, big data, platform capitalism, datafied knowledge, and automated decision-making in society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/uoh-professor-only-indian-in-international-editorial-team/article33534245.ece
09 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||346 more test positive in TS||The State saw 346 COVID cases on Thursday (January 7), bringing the total number of positive cases to over 2.89 lakh. According to the media bulletin released by the Office of the Director of Public Health and Family Welfare on Friday, the number of those who recovered was more than the positive cases, 397. This pushes the total number of recoveries to 2.82 lakh. However, two persons died of the virus on Thursday, taking the total number of fatalities in the State to 1,561. On Thursday, the State tested as many as 38,985 samples. Of this, 17,153 were primary contacts and 4,678 secondary contacts. So far, over 71.84 lakh samples have been tested. As many as 66 cases were reported from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits, followed by Rangareddy district with 41 cases, Medchal Malkajgiri with 34, Warangal Urban and Karimnagar with 18 each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/346-more-test-covid-positive-in-telangana/article33534249.ece
09 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Burnt body of woman found on RGIA campus||The charred body of a woman aged about 35 years was found in the bushes on the approach road to Rajiv Gandhi International Airport on Friday morning. Passers-by who noticed the body alerted the airport security and local police, who rushed to the spot and shifted the remains to Osmania General Hospital morgue for preservation. Initially, the investigators assumed that it was a case of homicide, but after analysing the video footage of surveillance cameras in the area they suspect that the woman, whose identity was being established, ended her life. Shamshabad DCP N. Prakash Reddy said that around 7.30 p.m. on Thursday, the woman got down from an auto rickshaw near NMDC circle on the airport campus and went into the bushes. “We suspect that she set herself ablaze as we found that she was carrying fuel in a bottle,” he said.  There is always someone to listen at: +914066202000 or 6666 1117 in case of any emotional breakdowns at this Hyderabad-based suicide intervention centre Roshni.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/burnt-body-of-woman-found-at-rgia-campus/article33534130.ece
09 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Create 525 additional posts in subordinate courts’||Telangana State Judicial Employees Association on Friday presented a memorandum to Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar seeking creation of 525 additional posts in subordinate courts in the State. The Chief Secretary assured association president S.V. Subbaiah of initiating the process, the association said in a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/create-525-additional-posts-in-subordinate-courts/article33534257.ece
09 January 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Rs. 1 lakh cr. swindled in Kaleshwaram: Bandi Sanjay||In a veiled attack on the TRS government, BJP State president and Karimnagar MP Bandi Sanjay on Friday alleged that the ruling dispensation in the State had earned notoriety for family rule, corrupt practices and failure to deliver on its promises besides diverting the Central funds. Nearly two years had passed since the TRS made an election promise to give Rs. 3,000 unemployment allowance to the jobless youth, he said, adding that the State government had owed Rs. 72,000 employment allowance to each unemployed youth in the State for 24 months. Mr Sanjay accompanied by party general secretary and the Telangana State in-charge Tarun Chugh addressed a series of meetings with intellectuals, office-bearers of the party district committee and party functionaries here on Friday. He took part in a road show held in the run-up to the forthcoming elections to the Khammam Municipal Corporation (KMC) and the Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda Graduates Constituency in the Legislative Council. Addressing a meeting of intellectuals, Mr Sanjay reiterated his charge that a whopping Rs. 1 lakh crore was swindled in the execution of the Kaleshwaram lift irrigation project by ruling party leaders in the name of reengineering and redesigning irrigation projects. The BJP revered the "panchabhoothas" and committed itself to protecting "Dharma", he said, accusing the TRS of not even sparing the "panchabhoothas", including water and earth, out of "greed." The much-touted two bedroom housing scheme of the TRS government was a dismal failure, he charged, claiming that the Centre had sanctioned Rs. 1500 crore for construction of 2 lakh houses in the State. The BJP regime at the Centre allocated crores of rupees of funds to the State and a plethora of Central schemes including the PM Ujjwala Yojana and AMRUT immensely benefited people of the State, he remarked alleging that the TRS dispensation was trying to misinterpret the facts by projecting the Central development works as its own. "The people of Dubbak and the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) out-rightly rejected the corruption-ridden TRS regime and heralded a change by giving their mandate for the BJP," he asserted. "The BJP will expose the corrupt practices of the persons at the helm in the State," he warned. BJP State general secretary Premender Reddy, former MLC and party Tamil Nadu in-charge P Sudhakar Reddy, BJP State Kisan Morcha president K Sridhar Reddy, and BJP district president G Satyanarayana were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rs-1-lakh-crore-swindled-in-kaleshwaram-bandi-sanjay/article33534263.ece
09 January 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Commercial LPG to have higher efficiency||Plans are afoot to promote the recently launched differentiated LPG christened “extra Tej” in a big way across Telangana and Andhra Pradesh to enable the industrial and commercial users save around 5 to 8 % on fuel, said B. Anand Reddy, General Manager, (LPG), Telangana & Andhra Pradesh State Office of the Indian Oil Corporation Limited. Speaking after inauguration of the new Indane showroom at Ranganayakulagutta bypass road here on Friday, he said all industrial customers will get “extra Tej” at no extra cost with assured saving of 5-8 % on fuel. The Indian Oil has also launched another new product named Chhotu. Telangana LPG Distributors’ Association president Mellacheruvu Venkateshwara Rao, representatives of the Ravichandra Gas Agency were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/commercial-lpg-to-have-higher-efficiency/article33534395.ece
09 January 2021||MEDAK,TELANGANA||Five peacocks found dead near Papannapet||Five peacocks were found dead in the forest area near Papannapet on Friday. It is suspected that they might have died after consuming seed sown by farmers for transplanting, which was mixed with pesticide. Forest officials reached the spot and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/five-peacocks-found-dead/article33534235.ece
09 January 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||RMPs booked for pre-natal diagnosis||The Nalgonda police on Friday arrested five rural medical practitioners (RMPs), a compounder and their local associates, for allegedly conducting pre-natal diagnostic tests and aborting female foetuses. Eight of the 17 accused, including a retired MBBS doctor and lab technicians, are on the run. Nalgonda DSP Venkateswara Reddy, along with Chityal and Narketpally police, on Friday disclosed details of the related incidents to media persons. According to the police, the accused conducted sex determination tests, for which huge amounts were collected, and if the foetuses were identified as female abortions too were carried out. The police seized scanning equipment and diaries, from hospitals at Chityal, Choutuppal and Narketpally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rmps-booked-for-pre-natal-diagnosis/article33534397.ece
09 January 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Madaram villagers object to quarrying||For the past few days, the residents of Madaram panchayat and its Mantrikunta and Duvvakunta hamlets are on protest mode. Their problem is living in dust and pollution which may increase further with the recent decision by authorities to go in for quarrying on the outskirts of the village. The villages are located in Jinnaram mandal. The residents say that about 57 acres was allotted for quarrying. The residents are already facing problems from the existing quarries and are suffering a lot with the emnating heavy dust and pollution. Meanwhile, speeding lorries are also an added problem for them. On coming to know about the allotment, the panchayat passed a resolution opposing the proposed establishment of the quarry. Referring to the proposal of allotting 21.85 hectares in survey number 210, the village panchayat of Madaram stated that it is objectionable for them as the lease allotment violates the Supreme Court guidelines which says any quarrying should be 1,000 metres away from habitations. In addition, Mantrikunta Cheruvu and Boppanu Cheruruvu are within 500 metres distance to the quarrying area. The area also blocks connectivity to three villages - Mantrikunta, Nalthuru and Korlakunta, thus creating problems for commuters. Meanwhile, the villagers have submitted petitions to the public representatives and the district Collector. Bowing to the pressure, the officials cancelled public hearing scheduled in the first week of the month and ordered an inquiry. “We are living like in hell for the past one-and-a-half decade or so. Some of the houses have already been damaged due to the adverse impact of blasting in quarries. Despite our repeated appeals there is no response from the officials. We do not want any more quarries adjacent to our village. Hence we are protesting,” said A. Vijay Kumar, a villager. However, doubts linger in the minds of villagers. “We do not know what we have to do if the quarrying is permitted 1,000 metres away from the village. It’s like sword hanging on our head,” commented a villager.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/madaram-villagers-object-to-quarrying/article33534403.ece
09 January 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Woman, with infant, jumps into well||In a shocking incident, a woman committed suicide by jumping into a well at Sirur village in Raikod mandal on Friday. According to the police, Peddapur Nagamani (23) jumped into the well along with her daughter Saisri (13 months old) around 10 a.m. It was alleged that she was forced to bring Rs. 1 lakh dowry by husband Nagesh and his parents. Unable to bring the dowry, she committed suicide. The bodies were retrieved from the well. Zaheerabad police registered a case. (Suicide prevention helpline, Roshni: +914066202000)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/woman-with-infant-jumps-into-well/article33534398.ece
09 January 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||First cattle hostel inaugurated||Registering one more first in the State a cattle hostel facility was inaugurated at Ponnala, on the outskirts of the district headquarters. The cattle hostel concept was initiated in December 2019 with an aim to create a clean and hygienic environment in the villages apart from helping landless farmers take up dairying as a sustainable livelihood and to safeguard the health of milch animals and improve the yield of milk. The project was taken up at a cost of Rs. 2 crore — Rs. 1 crore under MG National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) and Rs. 1 crore grants from corporates under their corporate social responsibility (CSR). The hostel can accommodate 160 cattle and 160 calves, a separate shed for sick cattle to ensure that the infection does not spread and a separate delivery shed for newborn to ensure that they are not trampled upon by other adult animals. The one-stop common milch cattle home has facilities that include chaff cutting shed, dung long making unit, clinic with all facilities, a meeting hall for community, store room to enable farmers to store their dairy implements, security room equipped with CC cameras, milk collection centre, quarters for in house staff, dung collection pits and water troughs for cattle. Similar cattle hostels are being built in another seven villages — Ibrahimpur, Jakkapur, Narmetta, Gatlamalyala, Irkoe and Mittapally. Corporates like Aurobindo Pharma, Vijaya Diary, GMR, Kaveri Seeds, Mahindra and Mahindra, Gland Pharma and Divis Laboratories have contributed from their CSR funds. The cattle hostel was formally inaugurated by Finance Minister T. Harish Rao along with Collector P. Venkatarami Reddy here on Friday. Addressing a gathering, the Minister said that the cattle hostel will be useful in increasing the revenues of farmers as it would help improve the milk yield and the animals will be healthy. He has suggested to the officials to ensure that sufficient green fodder is available for cattle. Zilla Parishad chairperson V. Roja Sharma, Animal Husbandry Director K. Laxma Reddy and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/first-cattle-hostel-inaugurated/article33534394.ece
09 January 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Woman returns double bedroom house!||Setting an example, a poor woman has returned the double bedroom house allotted to her. This incident took place on Friday. One Rachha Lakshmi is a poor woman and had applied for the allotment of double bedroom house and was alloted one after due scrutiny of her eligibility by the officials. Lakshmi lost her husband Krishna Murthy few years ago. She has only one daughter and is currently living with her brother Nagesh. After performing the marriage of her daughter she would be alone. Considering that scenario and thinking about it, she felt she would not be able live alone in the allotted double bedroom house. Hence she decided to return the allotted house to the government. Ms. Lakshmi met Finance Minister T. Harish Rao at his residence and conveyed her decision. The Minister appreciated her decision and congratulated her on the open dais. “I and my daughter are staying here and once I perform marriage of my daughter I will be alone and would not be able to live in the double bedroom house. I do not need it. Please allot it to any other beneficiary,” she told the Minister and officials. Collector P. Venkatarami Reddy and Municipal Chairman K. Rajanarsu felicitated her.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/woman-returns-double-bedroom-house/article33534390.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Orphaned children admitted to hostel||Mayur (10) and his brother Naresh, two orphaned children of Enkepally village in Sadashivapet mandal, were admitted to the hostel in Mahima Ministries at Ameenpur on Friday The condition of the boys was reported in these columns. Responding, Additional Collector Rajarshi Shah directed district education officer N. Rajeswar and district welfare officer Padmavathi to address the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/orphan-brothers-put-in-hostel/article33534260.ece
09 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Tractor trolley parade turnout unexpected, say protesting farmers||A day after the tractor trolley parade, protesting farmers said they had not expected huge turnout and challenged the government to imagine the scenario on January 26. “We were expecting 50,000 tractors and trolleys for the march. But it reached 1 lakh vehicles. It was absolutely unexpected,” said Santok Singh Sandhu, committee member, Kirti Kisan Union. Mr. Sandhu said that he was sure that the government would not agree to their demands on Friday as well. “They will just go on to show everyone that they are bending and we are not. But we will not step back because these are not the laws we asked for,” he said. Mr. Sandhu said for the Republic Day rally, they have asked families in every village of Punjab, Haryana and other States to send at least one or two members each along with their tractors. “If farmers won’t be left with land, what will they do with the tractor?” he asked. Amreek Singh, chief of Bharat Kisan Union Jalandhar, said that the government has “no brains”. “They have not agreed today [Friday] and it only means that the protest will get stronger. There could be dire consequences and they are not understanding this,” he said. Cleaning machine In another development, at the protest site, as heavy rainfall led to accumulation of garbage and muck, a cleaning machine purportedly worth Rs. 35 lakh was hired and brought by a group of youths from Ludhiana under the banner Punjab Youth Force Organisation (PYFO). “We thought the government will do something, but they did not. They will probably start blaming the farmers for dirtying the place and we will not take any chance. In fact, there’s only one machine here, which is not enough for the entire place, and some help by the authorities would be appreciated,” said Jagjit Singh Mangat, PYFO member and IT-wing head. The machine runs about 12-13 km a day collecting the garbage in a tanker using vacuum and then dumps it at a nearby yard. A group from Sis Ganj Gurudwara also offered shoe cleaning service at the site.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/tractor-trolley-parade-turnout-unexpected-say-protesting-farmers/article33533834.ece
09 January 2021||New Delhi,||Builder, accomplice arrested for false extortion complaint||A builder, along with an accomplice, allegedly hatched a conspiracy to mislead investigators by registering a false complaint of extortion to gain police protection and get rid of creditors, officials said on Friday. One of the accused, Ashok Yadav (37), who works as a POP contractor for the builder, has been arrested, they added. Raids were conducted, following which the 40-year-old builder, identified as Gaurav Jain, was arrested on Friday. He cooked up a story and filed a false complaint at Preet Vihar police station in a bid to get rid of his creditors, a police officer said. According to the police, Mr. Jain is a resident of Preet Vihar in east Delhi. He and his father run a construction business in the name of Sidhshrey Developers Pvt. He did his graduation in B.Sc.(Hons) and also holds an MBA degree. Both he and his father are directors in the said company. Mr. Jain approached the police with his complaint on December 29 last year, alleging that he had received a letter through courier with an extortion demand of Rs. 25 lakh and was threatened with life if the money was not paid, the police said. A case was registered, a database of around 40-45 suspects was prepared and their details were minutely analysed, Deputy Commissioner of Police (East) Deepak Yadav said. “During sustained interrogation, one of the suspects, Mr. Yadav, confessed to the crime. He said that he was following Mr. Jain’s directions, who wanted police protection and get rid of his creditors. He also disclosed that Mr. Jain had assured him of big contracts in the future,” he said. Mr. Yadav had came in contact with the builder in 2011, became a POP contractor and started working for him since then, the police said, adding that a car used in dispatching the courier has been seized.  During sustained interrogation, the accomplice said he was following the builder’s directions who had promised him big contracts in the future Deepak Yadav Deputy Commissioner of Police (East)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/builder-accomplice-arrested-for-false-extortion-complaint/article33533839.ece
09 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Gurwinder reaps rewards for his bicycle trip||For Gurwinder Singh, cycling 420 km to the Singhu border from Ferozepur turned out to be a blessing as the Good Samaritans in Italy and Canada reached out to him and bought him a bike, besides helping him to set up a tea kiosk in his village. Gurwinder paid his gratitude by coming back to the Singhu border on his motorcycle. The 29-year-old landless labourer from Ferozepur had come on his bicycle to mark his presence at the protest on December 22 because he believed that God and his Gurus reside where there is sangat and that the protest site is a place of worship.  The Hindu had reported his four-days three-nights journey while videos of him cycling his way to the protest site were shared on social media. Two days after he reached home on January 25, he received a call from a family in Italy. “We loved what you did. We’ve been staying here for the last 10 years and couldn’t gather the courage to come to India for this protest. So the next time you go, you’ll go on a bike,” they told Gurvinder. After the call, an elated Gurvinder started looking for a second- hand bike and bought one for Rs. 24,000. “They asked for my bank account number but I didn’t have. So I gave them my wife’s. They had sent Rs. 26,000 in my account so I kept Rs. 2,000 for petrol,” he said, adding that he video called the family in Italy and showed them the bike. Soon after, Gurwinder was on his way to the Singhu border on his new bike. “I reached the protest site in 18 hours on December 31 and spent the New Year with my farmer brothers,” said Gurvinder, who returned home on January 6. Call from Canada In addition to the bike, a family from Canada also reached out to Gurvinder and offered to help him set up a tea kiosk in his village. They’ve sent Rs. 25,000 so far, he said. “People from the village have been coming to my house to praise me. They say I’ve made them proud and made Ferozepur’s name famous. One person gave me a pair of shoes and another provided me one month’s ration,” he said. Gurvinder, father of 11-month- old twins, said he feels short of words to describe the feelings. “I believed the site to be a place of worship and for me, God has proved it to be”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/gurwinder-reaps-rewards-for-his-bicycle-trip/article33533832.ece
09 January 2021||New Delhi,||BJP conducts signature campaign demanding release of arrears||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Friday ran a signature campaign across the city in support of the party’s demand for immediate release of arrears of around Rs. 13,000 crore of municipal funds allegedly due to the three civic bodies. According to the BJP, the campaign was organised at 750 locations, which included markets, metro stations, temple complexes and institutional areas. ‘Corruption allegations’ “Right since it came to power in 2015, the Delhi government has been politically prejudiced towards the municipal corporations. To defame the BJP-ruled civic bodies, the Delhi government and its ruling party-AAP have been levelling unfounded corruption allegations on them and curtailing their constitutionally allocated funds,” Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta alleged. “During the last five years, the Kejriwal government cut all plan head funds, stalling the development activities by the civic bodies. In the last two years, the Delhi government has cut even the Delhi Finance Commission’s recommended annual funds on one pretext or the other,” Mr. Gupta added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-conducts-signature-campaign-demanding-release-of-arrears/article33533835.ece
09 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Illegal arms supplier lands in police net||The Special Cell of the Delhi Police has arrested a 24-year-old illegal arms supplier, officials said on Friday. The accused has been identified as Ashish Kumar Pandey, a resident of Allahabad in Uttar Pradesh, they said. A total of 35 semi-automatic pistols, 60 live bullets and a mobile phone were seized from his possession. The police got a tip-off on Thursday that Mr. Pandey would come to Pitampura to deliver a consignment of illegal arms to his contact, a senior police officer said. Trap laid “A trap was laid and Mr. Pandey was apprehended,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) Sanjeev Kumar Yadav said. During investigation, Mr. Pandey disclosed that he used to supply illegal weapons and cartridges after procuring them from one Prahalad, a resident of Barwani in Madhya Pradesh, the police said. Mr. Pandey has been in this business for over two years. He used to procure illegal pistols from suppliers in M.P. and supply them to criminals of Delhi, U.P. and Haryana, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/illegal-arms-supplier-lands-in-police-net/article33533838.ece
09 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man, wife arrested for mortgaging father’s property||A husband-wife duo were arrested for allegedly mortgaging the property of his father, the police said on Friday. The accused have been identified as Anuj Jaipuria (40) and his 36-year-old wife Sunita (name changed), they said. According to the police, one Rajender Jaipuria had purchased property number B-158, Noida Sector-31 in 2011. He allowed his younger son Anuj Jaipuria to stay with him on the first floor of the house, along with his wife and two children. In 2018, officials of Cholamandalam Investment and Finance Company Limited visited the complainant’s house claiming that a home loan of Rs. 2,47,13,363 was availed by mortgaging the said property, a senior police officer said. Apart from the complainant, his wife Jayshree Jaipuria, son and daughter-in-law were shown as co-applicants in the loan, the officer said. The complainant came to know that his son had fraudulently used his previous address – 6947/3, Kolhapur Road, Kamla Nagar, Delhi – in the alleged loan documents, which he had disposed of in 2011, the police said. During investiagtion, it was found that signatures in the name of four persons were there on every loan document, while the complainant claimed that he and his wife Ms. Jayshree never signed any loan document and that their signatures had been forged by his son and daughter-in-law, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-wife-arrested-for-mortgaging-fathers-property/article33533840.ece
09 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Former DGP takes over as new CISF chief||Former Maharashtra DGP Subodh Kumar Jaiswal on Friday took over as the new chief of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF). The 1985-batch Indian Police Service (IPS) officer was accorded a ceremonial guard of honour before he took charge as the 28th chief of the force at the CISF headquarters at Lodhi Road in central Delhi. Mr. Jaiswal (58), who was heading the Maharashtra Police since February 28, 2019, was appointed as the Director General of about 1.62 lakh CISF personnel by the Central government last month. Mr. Jaiswal is set to retire from service in September, 2022. He has earlier worked with Special Protection Group that secures the PM and with RAW.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/former-dgp-takes-over-as-new-cisf-chief/article33533836.ece
09 January 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam bans poultry import||The Assam government on Friday temporarily banned the import of poultry ahead of the mid-January Bhogali Bihu, the festival of feasting where fowls are considered a must. The ban is in view of bird flu cases elsewhere in India and partly due to a scare after the report of a duck plague in Tripura. An official notification said, “In view of the outbreak of avian Influenza in some of the States, the Governor of Assam is pleased to impose temporary ban on entry of poultry as a precautionary measure through western border of the States in the interest of preventing escalation of the disease to Assam and other north-eastern States.” The Animal Husbandry and Veterinary department has also kept a watch on local fowls being sold in markets. Sellers usually stock up for sale at a premium during Bhogali Bihu. “Assam or any other State in the Northeast has not recorded any bird flu case but our request to the government for a temporary ban on importing poultry from other States was precautionary,” department Director Ashok Barman said. Nagaland’s advisory The Nagaland government has also issued an advisory for “preparedness, control and containment of the virus” that causes bird flu. The State’s Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Services Department advised people to report any unusual sickness and death of poultry birds, ducks and pet birds and not to handle and consume the meat of such birds and ducks that die suddenly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/ahead-of-festival-assam-bans-poultry-import/article33533724.ece
09 January 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam to gift khadi clothes to employees||The Assam government has decided to gift khadi shirt, endi shawl and endi stole to Grade IV male and female employees in a phased manner from January, an official statement said on Friday. The decision to provide free khadi clothes would be implemented as a tribute to Mahatma Gandhi and his movement for khadi besides paving the way for Assam to be self-reliant, CM Sarbananda Sonowal said. He instructed Handloom and Textile Minister Ranjit Dutta to ensure implementation of the initiative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/assam-to-gift-khadi-clothes-to-employees/article33533883.ece
09 January 2021||LUCKNOW,||Four die after consuming spurious liquor in Bulandshahr||Four people died after consuming suspected spurious liquor at Jeetgadi village in Uttar Pradesh, and four policemen, including a Station House Officer, in Bulandshahr district were on Friday suspended in connection with the deaths. Bulandshahr Senior Superintendent of Police Santosh Kumar Singh said a search was on for the main accused, identified as Kuldeep, who allegedly sold the liquor. The police had detained people linked to him for questioning. SHO Sikandrabad, an outpost in-charge and two constables were suspended. “ Prima facie , after coming here, we got to know that liquor was being sold for quite some time. The SHO, outpost in-charge and halka constables should have known about it, and they should have taken action,” said Mr. Singh. District Magistrate Bulandshahr Ravindra Kumar said 17 others also fell ill after consuming the liquor. Five of them were in a serious condition. Three relatives of the main accused have been arrested and were being questioned, he added. A departmental probe was initiated against Joint Excise Commissioner Meerut Zone Rajesh Mani Tripathi, Deputy Commissioner Suresh Chandra Patel and Bulandshahr district excise officer Sanjay Kumar Tripathi. Four other officers, including an excise inspector were suspended after being found lax in their duty, said Sanjay R. Bhoosreddy, additional chief secretary UP Excise Department. According to a government spokesperson in Lucknow, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has directed officials to initiate stern action under the National Security Act and the Gangsters Act in the case.  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/four-die-after-consuming-spurious-liquor-in-bulandshahr/article33534232.ece
09 January 2021||Mumbai,||Yes Bank fraud case: bail pleas of Wadhawan brothers rejected||A magistrate court on Friday rejected the bail pleas filed on merit by Kapil Wadhawan and Dheeraj Wadhawan, promoters of Dewan Housing Finance Limited (DHFL), in the Yes Bank fraud case. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in its FIR had claimed that Yes Bank had invested Rs. 3,700 crore in short-term debentures of DHFL between April and June 2018 for which the Wadhawans allegedly gave a kickback of Rs. 600 crore to bank’s former CEO and managing director Rana Kapoor in the form of loans to DoIT Urban Ventures (India) Pvt. Ltd., a company registered in the name of Mr. Kapoor’s daughters. The CBI had obtained a non-bailable warrant against the duo on March 17, 2020, but they were not arrested. On April 9, the Wadhawans, who were out on bail, along with a group of 23 people flouted lockdown rules and travelled to Mahabaleshwar from Khandala after a senior IPS officer in the Maharashtra Home Department issued a letter allowing them to travel. Following an uproar, the Wadhawan brothers on April 18 had got interim relief from arrest after their lawyer pleaded that the two should not be arrested in the middle of the pandemic. Seeking bail, their advocate had argued that the entire case was based on banking transactions and money trail, documents of which were available to the agency. On April 11, 2020, the Bombay High Court had rejected their default bail pleas. Justice S.V. Kotwal had said, “The real victims were the depositors and shareholders; particularly of Yes Bank. That amount was not utilised for getting profits for Yes Bank, but it was used for personal gains of the accused. Thus, clearly offence under Section 409 of the Indian Penal Code is made out.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/yes-bank-fraud-case-bail-pleas-of-wadhawan-brothers-rejected/article33533742.ece
09 January 2021||Mumbai,||Kangana, sister record statements in sedition case||Actor Kangana Ranaut on Friday appeared before the Bandra police along with her sister Rangoli Chandel to record statements in a case of sedition and spreading communal hatred. The actor claimed in a video earlier in the day that she was being targeted for expressing her views on issues related to the country’s welfare. Ms. Ranaut, who has been provided Y-plus category security by CRPF personnel, and her sister arrived at the police station around 1 p.m. with their lawyer Rizwan Siddiqui amid heavy media presence. They left after nearly two hours. A senior police official said they could be called again for questioning after the next hearing in the magistrate’s court. “As per the assurance given to the high court, she and her sister appeared before the police and recorded their statements today,” Mr. Siddiqui said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/kangana-sister-record-statements-in-sedition-case/article33533739.ece
09 January 2021||Mumbai,||ED summons India Today group’s CFO||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has summoned India Today group’s CFO to record statement in connection with the alleged Television Rating Points (TRP) manipulation racket, a senior official of the agency said on Friday. The agency has registered an ECIR (enforcement case information report) on the basis of the FIR filed by the Mumbai Police in the alleged scam to probe suspected money laundering. The CFO has been asked to appear before ED officials in Mumbai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/ed-summons-india-today-groups-cfo/article33533740.ece
09 January 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra’s death count nudges 50,000||Cases continued to outpace recoveries as Maharashtra on Friday reported 3,693 new COVID-19 cases as opposed to 2,890 patients being discharged. The active case tally rose further to 51,838. The total case tally has now reached 19,61,975. As many as 73 fatalities saw the death toll climb to 49,970. The cumulative recoveries stand at 18,58,999 while the State’s recovery rate is 94.75%. “Of a total 1,32,67,917 laboratory samples tested thus far, 19,61,975 (with the case positivity rate down to 14.79%) have returned positive with over 68,000 samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said, adding that the case fatality stood at 2.55%. Pune reported a high surge of more than 650 new cases to take its total case tally to 3,77,265. As many as 13 deaths saw the toll go up to 7,818. As per the district administration figures, the active cases have increased further to reach 5,630 while the district’s recovery rate stands at 96.08%. Mumbai city recorded 654 fresh cases to take its total infections to 2,97,639 of whom just 7,927 are active. As many as 11 fatalities saw the city’s toll touch 11,173. Nagpur district in Vidarbha registered more than 400 new cases, pushing the district’s total tally to 1,28,791 of whom 5,063 are active. As many as 11 deaths saw the toll reach 3,253. In western Maharashtra, Satara added no deaths as its toll stood at 1,780 while 52 fresh cases saw the total cases climb to 55,074 of whom only 749 are active. Neighbouring Sangli logged 27 cases and no deaths as the district’s reported cases went up to 50,379 of whom just 412 are active. Its death count remains at 1,770.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtras-death-count-nudges-50000/article33533741.ece
09 January 2021||Pune,||2 key BJP leaders join Shiv Sena in Nashik; Raut calls it ‘homecoming’||In a setback to the BJP in Maharashtra, its two key leaders in Nashik joined the Shiv Sena on Friday. According to sources, the defection of Vasant Gite, a former MLA from Nashik Central, and Sunil Bagul, is expected to weaken the BJP’s influence in the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC), which goes to polls in 2022. Dubbing their return as “a homecoming of old Shiv Sainiks”, Sena MP and spokesman Sanjay Raut, who presided over Mr. Gite and Mr. Bagul’s entry to the party fold in Nashik, claimed that several more BJP leaders were on their way to joining the Sena. “The political winds are changing in Nashik…the next Mayor will be from the Sena,” he said. Meeting with Uddhav Remarking that it was important for the duo’s ‘homecoming’ ceremony to be held in Nashik, Mr. Raut said that both leaders met Sena president and Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray at the latter’s official residence Varsha earlier this week. Mr. Gite and Mr. Bagul will be formally inducted to the Sena in the presence of Mr. Thackeray at a function at the Thackeray’s family residence Matoshree later on Friday. Mr. Gite had also been the Raj Thackeray-led Maharashtra Navnirman Sena’s point man in Nashik before his defection to the BJP in 2014. In 2017, the BJP swept the NMC elections, bagging 66 of the 122 seats. The Sena, the BJP’s estranged saffron ally, had come second, winning 35 seats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/2-key-bjp-leaders-join-shiv-sena-in-nashik-raut-calls-it-homecoming/article33533744.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||My focus is on smooth transition: Trump||A day after U.S. President Donald Trump’s supporters, charged by listening to their leader’s words at a Washington DC rally, stormed the U.S. Capitol, Mr. Trump condemned the violence and acknowledged that a new administration would be sworn in on January 20. Mr. Trump’s remarks were made in a video released on his Twitter account, which was earlier suspended to prevent the President from inciting further violence. “Like all Americans I am outraged by the violence, lawlessness and mayhem,” Mr. Trump said. Five people died as a result of the attack on the Capitol including one police officer. “The demonstrators who infiltrated the Capitol have defiled the seat of American democracy,” Mr. Trump said as calls for removing him via impeachment or the U.S. Constitution’s 25th Amendment grew louder. Several prominent GOP lawmakers had criticised Wednesday’s violence and in the aftermath more administration officials handed in their resignation. Mr. Trump addressed the rioters in his video message, saying they did not represent the country. ‘Great patriots’ “To those who broke the law, you will pay,” he said. This was in sharp contrast to Wednesday, when Mr. Trump had called the rioters “very special” in another video message, in which he also asked them to retreat. In a tweet he had called the rioters “great patriots” even as some of them were inside the Capitol. Mr. Trump said that while emotions were high following an “intense election”, tempers “ must be cooled” now. “We must get on with the business of America,” he said. Mr. Trump has consistently claimed that the elections were fraudulent and he — and not Democratic candidate Joe Biden — was the actual winner of the contest without providing adequate evidence to back up his claims. “Now Congress has certified the results. A new administration will be inaugurated on Jan. 20. My focus now turns to ensuring a smooth orderly and seamless transition of power. This moment calls for healing and reconciliation,” Mr. Trump said without mentioning Mr. Biden by name or offering congratulations, as is the norm. Call for electoral reforms Mr. Trump, who has over the years floated the idea of being ‘President for life’, said in his video message that his “ only goal” was to ensure the integrity of the election. “ I continue to strongly believe that we must reform our election laws to verify the identify and eligibility of all voters,” he said. Democrats and civil rights activists have accused Republicans of wanting to disenfranchise minorities by making it harder for them to vote or otherwise invalidating their ballots. Mr. Trump’s comments got applause from some of his allies on Capitol Hill, including Lindsey Graham, a Senator from South Carolina, who had said “enough is enough” when reacting to the violence on Wednesday. Yet Mr. Graham was one of several GOP lawmakers, who tacitly or explicitly encouraged Mr. Trump’s contestation of the election results without an adequate evidentiary basis. Georgia Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger had accused Mr. Graham of pressuring him to not count legally cast votes in the State in November, after Mr. Biden won Georgia. “President@realDonaldTrump’s statement tonight urging the country to move forward and heal was much-needed and hit the mark. Well done, Mr. President,” Mr. Graham tweeted shortly after the video was released. Dozens involved in the attack have been arrested and charged (examples of charges include unlawfully entering public property, possessing a military style automatic weapon). Mr. Trump’s role in the violence is also being looked at by the Justice Department. “We are looking at all actors, not only the people who went into the building,” U.S. attorney Michael Sherwin told reporters in response to a question on whether investigators were looking into the President’s role in Wednesday’s chaos. “Yesterday, the President of the United States incited an armed insurrection against America,” House of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi told reporters at the Capitol.  Push for impeachment  Ms. Pelosi said she was joining Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer in calling for Vice President Mike Pence to remove Mr. Trump from office by invoking the 25th Amendment. If this fails, the Congress “ may be prepared to move forward with impeachment, “ she said. “While it’s only 13 days left [for Mr. Trump to leave office], any day can be a horror show for America,” she said. A group of Democrats began circulating articles of impeachment. Mr. Trump was impeached by the House of Representatives just over a year ago but was acquitted at his Senate trial. It is far from clear whether either plan to remove the President from office will gain sufficient traction at this point. Mr. Pence is reportedly against invoking the 25th Amendment. However, at least two Republican leaders, Maryland Governor Larry Hogan and Representative Adam Kinzinger, have openly come out in support of it. More officials resign On Thursday, with just over 12 days left for the end of the administration, a growing number of officials sought to distance themselves from Mr. Trump. At least three White House officials had resigned on Wednesday, shortly after the attack. Thursday’s list included two Cabinet level officials: Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao, who is married to outgoing Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, and Education Secretary Betsy DeVos. Former Chief of Staff and Special Envoy to Northern Ireland Mick Mulvaney also resigned. “There is no mistaking the impact your rhetoric had on the situation, and it is the inflection point for me,” said Ms. Devos, whose resignation was first reported by the Wall Street Journal . Ms. Devos — a Trump loyalist and controversial Education Secretary herself — had issued a statement condemning the violence on Wednesday. American Federation of Teachers president Randi Weingarten reacted to Ms. DeVos’s resignation with a short statement :“Good Riddance.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/my-focus-is-on-smooth-transition-trump/article33533478.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||China holds third edition of South Asia multilateral meet||China has held its third multilateral dialogue with countries from South Asia to take forward closer cooperation on fighting COVID-19 and coordinating their economic agendas, reflecting a new approach in Beijing’s outreach to the region. The third dialogue, held virtually on January 6, brought together every country in the region barring India, Bhutan and the Maldives, and was aimed at “anti-epidemic cooperation and poverty reduction cooperation”, China’s Foreign Ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying said. All three dialogues have been attended by Pakistan and Nepal, which are emerging as two lynchpins in China’s regional strategy. The first such meeting was convened by China in July, and was attended by Pakistan, Nepal and Afghanistan. This was followed by a grouping in November attended by China, Pakistan, Nepal, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh. The January 6 meeting was attended by all five countries that have taken part in these dialogues — Pakistan, Nepal, Afghanistan, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh — and was a follow-up to the two earlier meetings, Ms. Hua said. “In this meeting, the representatives shared their experience on anti-epidemic and poverty relief,” she said. “They talked about dealing with the impact of the pandemic, resuming economic and trade cooperation, dealing with non-traditional security challenges and advancing sustainable development, and reached an initial consensus. It shows our strong will and confidence in dealing with challenges together and achieving cooperation. China would like to work with all sides in implementing our consensus and to make greater contribution to building a regional community with shared future for health.” In the previous two rounds, the countries also discussed how to work more closely together under China’s Belt and Road Initiative to boost their post-COVID-19 economic recovery and agreed that countries linked by land ports should establish joint response mechanisms in border areas, apart from committing to greater information sharing and international cooperation. CPEC extension At the July quadrilateral dialogue with Afghanistan, Nepal and Pakistan, China’s Foreign Minister Wang Yi proposed extending the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) to Afghanistan, as well as taking forward an economic corridor plan with Nepal, called the Trans-Himalayan Multi-dimensional Connectivity Network. Mr. Wang told the conference the four countries were “connected by mountains and rivers”, and also offered to share China’s expertise and capacities on COVID-19 vaccines. The Foreign Minister also hit out at countries that had “politicised” the pandemic and “undermined cooperation for their own political needs”, saying they would be “nailed to history’s pillar of shame forever”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-holds-third-edition-of-south-asia-multilateral-meet/article33533469.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Biden picks Sumona Guha for key role on South Asia at NSC||The Biden-Harris transition team announced the appointment of Indian-American Sumona Guha to the role of Senior Director for South Asia at the National Security Council. Ms. Guha co-chaired the South Asia foreign policy working group on the Biden-Harris campaign, and was a member of the transition team. She will succeed the Trump administration’s Lisa Curtis in the role. Ms. Guha, a former Foreign Service officer, has been a senior vice-president since mid-2018 at the Albright Stonebridge Group, whose chair is former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright. She has also worked at the U.S.-India Business Council and, prior to that, in the Secretary of State’s Policy Planning Staff with responsibility for South Asia. The transition team also announced other NSC appointments and roles, as part of Mr. Biden’s restructuring of the Council, which will be headed by Jake Sullivan, who said Mr. Biden had asked him to “reimagine” national security. The new positions include Coordinator for democracy and human rights (Shanthi Kalathil) and Senior Director for technology and national security (Tarun Chhabra).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-picks-sumona-guha-for-key-role-on-south-asia-at-nsc/article33533476.ece
09 January 2021||Jakarta,||Indonesian cleric linked to Bali bombings freed||A radical cleric linked to the Bali nightclub bombings was freed from prison on Friday, stirring grief and anger among victims nearly two decades after more than 200 people, mostly foreign tourists, were killed in Indonesia’s worst terror attack. Abu Bakar Bashir, 82, is seen as the spiritual leader of Islamist terror network Jemaah Islamiyah (JI), which was responsible for the massive blasts that ripped through a pair of packed bars in October 2002. The firebrand preacher was released after completing an unrelated jail term for helping fund militant training. But he has long been suspected of involvement in the horrific holiday island bombings, which came just a year after the 9/11 attacks. Sentenced to 15 years in 2011, his term was later cut due to sentencing reductions handed to most prisoners in Indonesia. Bashir had been previously jailed over the Bali bombings, but that conviction was quashed on appeal. The cleric refused to renounce his extremist views in exchange for leniency when the government considered releasing him early two years ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/indonesian-cleric-linked-to-bali-bombings-freed-from-jail/article33533470.ece
09 January 2021||Washington,||U.S. modifies H-1B visa selection process||The outgoing Trump administration on Friday modified the selection process for H-1B visa, giving priority to salary and skills instead of the current lottery procedures. The notification was published in the Federal Register. It would come into force in 60 days. The H-1B visa is a non-immigrant visa that allows U.S. firms to employ foreign workers in speciality occupations that require theoretical or technical expertise. The technology companies depend on it to hire tens of thousands of employees each year from countries like India and China. The next H-1B visa filing season is slated to start on April 1. The notification is the latest effort to bar the entry of immigrants to the U.S.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-modifies-h-1b-visa-selection-process/article33533477.ece
09 January 2021||Washington,||‘Preventing nuclear launch’||U.S. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said on Friday she spoke with the nation’s top military leader about ensuring that an “unhinged” President Donald Trump does not launch a nuclear attack in his final days in office. Ms. Pelosi said she talked with Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Mark Milley “to discuss precautions for preventing an unstable President from initiating military hostilities or accessing launch codes and ordering a nuclear strike”. The acknowledgement came in a letter to her Democratic colleagues, and highlight the tensions in the U.S. over Mr. Trump’s last days in the White House.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/preventing-nuclear-launch/article33534118.ece
09 January 2021||WASHINGTON,||President says he will not attend Biden inauguration||President Donald Trump said on Friday he would not attend President-elect Joe Biden’s inauguration on January 20 amid demands that he step aside for the remaining 12 days in office. Mr. Trump offered no clues for how he would spend his final hours in office, and will be the first incumbent President since Andrew Johnson to skip his successor’s swearing-in. Traditionally, the incoming and outgoing Presidents ride to the U.S. Capitol together for the ceremony, as a symbol of the nation’s peaceful transition. “To all of those who have asked, I will not be going to the Inauguration on January 20th,” Mr. Trump said on Twitter. The move had been widely expected, as Trump for months falsely claimed victory in the election and promulgated baseless claims of voter fraud. His own administration said the election had been fairly run. Vice-President Mike Pence was expected to attend the inauguration, according to one person close to him and one familiar with the inauguration planning. But Mr. Pence’s spokesman Devin Malley said in a statement on Friday that he and the second lady “have yet to make a decision regarding their attendance.” Mr. Biden’s transition team had no immediate comment on Mr. Trump’s announcement. But Jen Psaki, the President-elect’s incoming White House press secretary, said last month that whether Mr. Trump attended the inauguration was not top of mind for Mr. Biden. On Thursday, with 12 days left in his term, Mr. Trump finally bent to reality amid growing talk of trying to force him out early, acknowledging he’ll peacefully leave after Congress affirmed his defeat. There have been discussions at the White House about Mr. Trump leaving Washington on January 19, a source told Reuters. He is expected to travel to his Florida resort.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/president-says-he-will-not-attend-biden-inauguration/article33534119.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Pfizer vaccine works against virus variants’||New research suggests that Pfizer’s COVID-19 vaccine can protect against a mutation found in two easier-to-spread variants of the coronavirus that erupted in Britain and South Africa. Those variants are causing global concern. They carry multiple mutations but share one in common that’s believed to be the reason they are more contagious. Called N501Y, it is a slight alteration on one spot of the spike protein that coats the virus. Most of the vaccines being rolled out around the world train the body to recognize that spike protein and fight it. Pfizer teamed with researchers from the University of Texas Medical Branch in Galveston for laboratory tests to see if the mutation affected its vaccine’s ability to do so. They used blood samples from 20 people who received the vaccine, made by Pfizer and its German partner BioNTech, during a large study of the shots. Antibodies from those vaccine recipients successfully fended off the virus in lab dishes, according to the study posted late on Thursday on an online site for researchers. ‘Reassuring finding’ The study is preliminary and has not yet been reviewed by experts, a key step for medical research. But “it was a very reassuring finding that at least this mutation, which was one of the ones people are most concerned about, does not seem to be a problem” for the vaccine, said Pfizer chief scientific officer Dr. Philip Dormitzer. Dr. Anthony Fauci, the top U.S. infectious disease expert, recently said that vaccines are designed to recognise multiple parts of the spike protein, making it unlikely a single mutation could be enough to block them. Still, testing is needed to be sure. Viruses constantly undergo minor changes as they spread from person to person.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pfizer-vaccine-works-against-virus-variant-study/article33533474.ece
09 January 2021||Islamabad,||Pakistan PM accuses Shiite protesters of 'blackmail'||Pakistan’s Prime Minister Imran Khan on Friday accused Hazara Sha protesters of blackmailing him, as they refused for a sixth day to bury the bodies of miners killed in a brutal attack claimed by the Islamic State group.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pakistan-pm-accuses-shiite-protesters-of-blackmail/article33533472.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||On your marks, get help, go||During the COVID-19 lockdown, 22-year-old Nishita wanted to give the Graduate Record Examinations (GRE), an admission requirement for many graduate schools in the United States and Canada, one last shot. Nishita was dissatisfied with her previous scores of 300 or less out of a maximum score of 340 in the first two components of the exam: verbal reasoning and quantitative reasoning. Her dream was to secure admission to one of the prestigious Ivy League universities in the U.S., and an impressive score in the GRE was an important step towards that goal. While she was preparing for the exam, Nishita got a call that gave her a flicker of hope but also made her uneasy. The caller, who had apparently got her number from the database of a coaching institute, told her that she would be guaranteed a score of 320 if she was willing to pay Rs. 60,000. This score, the caller said, would be facilitated by a ‘helper’ if Nishita chose to take the ‘GRE at Home’, a facility offered by the Educational Testing Service (ETS), which administers the GRE, during the lockdown. “I was stunned but I continued the conversation just to understand the mechanism. I gently rejected the offer as I thought it was a prank call,” says Nishita, an engineering graduate and a native of Telangana. However, when she shared the conversation with a few friends and cousins, Nishita was surprised to learn that such a ‘facility’ was already in place and some test takers had already gained from ghostwriters. Nishita finally did not take the exam. Soon after the ETS gave aspirants the option of taking the exam from home, Hyderabad, Vijayawada, Guntur, Krishna and a few other regions have apparently emerged as hubs of fraud. In some places, students and parents say they were charged as much as Rs. 90,000 by callers. These hubs are spread across Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, fertile grounds for such dubious activities given the craze for emigration to the U.S. since the mid-1990s following the Information Technology boom. A well-oiled mechanism Rahul, 22, who is in his final year of engineering at a college in Vijayawada, says he found himself in a similar situation. An unknown caller promised to improve his scores in the verbal and quantitative reasoning papers. Rahul says an acquaintance, whom he refused to name, got a ghostwriter to do the test for him and got a score of 325/340. Shravani, 23, from Visakhapatnam, says she too got a similar offer for the verbal and quantitative reasoning tests. The third component of the GRE exam, analytical writing, requires the candidate to write an essay. No ghostwriter would help her there, the caller told her. Shravani’s friend, Karthika, was initially willing to take the risk as she was sure that she would not be able to score more than 300. However, having developed cold feet now, she has not decided whether she should allow a proxy to write the exam. While candidates from Telangana and Andhra Pradesh narrated similar stories, GRE candidates in Tamil Nadu and Kerala say they have received no such calls offering them ‘helpers’ to secure good scores by hook or by crook. Mukunthan, an aspirant from Chennai, who is preparing for the exam through a coaching centre, says he has received messages from many institutes advertising their programmes, but none of them assured him high scores with assistance for the exam. Similarly, Daniel Varghese, Director of the Thiruvananthapuram-based Centre for American Studies, rules out the possibility of such groups finding takers in Kerala. A matter of concern, however, is that several GRE aspirants from Kerala usually make a beeline for coaching institutions in Hyderabad in spite of the high standards of training provided in their own State, says N.M. Babu, former senior faculty of English, University College, Thiruvananthapuram. “There have always been allegations that candidates who appear for such exams from or in Hyderabad have a high rate of success than those appearing elsewhere,” he says. When a reporter from The Hindu contacted an institute which has been in the business for years, the owner promised a good score for the “candidate” for a negotiated sum. He instructed the reporter, who said he was the father of a student, to travel to Guntur with two laptops a day before the exam. He assured the reporter that his “son” would score 320 if the “father” paid Rs. 55,000 in addition to the GRE’s official fee of $213, which is about Rs. 15,800. The owner also said that the GRE score would depend on the amount that the parents or student was willing to pay, which could be anywhere between Rs. 55,000 and Rs. 85,000. He claimed that there is a full-fledged system in place with “experts” to handle the exam for candidates. The owner said the student would have to choose to take the GRE from home but go to Guntur a day in advance and answer the exam from the institute. A few teachers who take classes for the quantitative and verbal components of the exam say they have also been approached by those running the racket to write the exam for a huge sum, an offer which they say they turned down. “It is estimated that the business in the Krishna-Guntur region in the next three months can alone be worth about Rs. 30 crore,” a teacher says. Conversations with students and institutes revealed that there is a well-oiled machine in place that helps students cheat and secure good scores in the fiercely competitive exam taken by tens of thousands every year. The scam seems to involve a chain of participants ranging from aspirants to teachers to ghostwriters to coaching institutes. While the matter has been reported to ETS, the testing service is yet to take any specific action.    Modus operandi Narsi Reddy Gayam, an MIT professional who promotes Promac, a company that trains about 3,000 students every year for competitive exams like the GRE in Hyderabad, explains the modus operandi. “Experts,” he says, sit across the test taker at the centre. The questions on the screen are captured by a mobile phone camera placed at a certain angle so that the act is not caught by the computer camera monitoring the test takers constantly. Then the “expert” indicates the answers to the candidate either through a slip or a hand sign. Another method involves “experts” operating from different locations. Candidates start the test and scroll through the 20 questions in each of the four sections by clicking the ‘next’ option. As the question rolls by, the image of the question is captured on a mobile phone camera and sent to a team of “experts” sitting at different locations. Since the time limit for each section is 30 minutes, the “experts” revert with the answers quickly. All the candidate has to do is scroll up and tick the correct answer. In the earlier version of the GRE, a candidate could not move to the next question without answering the first. But in the updated system, a candidate can move up and down the 20 questions in each section. This has helped fraudsters, says a senior teacher at a coaching institute who has been approached by a few students for guidance on the issue. ETS representatives dispute these claims. They say the test takers are asked to lock the door and show the room at a 360-degree angle before the test begins. This is done to ensure that no one is hiding in the room. Mohammed Samiuddin, a senior consultant at the India Resource Centre, a partner of ETS, says the software doesn’t allow mirroring of the screen. A proctor monitors even the eye and facial movements of the test takers and any suspicious activity is reported immediately, he says. Madhumitha from Chennai, who took the TOEFL (Test of English as a Foreign Language) from home corroborates Samiuddin’s claims. She says she was asked to provide a 360-degree view of the room and was asked to sit straight facing the camera. A student of the College of Engineering, Guindy, Chennai, also supports Samiuddin’s argument. He says the monitoring is quite stringent. He was alerted a couple of times when there were ambient noises, he says. “I was taking the test from a closed room but the mic picked up the sound of an autorickshaw on the road,” he says. He was immediately given warning alerts though he had not moved out of the vision of the camera, he says. But Samiuddin agrees that there is fraud taking place, particularly in Hyderabad. “Some people seem to be exploiting certain shortcomings of the system after the test starts,” he says. The ETS has been alerted about the scam, he adds. But no candidate has approached the ETS with facts that have been verified, he says. Samiuddin says there can be no impersonation as the candidate’s photograph is captured during the exam. The entire test session is recorded and the photo from the test session is made available in the ETS data manager. Like students, some teachers also say cheating is extremely difficult. A. Jothikannan Vibedu, a GRE trainer who teaches the quantitative section in Coimbatore, says it is extremely difficult for the candidates to cheat as they have time to only solve the questions. “Students need time to understand the questions and then give the correct answer. It is impossible for someone to solve the questions and send the answers to the candidate in such a short period,” he says. The software used by ETS, ‘ProctorU’, doesn’t capture the sound in the room, says Narsi Reddy, contradicting what the Chennai students say. He thinks that this is being exploited by scamsters. “ETS should take this scam seriously. Else, the GRE will lose its credibility just like the TOEFL did after a similar fraud was unearthed by the Hyderabad police in 2011. There are hardly any TOEFL takers now,” he says. Suspicious scores, and inquiries Unusually high GRE scores during the lockdown and calls by prospective test takers to coaching institutes seeking information about ghostwriters was what led to suspicion this time. Doubts also emerged when scores of over 310 became quite common in the ‘GRE at Home’ papers. Agencies that provide coaching to students say they were shocked to see high scores among students with limited capabilities. While 270-280 is the average score in GRE, the ‘GRE at Home’ exam threw up unusual figures of 310 and 325. There was an inkling that something was wrong when some candidates scored 167 and 168 in the verbal and quantitative sections but only about 2-2.5 out of 6 in the analytical section. The analytical component is difficult to copy as the language skills of candidates are tested through an essay, which the prompters can’t improve given the time constraint. “Those who score 165 and more in the verbal and quantitative sections generally score well in the third section too, but this scenario was different,” says Reddy. Candidates apparently also tried their luck on a website called passpsychometric.com, which offers assistance on payment. A note on the website says, “You can pay PassPsychometric to pass your Numerical, Verbal, Logic, Diagrammatic, Inductive, Abstract, SJT, Personality and other psychometric tests - alleviating you from any unnecessary concerns of how to pass the daunting online reasoning psychometric tests!” ETS says it is aware of this website and is looking to take legal action. The website does not list any phone numbers. A query submitted by The Hindu through the ‘contact us’ section on the website did not elicit any response. Samiuddin agrees that websites are openly advertising such facilities but because they use Virtual Private Networks (VPN), they remain untraceable. He also says candidates need to be wary of exploitation. “At least 80% of such fraudsters may be fooling students with false claims. They know students are afraid that their scores will be cancelled if they report that they were cheated,” he says. Informing ETS Over a month ago, some candidates and the Manya coaching centre informed ETS about the scam. After an initial complaint to ETS Support, Manya executives informed ETS’s India partner, Learning Links Foundation (LLF), of the details of the scam in a phone call on December 9. The LLF promised to escalate the issue at the ETS headquarters. On December 15, LLF reported that the head of the ETS Office of Testing Integrity would investigate the matter further. On December 18, Manya Vice President Vandana Marda wrote again to LLF as well as to senior ETS officials, including John Kochanski, senior director of corporate strategy and business development at the company’s headquarters in New Jersey. She suggested that ETS suspend home testing, noting that the scam endangered the credibility of the GRE. “Waiting anxiously to hear from ETS on resolving this. Perhaps ETS should close down GRE home testing immediately till such time you have found a foolproof method to conduct the test,” read the email, seen by The Hindu . “Please keep us updated of the steps ETS is planning to take. Perhaps ETS should involve PR agencies to spread awareness about the fraudulent activities happening and should notify students to not become victims,” the email said. In a later email to ETS, Manya also threatened to report the scam to the police as a case of cybercrime, but has not yet done so, saying that would be the “last resort”. Manya says up to 80% of students who would normally enrol for GRE coaching are now only opting for IELTS (International English Language Testing System) coaching. The English language test, which is run by British Council, can only be taken at testing centres and not at home and is therefore not susceptible to fraud. A question of credibility Some students, desperate to secure admission to a good college, are willing to pay a substantial amount to cheat the system. Two months of GRE coaching classes cost about Rs. 18,000 while scamsters charge about Rs. 60,000-Rs. 70,000 depending on the score the student desires. Several universities and colleges have already waived test scores as requirements for admission this year due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Any indication that home testing scores are suspect could lead to lower use of GRE scores as a criterion for admission going forward. “We cannot have another U.K.-like incident,” says another teacher in Visakhapatnam, who was approached by middlemen. The teacher is referring to an incident from six years ago when candidates were caught having the Test of English for International Communication (TOEIC) exam faked for them. Back then, by the time the investigation was completed, the students had finished their courses and had taken up jobs only to be charged of this crime. Deportation notices were sent to them. These students in the U.K. have been fighting deportation for many years and their work visas have been revoked. The revelations on ‘GRE at Home’ are similar. It is believed that this is happening not just in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana but may have spread to other States, though in lower numbers, as coaching institutes, through which operations are channelised, are well-networked across the country. “Students should not risk their future by falling into such traps. They may be jailed or deported if their scores are found to be acquired using dubious means,” says Professor G.V.K. Reddy, Professor at the Vardhaman College of Engineering, who also guides students on GRE and U.S. admissions. Reddy recalls how actor Felicity Huffman was sentenced to imprisonment for paying thousands of dollars to have one of her daughter’s SAT scores inflated.   K.H. Vasudev, Regional Manager for Manya’s Andhra and Telangana business, says there must be more awareness. “In a few cases where blatant cheating was detected by the proctor, students are reporting that their exams got terminated, or that their scores got cancelled,” he says. “If ETS is later forced to recognise the widespread cheating on home tests, say after six months when students have been admitted into colleges, we may even see students getting deported. This will cause embarrassment to the families and the country.” ETS responds On January 7, a month after Manya flagged the issue with ETS, the head of the ETS Office of Testing Integrity thanked the coaching centre for sharing its concerns. There was no indication of specific action being taken, and Manya plans to reply asking for more clarity. In response to queries from The Hindu , an ETS spokesperson said the company will investigate complaints and ban students connected to scamsters, but will also continue to conduct at-home testing even after COVID-19 is no longer a threat. “ETS is aware of this website [passpsychometric.com] and we are taking immediate legal action to have it taken down to protect the integrity of our tests,” said a spokesperson. There was no mention of complaints going beyond this particular website. Since the launch of home tests nine months ago, “tens of thousands” of test takers have registered for them in India alone. “The at-home offerings will continue to be part of ETS’s product portfolios to provide students with as many testing options as possible even in a post-COVID world,” said the spokesperson. The response further stated that “in our decades of experience, we know that no matter the format, there will always be a small number of individuals who will seek an unfair advantage. This is why ETS has an Office of Testing Integrity that constantly reviews, investigates and acts on these matters. As such, we continue to stand by the validity of our scores.” The ETS spokesperson also warned that “test takers risk having their scores invalidated, and being banned from testing by ETS if found to be connected to these scams.” Names of candidates have been changed to protect their identity. Additional reporting by Priscilla Jebaraj (New Delhi), Sujatha R. and Pon Vasanth B.A. (Chennai), and Sarath Babu George (Thiruvananthapuram)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/on-your-marks-get-help-go/article33533467.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Beyond the Central Vista verdict, key questions||The Supreme Court of India has cleared the decks for the intensely contested new Parliament and Central Vista projects in New Delhi. Limiting itself strictly to ‘the procedures sanctioned by law’, the majority judgment concluded that the government had followed all processes as stipulated by the regulations and could go ahead with the construction. This may have put an end to the litigation but it does not necessarily mean that such disputes and bitter situations would not recur. The critical questions on ensuring public commitment in civic projects, improving participatory processes in city-building, and effective procurement of professional services remain unanswered. Inadequate regulations that do not incorporate best practices will remain as they are. As judicial reviews are hesitant to direct changes to the mandated regulations, enduring solutions have to be found by improving them through political persuasion and public pressure. Delhi as the most visible case It would be erroneous and unproductive to think that redevelopment of the Central Vista is a unique case, sui generis as it was argued in the Supreme Court, and hence the issues. The Delhi project is only the most visible of instances, but the problem is widespread. The imprudent planning and reckless abandonment of Amaravati, the proposed capital for Andhra Pradesh, is but an example. In this project, confusion abounded: plans were erratically changed, the chosen architect was dropped when the project moved towards construction and a new one appointed. After acquiring vast areas of land through a controversial method, the project was abandoned, leaving farmers and others agitated and in difficulty. Failure to effectively address such instances has cumulatively eroded the possibilities of course correction. It is not that there were no efforts to challenge them, but all attempts often hit the dead end of obsolescent regulations. Though many issues demand attention, immediate regulatory improvement is needed in two critical areas: public participation and architectural services procurement. First, the point of the participatory process. As an elected body, the state has the mandate and authority to draft civic projects and urban policies. While there is no argument on this, citizens often challenge the claims that they are unalloyed in their public purpose. The flip flop over the Amaravati project, where two elected governments made reckless decisions, is a case in point. Accountability factor As political scientists have explained, most governments ensure that whimsical agendas do not drive public projects by institutionalising ‘horizontal’ and ‘vertical’ accountabilities. ‘Horizontal accountability’ is about creating interrelated state organisations such as heritage committees and environmental regulators to keep a check. ‘Vertical accountability’ concerns citizen oversight, which currently is limited to elections. The government often argues that horizontal accountability is in place and works well, while citizens, who are unconvinced given the poor track record, have argued for better and expanded vertical accountability such as an improved participatory process. It is not that the provision for consultation is absent. In select areas such as master planning, regulations mandate stakeholder consultations. However, the processes are vague. They do not stipulate clear objective measures to determine whether stakeholder discussions meet the test of public consultation. As a result, citizens are at the mercy of an official or judges’ interpretation. This was on display in the case of the Central Vista. The majority and dissenting judgments used two different yardsticks to measure public participation and arrived at two contradicting conclusions. There is a lesson or two to learn from the Land Acquisition Act’s abusive use and its subsequent changes. The Act was changed to reduce misuse by spelling out the consent required from a minimum number of landowners. Similarly, in urban projects, clear benchmarks such as the number of meetings, diversity of participants and response time have to determine whether a consultation is inclusive and effective. Regulations have to unambiguously state what prior disclosures are needed when meetings have to be held and insist on publicly listing reasons for accepting and declining suggestions. Choosing the designer A second regulatory change is required for choosing designers for public projects. Design is a complex service that requires a high level of creativity to meet functional, performative and aesthetic needs. It has a significant bearing on creating public assets and judicious use of taxpayer’s money. Poor choices disastrously impact downstream construction activities, building use, city functioning, and value for money. Though the majority and dissenting judgments in the Central Vista project did not find any fault in the manner architecture consultants were appointed, some of the issues raised remind us that the processes of procuring designs services could be improved. Barring a few instances of open competition, which is an ideal way to choose from a larger pool of solutions, the state follows the alternative method of closed procurement. Here, select architects who meet a set of prerequisites are invited and choices made from the designs they have provided. To execute this, the government, from the methods recommended by the Ministry of Finance, adopts the Quality- and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS). The method allows for stipulating prerequisites for consultants, placing higher weightage on their technical competency and relatively lower weightage on financial proposals. This is meant to prioritise quality and not low price. However, two sets of issues undermine its professed advantage. The first set of problems arise from the range of weightages allowed between technical and financial proposals. It is observed that unless weightage on technical qualification exceeds 80%, firms that quote lower fees can outdo better design firms. The second and a more critical set of issues is related to steep prerequisites and a lack of clarity in evaluative criteria and standards for design assessors. Reducing the entry barrier Many public projects insist on steep turnover conditions for architecture firms to qualify. The assumption is that the more considerable the turnover, the better it is in terms of expertise. Those familiar with the design profession know that creative outcomes are not a function of the firm’s scale. Steep entry requirements eliminate medium and small size firms and enable only a handful of large firms to qualify. This detrimentally reduces the pool of choice. Going forward, where open competitions are not possible, the next best alternative is to mandate a method that reduces the entry barrier. In this regard, one could take cues from the suggestions made by the Architects’ Council of Europe when it faced a similar situation. It advocated dropping turnover requirements and laid an emphasis on qualitative selection criteria. Second, professional services could be disaggregated into design services and project development and management, thereby enabling better design focus. Third, weightage placed on design value has to be unambiguously clear and fixed. Given that more than 65% of the registered architects in India are below 35 years and many firms are medium sized, such procurement changes are all the more necessary. On state capacity Whenever a case for adopting better practices is made, policymakers argue that developing countries such as India have a relatively low state capacity. Hence, higher standards set in the matured economy and sustained by governments with higher capacity cannot be hastily implanted. The prevalent argument is that practices will improve as economic growth happens and as the country builds capabilities. On the face of it, such an incremental approach appears to make sense. However, it needs to be moderated in light of two facts. A comparison of responses to the novel coronavirus pandemic by India and the United States has shown that state capacity is not always directly proportional to wealth but more connected to will. Two, state capacity does not grow on its own as wealth increases. It improves only when the state is committed to doing better. A. Srivathsan is a professor at CEPT University, Ahmedabad. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/beyond-the-central-vista-verdict-key-questions/article33533462.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Grading India’s counter-coercive strategy||In the murky and chameleon-like world of contemporary geopolitics, adopting a sceptical approach to analyses and evaluation is often the best way forward. Nine months is a reasonable period to arrive at a holistic and reasonably acceptable evaluation of crises across domains. That the world was caught napping and brought to its knees by the COVID-19 pandemic is an undisputable proposition. In the grey zone at the global level is the absence of a definitive prognosis on the decline and rise of American and Chinese power, respectively. Chance for middle powers The two heavyweights are jabbing at one another without anyone of them being able to deliver that decisive knockout blow. The contest promises to be a long-drawn one that could last decades and result in several bouts across domains ranging from the traditional military and diplomatic spaces to new frontiers such as space, cyber and the cognitive domain. As the two powers engage in a strategy of exhaustion, middle powers such as India must see an opportunity to redefine their place in the world order. Alexander L. George, a pioneering American political scientist who published several path-breaking works on deterrence and coercion in a career spanning over six decades, is best known for his work on coercive diplomacy. It is instructive to benchmark the happenings in eastern Ladakh against four of his variants of coercive diplomacy — a gradual turning of the screw, a try-and-see, a tacit ultimatum, or a full-fledged ultimatum. As the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) engaged in unprovoked transgressions through May 2020 that sought to alter the existing status quo in eastern Ladakh, it did so in a progressive manner that much resembled the graduated turning of the screw and then waiting to see India’s response. This was critical for the Chinese to decide whether it could replicate similar transgressions elsewhere along the Line of Actual Control. An immediate Indian military response in the form of a quid-pro-quo was among the options that was demanded by shrill voices across constituencies of strategic watchers. This was correctly not subscribed to by India’s strategic establishment, which decided instead to adopt the try-and-see approach. In this phase of the crisis, India sought to engage in mild forms of coercion that involved the building up of forces to achieve parity on the ground. It was also the first time ever that the Indian Air Force could display its capabilities in Ladakh in all its roles, giving an indication that a serious demand was being made by India from the People’s Liberation Army to restore status quo without an explicit threat or a time limit laid down by India. The escalatory ladder Interestingly, as India’s defensive posture was strengthened militarily, so did the coercive content in its diplomacy and economic posturing vis-à-vis China. Having failed to coerce the People’s Liberation Army to withdraw by mid-July, India had two options as per the escalatory ladder laid out by Alexander George. It could issue an indirect or tacit ultimatum that would involve an implicit and tightly controlled tactical action, thereby demonstrating resolve and intent. Or, it could issue a full-fledged ultimatum followed by multi-dimensional military action that could lead to a limited conflict. If avoidance of war and winning without fighting lies at the heart of both Kautilya and Sun Tzu’s approach towards statecraft, the People’s Liberation Army’s initial moves and the deliberate Indian response conformed to a predictable journey up the escalation ladder that stopped at a tacit ultimatum. Equally applicable to the eastern Ladakh crisis from Alexander George’s repository of ideas are the psychological variables that impact the effectiveness of coercion, particularly the ‘dangers of misperceptions and miscalculations under the stressful conditions of crises’. Ringing true is also his emphasis on the ‘importance of political leaders having a good understanding of adversary leaders, their mind-sets and domestic constraints’. Synergy in handling China In eastern Ladakh, the People’s Liberation Army unrolled its tactical plans with speed and transgressed with the requisite stealth. However, at the operational and strategic level, the Chinese engaged in significant overreach and did not expect the Indian Army and the Indian Air Force to mobilise in strength and slip into their operational roles at high altitude with ease. The comfort levels of the Indian Army with absorbing attrition and offering an impactful riposte like the one it did by occupying key heights overlooking People’s Liberation Army positions, makes one wonder whether the People’s Liberation Army has ceded the psychological high ground it had gained in May. At the strategic level, the refusal of India’s political establishment to push the panic button in May, and the synergised politico-diplomatic-military approach by the Indians during negotiations have been a welcome departure from the past. If one looks at the crisis through the prism of a larger global and regional context, or even through the more focused lens of coercive diplomacy, there are several positives for Indian statecraft, particularly in the diplomatic and military realms. India is a status quo power and this is ingrained in its strategic DNA and associated strategies of deterrence and coercion. This implies, and history is testimony to the possibility, that when faced with adversaries who are either irrational or revisionist, there is every likelihood of India initially being rocked onto the back foot during a crisis that involves either the application or the show of force. Response strategies to such situations are where there is much ground still to be covered. India has militarily recovered well, diplomatically played hard-ball and strategically postured deftly despite the constraints of the ongoing pandemic. While it is too early to predict the trajectory of events when the snows melt, the Chinese have bitten off more than they can chew and could be looking for a face-saving solution. When such a possibility emerges with the kind of power asymmetry that exists between the two countries, it can only be fair to argue that India has done well in countering Chinese coercion in Ladakh with its own brand of counter-coercion. Arjun Subramaniam is a military historian and strategic commentator||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/grading-indias-counter-coercive-strategy/article33533464.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Optimism unbounded||The first advanced estimates of economic output for the current financial year posit a picture of an economy rebounding robustly in the second half from the pandemic-induced slump of the preceding two quarters. The National Statistical Office on Thursday projected that GDP in the 12 months ending March would total almost Rs. 134.4-lakh crore in constant prices, reflecting a 7.7% contraction from the preceding year’s figure. To reach that level, the NSO has assumed that output will recover vigorously in the third and fourth quarters. After contracting by almost 16% in the April-September period, it sees GDP being just a mere Rs. 10,400 crore short of the year-earlier second half’s figure. It is this mathematical projection that is hard to square with the economic reality revealed in both the NSO’s more detailed sectoral output forecasts as well as other emerging trends from ground-level activity. Both the expenditure side and gross value added (GVA) across various industries point to the high degree of optimism implicit in the NSO’s assumptions. Private consumption expenditure — the single biggest component propelling GDP, at well over 50% — is estimated to shrink 9.5% in the full year, after contracting nearly 19% in the first half. This presupposes that consumers have largely shed their wariness to spend in the face of COVID-19 and have begun to set about consuming goods and services at close to pre-pandemic levels, the dampening impact of lost jobs and reduced incomes notwithstanding. GVA data for manufacturing and services, however, seem to belie this postulation. While the NSO expects manufacturing to shrink 9.4% this fiscal, albeit narrowing from an almost 20% contraction in the first half, it sees the crucial GVA services component of trade, hotels, transport, communication and broadcasting contracting 21.4% (the most among all the GVA constituents) over the 12-month period. Clearly, with the mandated social distancing norms having taken the highest toll on high-risk indoor activities, it is this omnibus services sector which contributes almost a fifth to overall GVA that is bearing the brunt of the pandemic-related restrictions. The forecast for government spending also appears far too upbeat. The NSO sees government final consumption expenditure (GFCE) jumping 17% in the second half, erasing the first-half’s contraction and buoying the annual figure to a growth of 5.8%. The end-November fiscal deficit data show the government lagging well behind its budgeted revenue and capital expenditure targets, and with just four months to go and revenue receipts continuing to underwhelm, it is hard to fathom how the GFCE can increase so appreciably in the second half. True, the NSO has furnished a caveat that its estimates are likely to undergo sharp revisions. The upcoming Economic Survey could move away from these overly optimistic assumptions with a more sober assessment of the economy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/optimism-unbounded/article33533457.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Night and day||Unnao. Hathras. And now Badaun. The dirge continues as news of another horrific alleged rape and murder emerged from Uttar Pradesh on Sunday. A 50-year-old anganwadi worker, who visited a temple, was found brutally battered outside her home at a village in Badaun district. After she succumbed to the injuries, a depressingly similar pattern came to light: the police had dithered with both the post mortem and in registering an FIR. The culprits, a priest and his two associates, were arrested by Thursday night, with the State government saying that stern action would be taken. What came as a shocker, however, was the reaction of a senior member of the National Commission for Women who visited the family. Chandramukhi Devi was quoted as saying, “I tell women again and again that they should never go out at odd hours under anyone’s influence… I think if she had not gone out in the evening or was accompanied by any child of the family perhaps this incident could have been avoided.” Such remarks worsen the situation for women who have to battle against skewed societal gender conditioning. When insensitive utterances emanate from a national commission actually meant to uphold women’s rights, it reeks of a primitive mindset wherein lawlessness is overlooked and responsibility pinned, perversely, on the woman for ensuring her own well-being. All the hard work put in by women in all spheres including science and technology comes undone by such crude statements. The equal rights movement means nothing if women are stopped from going out whenever they want to or need to, day or night. But it is also imperative that with society steeped in gender prejudices, the government, police and family must step up to provide a safe environment. In 2019, the NCRB data show 88 rape cases were recorded every day in India with U.P. reporting the second-highest number at 3,065 cases. But records never tell the whole story for many rapes are not reported due to social stigma. Although after the Nirbhaya incident in 2012, the Criminal Law (Amendment) Act laid down the rules for stringent punishment, crimes against women continue, pointing at other issues that should be addressed from patriarchal mindsets to poor policing. For gender parity, more women must join the workforce, but thereby hangs another sorry tale. According to Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy data, women accounted for 10.7% of the workforce in 2019-20 and many lost jobs due to the pandemic. By November 2020, the CMIE reported that men recovered most of their lost jobs but not women. It is a matter of shame that even in 2021, women are asked to stay indoors at night instead of reaching for the moon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/night-and-day/article33533458.ece
09 January 2021||NEW DELHI/BENGALURU,||Swiggy, Instakart under GST scanner||App-based food delivery service firm Swiggy has deposited Rs. 27.5 crore, the amount for which input tax credits under the Goods and Services Tax (GST) were allegedly availed on a fraudulent basis, according to revenue authorities probing the matter. Swiggy and Flipkart’s delivery service arm Instakart are under the scanner for involvement in a fake GST invoice fraud, a Revenue Department official, who did not wish to be identified, said on Friday. Apart from action under the GST laws, the Income Tax department has also joined the investigation as the fake GST claims amount to concealment of income. ‘Full cooperation’ “As a law-abiding company, we are in full compliance with the tax and legal mandates,” said a spokesperson for Swiggy. “Our team extended full cooperation to the concerned authorities,” the spokesperson added. Two senior Instakart officials have not yet responded to summons from the Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI) and have moved the courts for anticipatory bail in a case involving incorrect availment as well as passing on, of input tax credits worth Rs. 21 crore, the official said. Their bail hearing is listed at the Patiala House District & Sessions court on January 13, the official added. While sources at Swiggy asserted that the tax authorities had initiated a follow-up survey at the firm due to a third-party vendor’s alleged default, the revenue department contends that the modus operandi of the fraud, which has been carried out since 2017, suggests the involvement of the company’s management. Manpower supply “The arrested mastermind Gagan Gupta alias Gagan Kumar, has admitted to have committed the ITC scams in connivance with Instakart and Swiggy through various fake firms of manpower supplies to both business entities and where cash used to exchange hands later,” the official said. “How could the manpower supply take place between a supplier and a service user company without direct and explicit involvement of these companies’ management,” the official wondered. In the case of Instakart, the tax department said the input tax credits were wrongfully claimed and utilised, based on fake invoices of non-existent firms named STMPL and MFPL for manpower supplies which never actually took place. “When two officials of Instakart were shown documents pertaining to non-existence of STMPL and MFPL and bank accounts of these two non-existing companies showing debit entries form Instakart as salary, they could not explain it and started trying to locate these two vendors,” the revenue department official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/swiggy-instakart-under-gst-scanner/article33533444.ece
09 January 2021||MUMBAI,||M&M, Mercedes-Benz vehicles to cost more||Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. (M&M) has announced an increase in the prices of its personal and commercial vehicle ranges by about 1.9% effective January 8. The revision will result in an increase of Rs. 4,500 to Rs. 40,000, depending on the model and variant. “In the case of the All New Thar, the current price increase will be effective for all bookings done between December 1, 2020 and January 7, 2021. All fresh bookings for the All New Thar, effective January 8, 2021, will have prices as applicable on the date of delivery,” M&M said in a statement. Luxury car brand Mercedes-Benz India has announced a 5% increase in prices across models effective January 15. With this revision, the price of a C-Class will increase approximately by Rs. 2 lakh, while the price of an AMG GT 63 S 4-Door Coupe will go up by Rs. 15 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/mercedes-benz-cars-to-cost-more-from-jan-15/article33533442.ece
09 January 2021||Chennai,||Bank staff seek priority in COVID-19 vaccination||The All India Bank Employees Association (AIBEA) has urged the Centre to include bank employees and officers in the ‘prioritised category’ along with other COVID-19 warriors at the time of vaccination. In a letter addressed to the Prime Minister, AIBEA general secretary C.H. Venkatachalam said there had been reports that the government would commence the vaccination on a priority basis to various categories of people vulnerable to the infection. For the last few months, bank employees had been working braving all odds. Their commendable services had been taken note of by the Centre as well as the Finance Minister, he said. Demand to EPFO K.E. Raghunathan, CBT member of the Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation on employers’ side, urged the Centre to administer the vaccines free of cost to all members and employees of EPFO, through ESI, on an emergency basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/bank-staff-seek-priority-in-covid-19-vaccination/article33533447.ece
09 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||SEBI eases norms for follow-on public offers||Capital markets watchdog SEBI relaxed the framework for follow-on public offers (FPOs), a move that will help promoters of companies to raise funds more easily through this route. The applicability of minimum promoters’ contribution norm and the subsequent lock-in requirements for the issuers making the FPO have been done away with by the regulator, as per a notification. Earlier, promoters were mandated to contribute 20% towards a FPO. Besides, in case of any issue of capital to the public, the minimum promoters’ contribution was required to be locked-in for three years. SEBI said the relaxation would be available for those companies which are frequently traded on a stock exchange for at least three years. Also, such firms should have redressed 95% of investor complaints.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sebi-eases-norms-for-follow-on-public-offers/article33533454.ece
09 January 2021||MUMBAI,||DHFL NCD/FD holders urged to file claims||63 moons technologies has asked non-convertible debenture (NCD) and fixed deposit holders of Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Ltd. (DHFL) to file separate applications in the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) Mumbai to seek ‘fraudulent transaction recovery benefits’. Failing to do so will cause them to face huge haircuts, the firm said. “The promoters of DHFL have siphoned off approximately Rs. 30,000 crore, which has been traced by Grant Thornton forensic audit report itself,” the company said in a statement. “63 moons technologies, which holds about Rs. 200 crore of NCD of DHFL, has already filed an application in the NCLT Mumbai,” it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/dhfl-ncdfd-holders-urged-to-file-claims/article33533438.ece
09 January 2021||new delhi,||Equity MFs log Rs. 10,147-cr. outflow in Dec.||Equity mutual funds (MFs) witnessed a massive outflow of Rs. 10,147 crore in December, making it the sixth consecutive monthly withdrawal, even as the industry’s asset base surged to an all-time high of over Rs. 31 lakh crore. However, investors put in Rs. 13,863 crore in debt MFs last month as compared to Rs. 44,984 crore in November, data from the Association of Mutual Funds in India showed. Overall, the MF industry saw a net inflow of Rs. 2,968 crore across segments during the period under review, much lower than Rs. 27,194 crore inflow seen in November.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/equity-mfs-log-rs-10147-cr-outflow-in-dec/article33533449.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||TCS profit climbs 7.2% on cloud services||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tcs-profit-climbs-72-on-cloud-services/article33533440.ece
09 January 2021||New Delhi,||Himatsingka Seide inks licensing agreement with Walt Disney for European region||Textile firm Himatsingka Seide said the company has entered into a licensing agreement with The Walt Disney Company for the European region to expand its global brand portfolio in the home textile space. The licence will give Himatsingka the rights to design, develop, make and distribute a broad range of home textile products inspired by Disney’s vast archives and characters.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/himatsingka-seide-inks-licensing-agreement-with-walt-disney-for-european-region/article33533448.ece
09 January 2021||New Delhi,||Reliance Capital's total outstanding debt rises to Rs 20,380 cr||Reliance Capital Ltd. (RCap), part of Anil Ambani’s Reliance Group, has said the total outstanding debt rose to Rs. 20,379.7 crore at the end of December. The total debt, including interest, stood at Rs. 19,805.7 crore on August 31, 2020. Total financial indebtedness, including short-term and long-term debt and accrued interest, was Rs. 20,379.7 crore at the end of December, it said.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/reliance-capitals-total-outstanding-debt-rises-to-rs-20380-cr/article33533450.ece
09 January 2021||Mumbai,||SBI announces up to 30 bps concession on home loans rates||State Bank of India (SBI) on Friday announced an interest concession of up to 30 basis points (bps) on home loans and a 100% waiver on processing fees. The new home loan interest rates are linked to CIBIL score and start from 6.80% for loans up to Rs. 30 lakh and 6.95% per cent for loans above Rs. 30 lakh, a bank release said. Women borrowers will get a concession of 5 bps.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sbi-announces-up-to-30-bps-concession-on-home-loans-rates/article33533445.ece
09 January 2021||Mumbai,||RBI to resume normal liquidity management operations in phased manner||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday said it had decided to restore normal liquidity management operations in a phased manner and would conduct variable rate reverse repo auction of Rs. 2 lakh crore on January 15. In February, RBI had announced a revised Liquidity Management Framework, but had temporarily suspended it in view of the COVID-19 outbreak.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rbi-to-resume-normal-liquidity-management-operations-in-phased-manner/article33534114.ece
09 January 2021||New Delhi,||India urges WTO members to find permanent solution for public stock holding for food security||India urged the members of the World Trade Organization (WTO) to work on finding a permanent solution to the issue of public stock holding for food security purposes. Commerce Secretary Anup Wadhawan said the COVID-19 pandemic has again brought to the fore the importance of food and livelihood security.  Mr. Wadhawan also said that India had a stable policy environment.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/india-urges-wto-members-to-find-permanent-solution-for-public-stock-holding-for-food-security/article33534115.ece
09 January 2021||New Delhi,||Former HDFC Bank MD Aditya Puri joins Strides Group||Former HDFC Bank managing director Aditya Puri has joined global pharma major Strides Group as an advisor and will also serve as a director of its associate company Stelis Biopharma. “Eminent corporate doyen Aditya Puri joins the Strides Group as an advisor and also will be a director of its associate company, Stelis Biopharma,” Strides Pharma Science Ltd. said.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/former-hdfc-bank-md-aditya-puri-joins-strides-group/article33533452.ece
09 January 2021||BENGALURU,||Working on getting the strikers to score: Moosa||Bengaluru FC’s interim coach Naushad Moosa has promised “entertaining football” as the club looks to turn a new leaf in the post-Carles Cuadrat era that begins on Saturday against SC East Bengal. The 2018-19 champion has won just three out of nine matches this campaign, lost the last three and has played a lumbering style of football, all of which contributed to Cuadrat’s exit. “It has not been an easy situation,” said Moosa on Friday. “But we are professionals and players are over it. This is the first time we have lost three games in a row. It is tough to digest. All players want to bounce back and I can assure you of more positive and aggressive football.” Unimaginative The side has looked unimaginative in open play, something Moosa said he has already started addressing. “We are working on getting the strikers to score. We were falling short of numbers in the attacking zone. So we need more players in the final third. We have also not created enough [goal-scoring] opportunities. We will look to do it.” This season, BFC has been beset by an additional problem. Where it conceded only 13 times in 18 league-stage matches last year, it has already let in 12 in just nine games thus far. Fran Gonzalez, who was signed to replace defensive mainstay Albert Serran, has started just two out of nine matches. The side has also missed Ashique Kuruniyan’s dynamism and discipline. “For sure we will be playing more entertaining football, [but] we have to be compact when we lose the ball. We have been conceding more and our aim is to not let in early goals. The thing is, we don't want to make too many changes. After losing three games, there is pressure. I am trying to keep the players relaxed.” Personally for Moosa, who earlier worked with the BFC B-team and then became Cuadrat’s assistant, it has been a tremendous jump in responsibility. “To be honest, I had two sleepless nights,” he admitted. “It is not easy. The expectations at BFC are high. But now, it has sunk in. I had a good first session and players were willing to work for me. There was nothing different from what they gave Carles.” Carles a gentleman “Even Carles… I was with him until midnight yesterday [Thursday]. It is not like we have just broken off. He is a gentleman and we were discussing various players, situations and how things are. It is a great boost.” BFC’s contest against East Bengal at the Fatorda Stadium comes at a time when the Kolkata giant has seen an uptick in form. It is unbeaten in four games and also notched up its first win in the ISL, against Odisha FC, last Sunday. But the focus on Saturday will be on the other dug out, something that East Bengal coach Robbie Fowler, who has been under a relentless media gaze, won’t be complaining about.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/working-on-getting-the-strikers-to-score-moosa/article33533802.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Gokulam coach wary of Chennai City FC||Former champion Chennai City FC, bolstered by the signing of new foreign players and consisting of a good mix of Tamil Nadu players, will be eager to begin its campaign on a high when it takes on Gokulam Kerala in the Hero-I-League in Kalyani on Saturday. Gokulam has had match experience, having played in December last in the IFA Shield while Chennai City wasn’t that fortunate. Chennai City head coach Satyasagara conceded that it was a disadvantage. “Of course, it is a disadvantage. But as a coach there is no excuse. We will do our best,” he said. Gokulam coach wary Gokulam too has a few new signings from Afghanistan and Ghana, and its chief coach Vincenzo Annese is wary of Chennai City. “We should not rush to win the game and should play with patience. We have to be defensively focused,” said Annese. According to Satyasagara, he has tweaked the system a bit from how it was played under previous coach Akbar Nawaz. “From 4-3-3 we will play 4-2-3-1 with a triangle in the middle. We were not cautious last year as we scored but conceded a lot of goals. We are not going to concede goals like that. This year the local boys will play in different positions. We will focus more on tactical discipline,” he said.  Saturday’s schedule:   Sudeva FC vs Mohammedan SC (2 p.m.), Punjab FC vs Aizawl FC (4 p.m.); Gokulam Kerala FC vs Chennai City FC (7 p.m.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gokulam-coach-wary-of-chennai-city-fc/article33533576.ece
09 January 2021||Sydney,||Smith returns to form with fine century||Australia snapped up two wickets in the final session on Friday to leave India with work to do in the third Test as it chases 338 following Steve Smith's first century in more than a year. Pace spearheads Josh Hazlewood and Pat Cummins got the breakthroughs, dismissing openers Rohit Sharma (26) and Shubman Gill (50) as India reached stumps at 96 for two, 242 adrift. The dogged Cheteshwar Pujara was batting on nine and captain Ajinkya Rahane, who scored a century in the last Test at Melbourne, was on five. Fightback Australia resumed its first innings at the SCG on 166 for two, but only managed another 172 in the face of India's spirited fightback led by spinner Ravindra Jadeja who took four for 62. Smith, though, was the star attraction, smacking 131 — his 27th Test century, and first since the 2019 Ashes in England — before being the last man to fall. Marnus Labuschagne made 91. India's openers negotiated a tricky nine overs before tea to be 26 without loss, and they put on another 44 before Hazlewood struck, removing Rohit for 26. Rohit hit a big six off Nathan Lyon before surviving a scare on 24, when he was given out before the decision was reversed on review. His reprieve proved shortlived, however, as he made just two more before being caught and bowled. At the other end, Gill, who made 45 and 35 not out on debut in Melbourne, showed composure and skill, reinforcing his status as a potential long-term opener. Just 21, he brought up a maiden Test half-century before edging to Cameron Green at gully off Cummins. Earlier, Smith roared back to life on his home ground, reaching his century off 201 balls. He survived an ambitious lbw review on 41 before bringing up a patient century. Smith then added a quickfire 31 before being run out by Jadeja's fabulous direct hit.   After Labuschagne left with the score on 206, Matthew Wade was undone by his natural aggression, recklessly skying a Jadeja ball to Bumrah. The slide Green went without scoring, trapped lbw by Bumrah who then clattered the stumps of Tim Paine (1). Cummins was then bowled by Jadeja for nought as Smith began running out of partners. He found an ally briefly in Mitchell Starc to ensure he made his century, before the tailenders were mopped up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/smith-returns-to-form-with-fine-century/article33533543.ece
09 January 2021||Kolkata,||New season set to kick off with multiple matches||The 2020-21 season of the Hero I-League kicks off here on Saturday with multiple clashes, including a much-awaited opener between debutant Sudeva Delhi FC and newly promoted Mohammedan SC. In the first day’s other fixtures, former champion Chennai City FC will take on Gokulam Kerala, while Aizawl FC faces RoundGlass Punjab. While Sudeva Delhi FC is the first club from the national capital to play in the Hero I-League, Mohammedan SC made it by winning the I-League Qualifier last October. Young team Speaking at the official pre-match press conference, head coach of Sudeva Delhi FC Chencho Dorji said, “We have a young team that has been working very hard. We keep our expectations very high and we would like to start our season with a win. It would be the perfect setting for our season ahead. “In the last couple of months, we have sweated and trained a lot. I am hopeful of a good season ahead and realistically we are aiming to be placed in the top six teams of the Hero I-League,” he added. Captain Ajay Rawat spoke about the challenge that Mohammedan presents. “Mohammedan are a tough side to face but we are confident in our abilities. I am focused on the match ahead and I know that there will be challenges. As a striker, I want to score and want my team to win. I will give my cent per cent for the win, he said “We aim to play intensive football with and without the ball. We will always try to dominate and go for the win,” said Mohammedan’s new signing and Bangladesh national team captain Jamal Bhuyan, who is counting on the team’s hunger to win in the upcoming league. Looking to improve Meanwhile, both Gokulam and Chennai City FC would look to improve their performances from last season. Gokulam striker Dennis Antwi, who has plied his trade in Sweden, the Netherlands and Malaysia, said, “I am looking forward to playing in the I-League and we are ready to go. We want to start the season on a high.” Aiming to throw its hat into title contention from the word go, RoundGlass Punjab FC was gearing up for its clash against Aizawl FC. Aizawl FC will look to forget its previous campaign, when it finished with just three wins from 15 matches, and hope to once again aim for the title.  Saturday's schedule: Sudeva FC vs Mohammedan SC (2 p.m.), Punjab FC vs Aizawl FC (4 p.m.); Gokulam Kerala FC vs Chennai City FC (7 p.m.) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/new-i-league-season-kicks-off-today/article33533803.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Hyderabad FC rides on Liston’s double strike, climbs to third||Liston Colaco’s lightning pace and terrific brace powered Hyderabad FC to a 4-2 win over NorthEast United FC in the Indian Super League at the Tilak Maidan Stadium, Vasco, on Friday. The victory helped HFC climb to third with 15 points from 10 games while NEUFC remained seventh with 11 points from 10 outings. HFC got off to a flying start, breaking the deadlock in the third minute. Joel Chianese stormed down the right, cut in through two defenders and passed to Aridane Santana, who made no mistake. It was Santana’s sixth goal of the season. Chianese himself struck in the 36th minute when he latched on to Akash Mishra’s pass on the left, got past four defenders and slotted home. However, HFC’s joy was shortlived as NEUFC scored twice in the dying minutes of the first half. In the 45th minute, Ashutosh Mehta won a penalty which was coolly converted by captain Federico Gallego. Lambot equalises A couple of minutes later, it was Benjamin Lambot who netted the equaliser after five NEUFC players, unchallenged, tried to knock the ball over the line. Colaco came off the bench in the 64th minute to turn things around for HFC. The 22-year-old’s first strike came in the 85th minute. With a sprightly run, Liston took on three defenders before unleashing a curling left-footer. The Goan scored his second goal in stoppage time to round off a thumping victory for his side. Interestingly, all of Liston’s four goals in the ISL have come against NEUFC.  The result: NEUFC 2 (Gallego 45-pen, Lambot 45+2) lost to Hyderabad FC 4 (Santana 3, Chianese 36, Liston 86 & 90+4).   Saturday’s match: Bengaluru FC vs SC East Bengal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hyderabad-fc-rides-on-listons-double-strike-climbs-to-third/article33533537.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||A run-out to cherish for Jadeja||Despite being India’s most successful bowler on Friday, Ravindra Jadeja picked his astonishing fielding effort to run out centurion Steve Smith as the most memorable moment from the second day’s play of the third Test. Most favourite “For me, the run-out will be the ‘rewind and play’ moment. It was one of my best run-outs. Having got the direct hit from outside the 30-yard circle, I would say it’s my most favourite, in fact the best,” Jadeja said. “Picking up wickets — three or four — overseas is good, but the run-out was a moment that will stay with me forever,” he said. Jadeja’s amazing effort in the field — running in from the deep square-leg boundary, picking the ball up with one hand and dismantling the woodwork with a rocket throw before Smith completed a second run — brought an end to Australia’s first innings. Having bowled just three overs on the first day, Jadeja yet again displayed his utility as an all-rounder. Asked whether he was increasingly looking at himself as a genuine all-rounder in Test cricket over the last year or year-and-a-half, Jadeja said: “It’s not about the last 12 or 18 months, but whenever I get an opportunity, I am keen on contributing with the bat and the ball. Ever since I started playing, that’s been my role. Converting the chances “Whenever presented with an opportunity, I have delivered as an all-rounder. When you score runs overseas, it gets highlighted more. I don’t think too much about the past but am focused on converting whatever opportunities I get.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-run-out-to-cherish-for-jadeja/article33533539.ece
09 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Swapnil wins 50m rifle event||Swapnil Kusale maintained his commendable grip over the rifle 3-position event as he won the second match with a 2.1 point margin over the Olympic quota holder Aishwary Pratap Singh Tomar in the National shooting selection trials at the Dr. Karni Singh Range on Friday. Even though he qualified with a modest score of 1168 — the same as Sanjeev Rajput, who had beaten him to the top spot by a slender margin in the final of the first trial — Swapnil was in total control in the 45-shot final. Qualification topper Niraj Kumar (1177) settled for the fifth spot, ahead of Sanjeev and Olympian Chian Singh. Parul Kumar shot the second best score of 1171 in qualification and placed third eventually. Aishwary fought the final well, but had to be worried about allowing his qualification score slipping to 1163. World Cup gold medallist Akhil Sheoran shot 1164 in qualification and placed fourth in the final. The competition will continue with air rifle events for men and women from Saturday.  The results: 50m rifle 3-position: Men: 1. Swapnil Kusale 462.0 (1168); 2. Aishwary Pratap Singh Tomar 459.9 (1163); 3. Parul Kumar 450.2 (1171) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/swapnil-wins-50m-rifle/article33533583.ece
09 January 2021||Pune:,||Bad weather curtails Pune races||In view of incessant rains and poor visibility after the fourth race on Friday (Jan. 8), the stewards of RWITC resolved to cancel the remaining races of the day. The feature event of the day, Homi Mody Trophy, will now be run at 5.30 p.m. on Sunday (Jan. 10).  The results (first four races):   1. GODSPEED PLATE (Div. II) (1,000m), Cl. IV, 5-y-o & over, rated 20 to 46: WARRIOR CLAN (M.S. Deora) 1, Monk (Zervan) 2, Colosseum (Peter) 3 and Ame (Parmar) 4. 2, 5-1/4 and Sh. 58.05s. Owners: Mr. Adhirajsingh Jodha, Mrs. Kritika Singh & Kr Digvijay Singh Shekhawat rep. Jai Govind Stud Agri Farm. Trainer: Adhirajsingh Jodha.  2. FAIR ALWAYS PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), (Terms) Maiden, 4-y-o only: PENSE’E (Neeraj) 1, Quarencia (Trevor) 2, Rising Sun (Parmar) 3 and Sergio (Zervan) 4. 1-3/4, 3-1/2 and Nk. 1m, 10.24s. Owner: Mr. S.M. Ruia. Trainer: P. Shroff.  3. GUEST CONNECTIONS PLATE (2,000m), Cl. V, rated 4 to 30: SILVER STORM (Santosh G) 1, Melisandre (Bhawani) 2, Moon River (Parmar) 3 and Mandeville (Chouhan) 4. Not run: The Pie. 1-1/4, 1/2 and 4. 2m, 07.17s. Owners: Mr. & Mrs. Hoosain S. Nensey. Trainer: Adhirajsingh Jodha.  4. DESERT LIGHTNING PLATE (1,400m), Cl. III, rated 40 to 66: MAJESTIC WARRIOR (Kaviraj) 1, Oui Sauvage (Neeraj) 2, Princess Annabel (Bhawani) 3 and Barack (Kirtish Bhagat) 4. 1-3/4, 1-1/2 and 1/2. 1m, 26.11s. Owners: Begum Shaherbanoo Husain Lagad rep. Chetak Horse Racing Pvt Ltd, M/s. N. Prem Kumar & Ajay K. Arora. Trainer: Narendra Lagad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bad-weather-curtails-pune-races/article33534315.ece
09 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Bhambri trains with top juniors||Out of competitive tennis for more than two years due to an injury, Davis Cupper Yuki Bhambri on Friday hit the court for the ongoing High Performance Training Camp at the R.K. Khanna Tennis Stadium here. Bhambri, who has been out of action since October 2018, joined AITA’s Return to Tennis initiative — the High Performance Training Camp — to meet and train with the junior boys participating in the camp. Wonderful initiative “This is a wonderful initiative by the AlTA. After having no tennis in the country, it is a great idea to have some of the top-ranked juniors come together and train,” Bhambri said in a release. “It would help the players get into the groove and make them match-fit and ready when they hit the domestic circuit or international tours.” The 28-year-old is eyeing a return to the professional circuit in 2021. A total of 21 AITA-ranked junior players got an opportunity to do physical fitness training alongside Bhambri. The camp is being led by national coach Zeeshan Ali, who is assisted by former players Ashutosh Singh and Saurabh Singh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bhambri-trains-with-juniors/article33533585.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||I decided to be a bit more aggressive against Ashwin, says Smith||Steve Smith credited a more positive and aggressive approach in Sydney as the key to getting his form back after he notched up his 27th Test hundred on day two of the third Test on Friday. No technical changes When asked if he had to make any technical changes, Smith said, “Not really. I just tried to be a bit faster on my feet, especially against the spinners. I tried to come down the wicket and play off the back foot a bit better, but nothing different against the quicks.” The former Australia captain said he made a concerted effort to be more aggressive against R. Ashwin, particularly after being dismissed by the off-spinner twice in the last three innings. “I decided to be a bit more positive. Early on, I hit him over his head to put pressure on him, to make him bowl where I wanted to. It was a concerted effort to do that, so happy with the way I played him,” Smith added. Over the last few years, teams have come up with specific plans to keep Smith quiet, with India using a heavy leg-side field in the first two matches. When asked about it, the 31-year-old conceded that he has had to work hard to score runs in recent years. “I think the plans have been different. I feel in a way less likely to get out but harder to score. That’s probably shown in a few games over the last few years. With the fields they are setting and the way they are bowling, I have had to work hard for my runs. But this game I was aggressive early and tried to put it back on the bowlers a bit more. I got close to a run a ball for my first 20 runs and got myself going. After that, it was just about absorbing the pressure and putting the pressure when you need to,” Smith added. “I think it is a decent total. The wicket is a bit up and down as we have seen. Hopefully, we can start well in the morning and build some pressure.”  India vs Australia third Test live (5 a.m. onwards) on Sony Ten 1, 3 and Sony Six.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/i-decided-to-be-a-bit-more-aggressive-against-ashwin-says-smith/article33533545.ece
09 January 2021||Los Angeles,||Lillard on a roll for Trail Blazers||Damian Lillard delivered 39 points, seven rebounds and seven assists as Portland Trail Blazers breezed past the slumping Minnesota Timberwolves 135-117 in NBA action on Thursday. C.J. McCollum tallied 20 points and Jusuf Nurkic finished with 17 points and seven rebounds for Trail Blazers, who snapped a two-game skid and posted its highest-scoring effort of the season. Harris lifts Nets Elsewhere, Joe Harris scored a team high 28 points as the short-handed Brooklyn Nets snapped Philadelphia 76ers' five-game NBA winning streak with a 122-109 victory. Caris LeVert scored 22 points and had 10 assists as the Nets cooled off the NBA's hottest team despite missing their two top players Kevin Durant and Kyrie Irving. Durant sat out due to Covid-19 protocols and Irving missed due to "personal reasons". Stars Joel Embiid and Ben Simmons had quiet nights for the 76ers. Embiid scored 20 points on seven-of-14 shooting while Simmons had just 11 points. Shake Milton started in place of injured Seth Curry and led the Sixers with 24 points and seven assists. Curry tests positive Curry, who made the trip with the team, was reported after the game to have returned a positive test for coronavirus, forcing the Sixers to remain overnight in New York so they can conduct further testing to see if the virus has spread to any of the other players. In Memphis, Andre Drummond posted game-highs of 22 points and 15 rebounds, Larry Nance Jr. added 18 points as Cleveland Cavaliers defeated host Memphis Grizzlies 94-90.  The results: Denver Nuggets 117 lost to Dallas Mavericks 124; Brooklyn Nets 122 bt Philadelphia 76ers 109; LA Lakers 109 lost to San Antonio Spurs 118; Portland Trail Blazers 135 bt Minnesota Timberwolves 117; Memphis Grizzlies 90 lost to Cleveland Cavaliers 94.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lillard-on-a-roll-for-trail-blazers/article33533582.ece
09 January 2021||KOLKATA,||Hope to get a lot of runs: Abhimanyu||Leading Bengal batsman Abhimanyu Easwaran has worked on his game during the lockdown and hopes to reap its benefits in the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy T20 tournament starting here from Sunday. “There are a lot of areas I have worked on during the lockdown and pre-season. Obviously, getting starts and not being able to convert those don't feel good as a batsman. I have worked on a few things — my game, fitness and mindset. Hopefully I will just play the way I have been playing for Bengal, convert those starts and get a lot of runs,” Abhimanyu said. The 25-year-old, who played some matches of the Bengal T20 Challenge after recovering from COVID-19, said he was fully fit. “It has been more than a month since I recovered. I got a month’s time to work on my strength, do my morning sessions and also get in a few practice sessions. I am feeling really good right now, really excited for the tournament.” About Bengal’s preparations, Abhimanyu, who led Bengal to Ranji Trophy final last season, said, “We played the Bengal T20 challenge, which was a good preparation. We also had a camp with [V.V.S.] Laxman sir.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hope-to-get-a-lot-of-runs-abhimanyu/article33533829.ece
09 January 2021||CHENNAI,||TTT and YMCA end a long association||The Triangle Tennis Trust (TTT) said on Friday that its tie-up with YMCA — a 39-year-old joint agreement — had come to an end “due to unavoidable circumstances.” “TTT’s joint venture, that commenced on January 1, 1982, between the family of late N.C. Krishnan and YMCA, is over,” R.M. Narayanan, one of the trustees, told The Hindu.  Situated at Nandanam, TTT played a huge role in developing tennis in the city. Players like Ramkumar Ramanathan, V.M. Ranjeet, Rushmi Chakravarthi and Sandeep had trained at TTT. The Trust’s annual State-ranking tournament during Pongal used to attract more than 1,000 players from all over South India. Satisfying Narayanan, whose father C.N. Ramachandran was one of the founders, said it was satisfying to know that the Trust had produced a lot of quality players. “We never professed to be a high-end tennis coaching camp. We wanted to develop the game. We are proud to say that Ramkumar trained at TTT. We also produced a lot of National and International players. Around 15,000 would have passed through TTT, which is a remarkable achievement,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ttt-and-ymca-end-a-long-association/article33534158.ece
09 January 2021||Pune,||RWITC gets the State Govt.’s permission for online betting||The Maharashtra Government has granted permission to the Royal Western India Turf Club (RWITC) to conduct online betting on the races to be held at the Mumbai and Pune race courses. Mr. Zavaray Poonawalla, chairman, RWITC, said in a statement that “he is delighted to announce having received the permission for online betting which he believes is the lifeline for horse racing. This is a historical achievement for RWITC!” “Having worked and pursued the matter relentlessly for months together, the permission for online betting was granted and handed over on Thursday evening. Online betting will commence from Sunday, January 10, on the day of the Indian 2000 Guineas.” he added. One needs to download the Paytmfirstgames app on Android phones & IOS users’ would require to log in through the Safari Browser to place the bets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rwitc-gets-the-state-govts-permission-for-online-betting/article33534314.ece
09 January 2021||BENGALURU:,||Salazaar for Chief Minister’s Trophy||Salazaar, who has been well tuned, is expected to score in the Chief Minister’s Trophy (2,000m), the feature event of the races to be held here on Saturday (Jan. 9). False rails (width about 6.5m from 1,600m to the winning post) will be in position.  RAJ GHAT PLATE (Div. III) , (1,200m), rated 15 to 35, 2-00 p.m.: 1. In A Breeze (—) (—) 60, 2. Annicca (10) S. John 59.5, 3. Exaltation (7) Suraj 59.5, 4. Marvellous Maggi (2) Jagadeesh 59.5, 5. Perfect Halo (—) (—) 59.5, 6. Quick Shots (1) Kiran Rai 59.5, 7. Shivalic Gold (3) Chethan G 59.5, 8. Ironic Humour (4) Arvind K 59, 9. Hitomi Sakuma (5) R. Ravi 58.5, 10. Prerana (6) D. Patel 58.5, 11. Fortuneer (8) M. Naveen 56.5 and 12. Hawking (9) Zervan 56.  1. EXALTATION, 2. HAWKING,   3. PRERANA   GAGNACHUKKI PLATE (1,400m), rated 15 to 35, 5-y-o & over, 2-30: 1. Sea Of Cortez (4) Likith Appu 60, 2. Ultimate Striker (3) Darshan 59, 3. Fantastic App (6) Aakash Chavan 57.5, 4. Glorious Dancer (7) Chandrashekar 57, 5. Lovely Sierra (10) S. Saqlain 57, 6. George Burling (8) Antony 55, 7. Raw Gold (5) Arvind K 55, 8. Tyto Alba (9) Angad 55, 9. Super Gladiator (11) J.H. Arul 54, 10. Track Striker (12) Arshad 53.5, 11. Konichiwa (2) Ankit Yadav 53 and 12. Azeemki Princess (1) S. Shareef 51.  1. SEA OF CORTEZ, 2. SUPER GLADIATOR, 3. KONICHIWA   RAJ GHAT PLATE (Div. II) , (1,200m), rated 15 to 35, 3-00: 1. Radiant Treasure (10) S. Shareef 60, 2. Estella (12) J.H. Arul 57, 3. Griffin (11) Anjar Alam 56.5, 4. Lightning Charlie (9) S. Nayak 56.5, 5. Statesman (2) Sai Vamshi 56.5, 6. Phoenix Surprise (5) R. Marshall 56, 7. Impeccable (1) Arshad 55.5, 8. Awesome Princess (6) Rayan 55, 9. Aztec Queen (4) Zervan 55, 10. Capable (3) Naveen K 55, 11. Highland Nectar (8) Vaibhav 55 and 12. King Creole (7) D. Patel 55.  1. GRIFFIN, 2. AZTEC QUEEN,   3. RADIANT TREASURE   PRAVASI BHARATIYA DIVAS PLATE (1,200m), rated 30 to 50, 5-y-o & over, 3-30: 1. Osiris (8) M. Naveen 60, 2. Lucky Isabella (9) Naveen K 59.5, 3. The Response (4) S. John 58, 4. Bold Move (2) S. Shareef 57, 5. Songkran (11) Trevor 56.5, 6. Gin Daisy (1) Arvind K 56, 7. Morrane Gabriella (7) R. Pradeep 55.5, 8. Star And Garter (10) Antony 54, 9. Stari Grad (3) Rayan 54, 10. Exclusive Mandate (6) J.H. Arul 53.5, 11. She’s Innocent (—) (—) 53 and 12. Areca Angel (5) B. Harish 51.5.  1. THE RESPONSE, 2. SONGKRAN, 3. MORRANE GABRIELLA   GODOLPHIN BARB TROPHY (1,400m), rated 60 & above, 4-00: 1. Angelino (1) P.P. Dhebe 60, 2. Malwa (5) Trevor 60, 3. Depth Charge (9) Angad 58.5, 4. Peluche (4) Suraj 58.5, 5. Akita Pro (7) S. Shareef 58, 6. Set To Win (6) S. John 58, 7. Velocidad (2) Srinath 57.5, 8. Alexandre Dumas (3) Arshad 57, 9. Commodus (—) (—) 54.5 and 10. Corona Del Corsa (8) Jagadeesh 54.5.  1. AKITA PRO, 2. MALWA,   3. PELUCHE   CHIEF MINISTER’S TROPHY (2,000m), 4-y-o & over, (Terms), 4-30: 1. Royal Crystal (4) S. John 61.5, 2. Salazaar (1) Suraj 59.5, 3. Anjeze (6) Trevor 58.5, 4. Big Sur (5) Mark 58.5, 5. Point To Prove (3) Srinath 56.5 and 6. Ashwa Shehanshah (2) Arshad 51.5.  1. SALAZAAR,   2. ROYAL CRYSTAL, 3. ANJEZE   INDIAN ARMY PLATE (1,600m), rated 45, to 65, 5-00: 1. Electra (5) Shreyas 60, 2. Thailand (3) S. John 59.5, 3. Starry Wind (12) Jagadeesh 59, 4. Astral Force (10) R. Marshall 58, 5. Grey Channel (9) Arshad 55, 6. Ice Floe (7) Srinath 55, 7. Colonel Harty (2) Angad 54.5, 8. Lycurgus (11) Vaibhav 54.5, 9. Salvador Dali (1) Rayan 54, 10. Spirit Of London (8) B. Harish 54, 11. Aaron The Baron (6) P. Surya 53 and 12. Priceless Gold (4) Trevor 51.  1. PRICELESS GOLD,   2. GREY CHANNEL, 3. THAILAND   RAJ GHAT PLATE (Div. I) , (1,200m), rated 15 to 35, 5-30: 1 Michigan Melody (1) Zervan 60, 2. Bloom Buddy (9) Anjar Alam 59.5, 3. Jokshan (4) S. John 58.5, 4. Dontbreaktherules (7) Ikram Ahmed 57.5, 5. Ocean Dunes (3) Antony 56, 6. Another Rainbow (11) S. Shareef 55.5, 7. Adela (2) Nazerul 55, 8. Black Coffee (5) Trevor 55, 9. Country’s Pailwan (6) Naveen K 55, 10. First Impression (10) Suraj 55, 11. Perfect Impression (8) Darshan 55 and 12. Praia Do Cassino (12) Jagadeesh 55.  1. FIRST IMPRESSION, 2. BLACK COFFEE, 3. BLOOM BUDDY  Day’s best: PRICELESS GOLD  Double: EXALTATION — SALAZAAR  Jkt: 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8; Tr (i): 3, 4 & 5; (ii): 6, 7 & 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/salazaar-for-feature/article33533574.ece
09 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Superb Arif in the lead||Mohammed Arif was in superlative form as he led the men’s field after the first round of the Champions League in the Indian online carrom challenge. In the eight-board contest, Arif, who had come through the preliminary and super league to join the elite Champions League, had one ultimate slam and was very vibrant, completing a board in a maximum of four chances. Arif had a cumulative score of six, 15 points better than second-placed Abhishek Chavan. Abhishek and Irshad Ansari also had an ultimate slam of start to finish without a miss. Sandeep Deorukhkar, Irshad, Abdul Rahman, Riyaz Akbar Ali, Mohd. Gufran and Prashant More were in the top eight position behind the leaders. The best eight from the preliminary stage were joined by 15 elite men players and 11 elite women players for the Champions League phase. The players will compete in four rounds and the top four will make the semifinals. Thin margin In the women’s event, Kajal Kumari led Rashmi Kumari and Naga Jothi by one point, with a cumulative score of 38. They were followed by S. Approwa, Aisha Khokhawala, Deepa Naik, Kavya Shree and Tanishka Viswakarma.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/superb-arif-in-the-lead/article33533794.ece
09 January 2021||JOHANNESBURG,||Two uncapped players in SA squad||Uncapped seamers Daryn Dupavillon and Ottniel Baartman on Friday received maiden Test call-ups as South Africa named a 21-member squad for the Test series in Pakistan. South Africa is set to return to Pakistan after 14 years to play two Test matches in Karachi and Rawalpindi, starting on January 26. It will be followed by three T20Is in Lahore. Experienced pacer Kagiso Rabada and all-rounder Dwaine Pretorius return to the squad after skipping the series against Sri Lanka. Rabada had missed the series against the islanders due to a groin strain. “Considering that the conditions that will be faced are largely unknown to the South African team, we wanted to strengthen the attack with the skill sets that Tabraiz Shamsi and George Linde have to offer while giving players like Daryn Dupavillon and Ottniel Baartman an opportunity after making strong cases for themselves in recent seasons,” convener of selectors Victor Mpitsang said in a statement.  The squad:   Quinton De Kock (Capt.), Temba Bavuma, Aiden Markram, Faf du Plessis, Dean Elgar, Kagiso Rabada, Dwaine Pretorius, Keshav Maharaj, Lungi Ngidi, Rassie Van der Dussen, Anrich Nortje, Wiaan Mulder, Lutho Sipamla, Hendricks, Kyle Verreynne, Sarel Erwee, Alviro Petersen, Tabraiz Shamsi, George Linde, Daryn Dupavillon, and Sarah Baartman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/two-uncapped-players-in-sa-squad/article33533795.ece
09 January 2021||TOKYO,||IOC member doubtful of Olympics happening||Richard Pound, a senior member of the International Olympic Committee, has said he “can’t be certain” the postponed Tokyo Olympics will open in just over six months because of the surging pandemic in Japan and elsewhere. The comments by the Canadian to BBC came as Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga declared a state of emergency on Thursday for Tokyo and surrounding prefectures. “I can’t be certain because the ongoing elephant in the room would be the surges in the virus,“ Pound said speaking about the future of the Tokyo Games. It’s crunch time for Tokyo. Organisers say the Olympics will take place, but they are not expected to reveal concrete plans until spring. That’s about the same time the torch relay begins on March 25 with 10,000 runners crisscrossing the country for four months leading to the opening ceremony on July 23. High priority for vaccine Pound also hinted athletes should be a high priority for a vaccine because they serve as “role models.” Pound’s comments seemed to contradict IOC president Thomas Bach. Bach said in a visit to Tokyo in November that athletes should be encouraged to get a vaccine, but would not be required to. He also indicated they should not be a priority. “Athletes are important role models, and by taking the vaccine they can send a powerful message that vaccination is not only about personal health, but also about solidarity and consideration for the well being of others in their communities,” Pound said. The IOC has said the Olympics, first delayed by the coronavirus pandemic in 2020, will not be postponed again and would be canceled this time. The budget for the Tokyo Olympics is also soaring. The new official budget is $15.4 billion, which is $2.8 billion above the previous budget. The new costs are from the delay. All but $6.7 billion of Olympic funding is public money.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ioc-member-doubtful-of-olympics-happening/article33533798.ece
09 January 2021||Monastir (Tunisia),||Zeel Desai in semifinals||Fourth seed Zeel Desai fought her way past Eliessa Vanlangendonck of Belgium 6-7(6), 6-3, 6-2 in the quarterfinals of the $15,000 ITF women’s tennis tournament here on Friday. Sweet revenge It was a revenge victory for Zeel over the sixth seed, as the Belgian had beaten fellow trainee at the Altevol Waske Academy, Vaidehi Chaudhari, in the first round. To meet Astakhova In the semifinals, she will challenge top seed Darya Astakhova of Russia.  The results:   $15,000 ITF women, Monastir, Tunisia: Quarterfinals: Zeel Desai bt Eliessa Vanlangendonck (Bel) 6-7(6), 6-3, 6-2.   Doubles: Laetitia Pulchartova (Cze) & Zeel Desai bt Karen Marthiens & Alicia Martial (Fra) 6-3, 6-1 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/zeel-desai-in-semifinals/article33533584.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||The Lord belongs to all||Among all the reasons for the Lord’s avatars that are taken for specific purposes, the task of protecting the good from evil forces is given top priority, followed by the destruction of the evil and the establishment of righteousness in the world. This is explicitly stated in the Bhagavad Gita. When the Lord promised to help the devas with the killing of Ravana, He decided to be born as the son of Dasaratha. Undoubtedly, this gives Dasaratha the right to claim Rama as his possession. But the truth is that the Lord in reality belongs to all in general and to His bhaktas in particular. This important Vedanta truth is indicated clearly when Vishwamitra requests Dasaratha to send Rama with him to the forest, pointed out Asuri Sri Madhavachariar in a discourse. In Valmiki’s portrayal, Dasaratha is deferential to the sage, receives him with warmth and graciousness, and even before the sage informs the purpose of his visit, the king promises to fulfil his wishes, whatever they might be. Dasaratha’s words gladden the sage’s heart and he explains the plight of the sages to the king. They are engaged in performing a yagna and the rakshasas, Subhahu and Maricha are bent on defiling it. Of course, the rishis could curse and destroy them but it would be a waste of their penance. But if the king sends Rama with him, Rama would put an end to rakshasas. Dasaratha is overcome with parental love and fears for Rama’s safety against the terrible rakshasas. Vishwamitra assures him that no harm will befall Rama and that he knows Him well enough, indicating Rama’s Paratva. Rishis meditate on the Lord constantly and they look upon Him for shielding them from evil forces. But Dasaratha is unable to share this perception. To him, Rama is the dear son whom he begot after much penance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/the-lord-belongs-to-all/article33533533.ece
09 January 2021||Sydney,||New lockdown in Brisbane||Brisbane will go into three days of strict lockdown as the government tries to contain a more contagious variant of COVID-19, raising more doubts about the Gabba hosting next week's fourth Test between Australia and India. The city's two million residents will be barred from leaving their homes for anything but essential business after a worker at a quarantine hotel in the city tested positive for the new strain of the virus first detected in Britain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/new-lockdown-in-brisbane/article33533540.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Back in the mix||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/back-in-the-mix/article33533548.ece
09 January 2021||Associated Press,||Concussion subs: trial at Club WC||FIFA will let teams use concussion substitutes at next month’s Club World Cup in an effort to protect players with head injuries. The seven-team tournament in Qatar will be “the first international competition to test” improved concussion protocols in football, FIFA said on Friday. FIFA cited a key aim of “reducing the pressure on medical personnel to make a quick assessment” of an injured player on the field. Players with suspected head injuries can be replaced permanently in Club World Cup games in addition to the team’s five substitutes. The Club World Cup features title holders from each of the six continental confederations, plus the domestic champion of host Qatar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/concussion-subs-trial-at-club-wc/article33533830.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Kruthik and Nikin in good touch||Kruthik Krishna and S.J. Nikin Jose scored centuries to power Mysore Zone past Dharwad Zone in the KSCA under-23 inter-mofussil tournament here.  The scores:   Mysore Zone 279/2 in 50 overs (S.J. Nikin Jose 108, Kruthik Krishna 128) bt Dharwad Zone 180/9 in 50 overs (Sachin Rajput 39, Angadraj Hittalamani 39, Rohit Patil 26 n.o., Saishiv Narayan 4/25).   Mangalore Zone 159 in 42.3 overs (Yash Kalasannavar 27, Abhilash 40, G. Manjunatha 3/31, H.P. Abhishek 3/29) lost to Tumkur Zone 163/2 in 47.1 overs (V.N. Sanjay 66 n.o., K.B. Shreyas 63 n.o.).   Raichur Zone 279 in 50 overs (Mahesh Jadhav 49, Sourab Muttur 109, S.K. Abhishek 37, Nithin 4/40) bt Shimoga Zone 265/9 in 50 overs (D.P. Chandan 68, Niksheap Khanapur 71, S.R. Sourabh 59, Vidyadhar Patil 3/54, Madhav Bajaj 3/36).      G. Divya’s unbeaten 83 helped Falcon Herons defeat Falcon Ameya by eight wickets in the India Nippon Cup-Falcon Sports Club Golden Jubilee T20 women’s tournament at Samprasiddhi Sports Estadio here on Thursday.  The scores:   Falcon Kini RR 128/9 in 20 overs (Roshni Kiran 35, Punam Raut 40, Nuzrat Parween 28, Deepti Sharma 4/18, Rakhshitha Krishnappa 3/27) bt Falcon Kini Sheen 115/6 in 20 overs (Vrinda Dinesh 38).   Falcon Ameya 129/5 in 20 overs (Veda Krishnamurthy 62, Mona Meshram 31) lost to Falcon Herons 132/2 in 19.3 overs (G. Divya 83 n.o., Minnu Mani 31).      With three wins in as many matches in the final round, Bengaluru Braves FC (9 points) emerged as the KSFA ‘A’ Division women's football league champion on Friday. Rebel Women’s (6 points), Indian Football Factory (3 points) and Maatru Pratishtana (0 points) finished second, third and fourth respectively. All four teams earned promotions to the Super Division.  The results (final round): Bengaluru Braves FC 1 (Priyadarshini 27) bt Rebels Women's FC 0.   Indian Football Factory FC 3 (Ruba 13, 45, Ravali 49) bt Maatru Pratishtana FC 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kruthik-and-nikin-in-good-touch/article33533796.ece
09 January 2021||KOCHI:,||Chacko Joseph SGFI's chairman of selectors||The executive committee of the School Games Federation of India (SGFI) has appointed Chacko Joseph — former Joint Director-Sports, Directorate of General Education (Kerala) — as the chairman of the SGFI’s selection committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chacko-joseph-sgfis-chairman-of-selectors/article33533772.ece
09 January 2021||KOLKATA,||BFI elections on Feb 3||The Boxing Federation of India (BFI) will hold its elections on Feb. 3, as per the poll schedule provided by the BFI to the Delhi High Court on Friday. The elections, which were postponed last month, will be held at Gurugram and the BFI members need to be present in person.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bfi-elections-on-feb-3/article33533577.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 08:55 IST,||Sudoku - January 9, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-january-9-2021/article33534594.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||When the weather outside is frightful…||The weather whispered a little word into my ears: saag . And not just any kind of saag , but a dish of mustard leaves. Winter, as we know in the north, is the time for sarson ka saag — that creamy dish that so delightfully complements makkey ki roti — or rotis prepared with maize. I studied the menus of the little eateries in and around my neighbourhood to see if anyone was known for its saag and roti. Turned out there was one, Baa Bistro, which had the dish on the menu, along with a Rajasthani thhali . I am fond of Rajasthani food, and gattey ki sabzi — a spicy dish of lentil cakes in gravy — is a particular favourite. So I licked my chops and got ready to place my order. Life is full of little disappointments: It was a rainy night, the delivery agents had called it a day, and I was told that I was not going to get my saag and roti. But, quite like a good hound, once I am on the trail of something, I don’t give up easily. I went back to my research, and zeroed in on an old favourite: a small restaurant called Singla Sweets which had fed me little hillocks of bedmi sabzi in kinder times. Singla had sarson ka saag and makkey ki roti, and was delivering (Ph: 9697828888, 011-22232323). The food arrived. And it was so good that I called the owner of the shop to find out about the fare. The trick in the greens was that it was simply cooked — it had neither onions, nor garlic or ginger. It merely had a tempering of ghee and whole red chillies. The roti, again, was surprisingly soft. It was not soaked in ghee, but was nicely moist. I dipped a piece into the saag and popped it into my mouth, and went back to my village, where this was a regular part of our winter fare. I grew up on various kinds of rotis, prepared with millet, maize and gram. There were all kinds of greens too: mustard, fenugreek, and bathua , to name just a few. In the village, of course, a dollop of white butter went on top of the rotis, while the saag was topped with large quantities of ghee. Bliss. We’d also ordered a plate of malai kofta, and that was a rich concoction of cashew, cream, and paneer. But the saag was what the doctor had ordered (without the ghee of course). It rained the next day again, and the heart called out for more saag and roti. I rang up Baa Bistro (9911214567, 9930983076), and found it open. I ordered the saag - roti combo, and the Rajasthani thhali for lunch. The saag was spicy but tasty, and the rotis were thick and firm, the way most makkey ki rotis are. I enjoyed the Rajasthani dishes – especially the hot gattey and the equally spicy mangori-papad ki sabzi . There was a gulab jamun , too, which we shared. On a cold winter’s day, saag and roti warm up the heart. And a hot and squishy gulab jamun is like the icing — or rather the warm syrup — on top. The writer is a seasoned food critic||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/when-the-weather-outside-is-frightful/article33533872.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Satya Paul: The sari shaper||“He lived his life with totality, not leaving anything unfinished,” begins Puneet Nanda about his father, Satya Paul, who passed away on Wednesday at the Isha Yoga Centre in Coimbatore. He was 79. Nanda had posted a few details on Facebook about Paul’s “inner journey” to spirituality and his last five years at Jaggi Vasudev or Sadhguru’s ashram . As the tributes poured in, designers, Paul’s former clients, and the media referenced his legacy and contribution to Indian fashion. Paul, originally born in Layyah, Pakistan, established his eponymous brand in 1985 with his then 17-year-old son. This was five years after he had launched L’Affaire in Delhi, reportedly the country’s first sari boutique. Their mission with Satya Paul was to be an Indian fashion brand that had mass appeal. “The choice of working with a sari was deliberate, as at that point 90% of women wore a sari and we wanted this to be a brand that was relevant to every Indian woman,” recalls Nanda, 52. Paul soon came to be known for his prints and vivid colours, and by the end of the 1980s, the label produced more than 50,000 units. At the time, many designers were struggling to produce even 100 pieces a year. Their print-forward designs were often inspired by wildlife, art and music. When they were bought over by Genesis Colors in 2001, Nanda had taken over as creative director of the brand. In the early 2000s, no other homegrown brand had a retail footprint even close to Satya Paul’s, with 30 exclusive stores across India. This brand stood for freewheeling experimentation, which included a limited edition of silk scarves that featured SH Raza’s paintings. A tie made of silk and white gold, studded with 261 diamonds, made headlines when actor Salman Khan wore it at a charity event. Questioning norms “The brand played a large role in supporting the weaving crafts,” Nanda adds, referring to the saris that were categorised under four collections every season. He says that they had a clear vision with the creative process. “This was at a time when there was no designer brand, no fashion awareness,” he continues, explaining how the Museum collection came from master weavers and that “it often took years to convince them to work on special designs”. Renaissance was a print collection with global influences, while Signature had exuberant florals and optical illusions that were described as “pieces of kinetic art” back then by The New York Times . Popularly known as cocktail saris today, they are synonymous with the brand. Meanwhile, with the Avant Garde collection, “everything that was the norm in a sari was questioned”, according to Nanda. “We stitched it like a dress, or down the middle as a trouser, or a Grecian drape. We made it out of various materials, with metallic fibre weaving, or printed graffiti or cartoons, and used it as a billboard for social messaging.” These drapes were a precursor of today’s concept saris. “The brand that [Satya Paul] set up had so much foresight. He was the first person to take the sari, a staple in every woman’s wardrobe, and turn it into a ready-to-wear piece,” says leading fashion stylist Anaita Shroff Adajania (who was behind a successful Satya Paul campaign with celebrities a couple of years ago). “I met him a few times at fashion shows. He was very elusive, but always very warm,” she adds. Not lost legacy Since Nanda left the label a decade ago, several other designers took over the creative helm, including Masaba Gupta. “As a fashion student, I remember not being taught at all about Indian fashion,” says Gupta. “His passing has reminded us that young Indian designers must know about the resources that came before them. Satya Paul is and was one of India’s few brands that was both creative and had a retail footprint, and this is an important story for Indian fashion.” Today, Satya Paul is owned by Reliance Brands, India’s largest player in the luxury market, operating close to 50 brand partnerships (including Tiffany & Co, Giorgio Armani and Bottega Veneta). Last June, renowned fashion designer and India’s master of minimalism, Rajesh Pratap Singh, was named Satya Paul’s creative director. “Satya Paul took textiles and turned them into something very modern and relevant. I hope to take that emotion and spirit forward,” he tells me. Having first interacted with Paul when he had his final submission as a student at NIFT, Singh has, in the past, referred to Paul’s impeccable dressing, his interest in textile innovation, and his attention to detail at his many showrooms. The recent Satya Paul collection under Singh, Valley of Flowers, clearly references the bold colour and design language of the label’s founder. Nanda has big hopes for Singh, who is leading the brand that bears his father’s name. Paul was a seeker all his life, Nanda had observed in his recent Facebook post. But in many ways he was also the man who set India’s contemporary fashion grammar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/satya-paul-the-sari-shaper/article33534012.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Highlights of the year gone by||January Rangoli sends legal notice toForbesfor ranking Kangana 70th on the Celebrity 100 List. Rajinikanth shoots for an episode of Man Vs Wild with Bear Grylls at Bandipur Tiger Reserve. Sonam Kapoor wears a sari tuxedo. The Gujarati edition of Sapiens is released. February Rakhi Sawant says she will go to China and kill coronavirus with medicine given to her by NASA. Rangoli says the similarities between Marlon Brando and Kangana give her goosebumps. Dharmendra launches a new restaurant called ‘He-Man’. Men and women who drink daily have increased chance of living to 90, says study. Harappans ate non-vegetarian food but museum takes them off the menu of Ancient Food Exhibition. March Dharmendra’s ‘He-Man’ restaurant is sealed for building law violations. In Noida, a man stops his BMW to urinate. Thieves flee with the car, Rs. 40 lakh loan pending. Priyanka Chopra co-writes a coronavirus song with Nick Jonas that you can sing while washing your hands. April Malaika Arora makes besan laddoo . Priyanka Chopra thanks the PM for acknowledging her donation. ‘We are strongest together,’ she says. Kerala becomes first state to open liquor stores during lockdown. Rangoli Chandel’s Twitter account is suspended. Arnab Goswami resigns from editors’ guild citing their lack of ethics. May Human urine could be used to make concrete on the moon in the future. My mother can pull off Meryl Streep’s role in The Devil Wears Prada, says Esha Deol. Kent apologizes for its ad of Kent Atta & Bread Maker. Baba Ramdev launches clinical trials for ‘Coronil’. June On World Environment Day, Salman Khan and Iulia Vantur sweep their Panvel farmhouse. As #BoycottChina trends on Twitter, One Plus 8 Pro sells out in minutes. ‘I feel jealous of Pakistanis and Filipinos who went home for free,’ says NRI on social media, after paying a high price for Vande Bharat flight. July Wedding called off in TN after bride and groom fight over PM. India orders 5.5 lakh biryanis and 129K lava cakes during lockdown. Sale of sex toys goes up by 65% during lockdown. Twinkle Khanna spots snake, rat and butterflies in her house. ‘Is there any hope?’ Kangana asks PM as she shares Resul Pookutty’s bullying story. August ‘I have more Indians than she has,’ says President Trump about Kamala Harris. ‘Act of God’ situation may result in economic contraction, says FM. Philippine government official gets caught having sex with secretary during Zoom meeting. September PM Modi hails Indian media. Kangana Ranaut’s father compares her to Lord Krishna. Akshay Kumar says he drinks cow urine. October Madurai smugglers caught hiding gold worth Rs. 52 lakh in their rectums. Taimur Ali Khan learns Spanish to beat lockdown blues. Sadhguru rides across America on a BMW 1600 GT. The air in India is filthy, says Trump. Biden scolds Trump. A man sells his car and steals it later using duplicate keys. November Women in TN performpoojafor Kamala Harris. Spent my childhood listening toRamayanaandMahabharata, says Barack Obama. Karachi will be part of India one day, says Devendra Fadnavis. Covid may have originated in India, say Chinese scientists. December Kangana Ranaut expresses desire to build temple, says Maa Durga chose her. Akshay Kumar earns Rs. 365 crore. Kangana’s sister-in-law makes makki ki roti . Nirav’s bother Nehal Modi is charged with committing fraud of $2.6 mil in NY. Sports Ministry formally recognises yogasana as sport. Seaplane in Gujarat refuses to take off. Akshay Kumar shares pic of a frog. Krishna Shastri Devulapalli is a satirist. He has written four books and edited an anthology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/highlights-of-the-year-gone-by/article33534008.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Dressed for the occasion||Delhi gets a new multi-designer store, Bagechaa, at Paschim Vihar. It is a platform for indie designers to showcase their collections, like Isha Mittal’s western couture, Neha & Kriti’s florallehengas, and mother-of-pearl clutches from Naziya Couture.9999991215 The festive edit at Bengaluru’s Angadi Heritage features gifting options, including accessories from Kesya, bar essentials from Nappa Dori and fragrances by Scentido. Or pick up alehengaby Akaaro andkurtasets from SWGT. Details: angadiheritage.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/dressed-for-the-occasion/article33534015.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Piecing together identity||My Queer Blackness, My Black Queernessis a digital project exploring multiple facets of black queer identity. For their latest, they teamed up with visual artists Kwesi Botchway and Ggggrimes, and were sponsored by Gucci. The Black Jigsaw Project is a limited edition of 100 jigsaw puzzles featuring their take on black queer identity. Priced at €163.93 (approximately Rs. 15,000) each, on mqbmbq.com. 100% of proceeds go to Italy’s trans-centred organisation, Movimento Identità Trans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/piecing-together-identity/article33534016.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Cheers to 2021||The liquor brands from Goa keep coming, the latest being Maka Zai from Stilldistilling Spirits. The gold Tribute Edition and white Bartender’s Edition will launch in Goa on January 16. @makazai.rum on Instagram. In Noida, 21-year-old Vatsal Goel has launched Vogue - Modern Theka and Kitchen. The Greek-themed cafe is part of his premium liquor store. There is a Rs. 500 cover charge, fully redeemable on food. Guests can consume wine, beer or spirits purchased along with their meal in a BYOB concept.7906515281||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/cheers-to-2021/article33534018.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Thinking about art||At the upcoming edition of Mumbai Gallery Weekend ’21, catchReincarnate: We Meet Here in the Afterlife, a solo exhibition by contemporary artist Shilo Shiv Suleman. “As we meet in the afterlife, what fulfilment will our reincarnating stories find?” asks the artist. Till January 17, at Art Musings, Colaba.022 22163339 Emami Art is showcasing drawings and linocuts by Partha Pratim Deb. In his largely monochromatic works, he uses shapes and lines for their own sake, emphasising their graphic quality. Till January 30 on emamiart.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/thinking-about-art/article33534019.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Stage on your screen||Mumbai-based theatre group, Akvarious Productions, will stageThe Hound of the Baskervilles, adapted by Steven Canny and John Nicholson. Directed by Akash Khurana, this will be a comic tribute to the classic murder mystery by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. On January 9, 16 and 17, at 6.50 pm. Tickets from Rs. 399 on insider.in. Prefer a regional art form? Tholu Bommalata features comedy, drama, music and folk tales using leather puppets hand-crafted in Andhra Pradesh. From today. Tickets at Rs. 199 on in.bookmyshow.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/stage-on-your-screen/article33534020.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Cooking up a storm||If you want to give the vegan lifestyle a shot this Veganuary, sign up for Chennai-based organisation, Sharan’s six-week ‘Health Gain’ programme. This includes recipes and cooking techniques as well as fun activities. From Rs. 5,310 on sharan-india.org. For something more indulgent, check out chef Pooja Dhingra’s virtual workshops on macaron baking (Rs. 2,360 on January 16), choux pastry (Rs. 1,770 on January 23) and eggless cheesecake (Rs. 1,770 on January30). All classes at 4 pm. Tickets on insider.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/cooking-up-a-storm/article33534024.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Skiing & safaris||After a year full of holidays that invariably fell on Saturday or Sunday, 2021 has around 18 long weekends to plan quick getaways. For Pongal/Makar Sankranti (January 14 to 17) head to Lambasingi near Visakhapatnam for strawberry picking. Also, Gulmarg is this year’s alternative to international skiing holidays. The Khyber Resort and Spa is the town’s only five-star resort, so make your bookings well in advance. Manali, Kufri and Auli (especially the Ski & Snowboard School there) are other options.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/skiing-safaris/article33534013.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Mark the date||The Blue Cross of India’s 2021 calendar showcases Alamelu Annhamalai’s artwork of rescued animals. Meet Ashey the cat, Vellaiyan the piggy, and Cinnabun the rabbit. At Rs. 499 @blue_cross_rescues on Instagram. Sunil Menon’s calendar for Sahodaran, a Chennai-based organisation working for LGBTQ rights, was shot in and around Irinjalakuda, Kerala and ECR. At Rs. 1,500. Call to order.23740486 There’s also the 19th edition of the Kingfisher calendar, shot by Atul Kasbekar along the Kerala coast.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/mark-the-date/article33534014.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Satya Paul: The sari shaper||“He lived his life with totality, not leaving anything unfinished,” begins Puneet Nanda about his father, Satya Paul, who passed away on Wednesday at the Isha Yoga Centre in Coimbatore. He was 79. Nanda had posted a few details on Facebook about Paul’s “inner journey” to spirituality and his last five years at Jaggi Vasudev or Sadhguru’s ashram . As the tributes poured in, designers, Paul’s former clients, and the media referenced his legacy and contribution to Indian fashion. Paul, originally born in Layyah, Pakistan, established his eponymous brand in 1985 with his then 17-year-old son. This was five years after he had launched L’Affaire in Delhi, reportedly the country’s first sari boutique. Their mission with Satya Paul was to be an Indian fashion brand that had mass appeal. “The choice of working with a sari was deliberate, as at that point 90% of women wore a sari and we wanted this to be a brand that was relevant to every Indian woman,” recalls Nanda, 52. Paul soon came to be known for his prints and vivid colours, and by the end of the 1980s, the label produced more than 50,000 units. At the time, many designers were struggling to produce even 100 pieces a year. Their print-forward designs were often inspired by wildlife, art and music. When they were bought over by Genesis Colors in 2001, Nanda had taken over as creative director of the brand. In the early 2000s, no other homegrown brand had a retail footprint even close to Satya Paul’s, with 30 exclusive stores across India. This brand stood for freewheeling experimentation, which included a limited edition of silk scarves that featured SH Raza’s paintings. A tie made of silk and white gold, studded with 261 diamonds, made headlines when actor Salman Khan wore it at a charity event. Questioning norms “The brand played a large role in supporting the weaving crafts,” Nanda adds, referring to the saris that were categorised under four collections every season. He says that they had a clear vision with the creative process. “This was at a time when there was no designer brand, no fashion awareness,” he continues, explaining how the Museum collection came from master weavers and that “it often took years to convince them to work on special designs”. Renaissance was a print collection with global influences, while Signature had exuberant florals and optical illusions that were described as “pieces of kinetic art” back then by The New York Times . Popularly known as cocktail saris today, they are synonymous with the brand. Meanwhile, with the Avant Garde collection, “everything that was the norm in a sari was questioned”, according to Nanda. “We stitched it like a dress, or down the middle as a trouser, or a Grecian drape. We made it out of various materials, with metallic fibre weaving, or printed graffiti or cartoons, and used it as a billboard for social messaging.” These drapes were a precursor of today’s concept saris. “The brand that [Satya Paul] set up had so much foresight. He was the first person to take the sari, a staple in every woman’s wardrobe, and turn it into a ready-to-wear piece,” says leading fashion stylist Anaita Shroff Adajania (who was behind a successful Satya Paul campaign with celebrities a couple of years ago). “I met him a few times at fashion shows. He was very elusive, but always very warm,” she adds. Not lost legacy Since Nanda left the label a decade ago, several other designers took over the creative helm, including Masaba Gupta. “As a fashion student, I remember not being taught at all about Indian fashion,” says Gupta. “His passing has reminded us that young Indian designers must know about the resources that came before them. Satya Paul is and was one of India’s few brands that was both creative and had a retail footprint, and this is an important story for Indian fashion.” Today, Satya Paul is owned by Reliance Brands, India’s largest player in the luxury market, operating close to 50 brand partnerships (including Tiffany & Co, Giorgio Armani and Bottega Veneta). Last June, renowned fashion designer and India’s master of minimalism, Rajesh Pratap Singh, was named Satya Paul’s creative director. “Satya Paul took textiles and turned them into something very modern and relevant. I hope to take that emotion and spirit forward,” he tells me. Having first interacted with Paul when he had his final submission as a student at NIFT, Singh has, in the past, referred to Paul’s impeccable dressing, his interest in textile innovation, and his attention to detail at his many showrooms. The recent Satya Paul collection under Singh, Valley of Flowers, clearly references the bold colour and design language of the label’s founder. Nanda has big hopes for Singh, who is leading the brand that bears his father’s name. Paul was a seeker all his life, Nanda had observed in his recent Facebook post. But in many ways he was also the man who set India’s contemporary fashion grammar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/satya-paul-the-sari-shaper/article33534036.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Ovals in the sand||Rising out of the desert in Jaisalmer is an oval-shaped oasis. Even as sunlight filters through its jalis , it blends into the dunes surrounding it, almost as if it grew out of the shifting sands. Soon it will be ringing with the voices of 400 girls — ranging from kindergarten to class 10 — as the Rajkumari Ratnavati Girls School opens its doors. Designed by Diana Kellogg Architects, the school is funded by CITTA, an international non-profit founded by Michael Daube. As the New York-based artist, who has close ties to the ‘Golden City’ (known so because of the yellow sandstone used in its buildings), told The Guardian recently, the school is the first of a trio that will collectively become the Gyaan Centre. The other buildings will house a women’s cooperative and an exhibition-cum-performance hall, and a textile museum. “I realised that through an economic avenue, I could entice the [local] communities to send their girls to school,” he said, sharing how the centre will have craftspeople to impart skills such as weaving and printing to the students’ mothers and aunts, and a marketplace to exhibit and sells their goods.  Trusting the local  For Diana Kellogg, the project came at a time when, as she told Architectural Digest , she wanted her work “to affect a larger audience, to have a sense of nurturing, comfort and healing”. The architect, with over 25 years of experience, is well-known for her tasteful renovations and luxury residences in Manhattan. She has recently expanded her horizons, with work on education institutes in Nepal’s Limi Valley alongside the centre in Rajasthan. She is designing the latter pro-bono. “I’ve always been committed to issues related to women and girls, particularly in recent years,” she tells me by email from New York. “I’ve visited India over five years, and [been to] many schools. But I mostly got to know the people of Jaisalmer.” So when Daube approached her, she “wanted to use the traditional forms [of the region] in a contemporary way to show that the stone craftsmanship could be used in innovative ways.” Using the local sandstone and recreating the curved walls of the Jaisalmer Fort, or Sone ka Quila, the scale of Kellogg’s design is sweeping: from the curved terrace and winding corridors, to the walls topped with latticed screens. “At one of the first meetings, we were discussing materials to use. Of course I wanted to use the beautiful local sandstone, but I thought it would be too expensive. However, to every suggestion of an alternate option, the response was the same... stone. ‘We can carve anything out of it,’ they said. And they did,” she states, adding how skilled local artisans made everything from individual bricks to sculptural water-cooler openings in the yellow stone. “When we couldn’t find the right sized sinks for the washrooms, they carved them out of solid stone.”  Plans in motion  Having never worked in a desert landscape, or with stone artisans for that matter, she had challenges a plenty. “The issues concerning climate and technique were completely different than anything I was familiar with,” she says, underlining their commitment to sustainability. Phase two of the project will soon get underway. “We are planning the central building, which will be an arts centre incorporating dance and performance spaces, along with a library and computer facilities. There will also be gallery space for visiting artists. This building will mostly exhibit the textiles of the region, which we’ve been buying from the villagers to help support them during the pandemic. This way, their work will remain in Jaisalmer, for them to visit,” she concludes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/ovals-in-the-sand/article33534075.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Highlights of the year gone by||January Rangoli sends legal notice toForbesfor ranking Kangana 70th on the Celebrity 100 List. Rajinikanth shoots for an episode of Man Vs Wild with Bear Grylls at Bandipur Tiger Reserve. Sonam Kapoor wears a sari tuxedo. The Gujarati edition of Sapiens is released. February Rakhi Sawant says she will go to China and kill coronavirus with medicine given to her by NASA. Rangoli says the similarities between Marlon Brando and Kangana give her goosebumps. Dharmendra launches a new restaurant called ‘He-Man’. Men and women who drink daily have increased chance of living to 90, says study. Harappans ate non-vegetarian food but museum takes them off the menu of Ancient Food Exhibition. March Dharmendra’s ‘He-Man’ restaurant is sealed for building law violations. In Noida, a man stops his BMW to urinate. Thieves flee with the car, Rs. 40 lakh loan pending. Priyanka Chopra co-writes a coronavirus song with Nick Jonas that you can sing while washing your hands. April Malaika Arora makes besan laddoo . Priyanka Chopra thanks the PM for acknowledging her donation. ‘We are strongest together,’ she says. Kerala becomes first state to open liquor stores during lockdown. Rangoli Chandel’s Twitter account is suspended. Arnab Goswami resigns from editors’ guild citing their lack of ethics. May Human urine could be used to make concrete on the moon in the future. My mother can pull off Meryl Streep’s role in The Devil Wears Prada, says Esha Deol. Kent apologizes for its ad of Kent Atta & Bread Maker. Baba Ramdev launches clinical trials for ‘Coronil’. June On World Environment Day, Salman Khan and Iulia Vantur sweep their Panvel farmhouse. As #BoycottChina trends on Twitter, One Plus 8 Pro sells out in minutes. ‘I feel jealous of Pakistanis and Filipinos who went home for free,’ says NRI on social media, after paying a high price for Vande Bharat flight. July Wedding called off in TN after bride and groom fight over PM. India orders 5.5 lakh biryanis and 129K lava cakes during lockdown. Sale of sex toys goes up by 65% during lockdown. Twinkle Khanna spots snake, rat and butterflies in her house. ‘Is there any hope?’ Kangana asks PM as she shares Resul Pookutty’s bullying story. August ‘I have more Indians than she has,’ says President Trump about Kamala Harris. ‘Act of God’ situation may result in economic contraction, says FM. Philippine government official gets caught having sex with secretary during Zoom meeting. September PM Modi hails Indian media. Kangana Ranaut’s father compares her to Lord Krishna. Akshay Kumar says he drinks cow urine. October Madurai smugglers caught hiding gold worth Rs. 52 lakh in their rectums. Taimur Ali Khan learns Spanish to beat lockdown blues. Sadhguru rides across America on a BMW 1600 GT. The air in India is filthy, says Trump. Biden scolds Trump. A man sells his car and steals it later using duplicate keys. November Women in TN performpoojafor Kamala Harris. Spent my childhood listening toRamayanaandMahabharata, says Barack Obama. Karachi will be part of India one day, says Devendra Fadnavis. Covid may have originated in India, say Chinese scientists. December Kangana Ranaut expresses desire to build temple, says Maa Durga chose her. Akshay Kumar earns Rs. 365 crore. Kangana’s sister-in-law makes makki ki roti . Nirav’s bother Nehal Modi is charged with committing fraud of $2.6 mil in NY. Sports Ministry formally recognises yogasana as sport. Seaplane in Gujarat refuses to take off. Akshay Kumar shares pic of a frog. Krishna Shastri Devulapalli is a satirist. He has written four books and edited an anthology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/highlights-of-the-year-gone-by/article33534035.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Pierre Cardin and an Indian prêt story||The Indian fashion industry is built around the wedding trousseau, which is why it put itself into a ‘no activity zone’ during the pandemic. What our designers need to embrace is the everyday prêt-à-porter that Italian-born French designer Pierre Cardin (who passed away on December 29, 2020, at the age of 98)pioneered. In the ’60s, he coined the term India Modern and showed us how bespoke Indian fabrics could be used to create prêt.  When in India  When Cardin visited the country in 1967, at the invitation of Pupul Jayakar of Handloom and Handicrafts Export Corporation of India — because she wanted to expose the international fashion world to the variety of handloom in our country — he couldn’t believe the treasure trove of textiles we had. To him, this was haute couture. You could get six metres of intricately-ornamented material to make a design and get much more of it if required (you didn’t have to order hundreds of metres from machine manufacturers in Como for a homogenised design). This was a time when Indian fashion was a collection of garage boutiques and trunk shows. I have black-and-white photos of a cousin of mine turning embassy dining rooms into spaces for selling salwar kameezes and ‘maxis’ to a cosmopolitan crowd! Into this scenario, Cardin brought back the swathes of textiles he had taken with him — which he had designed and tailored as globally-relevant clothing — and showcased them at his seminal show at the Ashoka Hotel in Delhi. He highlighted the real strength of our textiles in a way that nobody till then had understood. Needless to say, the audiences, which included then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, were spellbound. It not only brought us traction in the short term (we shipped a lot of textiles subsequent to that), but also inspired many designers like Ritu Kumar and the late Rohit Khosla, as well as India’s first models, Anjali Phyllis Mendes and Kirat Rabier.  Right place, right time  I met Cardin in India while volunteering to model for his show. But I’d actually wanted to show him my fashion sketches. Two years later, when I went to Paris on a scholarship from the French government to study graphics at Stanley William Hayter’s Atelier 17, Pupul Jayakar arranged another meeting for me with Cardin. That’s when he took me into his fold. I was lucky to be at the right place at the right time. I remember my first time in his studio, waiting in his antechamber with actress Jeanne Moreau, while he finished his work. We then went to Maxim’s restaurant (which he later bought), where we talked about how food, cinema, and fashion aesthetics were linked. He was always talking about transdisciplinary connections. From 1969 to 1971, I set up Cardin’s Laboratoire des Idées that explored transdisciplinary experiences and markets. So, one day I would be asked to do the car interiors for Renault, on another, I would be flown to Seattle to look at fitting out a Boeing jet. Or I would go to Milan to look at furniture, or to Belgium to do chocolate boxes. For a 19-year-old, this was heady. It was in my studio, which was just above Cardin’s office on the sixth floor of 59, Rue du Faubourg Saint-Honore, that I created the Boudin, a six-metre chair that could be tied into knots. It was part of India Modern, the exhibition that he sent me back to India later to do. Yes, Cardin was criticised black and blue for his decisions — for looking at prêt, for his licensing. But he thought big and gave to ideas that caught his fancy.  Prints and pedagogy  Cardin believed that India, with all its skills, could be the leader of the world. But we aren’t there yet. How can we leverage our textiles? We have to stay a step ahead of what the machines can make, by thinking in terms of original content. Our designers who are working with artisan clusters today don’t encompass even 5% of the subsets of talent in India. Though I am happy they are doing this, I wonder if, while we have won a few battles, we are losing the war? If you really want to make handloom work in scale, so that they can merit the idea of prêt, designers have to understand the innate structure of weaves, and even create the fabrics. Cardin was an expert in this. He could make the cloth yield to a silhouette. He created fabulous forms by understanding its architecture. After his show in 1967, he asked us to look at blending wool and tussar to create a thicker fabric, and to work with asymmetry in design. I have seen the knowledge, the desire — designers like Rajesh Pratap Singh and Shani Himanshu (of 11.11/eleven eleven) understand structure better than most — but I have not yet seen action. That will happen only when there is solid money behind a brand. This is where I squarely accuse corporate India. They have not understood the real wealth of the fashion industry. Designers also have to understand that they need partners with business savvy. Manish Arora, on his own steam, set up a place in Paris, but today he has no investors to take it forward. Design schools don’t teach business sense to survive. Cardin had an uncanny sense of picking what worked. When he saw something, I don’t think the form excited him as much as its potential for money. He understood China much before anybody else did (he was the first western designer to hold a fashion show in the mainland, in 1979, shortly after the country started its Open Door Policy). For us to achieve this, pedagogy is important. Our pedagogy lacks structural design. Unless we address that, we won’t have designers who are able to work with the materials we have. What we should take away from Cardin are the five Cs: common sense (to turn something on its head and grab eyeballs), compassion (an emphasis on teamwork and sharing, right down the pyramid), couture (an understanding of cut, structure and silhouette), critique (or pedagogy), and commerce.     Rajeev Sethi is one of India’s foremost design gurus, and the founder of Asian Heritage Foundation.   As told to  Surya Praphulla Kumar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/pierre-cardin-and-an-indian-prt-story/article33534072.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||The missing Margazhi moments||As the Margazhi music season winds to a close, one saw it take on a brave new digital avatar this time to leap over the hurdles that the pandemic created. But even as all of us gamely adapted to the new and heavily-depleted normal, allow me to lament the havoc wrought by the virus on the harmless pursuit of people-watching that’s always been such a joyous indulgence for us lesser mortals. Margazhi has invariably been as much about audiences as about the music. One ear is tuned to the glorious notes pouring from the stage while the other flinches each time themamain the next seat slaps the life out of his thigh in perfect beat with the singer. I often worry about the black and blue bruises aficionados must carry through December and January with nary a murmur of complaint. Then there’s the tut-tut-tutting that rises and falls like a Mexican wave, flowing down the hallowed aisles, punctuated by sudden sharp cries of sabash . As arms beat, heads bob, tongues click, it’s a veritable moving sea of musical appreciation around you. Accompanied visually by silk veshtis, saris and quantities of alarming jewellery, and aurally by stentorian comments and conversations. How can one expect virtual concerts to match up to this in any imaginable way? Some organisers tried heavily embellished sets and backgrounds to make up for the lack. Others bravely added on, horror of horrors, canned applause! As if this were an episode of Friends! My question is, can they can the tut-tut-tut? If they can’t, the silly idea should be canned. I have been a flâneuse in many cities and many streets, but the delight of being one in a Chennaisabhaduring Margazhi is unsurpassed, equalled only, of course, by being one in asabhacanteen. The dishes on offer, the mind-boggling speeds of ingestion, the palpable tension of choosing between Mysore Bonda  and  Keera Vadai , the last-minute capitulation to a Badam Halwa, the race to beat Kili Pachai sari to the vacant table… the thrills are endless. Yet, what a Carnatic concert reminds me most of is Maths exams. In our class, we had a sprinkling of Tamil students. On D-Day, they would file in quietly, not a hair out of place, pencils sharpened, having eaten lots of okra over the previous 24 hours to sharpen numerical skills. As I gazed wildly at a question paper that had inexplicably been set in a foreign language, out their pencils would come and with astounding speed they would proceed to solve the sums. Then the little horrors would check their answers at about the time everyone else was passing chits for Q.5. Of course, they would score centum. It was only many years later that I learnt that ‘centum’ is an ancient Tamil word for ‘Above Average Performance’. That’s how a concert unfolds too. In the listeners file, they take their seats, palms poised. As the curtain rises, the test begins. They have to get the answers fast — which song will be first? As soon as thealapanastarts, guess theragam! Then thetalam! Who is the composer? What colour was the jamkalam he sat on while composing? [Note for writers: nobody does anything as pedestrian as ‘sing’, everyone ‘renders’.] The speed of this intellectual exercise is usually matched by the pace at which the concert unfolds. The artistes get into action briskly, launch a song, get through it at breakneck speed, and on to the next, attacking each like an arithmetic problem, with business-like precision and swiftragaexplorations. At an exact juncture in the formula, proceedings are handed over to the percussionists. The technical expertise of both artiste and audience is of an astonishing level — and very quickly everyone scores a centum. Then they file out. Just as I settle deeper into my seat, loosen my limbs, and calm my monkey mind, I realise with a start that the concert is over. It turns out the snappy Mangalam was the cue to leave. I troop out after them, feeling as foolish as I used to after Maths exams. Can a digital Margazhi hope to replicate even a fraction of this rich drama? I humbly suggest that it should not even try. Simply stream the music, avoid the SFX, and we flâneurs will wait patiently for next year.  Where the writer tries to make sense of society with seven hundred words and a bit of snark.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/the-missing-margazhi-moments/article33534027.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||High fashion comes home||Last year, as our homes ‘grew’ — the four walls accommodating an office, a classroom, a gym, a restaurant, a spa, a playground and more, to fit our needs during the pandemic — so did our desire to showcase it in the best light possible. Clothing purchases took a back seat as people browsed table settings, bedlinen, furniture and cutlery, often on the very same fashion websites. Think Gucci’s eclectic ‘Souvenir from Rome’ range or Missoni’s ‘Modern Iconic’. As British fashion designer-turned-interiors’ go-to man, Matthew Williamson toldThe Hindu Weekend, “Choosing furniture [or textiles] for a room is akin to putting an outfit together; the accessories are like the jewellery. There is so much capacity for innovation when you look at the gap between fashion and interior design.” Back home, fashion designers have long embraced the home. And 2020 saw even more joining the likes of veterans such as Abu Jani and Sandeep Khosla, Sabyasachi Mukherjee and Ritu Kumar. For example, Rohit Gandhi and Rahul Khanna stepped up to the plate with a collaboration with luxury furnishings brand, Tapestry. Oraan, their line of upholstery fabrics, uses “subtle metallics for chic glamour, which is our forte and articulates our design sensibility”, says Gandhi. “As a fashion designer, you are not being sourced to do an architect’s or interior designer’s job,” explains Raghavendra Rathore. “If someone looks to Roberto Cavalli to do up a yacht, they are looking for an experience.” And 2021 will see plenty of such experiences, as the home segment is set to explode. “I predict more and more people wanting to be house proud now,” says JJ Valaya, promising options a plenty with the World of Valaya (comprising couture and interiors) launching soon in Delhi. As you prepare for the new year, here are some designers to have on speed dial, be it to navigate Pantone’s colours for 2021 — Ultimate Gray and Illuminating (a cheerful yellow) — or to luxe up your interiors.  With inputs fromRosella Stephen,   Susanna Myrtle Lazarus   andNidhiAdlakha                                                                                                                                      With 2020 getting defined by “confinement in all areas of life, including celebrations at home, indoor settings have become more elaborate and refined”, says the duo. On the home front, they redid an entire section of their house and turned it into a botanical bar lounge. With key elements taken from their print aesthetic (such as the flora and fauna from the Eden and Eden Noir collections), the space was filled with greens “to add the feeling of having a life of its own”. On the work front, Shivan and Narresh took the lack of runway and fashion week madness to shift the focus to launch a line of table linens for soirées, which included napkins, printed table runners, and printed and solid canvas table mats. “Where last year saw a boom in this area, 2021 is going to be a better tale of individuals wanting to tell a personal story through their homes — stories of their work, their travels and their experiences,” says Narresh Kukreja. Their earliest experiment with interiors, however, was their flagship store in 2017. “We got the confidence to venture into this field after receiving appreciation for it, and went on to design our own home, Primera,” says Shivan Bhatiya. “From there, we decided to focus on airy holiday homes, an area of interest we are personally invested in.” Today, with signs of a shift in consumerism, as people indulge in “the zest to feel new and to be reborn through refining and redoing your spaces”, the designers see a growing pattern of customisation and personalisation for bedrooms and living spaces.    Continued on page 6  During the pandemic, our team has been doing the most exquisite panels andmodern-daypichwais— embroidered with a new tonal effect, in very fine silk threadari, French knots and hand-cut mother-of-pearl — to keep the craftsmen working.Andthese have been well received  —TarunTahiliani,New Delhi “As we move into 2021, the indulgence in interiors is only going to increase” Shivan & Narresh,New Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/high-fashion-comes-home/article33534063.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Vision board in a box||Many successful people, including TV host Lilly Singh, rapper Cardi B and YouTube make-up guru Patrick Starrr, swear by vision boards. Chennai-based marketing agency, Toss the Coin, has launched VisualEyes, a workshop-in-a-box that will help professionals, homepreneurs, founders and teams design their business vision board for 2021. The kit includes brainstorming cards, props, post-its and sharpies, as well as a guide on how to set your goals and affirmations. It can also be expanded into a team building activity. Available at tossthe.co.in at Rs. 1,999 per box (shipping additional Rs. 100).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/vision-board-in-a-box/article33534030.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Aranmula Kannadi||Designer Ayush Kasliwal and the Crafts Council of India worked together on a project to help revive business and support the artisan community of Aranmula following the 2018 Kerala floods. The signature Aranmulakannadior mirror — in which images are reflected as they are, without flipping — comes with new frames and innovative shapes, and is being launched in a webinar tomorrow at 11.30 am. The collection will be displayed at CCI’s Craft Shop, Kamala. Register for the webinar: info@craftscouncilofindia.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/aranmula-kannadi/article33534032.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||IFFI @ Goa||The International Film Festival of India’s 51st edition will be held later this month. Headed by Chaitanya Prasad, Director, IFFI has announced its international jury featuring Pablo César (Argentina), Prasanna Vithanage (Sri Lanka), Abu Bakr Shawky (Austria), Priyadarshan (India) and Rubaiyat Hossain (Bangladesh). The festival’s panorama section will witness the screening of 23 feature and 20 non-feature films. January 16 to 24 in Goa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/iffi-goa/article33534034.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Skiing & safaris||After a year full of holidays that invariably fell on Saturday or Sunday, 2021 has around 18 long weekends to plan quick getaways. For Pongal/Makar Sankranti (January 14 to 17) head toLambasinginear Visakhapatnam for strawberry picking. Also,Gulmargis this year’s alternative to international skiing holidays. The Khyber Resort and Spa is the town’s only five-star resort, so make your bookings well in advance.Manali,KufriandAuli(especially the Ski & Snowboard School there) are other options.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/skiing-safaris/article33534037.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Mark the date||The Blue Cross of India’s 2021 calendar showcases Alamelu Annhamalai’s artwork of rescued animals. Meet Ashey the cat, Vellaiyan the piggy, and Cinnabun the rabbit. At Rs. 499 @blue_cross_rescues on Instagram. Sunil Menon’s calendar for Sahodaran, a Chennai-based organisation working for LGBTQ rights, was shot in and around Irinjalakuda, Kerala and ECR. At Rs. 1,500. Call to order.23740486 There’s also the 19th edition of the Kingfisher calendar, shot by Atul Kasbekar along the Kerala coast.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/mark-the-date/article33534038.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Dressed for the occasion||Delhi gets a new multi-designer store, Bagechaa, at Paschim Vihar. It is a platform for indie designers to showcase their collections, like Isha Mittal’s western couture, Neha & Kriti’s florallehengas, and mother-of-pearl clutches from Naziya Couture.9999991215 The festive edit at Bengaluru’s Angadi Heritage features gifting options, including accessories from Kesya, bar essentials from Nappa Dori and fragrances by Scentido. Or pick up alehengaby Akaaro andkurtasets from SWGT. Details: angadiheritage.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/dressed-for-the-occasion/article33534039.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Piecing together identity||My Queer Blackness, My Black Queernessis a digital project exploring multiple facets of black queer identity. For their latest, they teamed up with visual artists Kwesi Botchway and Ggggrimes, and were sponsored by Gucci. The Black Jigsaw Project is a limited edition of 100 jigsaw puzzles featuring their take on black queer identity. Priced at €163.93 (approximately Rs. 15,000) each, on mqbmbq.com. 100% of proceeds go to Italy’s trans-centred organisation, Movimento Identità Trans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/piecing-together-identity/article33534040.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Stage on your screen||Mumbai-based theatre group, Akvarious Productions, will stageThe Hound of the Baskervilles, adapted by Steven Canny and John Nicholson. Directed by Akash Khurana, this will be a comic tribute to the classic murder mystery by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. On January 9, 16 and 17, at 6.50 pm. Tickets from Rs. 399 on insider.in. Prefer a regional art form? Tholu Bommalata features comedy, drama, music and folk tales using leather puppets hand-crafted in Andhra Pradesh. From today. Tickets at Rs. 199 on in.bookmyshow.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/stage-on-your-screen/article33534041.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Cooking up a storm||If you want to give the vegan lifestyle a shot this Veganuary, sign up for Chennai-based organisation, Sharan’s six-week ‘Health Gain’ programme. This includes recipes and cooking techniques as well as fun activities. From Rs. 5,310 on sharan-india.org. For something more indulgent, check out chef Pooja Dhingra’s virtual workshops on macaron baking (Rs. 2,360 on January 16), choux pastry (Rs. 1,770 on January 23) and eggless cheesecake (Rs. 1,770 on January30). All classes at 4 pm. Tickets on insider.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/cooking-up-a-storm/article33534042.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Cheers to 2021||The liquor brands from Goa keep coming, the latest being Maka Zai from Stilldistilling Spirits. The gold Tribute Edition and white Bartender’s Edition will launch in Goa on January 16. @makazai.rum on Instagram. In Noida, 21-year-old Vatsal Goel has launched Vogue - Modern Theka and Kitchen. The Greek-themed cafe is part of his premium liquor store. There is a Rs. 500 cover charge, fully redeemable on food. Guests can consume wine, beer or spirits purchased along with their meal in a BYOB concept.7906515281||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/cheers-to-2021/article33534045.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Thinking about art||At the upcoming edition of Mumbai Gallery Weekend ’21, catchReincarnate: We Meet Here in the Afterlife, a solo exhibition by contemporary artist Shilo Shiv Suleman. “As we meet in the afterlife, what fulfilment will our reincarnating stories find?” asks the artist. Till January 17, at Art Musings, Colaba.022 22163339 Emami Art is showcasing drawings and linocuts by Partha Pratim Deb. In his largely monochromatic works, he uses shapes and lines for their own sake, emphasising their graphic quality. Till January 30 on emamiart.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/thinking-about-art/article33534046.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Bawri Chhori, Eros Now||Aahana Kumra (Lipstick Under My Burkha) helms this comical and emotional drama that follows the journey of her character, Radhika. After her husband moves to London, he does not contact her in any way, nor does he return. Desperate to find out the truth, she heads out on a personal mission to get answers. This quest soon turns her into a vengeful wife — the trailer gives us mildKill Billvibes — and leaves us wondering how she will ultimately confront him and get her revenge. Directed by Akhilesh Jaiswal, the cast includes Rumana Molla, Vikram Koccher and Niki Walia, among others. Expect multiple twists in the storyline, and a dose of laughter. On Eros Now from January 11.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/bawri-chhori-eros-now/article33534067.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Your Honor||This American limited series featuring Bryan Cranston in the lead is adapted from the Israeli TV seriesKvodo.TheBreaking Badstar plays Michael Desiato, a New Orleans judge whose son is involved in a hit-and-run that killed the son of the head of an organised crime family in the state. The 10-part show is now streaming on Voot. To read our interview with Cranston, head to weekend.thehindu.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/your-honor/article33534069.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Chennai sees demand for plotted developments||COVID-19 has drastically altered real estate investment preferences, with plotted developments now trending across cities. In Chennai, key developers have so far launched at least five different plotted development projects comprising >900 units in last 4-5 months. Trends indicate that the corresponding period last year did not see nearly as many plotted development sales as this year. Prominent locations that saw plotted development projects launched are Iyyappanthangal, Vandalur, Manivakkam, Avadi, and Thirumazhisai. The plot sizes start as low as 560 sq. ft. and go up to 2,400 per sq. ft. or more. Most of these localities are towards the peripheries of the city where average prices hover at Rs. 2,500 per sq. ft. Buyer trends If we consider buyer trends based on current enquiries, the highest demand is for plots sized between 1,000-1,200 sq. ft. with average ticket sizes from Rs. 25-35 lakh onwards. While some buyers intend to build and occupy homes on these plots, there are also many long-term investors in the mix. Though land investment is a time-honoured tradition in Chennai, the trend of apartments had drawn more buyers over the last decade. However, the pandemic has once again boosted demand for land as a long-term investment alternative. There is also considerable interest in plots in gated societies, where building standalone homes is seen as a safe bet in pandemic-like situations.  Ready homes Demand for ready apartments has not abated since apartments present a lower overall risk, especially with considerable ready-to-move inventory available. However, many developers sense the benefits of liquidating some of their land holdings and raising working capital via plotted developments. The capital investment required is minimal, the project execution risks low, and developers can exit quicker. Some of the leading developers who have recently launched projects in this asset category include VGN Projects, TVH group and RWD Developers, among others. Top micro markets Iyyapanthangal Located in South-West Chennai, Iyyapanthangal has seen decent real estate growth over the last few years. The area’s proximity to the IT Parks of Porur and the Sriperumbudur industrial belt has boosted realty demand in the area. Average prices for plots are around Rs. 2,800 per sq. ft. Vandalur The area enjoys good connectivity to the IT corridor of OMR and GST Road and has well-developed infrastructure. Growth here can be largely attributed to factors like the IT belt, industrial growth and quality healthcare institutions. Among the notable upcoming infrastructure projects are the Monorail project. Corridor 1 of monorail connects Vandalur and Tambaram (South Chennai) with Central Chennai through Velachery. Vandalur is expected to benefit with this monorail corridor, though the project is still in its initial stage of implementation. The Main bus terminus is scheduled to be operational in Kilambakkam near Vandalur in early 2021. Average land prices here hover at around 2,500 per sq. ft. Avadi The locality has quickly emerged as the favourable realty hotspot in the city’s western region. Popular for its defence establishments, the area has transformed into a major residential hub with robust physical and social infrastructure, including healthcare and education. Enhanced connectivity to other prominent localities of Chennai via NH 716 is an added advantage. With maximum real estate activity in the affordable and mid-segment categories, Avadi is fast transforming into a buzzing realty hotspot. Average land prices hover at Rs. 2,300 per sq. ft. Manivakkam Manivakkam connects Vandalur on the GST Road to Oragadam and Sriperambadur. Situated between Vandalur and Mudichur, 7.5 kms from Tambaram and 2 km from Vandalur, this area is listed in CMDA’s Chennai Metropolitan Area (CMA) [1] master plan and is well-connected to Oragadam and Sriperambadur, Maraimalai Nagar and Mahindra World City by road and suburban railways. Average land prices here are approx. Rs. 2,475 per sq. ft. Thirumazhisai Located in Chennai West, the micro market is well connected to other parts of the city by road. The area is reasonably developed with good social infrastructure facilities in and around the area. The avg. land prices in the area stand at approx. Rs. 2,400 per sq. ft.  The writer is City Head, Chennai, Anarock Property Consultants||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/chennai-sees-demand-for-plotted-developments/article33534109.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||On a growth trajectory||In India, at the dawn of 2020, we were warming up to a stupendous year with commercial real estate segments of office, warehousing, and retail on a healthy growth trajectory. The residential market was also attempting to stand again on its feet after a spate of structural readjustments of the previous 2-3 years. Then came the COVID-19 pandemic and the ensuing lockdown — amongst the most stringent in India — which brought business activity to a complete standstill. In the second half of the year, as we saw gradual lifting of the lockdown and increased awareness about responsible handling of the coronavirus threat, consumers, particularly in the housing segment, did come back with renewed vigour. Time-bound and focused government interventions also served as a catalyst to rekindle the market sentiment, observes Shishir Baijal, Chairman and Managing Director, Knight Frank India. In 2021, as consumers and businesses move ahead, the market trajectory will meaningfully improve when compared to last year. The housing sector, with its latent demand potential and much better demand dynamics, is expected to lead the way. Commercial office and warehousing sector, on the back of their strong fundamentals, will retain the past glory. Within the commercial segment, data centres will emerge as a shining star as strong demand dynamics will enjoy the tailwinds of right policy attention. Overall, we expect 2021 to be a year of reckoning for the real estate sector. India’s long-term economic fundamentals remain strong, despite the interruptions caused by the COVID-19 induced lockdown. We expect the growth momentum to return and are witnessing new avenues develop that will be propelling India’s economy and commerce, in turn, impacting the real estate fabric of the country. Some of the high potential sectors that Knight Frank India will look at making early headways are data centres, pharmaceuticals, warehousing and logistics, and e-commerce. Major player A recent Knight Frank India report highlighted that key transit infra projects, including metro and roadways, will unlock possibilities for heightened real estate development across 24 key locations. In the latest city report, ‘Bengaluru Urban Infrastructure Report 2020 – A Comprehensive Take on Major Transit-Oriented Infrastructure Projects with Key Impact Markets’, the consultancy assesses the impact of the current transport infrastructure projects on the real estate sector and says identified locations across the city are expected to benefit due to ease of travel. It is estimated that 127 km of metro and 270 km of road projects are under various stages of construction in the city. Bengaluru Metro Phase 2, extensions and new lines are expected to be completed between 2021-2025. The major road projects — Peripheral Ring Road (PRR), Satellite Town Ring Road (STRR) and Suburban Rail Network — are likely to be completed beyond 2025. All these projects are being implemented under various models at an estimated cost of more than $11.4 billion. These projects will bring new locations to the forefront and will also be instrumental in driving incremental real estate development across some of the well-established office hubs as also isolated locations which needed public transport connectivity. According to their analysis, 24 locations have been identified to benefit from the transit-oriented infrastructural development in the city. Shantanu Mazumder, Senior Branch Director – Bengaluru, Knight Frank India, says, “The transit infrastructure projects will bring about an evolutionary change in the city’s real estate landscape. These projects are expected to not only bring inclusive growth with an incremental inventory supply in established locations but also mark the inception of real estate development and realty investment flow in Asia. There will be an emergence of new micro-markets in the peripheral parts of the city. Bengaluru has been a major hotspot of the global fund investments in commercial real estate in India.” Start-up hub Rajani Sinha, Chief Economist & National Director, Research, Knight Frank India, says, “Bengaluru has emerged as the start-up hub of the nation, bringing innovation and employment opportunities, while making a significant contribution to India’s GDP.” He also points out that sectors such as aerospace, IT, biotechnology, manufacturing, e-commerce, and logistics are expected to drive the city’s economy. “Enhancement of transit infrastructure through projects including Metro Rail Phase 2, Peripheral Ring Road and Satellite Town Ring Road will improve connectivity and result in significant reduction in travel time to prominent employment hubs. These massive projects will result in huge development potential for the real estate market.”  Incremental real estate development will be seen in well-established office hubs as also isolated locations which needed public transport connectivity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/on-a-growth-trajectory/article33534111.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Chennai sees demand for plotted developments||COVID-19 has drastically altered real estate investment preferences, with plotted developments now trending across cities. In Chennai, key developers have so far launched at least five different plotted development projects comprising >900 units in last 4-5 months. Trends indicate that the corresponding period last year did not see nearly as many plotted development sales as this year. Prominent locations that saw plotted development projects launched are Iyyappanthangal, Vandalur, Manivakkam, Avadi, and Thirumazhisai. The plot sizes start as low as 560 sq. ft. and go up to 2,400 per sq. ft. or more. Most of these localities are towards the peripheries of the city where average prices hover at Rs. 2,500 per sq. ft. Buyer trends If we consider buyer trends based on current enquiries, the highest demand is for plots sized between 1,000-1,200 sq. ft. with average ticket sizes from Rs. 25-35 lakh onwards. While some buyers intend to build and occupy homes on these plots, there are also many long-term investors in the mix. Though land investment is a time-honoured tradition in Chennai, the trend of apartments had drawn more buyers over the last decade. However, the pandemic has once again boosted demand for land as a long-term investment alternative. There is also considerable interest in plots in gated societies, where building standalone homes is seen as a safe bet in pandemic-like situations.  Ready homes Demand for ready apartments has not abated since apartments present a lower overall risk, especially with considerable ready-to-move inventory available. However, many developers sense the benefits of liquidating some of their land holdings and raising working capital via plotted developments. The capital investment required is minimal, the project execution risks low, and developers can exit quicker. Some of the leading developers who have recently launched projects in this asset category include VGN Projects, TVH group and RWD Developers, among others. Top micro markets Iyyapanthangal Located in South-West Chennai, Iyyapanthangal has seen decent real estate growth over the last few years. The area’s proximity to the IT Parks of Porur and the Sriperumbudur industrial belt has boosted realty demand in the area. Average prices for plots are around Rs. 2,800 per sq. ft. Vandalur The area enjoys good connectivity to the IT corridor of OMR and GST Road and has well-developed infrastructure. Growth here can be largely attributed to factors like the IT belt, industrial growth and quality healthcare institutions. Among the notable upcoming infrastructure projects are the Monorail project. Corridor 1 of monorail connects Vandalur and Tambaram (South Chennai) with Central Chennai through Velachery. Vandalur is expected to benefit with this monorail corridor, though the project is still in its initial stage of implementation. The Main bus terminus is scheduled to be operational in Kilambakkam near Vandalur in early 2021. Average land prices here hover at around 2,500 per sq. ft. Avadi The locality has quickly emerged as the favourable realty hotspot in the city’s western region. Popular for its defence establishments, the area has transformed into a major residential hub with robust physical and social infrastructure, including healthcare and education. Enhanced connectivity to other prominent localities of Chennai via NH 716 is an added advantage. With maximum real estate activity in the affordable and mid-segment categories, Avadi is fast transforming into a buzzing realty hotspot. Average land prices hover at Rs. 2,300 per sq. ft. Manivakkam Manivakkam connects Vandalur on the GST Road to Oragadam and Sriperambadur. Situated between Vandalur and Mudichur, 7.5 kms from Tambaram and 2 km from Vandalur, this area is listed in CMDA’s Chennai Metropolitan Area (CMA) [1] master plan and is well-connected to Oragadam and Sriperambadur, Maraimalai Nagar and Mahindra World City by road and suburban railways. Average land prices here are approx. Rs. 2,475 per sq. ft. Thirumazhisai Located in Chennai West, the micro market is well connected to other parts of the city by road. The area is reasonably developed with good social infrastructure facilities in and around the area. The avg. land prices in the area stand at approx. Rs. 2,400 per sq. ft.  The writer is City Head, Chennai, Anarock Property Consultants||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/chennai-sees-demand-for-plotted-developments/article33534112.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Satya Paul: The sari shaper||“He lived his life with totality, not leaving anything unfinished,” begins Puneet Nanda about his father, Satya Paul, who passed away on Wednesday at the Isha Yoga Centre in Coimbatore. He was 79. Nanda had posted a few details on Facebook about Paul’s “inner journey” to spirituality and his last five years at Jaggi Vasudev or Sadhguru’s ashram . As the tributes poured in, designers, Paul’s former clients, and the media referenced his legacy and contribution to Indian fashion. Paul, originally born in Layyah, Pakistan, established his eponymous brand in 1985 with his then 17-year-old son. This was five years after he had launched L’Affaire in Delhi, reportedly the country’s first sari boutique. Their mission with Satya Paul was to be an Indian fashion brand that had mass appeal. “The choice of working with a sari was deliberate, as at that point 90% of women wore a sari and we wanted this to be a brand that was relevant to every Indian woman,” recalls Nanda, 52. Paul soon came to be known for his prints and vivid colours, and by the end of the 1980s, the label produced more than 50,000 units. At the time, many designers were struggling to produce even 100 pieces a year. Their print-forward designs were often inspired by wildlife, art and music. When they were bought over by Genesis Colors in 2001, Nanda had taken over as creative director of the brand. In the early 2000s, no other homegrown brand had a retail footprint even close to Satya Paul’s, with 30 exclusive stores across India. This brand stood for freewheeling experimentation, which included a limited edition of silk scarves that featured SH Raza’s paintings. A tie made of silk and white gold, studded with 261 diamonds, made headlines when actor Salman Khan wore it at a charity event. Questioning norms “The brand played a large role in supporting the weaving crafts,” Nanda adds, referring to the saris that were categorised under four collections every season. He says that they had a clear vision with the creative process. “This was at a time when there was no designer brand, no fashion awareness,” he continues, explaining how the Museum collection came from master weavers and that “it often took years to convince them to work on special designs”. Renaissance was a print collection with global influences, while Signature had exuberant florals and optical illusions that were described as “pieces of kinetic art” back then by The New York Times . Popularly known as cocktail saris today, they are synonymous with the brand. Meanwhile, with the Avant Garde collection, “everything that was the norm in a sari was questioned”, according to Nanda. “We stitched it like a dress, or down the middle as a trouser, or a Grecian drape. We made it out of various materials, with metallic fibre weaving, or printed graffiti or cartoons, and used it as a billboard for social messaging.” These drapes were a precursor of today’s concept saris. “The brand that [Satya Paul] set up had so much foresight. He was the first person to take the sari, a staple in every woman’s wardrobe, and turn it into a ready-to-wear piece,” says leading fashion stylist Anaita Shroff Adajania (who was behind a successful Satya Paul campaign with celebrities a couple of years ago). “I met him a few times at fashion shows. He was very elusive, but always very warm,” she adds. Not lost legacy Since Nanda left the label a decade ago, several other designers took over the creative helm, including Masaba Gupta. “As a fashion student, I remember not being taught at all about Indian fashion,” says Gupta. “His passing has reminded us that young Indian designers must know about the resources that came before them. Satya Paul is and was one of India’s few brands that was both creative and had a retail footprint, and this is an important story for Indian fashion.” Today, Satya Paul is owned by Reliance Brands, India’s largest player in the luxury market, operating close to 50 brand partnerships (including Tiffany & Co, Giorgio Armani and Bottega Veneta). Last June, renowned fashion designer and India’s master of minimalism, Rajesh Pratap Singh, was named Satya Paul’s creative director. “Satya Paul took textiles and turned them into something very modern and relevant. I hope to take that emotion and spirit forward,” he tells me. Having first interacted with Paul when he had his final submission as a student at NIFT, Singh has, in the past, referred to Paul’s impeccable dressing, his interest in textile innovation, and his attention to detail at his many showrooms. The recent Satya Paul collection under Singh, Valley of Flowers, clearly references the bold colour and design language of the label’s founder. Nanda has big hopes for Singh, who is leading the brand that bears his father’s name. Paul was a seeker all his life, Nanda had observed in his recent Facebook post. But in many ways he was also the man who set India’s contemporary fashion grammar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/satya-paul-the-sari-shaper/article33533850.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Ovals in the sand||Rising out of the desert in Jaisalmer is an oval-shaped oasis. Even as sunlight filters through its jalis , it blends into the dunes surrounding it, almost as if it grew out of the shifting sands. Soon it will be ringing with the voices of 400 girls — ranging from kindergarten to class 10 — as the Rajkumari Ratnavati Girls School opens its doors. Designed by Diana Kellogg Architects, the school is funded by CITTA, an international non-profit founded by Michael Daube. As the New York-based artist, who has close ties to the ‘Golden City’ (known so because of the yellow sandstone used in its buildings), told The Guardian recently, the school is the first of a trio that will collectively become the Gyaan Centre. The other buildings will house a women’s cooperative and an exhibition-cum-performance hall, and a textile museum. “I realised that through an economic avenue, I could entice the [local] communities to send their girls to school,” he said, sharing how the centre will have craftspeople to impart skills such as weaving and printing to the students’ mothers and aunts, and a marketplace to exhibit and sells their goods.  Trusting the local  For Diana Kellogg, the project came at a time when, as she told Architectural Digest , she wanted her work “to affect a larger audience, to have a sense of nurturing, comfort and healing”. The architect, with over 25 years of experience, is well-known for her tasteful renovations and luxury residences in Manhattan. She has recently expanded her horizons, with work on education institutes in Nepal’s Limi Valley alongside the centre in Rajasthan. She is designing the latter pro-bono. “I’ve always been committed to issues related to women and girls, particularly in recent years,” she tells me by email from New York. “I’ve visited India over five years, and [been to] many schools. But I mostly got to know the people of Jaisalmer.” So when Daube approached her, she “wanted to use the traditional forms [of the region] in a contemporary way to show that the stone craftsmanship could be used in innovative ways.” Using the local sandstone and recreating the curved walls of the Jaisalmer Fort, or Sone ka Quila, the scale of Kellogg’s design is sweeping: from the curved terrace and winding corridors, to the walls topped with latticed screens. “At one of the first meetings, we were discussing materials to use. Of course I wanted to use the beautiful local sandstone, but I thought it would be too expensive. However, to every suggestion of an alternate option, the response was the same... stone. ‘We can carve anything out of it,’ they said. And they did,” she states, adding how skilled local artisans made everything from individual bricks to sculptural water-cooler openings in the yellow stone. “When we couldn’t find the right sized sinks for the washrooms, they carved them out of solid stone.”  Plans in motion  Having never worked in a desert landscape, or with stone artisans for that matter, she had challenges a plenty. “The issues concerning climate and technique were completely different than anything I was familiar with,” she says, underlining their commitment to values of sustainability. Phase two of the project will soon get underway. “We are planning the central building, which will be an arts centre incorporating dance and performance spaces, along with a library and computer facilities. There will also be gallery space for visiting artists. This building will mostly exhibit the textiles of the region, which we’ve been buying from the villagers to help support them during the pandemic. This way, their work will remain in Jaisalmer, for them to visit,” she concludes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ovals-in-the-sand/article33533721.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Highlights of the year gone by||January Rangoli sends legal notice toForbesfor ranking Kangana 70th on the Celebrity 100 List. Rajinikanth shoots for an episode of Man Vs Wild with Bear Grylls at Bandipur Tiger Reserve. Sonam Kapoor wears a sari tuxedo. The Gujarati edition of Sapiens is released. February Rakhi Sawant says she will go to China and kill coronavirus with medicine given to her by NASA. Rangoli says the similarities between Marlon Brando and Kangana give her goosebumps. Dharmendra launches a new restaurant called ‘He-Man’. Men and women who drink daily have increased chance of living to 90, says study. Harappans ate non-vegetarian food but museum takes them off the menu of Ancient Food Exhibition. March Dharmendra’s ‘He-Man’ restaurant is sealed for building law violations. In Noida, a man stops his BMW to urinate. Thieves flee with the car, Rs. 40 lakh loan pending. Priyanka Chopra co-writes a coronavirus song with Nick Jonas that you can sing while washing your hands. April Malaika Arora makes besan laddoo . Priyanka Chopra thanks the PM for acknowledging her donation. ‘We are strongest together,’ she says. Kerala becomes first state to open liquor stores during lockdown. Rangoli Chandel’s Twitter account is suspended. Arnab Goswami resigns from editors’ guild citing their lack of ethics. May Human urine could be used to make concrete on the moon in the future. My mother can pull off Meryl Streep’s role in The Devil Wears Prada, says Esha Deol. Kent apologizes for its ad of Kent Atta & Bread Maker. Baba Ramdev launches clinical trials for ‘Coronil’. June On World Environment Day, Salman Khan and Iulia Vantur sweep their Panvel farmhouse. As #BoycottChina trends on Twitter, One Plus 8 Pro sells out in minutes. ‘I feel jealous of Pakistanis and Filipinos who went home for free,’ says NRI on social media, after paying a high price for Vande Bharat flight. July Wedding called off in TN after bride and groom fight over PM. India orders 5.5 lakh biryanis and 129K lava cakes during lockdown. Sale of sex toys goes up by 65% during lockdown. Twinkle Khanna spots snake, rat and butterflies in her house. ‘Is there any hope?’ Kangana asks PM as she shares Resul Pookutty’s bullying story. August ‘I have more Indians than she has,’ says President Trump about Kamala Harris. ‘Act of God’ situation may result in economic contraction, says FM. Philippine government official gets caught having sex with secretary during Zoom meeting.  September PM Modi hails Indian media. Kangana Ranaut’s father compares her to Lord Krishna. Akshay Kumar says he drinks cow urine. October Madurai smugglers caught hiding gold worth Rs. 52 lakh in their rectums. Taimur Ali Khan learns Spanish to beat lockdown blues. Sadhguru rides across America on a BMW 1600 GT. The air in India is filthy, says Trump. Biden scolds Trump. A man sells his car and steals it later using duplicate keys. November Women in TN performpoojafor Kamala Harris. Spent my childhood listening toRamayanaandMahabharata, says Barack Obama. Karachi will be part of India one day, says Devendra Fadnavis. COVID may have originated in India, say Chinese scientists.  December Kangana Ranaut expresses desire to build temple, says Maa Durga chose her. Akshay Kumar earns Rs. 365 crore. Kangana’s sister-in-law makes makki ki roti . Nirav’s bother Nehal Modi is charged with committing fraud of $2.6 mil in NY. Sports Ministry formally recognises yogasana as sport. Seaplane in Gujarat refuses to take off. Akshay Kumar shares pic of a frog. Krishna Shastri Devulapalli is a satirist. He has written four books and edited an anthology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/highlights-of-the-year-gone-by/article33533842.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Pierre Cardin and an Indian prêt story||The Indian fashion industry is built around the wedding trousseau, which is why it put itself into a ‘no activity zone’ during the pandemic. What our designers need to embrace is the everyday prêt-à-porter that Italian-born French designer Pierre Cardin (who passed away on December 29, 2020, at the age of 98)pioneered. In the ’60s, he coined the term India Modern and showed us how bespoke Indian fabrics could be used to create prêt.  When in India  When Cardin visited the country in 1967, at the invitation of Pupul Jayakar of Handloom and Handicrafts Export Corporation of India — because she wanted to expose the international fashion world to the variety of handloom in our country — he couldn’t believe the treasure trove of textiles we had. To him, this was haute couture. You could get six metres of intricately-ornamented material to make a design and get much more of it if required (you didn’t have to order hundreds of metres from machine manufacturers in Como for a homogenised design). This was a time when Indian fashion was a collection of garage boutiques and trunk shows. I have black-and-white photos of a cousin of mine turning embassy dining rooms into spaces for selling salwar kameezes and ‘maxis’ to a cosmopolitan crowd! Into this scenario, Cardin brought back the swathes of textiles he had taken with him — which he had designed and tailored as globally-relevant clothing — and showcased them at his seminal show at the Ashoka Hotel in Delhi. He highlighted the real strength of our textiles in a way that nobody till then had understood. Needless to say, the audiences, which included then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, were spellbound. It not only brought us traction in the short term (we shipped a lot of textiles subsequent to that), but also inspired many designers like Ritu Kumar and the late Rohit Khosla, as well as India’s first models, Anjali Phyllis Mendes and Kirat Rabier.  Right place, right time  I met Cardin in India while volunteering to model for his show. But I’d actually wanted to show him my fashion sketches. Two years later, when I went to Paris on a scholarship from the French government to study graphics at Stanley William Hayter’s Atelier 17, Pupul Jayakar arranged another meeting for me with Cardin. That’s when he took me into his fold. I was lucky to be at the right place at the right time. I remember my first time in his studio, waiting in his antechamber with actress Jeanne Moreau, while he finished his work. We then went to Maxim’s restaurant (which he later bought), where we talked about how food, cinema, and fashion aesthetics were linked. He was always talking about transdisciplinary connections. From 1969 to 1971, I set up Cardin’s Laboratoire des Idées that explored transdisciplinary experiences and markets. So, one day I would be asked to do the car interiors for Renault, on another, I would be flown to Seattle to look at fitting out a Boeing jet. Or I would go to Milan to look at furniture, or to Belgium to do chocolate boxes. For a 19-year-old, this was heady. It was in my studio, which was just above Cardin’s office on the sixth floor of 59, Rue du Faubourg Saint-Honore, that I created the Boudin, a six-metre chair that could be tied into knots. It was part of India Modern, the exhibition that he sent me back to India later to do. Yes, Cardin was criticised black and blue for his decisions — for looking at prêt, for his licensing. But he thought big and gave to ideas that caught his fancy.  Prints and pedagogy  Cardin believed that India, with all its skills, could be the leader of the world. But we aren’t there yet. How can we leverage our textiles? We have to stay a step ahead of what the machines can make, by thinking in terms of original content. Our designers who are working with artisan clusters today don’t encompass even 5% of the subsets of talent in India. Though I am happy they are doing this, I wonder if, while we have won a few battles, we are losing the war? If you really want to make handloom work in scale, so that they can merit the idea of prêt, designers have to understand the innate structure of weaves, and even create the fabrics. Cardin was an expert in this. He could make the cloth yield to a silhouette. He created fabulous forms by understanding its architecture. After his show in 1967, he asked us to look at blending wool and tussar to create a thicker fabric, and to work with asymmetry in design. I have seen the knowledge, the desire — designers like Rajesh Pratap Singh and Shani Himanshu (of 11.11/eleven eleven) understand structure better than most — but I have not yet seen action. That will happen only when there is solid money behind a brand. This is where I squarely accuse corporate India. They have not understood the real wealth of the fashion industry. Designers also have to understand that they need partners with business savvy. Manish Arora, on his own steam, set up a place in Paris, but today he has no investors to take it forward. Design schools don’t teach business sense to survive. Cardin had an uncanny sense of picking what worked. When he saw something, I don’t think the form excited him as much as its potential for money. He understood China much before anybody else did (he was the first western designer to hold a fashion show in the mainland, in 1979, shortly after the country started its Open Door Policy). For us to achieve this, pedagogy is important. Our pedagogy lacks structural design. Unless we address that, we won’t have designers who are able to work with the materials we have. What we should take away from Cardin are the five Cs: common sense (to turn something on its head and grab eyeballs), compassion (an emphasis on teamwork and sharing, right down the pyramid), couture (an understanding of cut, structure and silhouette), critique (or pedagogy), and commerce.     Rajeev Sethi is one of India’s foremost design gurus, and the founder of Asian Heritage Foundation.   As told to  Surya Praphulla Kumar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/pierre-cardin-and-an-indian-prt-story/article33533715.ece
09 January 2021||New Delhi,||Fresh cases in Delhi stay under 500||The city recorded 444 fresh COVID-19 cases in 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 6,29,282, stated a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Friday. This is the 15th day in a row that the number of new cases has been less than 1,000. Also, 10 more deaths have been reported in 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 10,654. A total of 75,724 more tests were done in a day. Of the total cases, 6,14,849 people have recovered and there are 3,779 active cases. Also, a dry run for the COVID-19 vaccination was conducted at about 150 centres here and there were no major problems, said a Delhi government spokesperson. The vaccination booths at all the centres have three rooms — waiting room, vaccination room, and observation room. During the dry run, healthcare workers are registered and made to move from one room to another as a mock drill. On January 2, a dry run was conducted at three healthcare facilities and on Wednesday at 66 centres. Positivity rate The positivity rate of COVID-19 cases was 0.59% on Friday and the overall positivity till now was 6.81%, as per the bulletin. Out of the total 12,380 beds available for COVID-19 treatment in the city, 88.11% were vacant. There were 2,965 containment zones in the city as of Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/fresh-cases-in-delhi-stay-under-500/article33533733.ece
09 January 2021||New Delhi,||Flyers in a fix over change in quarantine rules at IGIA||There were unseemly scenes at Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport after passengers arriving from London aboard Air India’s AI 121 claimed they had no knowledge of the change in rule. Many took to Twitter to highlight their plight and complain to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and Minister of State for Civil Aviation Hardeep Puri. “Dear Arvind Kejriwal, I am one of the passengers of flight AI 112 from London with my 4.5-month-old daughter. You locked each one of us. At least take pity on children. There is no food for my daughter. They didn’t let me get my stroller. How cruel you guys are,” tweeted Gowri Shankar Dash. Another traveller Harpreet Takkar posted: “Just came from London AI112, it’s absolutely maniacal at Delhi Airport. Asking us to go for institutional quarantine even with negative PCR test. Didn’t mention this on your SOP.” Later in the day, Air India issued a clarification where it said passengers were informed about the new rule before the flight took off from London. “Air India has reached out to passengers of the London- Delhi flight before the flight took off from Heathrow Airport at 21.39 hours last night. 20 opt for cancellation Around 20 passengers opted to cancel their flight on being informed by Air India London team of this advisory. The announcement was repeated during the flight as well,” the airline posted in a series of tweets. It added that it had mobilised resources to expedite RT PCR tests for passengers of the flight.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/flyers-in-a-fix-over-change-in-quarantine-rules-at-igia/article33533728.ece
09 January 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. starts talks with IIT on real-time sources of pollution||The Delhi government has started talks with IIT-Kanpur to do a study to find what exactly the sources of pollutants in the city’s air on a real-time basis are. The move follows a decision by Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia last week to “terminate” the same study currently being done by University of Washington in St. Louis for the Delhi government, multiple officials told The Hindu . This will further delay the project, which has already missed its deadline six months ago. “The Deputy CM has terminated the study and directed to find a new agency to conduct the same,” a Delhi government official said. IIT-Kanpur has expressed interest in the study and is in the process of submitting a proposal. “The government is yet to make its decision of terminating the study public and also convey it to the Washington University. The legal department will take a call on how to go forward,” a second official said. Red flags In December, The Hindu had first reported that a three-member committee appointed by the Delhi government had raised red flags about the “real-time source appropriation study of air pollution in Delhi”, which is being done by the University of Washington in St. Louis. The study which was approved by the Delhi government in 2018, was a flagship project of the government to find a solution to the air pollution, by finding the sources causing air pollution in the city on a real time basis. In December, Dr. Pratim Biswas, a professor at the university, who is part of the study, had said through an email, “We have responded to all questions [raised by the government]. Scientific aspects are solid. It is up to policy-makers to implement.” The study, with a total cost of Rs. 1.2 crore, was allotted to the university without a tender and it was done on “nomination basis”. The study was supposed to be completed by June, 2020. Payments made The government has paid more than Rs. 50 lakh for the study till now, which is the first two instalments of the total cost of the study, according to officials. Even if the study is now done by another agency, they can use a lot of data generated from the current study. On July 3, 2018, the Delhi Cabinet, headed by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, had approved a proposal for the study. The study was important as the reason causing pollution in the city has been a matter of constant debate between the city and the Centre. The Delhi government has been stating that stubble burning in Punjab and Haryana is the major cause of air pollution in Delhi during winters. On the other hand, the Centre has multiple times pointed out that local pollutants in the city are also a main reason. Shortly after the AAP government came to power, in February, 2020, Gopal Rai, who was given the Environment Minister’s portfolio, visited a location near India Gate from where the study was being carried out. Information gathering “Obtaining real-time data is necessary to monitor the real sources of pollution at a particular point in time. Until we can gather information about the sources of pollution, we will not be able to devise any mechanism for reducing these sources. There are no generalised sources of this pollution, and so we cannot work on decreasing or eradicating it in a generalised manner. We need to obtain real-time data to devise an action plan on how to reduce pollution levels,” Mr. Rai said on February 20, in a first statement from his office, after he became the Environment Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/govt-starts-talks-with-iit-on-real-time-sources-of-pollution/article33533736.ece
09 January 2021||Chandigarh,||‘Amarinder backing Centre on farm laws’||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Friday accused Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh of “playing puppet of the BJP-led Central government” and said he was trying to suppress all voices who were speaking out against the Centre’s farm laws. Mr. Badal said the Chief Minister was not fulfilling his duties towards Punjabis. “Capt. Amarinder should have been in the forefront of the fight to secure the rights of the farmers of the State. You (Capt. Amarinder) should have led the agitation and even been ready to sacrifice all for it. Instead, you are only giving lip sympathy to farmers,” said Mr. Badal, addressing a press conference in Jalandhar. Mr. Badal accused the Chief Minister for failing to rescind the Agricultural Produce Market Committee Act (APMC), which was amended by him in 2017 and which contained all the provisions of the three farm laws. “Presently the situation was such that even if the Centre repealed the three laws they would still be applicable in Punjab as the Congress government had refused to take back the changes made in its APMC Act,” alleged Mr. Badal. Separately in a statement, former Union Minister and Akali Dal leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal said Capt. Amarinder should tell people about how much longer he would wait before exercising legal options to ensure the three agricultural Bills, passed unanimously in the Punjab Vidhan Sabha to counter the ill effects of the Centre farm laws, were forwarded to the President for assent by the Governor of Punjab. Mrs. Badal said the go-slow policy adopted by the Chief Minister in pursuing the three Bills passed by State Assembly clearly indicated that he was deliberately delaying action on the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/amarinder-backing-centre-on-farm-laws/article33533726.ece
09 January 2021||New Delhi,||No bird flu case in Capital so far||There has been no confirmed case of bird flu in the city so far, said officials on Friday. A rapid response team visited the Mayur Vihar Phase 3 and found 17 dead crows in the park, out of which four samples were collected and will be sent to Bhopal for testing on Saturday. Such samples have also been collected from Dwarka. “The crows could have died due to cold stress or bird flu. We cannot confirm anything till the results are out. Birds die in extreme cold and also hot conditions,” an official from Animal Husbandry Department said. Till January 6, 104 such samples have been sent for testing, but results of all of them are yet to come. On Thursday, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia had held a review meeting of the situation. He said 11 teams have been formed for monitoring and also to collect samples. Sixteen dead crows were found in DDA Park in Hastsal Village in Uttam Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/no-bird-flu-case-in-capital-so-far/article33533734.ece
09 January 2021||New Delhi,||DPCC issues closure directions to 91 units||The Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) has issued closure directions to 91 industries in Khyala Industrial Area and imposed a fine of Rs. 4.7 crore. “The DPCC team inspected 113 units and out of these, 40 units were found operating without effluent treatment plant and were engaged in washing/dying. Other 51 units were engaged in activities under orange and green category, but were operating without DPCC consent,” an official statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dpcc-issues-closure-directions-to-91-units/article33533729.ece
09 January 2021||New Delhi,||Air quality in ‘poor’ category in Delhi||The air quality of Delhi and Noida was in the “poor” category on Friday and Gurugram’s in the “moderate” level, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data on Friday. The national capital’s air quality is expected to improve in the next few days. “Poor to moderate AQI is forecasted for tomorrow [Saturday]. The AQI is likely to marginally improve and in the ‘moderate’ category on January 10 and 11. No sudden deterioration of AQI is expected in the next few days,” said government-run monitoring agency SAFAR (System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research). The effect of stubble burning on the city’s air quality remained low on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/air-quality-in-poor-category-in-delhi/article33533730.ece
09 January 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. to procure 18 advanced ventilators||The Delhi Cabinet, in a meeting chaired by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday, decided to procure 18 advanced ventilators for the ICUs of the Neurosurgery Department at GB Pant Hospital. According to the government, the Cabinet also approved the setting up of a Konkani Academy to facilitate the growth and promotion of the Konkani language and culture here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/govt-to-procure-18-advanced-ventilators/article33533737.ece
09 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Gurugram school case: 4 policemen in the dock||The Central Bureau of Investigation has filed a supplementary chargesheet against four Haryana police officers for allegedly framing a school bus conductor in connection with the murder of a Class II student in a private school at Gurugram in September 2017. Sushil Tekriwal, counsel for the victim’s father, confirmed that the four police officers named in the chargesheet were Birem Singh, Assistant Commissioner of Police; Narender Khatana, then SHO of Bhondsi Police Station; Shamsher Singh, Sub-Inspector and the case investigating officer for two days, and EASI Subhash Chand. He said the charge sheet was filed in the court of Special CBI Judge, Aman Inder Singh, at Panchkula. The CBI has invoked sections 120B (conspiracy), read with 166A (public servant disobeying direction under law), 167 (public servant framing an incorrect document with intent to cause injury) and 330 (voluntarily causing hurt to extort confession) of the IPC.  (Inputs from Gurugram Correspondent)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/gurugram-school-case-4-policemen-in-the-dock/article33533727.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Skiing & safaris||After a year full of holidays that invariably fell on Saturday or Sunday, 2021 has around 18 long weekends to plan quick getaways. For Pongal/Makar Sankranti (January 14 to 17) head toLambasinginear Visakhapatnam for strawberry picking. Also,Gulmargis this year’s alternative to international skiing holidays. The Khyber Resort and Spa is the town’s only five-star resort, so make your bookings well in advance.Manali,KufriandAuli(especially the Ski & Snowboard School there) are other options.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/skiing-safaris/article33533852.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Mark the date||The Blue Cross of India’s 2021 calendar showcases Alamelu Annhamalai’s artwork of rescued animals. Meet Ashey the cat, Vellaiyan the piggy, and Cinnabun the rabbit. At Rs. 499 @blue_cross_rescues on Instagram. Sunil Menon’s calendar for Sahodaran, a Chennai-based organisation working for LGBTQ rights, was shot in and around Irinjalakuda, Kerala and ECR. At Rs. 1,500. Call to order.23740486 There’s also the 19th edition of the Kingfisher calendar, shot by Atul Kasbekar along the Kerala coast.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/mark-the-date/article33533854.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Dressed for the occasion||Delhi gets a new multi-designer store, Bagechaa, at Paschim Vihar. It is a platform for indie designers to showcase their collections, like Isha Mittal’s western couture, Neha & Kriti’s florallehengas, and mother-of-pearl clutches from Naziya Couture.9999991215 The festive edit at Bengaluru’s Angadi Heritage features gifting options, including accessories from Kesya, bar essentials from Nappa Dori and fragrances by Scentido. Or pick up alehengaby Akaaro andkurtasets from SWGT. Details: angadiheritage.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dressed-for-the-occasion/article33533856.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Piecing together identity||My Queer Blackness, My Black Queernessis a digital project exploring multiple facets of black queer identity. For their latest, they teamed up with visual artists Kwesi Botchway and Ggggrimes, and were sponsored by Gucci. The Black Jigsaw Project is a limited edition of 100 jigsaw puzzles featuring their take on black queer identity. Priced at €163.93 (approximately Rs. 15,000) each, on mqbmbq.com. 100% of proceeds go to Italy’s trans-centred organisation, Movimento Identità Trans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/piecing-together-identity/article33533858.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Cheers to 2021||The liquor brands from Goa keep coming, the latest being Maka Zai from Stilldistilling Spirits. The gold Tribute Edition and white Bartender’s Edition will launch in Goa on January 16. @makazai.rum on Instagram. In Noida, 21-year-old Vatsal Goel has launched Vogue - Modern Theka and Kitchen. The Greek-themed cafe is part of his premium liquor store. There is a Rs. 500 cover charge, fully redeemable on food. Guests can consume wine, beer or spirits purchased along with their meal in a BYOB concept.7906515281||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cheers-to-2021/article33533862.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Thinking about art||At the upcoming edition of Mumbai Gallery Weekend ’21, catchReincarnate: We Meet Here in the Afterlife, a solo exhibition by contemporary artist Shilo Shiv Suleman. “As we meet in the afterlife, what fulfilment will our reincarnating stories find?” asks the artist. Till January 17, at Art Musings, Colaba.022 22163339 Emami Art is showcasing drawings and linocuts by Partha Pratim Deb. In his largely monochromatic works, he uses shapes and lines for their own sake, emphasising their graphic quality. Till January 30 on emamiart.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/thinking-about-art/article33533864.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Stage on your screen||Mumbai-based theatre group, Akvarious Productions, will stageThe Hound of the Baskervilles, adapted by Steven Canny and John Nicholson. Directed by Akash Khurana, this will be a comic tribute to the classic murder mystery by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. On January 9, 16 and 17, at 6.50 pm. Tickets from Rs. 399 on insider.in. Prefer a regional art form? Tholu Bommalata features comedy, drama, music and folk tales using leather puppets hand-crafted in Andhra Pradesh. From today. Tickets at Rs. 199 on in.bookmyshow.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/stage-on-your-screen/article33533866.ece
09 January 2021||January 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Cooking up a storm||If you want to give the vegan lifestyle a shot this Veganuary, sign up for Chennai-based organisation, Sharan’s six-week ‘Health Gain’ programme. This includes recipes and cooking techniques as well as fun activities. From Rs. 5,310 on sharan-india.org. For something more indulgent, check out chef Pooja Dhingra’s virtual workshops on macaron baking (Rs. 2,360 on January 16), choux pastry (Rs. 1,770 on January 23) and eggless cheesecake (Rs. 1,770 on January30). All classes at 4 pm. Tickets on insider.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cooking-up-a-storm/article33533868.ece
