11 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Q3 private investment in manufacturing jumps 102%||A continued rise in private investments in the third quarter (Q3) of 2020-21, led by a 102% surge in manufacturing investments, helped India register a healthy 10.3% increase in fresh project spending in Q3 over the previous quarter. However, new capital expenditure proposals from the government collapsed between October and December 2020, as funding constraints began to pinch the States, dragging their new project investments down nearly 25% from the previous quarter. The Q3 project investment numbers suggest a reversal from recent years’ trend of government capital expenditure propping up the economy while the private sector remained reluctant to invest due to flat consumer demand and weak balance sheets, said Projects Today, an independent firm that tracks investment projects. “The fall in state-promoted investment in Q3 is not a good sign. We hope this will be a short-term phenomenon,” said Shashikant Hegde, director and CEO of Projects Today. This has raised private sector’s share in new projects from 40% in the previous quarter to 49.5% in Q3, he added. Mr. Hegde said the sequential increase registered in fresh projects by the private sector of 102.5% in the second quarter, and 36.5% in the third quarter, indicates willingness of private promoters to undertake new capacity building in the future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/q3-private-investment-in-manufacturing-jumps-102/article33546339.ece
11 January 2021||Kozhikode,||No giving up Pala seat: NCP||Amid speculations that a section of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) may switch over to the United Democratic Front (UDF), party’s State president T.P. Peethambaran has announced that it will not desert the Left Democratic Front (LDF). The NCP leader, however, made it clear at a media briefing after a district-level meeting on Sunday that it was not willing to give up any of the four Assembly segments it contested in the last elections either. Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran, who represents the Elathur constituency in Kozhikode, was conspicuous by his absence at the meeting. Mr. Peethambaran said the Pala seat had been with the party for the past two decades. In the 2019 byelections, Mani C. Kappan had won it after defeating a Kerala Congress (M) candidate. There had been no precedent in the LDF to give up sitting seats. It was illogical to claim that the winner should hand over the seat to a loser. Mr. Peethambaran claimed that the party had conveyed this stand to the Chief Minister. It would also seek clarity about the Pala seat at the next LDF meeting. The NCP leader pointed out that giving up Pala would amount to punishing a winner. The NCP hoped that the LDF would take a logical decision on the issue. It was not fair to say that only the NCP should compromise [on its seats] when a new party entered the front. “We will not give up any one of the four seats,” Mr. Peethambaran said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-giving-up-pala-seat-ncp/article33546672.ece
11 January 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Protesters ransack venue of Haryana CM’s meeting||A crowd consisting largely of farmers protesting against the Centre’s farm laws on Sunday ransacked a venue at Kaimla village in Haryana’s Karnal, where Chief Minister Manohar Lal was scheduled to address a farmers’ gathering ( kisan mahapanchayat ). The CM condemned the incident and said “farmers don’t have a violent temperament”, and that the incident was the work of “forces that have vested interests and are using farmers”. The event was called off after several agitating farmers armed with sticks reached the venue, breaking through several layers of barricades. They ransacked the venue, smashing chairs and the stage, and tearing posters. The Chief Minister’s programme was to highlight the advantages of the new farm laws. Karnal is Mr. Lal’s home Assembly constituency. Ahead of the event, the police used tear gas and water cannons to disperse agitating farmers after the latter attempted to break through the barricades.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/protesters-ransack-venue-of-haryana-cms-meeting/article33546345.ece
11 January 2021||Kolkata,||West Bengal’s active cases dip but deaths near 10,000||West Bengal on Sunday reported 823 new COVID-19 cases, taking the total case tally to 5,60,709. The State has been recording less than 1,000 daily infections for the last several days. The number of active infections stands at 7,881. As many as 19 deaths were reported, pushing the fatality tally to 9,941. The discharge rate has improved to 96.82%. The State tested 35,123 samples in the last 24 hours and the percentage of positive cases out of the samples tested has dropped to 7.53. Of the 823 fresh infections, Kolkata recorded 231 and North 24 Parganas 226. About 83.9% (8,343) of the deceased in the State had co-morbidities and 16.1%(1598) had no co-morbidities. There is still no clarity on holding Gangasagar festival in West Bengal. The annual festival draws lakhs of pilgrims. The Calcutta High Court has sought a report from the State government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/west-bengals-active-cases-dip-but-deaths-near-10000/article33546739.ece
11 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Republic Day parade route cut short, no Bharat Parv||The Republic Day parade this year will see marching contingents stop at the India Gate C-Hexagon instead of the Red Fort, and ‘Bharat Parv’ will not be celebrated due to COVID-related fears. Bharat Parv is a six-day event organised at Rajpath lawns from January 26-31. The new route of the parade as well as security arrangements were discussed during a meeting between Delhi Police and the Ministry of Defence. Earlier, the parade used to cover around 8 km but this year the distance has been reduced to roughly 3 km. The parade will now end at the National Stadium. The number of members in a marching contigent has been reduced from 144 to 96. “The distance has been cut short in order to maintain social distancing. The new plan was discussed at the meeting and the required security and logistic protocols will be done. The area will be sanitised by the police and then handed over to the Ministry of Defence,” said a police officer. More tableaus The number of tableaus has, however, been increased to 32 this year. In previous years, there were an average of 28 tableaus on display. Every year, the tableaus are parked at the Red Fort for a week after the parade for public viewing, but this year the tableaus will not be put on display, the officer. Following social distancing guidelines and cancellation of the Bharat Parv event, the Red Fort will not be closed for a week this year. It will be closed to the public only on Republic Day. Due to COVID-19, only 25,000 visitors will witness the parad compared with the usual over one lakh. Children under the age of 15 will not be allowed at the event. The officer said that security plans and restriction on the number of visitors for the Beating Retreat ceremony was also discussed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/shorter-parade-route-more-tableaus-this-republic-day/article33546519.ece
11 January 2021||Bengaluru,||State gets 13% more rainfall during post-monsoon season||Karnataka received 13% more rainfall than normal during the post-monsoon season from October to December, 2020, with some districts, such as Bidar and Kalaburagi, receiving way higher than the average. Unseasonal rainfall has continued into January too, causing distress among farmers in some parts North-interior Karnataka (NIK) and coastal Karnataka recorded 30% more rainfall than normal in the post-monsoon period, while south-interior Karnataka (SIK) received normal rainfall, though some districts had deficiency, according to rainfall statistics for the post-monsoon period from the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Bengaluru. While the normal rainfall quantum for the period is 181.7 mm, the actual rainfall received was 205.9 mm. Division-wise, in coastal Karnataka, Udupi received 58% more rainfall than normal. In NIK, Bidar recorded 81% more, while Kalaburagi recorded 77% more rainfall than normal. “In 2019, Karnataka had seen a 70% departure in the post-monsoon season, with coastal Karnataka receiving 127% excess, NIK 77% excess, and SIK 50% excess. In 2020, there was nominally good rainfall in the State,” an IMD Bengaluru official said. In 2018, there was a 48% deficiency in rainfall across the State. Normal trend SIK was the only sub-division which had no departure from normal, though there was variation in the amount of rainfall districts received. For instance, while Bengaluru Urban received 22% more rainfall, Bengaluru Rural recorded the exact opposite — 22% less than normal.  The generally parched Kolar, which has been witnessing a wide swing in rainfall amounts even for the south-west monsoon, saw 53% departure over the normal rainfall. Kodagu and Mysuru, on the other hand, received 31% and 30% lesser than the normal rainfall respectively. As if the outbreak of a pandemic was not enough in 2020, the year also saw heavy rain resulting in flooding in parts of Karnataka during the monsoon season between June and September. The State received 27% excess rainfall — 1,063.9 mm as against the normal 840.7 mm, with no district recording deficiency in rainfall. Even for the south-west monsoon, parts of NIK and SIK saw huge departures from normal, with most districts recording excess rainfall (over 20% to 59%), and four recording large excess (over 60%). Only seven districts had what is categorised as normal rainfall: +19% to -19%. Among the biggest departures recorded were in Bagalkot (74% excess), Kalaburagi (64% more rain), and Koppal (59% excess rainfall). Udupi had also received 30% excess rainfall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-gets-13-more-rainfall-during-post-monsoon-season/article33546384.ece
11 January 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,||Sitammasagar project scheduled by Sept. 2022||The State government has fixed September 2022 deadline to complete construction of the proposed Sitammasagar multi-purpose project in the district. A high-level team of officials comprising Rajat Kumar, Principal Secretary (I&CAD) and Smita Sabharwal, Secretary in Telangana Chief Minister’s Office visited the proposed site for the construction of the barrage at Ammagaripalli village in Aswapuram mandal on Sunday. The team also inspected the ongoing pump house works of the first phase of the Sitarama Lift Irrigation Scheme at B G Kothuru village in the same mandal. The Rs. 2,700-crore Sitammasagar multi-purpose project envisages construction of a barrage with a storage capacity of 36.57 tmcft and a hydel power unit of 320 MW capacity to optimally harness the surplus waters of the Godavari for both irrigation and hydel power generation purposes, sources said. An estimated 3,244 acres of land will be acquired for the project in four mandals – Dummugudem, Charla, Manuguru and Aswapuram. Installation of motors Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao is likely to lay the foundation stone for the barrage and also oversee the installation of the motors of the pump house of the first phase of the Sitarama Lift Irrigation scheme in a couple of weeks, sources added. At Ammagaripalli village, the officials concerned apprised the high-level team of the status of the soil exploration works and the progress of the survey of the land acquisition process. The top brass asked the project officials to expeditiously complete the land acquisition process, take up the civil works of the barrage in the first week of March and ensure completion of the Sitammasagar project within two years. Government Whip and Pinapaka MLA Rega Kantha Rao, Advisor to government on lift irrigation projects K Penta Reddy, Collector M V Reddy, Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA), Bhadrachalam, Project Officer P Gowtham and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sitammasagar-project-scheduled-by-sept-2022/article33546645.ece
11 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Relax detention norms to prevent drop-outs, says govt.||Schools must relax detention norms in order to prevent drop-outs in a year when COVID-19 has disrupted the teaching and learning process, according to an Education Ministry directive issued on Sunday. The Ministry also told the States to conduct comprehensive door-to-door surveys to identify children out of school and migrant students, and prepare an action plan to prevent increased drop-outs, lower enrolments, loss of learning and deterioration in the gains made in providing universal access, quality and equity in recent years. Schools shut down in mid-March 2020, just before the COVID-19 lockdown. Some States have started reopening physical classes for high school students over the last two months, but most of India’s 25 crore students have spent the last 10 months at home. No uniform access While some have access to online classes, the majority are making do with televised classes, WhatsApp teaching, and learning on their own. Globally, the United Nations had estimated that almost 24 million school age children are at risk of dropping-out from the educational system due to COVID-19 this year. Guidelines have been prepared “in order to ensure that school-going children have access to education with quality and equity and to minimize the impact of the pandemic on school education across the country,” said the statement. To determine the scope of the problem, the Education Ministry has directed the States to identify out-of-school children in the 6 to 18 years age group through a comprehensive door-to-door survey.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/relax-detention-norms-to-prevent-drop-outs-says-govt/article33546337.ece
11 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||SOP for immunisation emergencies issued||The Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (Immunisation Division) has issued a Standard Operating Procedure for the Ministry of Home Affairs in case of Adverse Events Following Immunisation (AEFI). Delhi Police has instructed all DCPs to educate the SHOs about the norms. “We held a meeting with SHOs and instructed them to read the guidelines and pass it on to other officers who will be the first to respond to any adverse situation during immunisation,” said the officer. The vaccination drive will start from January 16. The Hinduhas a copy of SOP that provides a step by step guide to the police and other response agencies. The SOP is meant to help the investigator ensure appropriate handling of the vaccine, victim assistance as well as timely and effective law enforcement. Evidence collection In case of an AEFI, the officer must ensure proper handling of the vaccine and diluent as evidence, and make sure the samples are preserved maintaining proper cold chain, reads the SOP.  The police officer must also ensure that the AEFI victims, and any witnesses, are provided assistance and appropriate protection, care and attention. “The police officer/inspector and the medical officer/district immunisation officer, investigating the case shall ensure that all serious AEFI cases are provided immediate assistance.” If post-mortem examination of the case is required, the Department of Health shall provide the necessary assistance, states the SOP. Official stamp Documentation and completed requisition form for transportation of AEFI samples to a laboratory must have same official stamp. The seal will ensure the samples and details sent to the lab are not tampered with during transportation, it reads. The SOP also provides for investigation/interrogation of the vaccinator, if needed. This will help in monitoring immunisation safety, correcting unsafe immunisation practices, reducing negative impact of the event on health and contributing to the quality of immunisation.  While probing serious AEFI, which has resulted in death, the police must “always keep the perspective that the event might be coincidental and/or reaction to the vaccine and it may not be criminal negligence of the vaccinator and/or other workers, for which causality assessment report by an expert is needed”, it reads.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sop-for-immunisation-emergencies-issued/article33546517.ece
11 January 2021||MANGALURU,||Mass feeding resumes for devotees at Sri Krishna temple||After about 10 months, the Sri Krishna Mutt/Temple in Udupi resumed mass feeding on Sunday. The temple stopped serving anna prasada in mid-March due to COVID-19 restrictions. Hundreds of devotees from faraway places and students from Udupi and nearby areas have their food in the temple daily. The anna prasada service resumed with the Paryaya Peetadhipathi Sri Eeshapriya Tirtha himself serving food to devotees. Manager of paryaya Admar Mutt Govindaraj said that about 5,000 people had their food in the temple on Sunday. During the pre-lockdown period, usually, the temple used to serve food to 6,000 to 8,000 people daily. During festivals, weekends and other important occasions, about 10,000 to 12,000 people used to have food in the temple, he said. Now, darshan at the temple is scheduled between 8.30 a.m. and noon and from 2 p.m. to 6 p.m. If there are any special sevas to be done by devotees, they are carried out beyond the darshan schedule too, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mass-feeding-resumes-for-devotees-at-sri-krishna-temple/article33546788.ece
11 January 2021||CHENNAI,||Over 9 lakh students to get free data cards||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Sunday announced a scheme to distribute free Internet data cards to government and aided college and polytechnic students across Tamil Nadu so as to help them attend online classes till April. With the cards, students can download 2 GB of data every day for four months from January to April, he said in a statement. The cards would be procured through the State-owned Electronics Corporation of Tamil Nadu (ELCOT), he said. A total of 9,69,047 students pursuing arts and science, technical and engineering programmes in government and government-aided colleges and polytechnics would benefit from the scheme. Scholarship students The scheme would also cover students who avail themselves of government assistance (scholarships) and pursue these programmes in self-financing colleges, Mr. Palaniswami said. The Chief Minister urged the students to make the most of the scheme during the challenging times of the COVID-19 pandemic to excel in their studies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/over-9-lakh-students-to-get-free-data-cards/article33546430.ece
11 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Local body elections: all eyes on today’s hearing in High Court||The State government has its fingers crossed on the directions the High Court is likely to give in the local body elections case during its hearing scheduled for January 11. The matter listed to be heard by Justice M. Ganga Rao. The government expects the court to consider the grounds on which it has filed a petition against the proposed conduct of the gram panchayat elections in four phases in February and pass an appropriate order. The government had filed a House Motion petition on January 9 taking strong objection to State Election Commissioner (SEC) N. Ramesh Kumar’s decision to conduct elections to the gram panchayats on February 5, 9, 13 and 17, for which proceedings had been issued by him on January 8 after Chief Secretary Adityanath Das made the government’s stand clear on the dangers involved in conducting the elections in February. The government’s argument had been that COVID-19 continued to pose a serious threat and the election schedule clashed with the vaccination drive that was round the corner. ‘Threat persists’ In an affidavit submitted to the court in December, the government had stated that though the number of COVID-19 cases had come down drastically, the severity of the threat to lives could not be overlooked due to the likelihood of a second wave of the pandemic between December and March. The surge of the second wave depending on geographical and climatic conditions was imminent and the situation in Andhra Pradesh was incomparable with that of other States, it said. The government targeted to administer the vaccine to one-crore population with immediate priority to health workers and others on the frontline in the battle against COVID-19. In his election proceedings, Mr. Ramesh Kumar said the second wave and a winter spike cited by the government as the reasons for postponing the elections did not materialise. The government had, therefore, altered the ground(s) (for not proceeding with the elections) to COVID-19 vaccination programme, the SEC stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-to-hear-ap-appeal-against-local-body-polls/article33546279.ece
11 January 2021||Belagavi,||Do not insult country and its scientists, Congress advised||Congress leaders should not insult India in their hurried attempt to criticise Prime Minister Narendra Modi. They should desist from criticising scientists who have worked for developing indigenous vaccines against COVID-19, Union Minister Pralhad Joshi said in Hubballi on Sunday. He was speaking to journalists after inaugurating a refreshment room in the Sri Siddharoodh Swami Hubballi Railway Station. He said that the two vaccines developed by private Indian companies have come after research, development and strictly regulated trials. ICMR and the Union Ministry have certified that they are absolutely safe. Congress leaders who are asking Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah to take the vaccine before asking their countrymen to take it are only misleading the people. The critics should desist from insulting the country and its scientists, he said. Union Budget Mr. Joshi, who is the Minister for Parliamentary affairs, said that Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman would present the Union Budget on February 1. Parliament session would be held from January 20 to February 15 where various issues would be discussed, he said. The State government has sent its priority list to the Union Finance Ministry already and “we hope that our demands would be addressed in the Union Budget,” he said. General Manager, South Western Railway, Ajay Kumar Singh, said that the IRCTC refreshment room prepared both vegetarian and non-vegetarian food. “Exclusive dining areas are available for vegetarian and non-vegetarian food. Take-away counters are also set up. The hygienically prepared food here will also be sold on all platforms during train arrival to cater to the food requirement of on-board passengers. Besides that, Janata Khana is also available. The rate chart is displayed and for all sales, bills will be given. The option of digital payment is also available. COVID-19 protocol will be followed strictly,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/do-not-insult-country-and-its-scientists-congress-advised/article33546614.ece
11 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||133 vaccination session sites in State||The State has drawn up an action plan for the successful implementation of the COVID-19 vaccination drive scheduled to begin on January 16, Health Minister K.K. Shylaja has said. In a statement here on Sunday, the vaccines, as and when the consignments arrive in the State, would be distributed across districts in a timely manner. The State will ready 133 vaccination session sites across the State for the launch and, at each site, 100 persons would be administered the vaccine on a single day. More sites would be arranged as the process progresses. Each site would be arranged as per COVID-19 protocol and would have a waiting area, vaccination room, and an observation room. District sites Ernakulam district will have 12 vaccination sites, Thiruvananthapuram and Kozhikode seven each, and in the rest of the districts, there will be nine sites each. Health-care workers, including doctors, nurses, and other categories of employees in both public and private sector institutions, would be included in the first phase for receiving COVID-19 vaccines. In every district, District Collectors will be in charge of vaccination and control rooms would be set up for coordinating the processes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/133-vaccination-session-sites-in-state/article33546675.ece
11 January 2021||CHENNAI,||Woman raped in train at Tambaram yard||A 40-year-old woman, who fell asleep on a suburban train, was allegedly raped by two railway contract workers at the Tambaram railway yard in the early hours of Saturday. The Government Railway Police (GRP) arrested the accused. The police said the woman, a vendor living on the city outskirts, had boarded the train at Pallavaram on Friday. As she slept, she missed her destination. The train reached Chengalpattu and returned to Tambaram and then to the yard, said B. Padmakumari, GRP Inspector, Egmore, who is in charge of Tambaram. The contract workers, Suresh, 31, and Abdul Ajiz, 30, who entered the yard for cleaning the train, spotted her sleeping and allegedly raped her. “They warned her of dire consequences if she complained to the police; to ensure that she did not reveal anything to the Railway Protection Force (RPF), they accompanied her out,” said an RPF source. An RPF constable did intercept the trio, but Suresh and Abdul Ajiz told him that the woman had been found sleeping on the train and missed her destination. But the woman later complained to the GRP. Inspector Padmakumari and sub-inspector Mariappan started an investigation. They checked out the staff attendance details and found that Suresh and Abdul Ajiz had punched in around the time the incident took place. “The identification details provided by the woman matched those given by the RPF constable who had intercepted the three. So we nabbed them and booked them for raping and threatening the woman,” she said. The police will get them remanded in judicial custody. “Usually when the train arrives at the destination, the compartment lights should be switched off by the staff. RPF and GRP personnel should check whether there is anyone sleeping in the train or whether anyone has left anything behind,” said a railway official. Many times, people who are drunk fall asleep in the train. “It is hard to wake up people who are drunk. They often sleep in the train till it reaches the yard,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/woman-raped-in-train-at-tambaram-yard/article33546429.ece
11 January 2021||Srinagar,||Army official acted with ‘eye on money’||Army Captain Bhoopinder Singh, alias Major Basheer Khan, of the 62 Rashtriya Rifles, had taken a lead in engaging the three “militants”, who turned out to be civilians later, in a “staged” gunfight in Shopian in July 2020, “with an eye on the prize money of Rs. 20 lakh”. According to the police chargesheet, four out of the 75 witnesses in the case in their statements recalled how the Captain “initiated a few bursts of live ammunition even before a cordon was laid”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/army-official-acted-with-eye-on-money/article33546514.ece
11 January 2021||Srinagar,||Army official led op with ‘eye on money’||Army Captain Bhoopinder Singh, alias Major Basheer Khan, of the 62 Rashtriya Rifles, had taken a lead in engaging the three “militants”, who turned out to be civilians later, in a “staged” gunfight in Shopian in July 2020, “with an eye on the prize money of Rs. 20 lakh”. According to the police chargesheet, four out of the 75 witnesses in the case recalled how the Captain “initiated a few bursts of live ammunition even before a cordon was laid”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/army-official-led-op-with-eye-on-money/article33546824.ece
11 January 2021||HYDERABAD,||HT line shifted a day earlier||The Transmission Corporation of Telangana (TSTransco) has completed the shifting of high-tension (132 KV) transmission line at Tellapur Railway Station, between the Ramachandrapuram and Gachibowli sub-stations, one day in advance providing relief from interruptions in power supply to consumers served under the three sub-stations in and around the city. The Transco has scheduled the line shifting work from January 9 to 11 to enable widening of the road there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ht-line-shifted-a-day-earlier/article33546641.ece
11 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC Bench to study Aadhaar verdict today||A five-judge Bench of the Supreme Court led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar will examine on Monday seven petitions, including one by Rajya Sabha MP Jairam Ramesh, seeking a review of the court’s verdict upholding the Aadhaar programme as a reasonable restriction on individual privacy to fulfil the government’s “legitimate aim” to provide dignity to the poor. The majority view held by the Constitution Bench declared Aadhaar an “unparalleled” identity proof that could not be duplicated unlike PAN, ration card, and passport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-bench-to-study-aadhaar-verdict-today/article33546343.ece
11 January 2021||January 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Ring of protest||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ring-of-protest/article33546347.ece
11 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Cabinet expansion on Jan. 13: CM||The much-awaited expansion of the Karnataka Cabinet would take place on January 13, and the list of seven legislators to be inducted would be released on Monday, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa said late on Sunday night. As soon as he landed at Kempegowda International Airport from Delhi, where he met top BJP leaders, including Home Minister Amit Shah, earlier in the day, the Chief Minister said he received a call from a senior BJP leader, who informed him about the approval for the Cabinet expansion. “Soon after I landed here, I got a call asking me to go ahead with the Cabinet expansion. By Monday evening the names will be known,” Mr. Yediyurappa said. Earlier before leaving Delhi, the Chief Minister had said that the central leaders would give “good news” on Cabinet expansion soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cabinet-expansion-on-jan-13-cm/article33546385.ece
11 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Metered sales of Bescom plummets||Like all economic activities, Bescom too saw metered sales plummet last year. Post lockdown, HT sales reduced by 24.5% from April to November when compared with 2019–20 financial year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/metered-sales-of-bescom-plummets/article33546387.ece
11 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi records 399 new COVID cases, 12 deaths||The Capital recorded 399 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday, even as the test positivity rate dipped to 0.51%. The case tally in the city has gone past 6.30 lakh and the death toll due to the viral disease has mounted to 10,678 after 12 more fatalities were reported in the past 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-records-399-new-covid-cases-12-deaths/article33546516.ece
11 January 2021||Guwahati,||Kolkata nearby||Arunachal Pradesh, considered a sleeping hydropower giant, could be India’s prime producer of vanadium, a high-value metal used in strengthening steel and titanium. Exploration being carried out by the GSI has placed the State on the vanadium map of the country and geologists are confident of identifying a deposit soon. India is a significant consumer of vanadium, but is not a primary producer. It is recovered as a by-product from the slag collected from the processing of vanadiferous magnetite ores (iron ore), GSI officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kolkata-nearby/article33546737.ece
11 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi records 399 new COVID cases, 12 deaths||The Capital recorded 399 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday, even as the test positivity rate dipped to 0.51%. The case tally in the city has gone past 6.30 lakh and the death toll due to the viral disease has mounted to 10,678 after 12 more fatalities were reported in the past 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-records-399-new-covid-cases-12-deaths/article33546826.ece
11 January 2021||Pune,||Mumbai nearby||COVID-19 cases continued to outpace recoveries as Maharashtra on Sunday reported 3,558 new cases as opposed to 2,302 recoveries as the active case tally rose to 54,179. The total case tally has now reached 19,69,114, while 34 fatalities saw the total death toll climb to 50,061. The cumulative recoveries now stand at 18,63,702. The State’s recovery rate is 94.65%, while the case fatality rate stands at 2.54%. “Of 1,34,01,170 laboratory samples tested thus far, 19,69,114 have returned positive, with over 63,000 samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate. Pune reported over 600 new cases to take its total case tally to 3,78,539.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mumbai-nearby/article33546814.ece
11 January 2021||BELAGAVI,||‘I’ll continue my fight for release of funds’||“I did not say that the Chief Minister will be changed after Makara Sankranti. I only said that there will be some change in the State,” MLA and BJP leader Basanagouda Patil Yatnal said in Vijayapura on Sunday. He was clarifying about his recent remarks that there would be “a big change after Sankranti”. He said that there may be a change in his position too, though he quickly clarified that he would not become a Minister in Chief Minister B.S. Yediyur- appa Cabinet. “I have decided that I will not serve as a Minister under him,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ill-continue-my-fight-for-release-of-funds/article33546617.ece
11 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Cabinet expansion: BSY promises ‘good news’||The much-speculated Cabinet expansion could be in sight, with Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa saying that the Central leaders would shortly give “good news” on the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cabinet-expansion-bsy-promises-good-news/article33546817.ece
11 January 2021||Kottigehara (Chikkamagaluru),||Untimely rain showers woes on State farmers||Untimely rain that lashed the area in recent days have resulted in hundreds of farmers losing their crops in the last four to five days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/untimely-rain-showers-woes-on-state-farmers/article33546818.ece
11 January 2021||HYDERABAD,||Telangana may face a shortfall in registration revenue||The State government is likely to face an uphill task in achieving the targeted Rs. 10,000 crore through the Registration and Stamps department notwithstanding the resumption of registration of non-agricultural lands more than a month ago. The revenue through the Registration and Stamps department stood at Rs. 2,414.96 crore by the end of December of the current financial year and the number of documents registered during the period was around 6.12 lakh. This is less than one-third of the target set for the current fiscal and less than half the revenue achieved during the corresponding period last financial year. Revenue from the Registration and Stamps department till the end of the third quarter of 2019-20 stood to Rs. 5,232 crore involving 12.66 lakh documents registered during the period. The total revenue registered by the department during the fiscal 2019-20 was little over Rs. 7,000 crore and maintaining the previous year’s record too appears to be a difficult task. To ensure that the volume of registrations is sustained at the last financial year’s level, registrations of over Rs. 4,000 crore should be achieved during the next three months left for the completion of the financial year. The novel Coronavirus pandemic played a spoilsport bringing down the quantum of registrations to a large extent.  After reforms Interestingly, the State witnessed revenue of over Rs. 1,300 crore during the months of June (Rs. 457 crore), July (Rs. 440.59 crore) and August (Rs. 455 crore) in spite of the lockdown restrictions in force during the period. There was downtrend in registrations as expected after the government brought in major reforms in the Revenue department including introduction of Dharani, the one stop portal for land transactions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/telangana-may-face-a-shortfall-in-registration-revenue/article33546274.ece
11 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Farmers to set fire to law copies||Farmers will express their anger and pain by burning the copies of the three new farm laws on Lohri at the protest site at the Singhu border. On Sunday, protesters said the death of the farmer Amarinder Singh would not go in vain and they would intensify their movement. Before consuming a poisonous substance at the protest site, Amarinder had told friends that he was forced to take this step because the government had refused to listen to their demands. “The death of more than 60 farmers during the farmers protest won’t go in vain and we will continue to fight for their rights. The government is testing the patience of farmers by organising meetings that never bring any result,” Jas Kiran, a farmer, said. Sukhvinder Singh, who walked up to the farmers’ protest site from his native village in Ludhiana, said that after going through reports on social media he took leave from his office and planned to join the protest. “During my three days’ journey, I met a lot of farmers and their families who were working in the fields and all of them want these farm laws rolled back. It feels good that a lot of people who are not farmers have also come here in support,” Mr. Singh said. Speakers on the stage, before starting their address, observed a two-minute silence in respect for the farmers who died during the protest. Cries of ‘ Sadda Haq, Aithe Rakh ’ and ‘ Jo Bole So Nihal ’ echoed at the protest site. A request was made from the stage to all speakers and protesters to be restrained in the words they use in public platform. “Attempts have been made to defame the protest through references like Khalistani or terrorist, but the government failed miserably. We will hold a parade at Rajpath on January 26. The New Year will surely bring new hope for farmers. We request everyone to come and join the protest and contribute two days of your life for the farmers,” said Lakhwinder Pal, a farmer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farmers-to-set-fire-to-law-copies/article33546295.ece
11 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Ministry meets State officials on CoWIN use||The Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare held an online conference on Sunday with administrators from States and Union Territories on the CoWIN software, which forms the backbone of the last-mile COVID-19 vaccine administration. The meeting was chaired by Ram Sewak Sharma, Chairman of the Empowered Group on Technology and Data Management to combat COVID-19 and a member of the national expert group on the vaccine administration of COVID-19. Participants included State Principal Secretaries, Directors of the National Health Mission, State immunisation officers and senior officers of the Health Ministry. All vaccine-related information on when beneficiaries were inoculated, their experiences and their schedules for subsequent doses had to be captured in “real time” and was “non-negotiable”, it was stressed. Aadhaar cards Officials would have to ensure that there were “no proxies” at all, and all beneficiaries would have to be uniquely and undeniably identified. Beneficiaries would have to be sending in their Aadhaar numbers as well as their mobile numbers to access their vaccination-related communication. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said the country would be gearing up for a roll-out from January 16. The first beneficiaries would be 3 crore healthcare workers and sanitation workers, followed by those above 50 years, and those younger with co-morbidities. The plan is to have 30 crore people inoculated by July. The government has approved, under emergency use, two vaccine candidates — Covishield and Covaxin. The former is based on the Oxford AstraZeneca vaccine and the latter has been developed by the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ministry-meets-state-officials-on-cowin-use/article33546302.ece
11 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Cabinet expansion on Jan. 13, says Yediyurappa||The much-speculated Cabinet expansion is in sight, with Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa saying that the Central leaders would give “good news” on the issue. Within minutes of landing in Bengaluru, he announced that the leaders had called him and given the go ahead. His statement came after a meeting with Union Home Minister Amit Shah at the latter’s residence in Delhi on Sunday, in which BJP president J.P. Nadda and BJP general secretary in charge of Karnataka Arun Singh also participated. The sudden visit of Mr. Yediyurappa, accompanied by his son B.Y. Vijayendra, to Delhi on Sunday, had raised eyebrows in the political circles as it had come close on the heels of the Karnataka High Court not providing relief to Mr. Yediyurappa in denotification cases, and an increasing unhappiness over his style of leadership among legislators. There was speculation that the issue of leadership change could be broached in the meeting. Indeed, BJP leaders, who are identified with the anti-Yediyurappa camp, continued to claim that change of leadership was also discussed during the Delhi meeting. They claimed that Central leaders had discussed leadership change by giving him multiple offers, including Union Cabinet berth for Mr. Raghavendra, who is Shivamogga MP. However, Mr. Yediyurappa told reporters at Karnataka Bhavan: “I am happy and satisfied with the meeting. The leaders have promised to give good news on Cabinet expansion.” He claimed that leaders expressed happiness about the party’s performance in the recently-held gram panchayat elections. The Chief Minister also said that the meeting discussed the ensuing byelections to Belagavi Lok Sabha, and Maski and Basavakalyan Assembly constituencies. “The leaders have asked for a list of probable candidates in these three constituencies, and we will send it to them,” he said. Details of Mr. Shah’s visit to Karnataka was also discussed, he added. When asked if he would stay firm in his seat till end of term, he told a reporter: “I will leave it to you to decide.” Sources close to the Chief Minister said: “In all probability, the Cabinet expansion could happen before the announcement of the bypolls. Central leaders were told that the legislators who migrated to the BJP after offers to make them Ministers, are not willing to wait any longer,” said one leader. Contradicting this, a leader in the anti-Yediyurappa camp asked: “If it was just Cabinet expansion, why would Mr. Shah call party leaders Mr. Nadda and Mr. Singh to the meeting?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cabinet-expansion-likely-soon-says-yediyurappa/article33546270.ece
11 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Gyawali to discuss border dispute||Nepal wants “equality-based friendship” with India, Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli said on Sunday. Addressing an extraordinary session of the Upper House of Parliament, Mr. Oli said Foreign Minister Pradeep Kumar Gyawali would visit India on January 14 to discuss the dispute related to the border and several other issues. He maintained that dissolution of the Lower House, Pratinidhi Sabha, was necessary and that the government under his leadership would seek a fresh political mandate to ensure stability. “We have made great progress in the arena of international relations. I want to be a real friend of India. Nepal wants equality-based friendship with India and take it to a new height... Foreign Minister Pradeep Kumar Gyawali will travel to India on January 14 to discuss the issue related to our boundary, and several other matters as we want good bilateral relations,” said Mr. Oli, who accused his rivals and critics inside the party of trying to destabilise the country. The announcement has put an end to weeks of speculation about a breakthrough visit to help revive the relationship which was hit by the Kalapani territorial dispute for nearly a year. The dispute erupted after India published a new political map in November 2019 which prompted Nepal to introduce a map which claimed the Kalapani-Lipulekh-Limpiyadhura region of Pithoragarh. Mr. Oli accused his critics of trying to bring back the era of privileges for the upper classes, and said they wanted to introduce the politics of “horse trading”. “Whether K.P. Sharma Oli is popular or not is for the people to determine. We will go to the people again and seek a fresh mandate. We called for election with full sense of duty and responsibility and election will be held as planned [in April],” said Prime Minister Oli who blamed the ‘samasya’ or problem inside the ruling party for the drastic step taken to dissolve the Pratinidhi Sabha on December 20. He said there was a section in Nepal that attempted to overthrow his government and bring instability as they were votaries of the feudal system. “They want to send their own children to St. Joseph’s school in Darjeeling and to Oxford but do not want the boys and girls of poor Nepalese to be educated and become powerful. They continue to believe in the old feudal system as they do not want children of the economically disadvantaged people to become members of our Parliament.” The Pratinidhi Sabha was dissolved in a lawful manner and as per the laid down procedure, he said. He said the Opposition and sections of the media were organising big political rallies against the decision but they could not intimidate the Supreme Court which is deliberating on the writ petitions that challenged the December 20 decision.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gyawali-to-discuss-border-dispute/article33546290.ece
11 January 2021||New Delhi,||Chinese build-up at LAC clearly visible, says Ladakh councillor||Konchok Stanzin, a councillor from Chushul in Eastern Ladakh, says Chinese infrastructure that could not be seen from border villages earlier is now clearly visible as China continues to hold positions in areas within India’s perception of the Line of Actual Control. In an interview to The Hindu , Mr. Stanzin said residents had witnessed a large number of Chinese tents, bunkers and vehicles very close to the border villages in Chushul, Merak and Khakted, in a clear departure from the past. Pastures cut-off Mr. Stanzin said nomads who lived in villages close to Pangong Tso (lake), one of the multiple locations where Indian and Chinese troops have been engaged in a stand-off since April-May 2020, have not been able to access winter grazing grounds this year due to heavy troop deployment. Mr. Stanzin, who won as an Independent in the recently concluded Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council (LAHDC), is part of a delegation from the Union Territory that has been camping in Delhi for the past one week to get their various demands heard by the Union government. They have met Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. Ladakh was declared a Union Territory without legislature after the erstwhile State of Jammu and Kashmir was downgraded and bifurcated into two Union Territories on August 5, 2019 by Parliament. “At Black Top in South Pangong, where in 2018, only a camera existed on the Chinese side, today we regularly see Chinese vehicles and tents. While in other areas where they could reach the top in their vehicles, we cannot even take our horses and porters due to unfavourable terrain,” Mr. Stanzin said. He said there were many spots in the Finger area that had been occupied by the Chinese and if an aerial survey was conducted, it extended up to the upper reaches of Finger 2. As reported earlier by The Hindu , China has ingressed about 8 km in the Finger area and Indian troops have not been able to patrol beyond Finger 4 since the last week of April 2020, when China started amassing troops. Earlier, Indian troops could patrol up to Finger 8. The other areas where Chinese build-up continues are the Depsang plains, Galwan, Gogra-Hot Springs and the south bank of Pangong lake. Mr. Stanzin said China had been nibbling away Indian territory since May 2018. “As a strategy, the Chinese encourage their nomads and provide facilities so that they can come with their livestock and mark the territory as their own. On our side, we have to take several clearances, have to show our I-cards, our livestock are counted, even then sometimes we are not permitted,” he said. He had requested the Defence Minister to permit the nomads to go in the Finger area for winter grazing. “The months of December, January and February are crucial for live0stock. We applied for permission for winter grazing more than a month ago. The area for winter grazing has anyway shrunk due to heavy troop deployment,” he said. Referring to poor communication facilities, Mr. Stanzin said the border villages get only 2G mobile connectivity and power supply charged by solar panels for not more than two or three hours in a day. “The porters who helped the Army have not been paid for two or three months. The border population considers themselves as soldiers without uniforms. We have taken up the issue with the Defence Minister,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chinese-build-up-at-lac-clearly-visible-says-ladakh-councillor/article33546297.ece
11 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||We were in the dark, say volunteers||Several persons in Bhopal who had volunteered for Bharat Biotech’s ongoing trial of Covaxin, one of the two COVID vaccine candidates approved in India, have alleged that the medical managers of the trial did not inform them that they were test subjects. At an online press conference on Sunday, the volunteers said they were led to believe that they were getting vaccines as part of a government vaccination drive and were also promised Rs. 750 each for participating. The trial is being conducted at the People’s Medical College (PMC), where on Friday there were reports that a 42-year-old volunteer, who had been part of the trial, had died. His post-mortem report, however, said the cause of death was “poisoning”. On Saturday, Bharat Biotech denied that his death was due to the vaccine. It is not known whether he got the vaccine or a placebo. Covaxin, inactivated SARS-Cov-2 virus repurposed as a vaccine, is being tested on 28,500 volunteers across the country. At the PMC, 1,700 persons were recruited in the trial between November 28 and December 31. The trial was planned as a double-blind, placebo-controlled trial in which some participants got the actual vaccine and some a dummy shot. Mr. Mansingh Parihar, 70, a mason, said at the press conference that he was not made aware of the nature of the trial and though he signed consent forms, he did not understand them fully. Describing his experience, Mr. Parihar said: “I had no illnesses. I was fine for two days after I got one shot but then fell very sick and was acutely breathless.” He said he was not aware that he could contact the hospital and the Principal Investigator — the doctor who manages the trial — for treatment. “I’m not going back again [for a second shot]. I only signed up because I was promised Rs. 750 and free vaccination,” he said. Another volunteer, Chandan Devi, 60, who is also a Bhopal gas tragedy survivor, said she, too, had signed up because of the money offered and the belief that the “corona injection” would protect her from the disease. “I had nausea and my head was spinning, after two days [following the injection],” she said. In a letter to the Prime Minister and Union Health Minister sent this morning, Bhopal-based organisations have also sought punishment for those “negligent” in ensuring the safety of the trials and compensation for those affected. Activists have demanded that the trial be stopped.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/we-were-in-the-dark-say-volunteers/article33546300.ece
11 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||32 cases booked, 17 arrested for GST fraud||At least 32 fresh cases were booked and 17 persons, including the managing director and accountant of a Chennai-based firm, have been arrested over the past two days for frauds related to the Goods and Services Tax (GST), Revenue Department sources said on Sunday. These cases involve multiple bogus or non-existent entities across the country, allegedly found to be claiming input tax credits (ITCs) worth at least Rs. 384 crore, for supplies of goods ranging from medicines to coal and cement, and even services such as providing manpower. In Chennai, the Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI) zonal unit arrested M. Ashokan, managing director of Srimarg Human Resource Pvt. Ltd., along with the firm’s accountant, for availing and passing on fraudulent ITCs of Rs. 22 crore on fake invoices for manpower services. “This case is similar to that of food delivery chain Swiggy and that of Instakart, a subsidiary of e-commerce firm Flipkart,” a Revenue official said, referring to a probe that found that both firms allegedly used fake invoices for manpower supplies from non-existent firms. Swiggy has recently deposited Rs. 27.5 crore with the tax authorities, the amount authorities alleged that the firm had availed fraudulently as ITC. The Instakart case similarly involves Rs. 21 crore of credits. In Gujarat, 14 firms have been booked, eight of which were found to be non-existent, but had availed or utilised ITC of more than Rs. 113 crore through fake invoices. Cases were filed against five firms in Bengaluru, while four firms were booked in Indore for incorrectly passing credits worth Rs. 6.82 crore to soyabean traders. Fake invoices Three persons were arrested and cases filed against their firms on the basis of intelligence received from the Maharashtra GST Department for fraudulent availing of ITC and inter-State GST refund of Rs. 33 crore, using fake invoices for footwear. GST fraud amounting to Rs. 164 crore has been unearthed in two new cases detected in Delhi. “A case of fraudulent availment and passing of ITC to the tune of Rs. 150 crore was detected at a firm dealing in LED TVs and scrap, and its director was arrested for setting up over 12 bogus firms,” the source said. The widening probe into GST evasion and fraud, for which the Income Tax Department has also been roped in along with other agencies, over the past two months has now led to 215 persons’ arrest, including six chartered accountants, a company secretary and two women. In all, 2,200 cases have been booked after busting over 6,600 fake GSTIN (GST Identification Number) entities. Over Rs. 700 crore has been recovered so far, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/32-cases-booked-17-arrested-for-gst-fraud/article33546310.ece
11 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Experts are in favour of simultaneous elections: BJP||The Bharatiya Janata Party on Sunday said legal luminaries Soli Sorabjee and Mahesh Jethmalani spoke in favour of holding simultaneous elections, during a webinar organised by the party. In a statement, the BJP said the webinar on Sunday was part of a series of such discussions organised by the party after Prime Minister Narendra Modi called for “one nation, one election” in November 2020. Mr. Sorabjee, a former Attorney-General, said: “I think simultaneous elections... to my mind is a good practice. The fact that it was abused in some cases is no reason for doing away with it... just check the abuse, not delay the provision. Simultaneous election was there before, wasn’t it? Just because of political reasons, there was abuse... but the point is check the abuse, don’t delete the provision.” Former Lok Sabha Secretary-General Subhash C. Kashyap, who had contributed to the Law Commission’s 2018 draft report on simultaneous elections, said there had been many committees and seminars on the need for concurrent elections, the statement said. He added that the opposition to the idea was usually political. “However, citing various reports published by multiple commissions, Dr. Kashyap called the need to have simultaneous elections ‘unexceptionable’,” the BJP statement said. Mr. Jethmalani, a senior advocate, “summed up the issue passionately in favour of one election by calling it ‘one people, one poll’,” the statement read. He said the concept of simultaneous elections was not new to the country and did not call for a “radical change”. The panellists also discussed the provision of a constructive vote of no-confidence after BJP spokesperson Nupur Sharma spoke of the possibility of a hung Parliament or Assembly, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/experts-are-in-favour-of-simultaneous-elections-bjp/article33546288.ece
11 January 2021||Srinagar,||‘No industrial policy will work without peace effort’||Senior National Conference leader and Member of Parliament Hasnain Masoodi on Sunday said “no policy would fetch any result without taking into cognisance political aspirations” of people of Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh, while referring to recently introduced Rs. 28,400-crore industrial policy in Jammu and Kashmir. “It is to be realised that there can be no islands of prosperity in a sea of pain and agony. The new industrial policy would not fetch any result without taking into cognisance political aspirations of people of Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh,” Mr. Masoodi, also coordinator of the Gupkar alliance, said. He said the national-level trade bodies, which welcomed the Jammu and Kashmir industrial policy, must realise that peace and development go hand in hand. “Peace would not be possible without political aspirations respected and addressed,” he added. Calling for an “aggressive peace initiative to address the political aspirations,” the MP said, “Earlier announcements, like the Rs. 6,165 crore package announced by the late Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee in 2002 and Rs. 80,000 crore package announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2015, have not changed anything on the ground.” He said the alienation, despite such announcements, had been ever increasing in Jammu and Kashmir. “The unconstitutional measures of August 5, 2019, nothing less than a misadventure, have further widened the gulf. Hundreds of lives have been lost in about a hundred encounters, quite a few in urban areas of Srinagar and Jammu. The preventive detention law, an anathema to the Constitution, continues to be invoked with impunity and young and old detained hundreds of miles away from their homes,” Mr. Masoodi said. He asked the government to “undo the August 5, 2019 decisions, restore autonomy provided under the Delhi Agreement 1952, initiate dialogue with all the stakeholders for lasting peace.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-industrial-policy-will-work-without-peace-effort/article33546293.ece
11 January 2021||Bengaluru,||4 U.K. returnees test positive in Bengaluru||A British Airways flight from the United Kingdom landed at Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) early on Sunday with 273 passengers, including 32 children less than 10 years of age, and 16 crew members. Four passengers were isolated after their pool test turned positive. Pool testing is a method by which multiple samples, up to a total of five, are tested together, in one single RT-PCR test. However, further tests came back negative. Health Minister K. Sudhakar told presspersons on Sunday that the samples had been sent to NIMHANS for further RT-PCR tests. Among the passengers, 146 were male and 95 female. After their arrival at the airport, swab tests were collected by health officials. This is the first flight to land at KIA from the U.K., after the Union government announced a temporary suspension of all passenger flights between the two countries on December 23. The Minister said, “Barring children, swab tests were collected of all the passengers. There were 16 crew members on the flight, and they too have undergone tests.” As per the SoP, passengers were stamped with inedible link. The stamp reads ‘U K Passenger’ and also mentions the arrival date. “Authorities concerned at the airport collected all the required details from the passengers coming from the U.K., including their phone numbers, home address, and other information. Those who do not have local numbers can also buy a SIM card by providing their documents at the airport,” said the Minister. Arrangements had been made by Bangalore International Airport Ltd. (BIAL) for passengers to wait until the test reports were received, said a spokesperson||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/4-uk-returnees-test-positive-in-bengaluru/article33546283.ece
11 January 2021||January 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Unseasonal rain showers woes on Karnataka farmers||“My year-long hard work has gone in vain,” says A.B. Krishne Gowda of Attigere near Kottigehara in Mudigere taluk, as he picks coffee berries that have dropped from the trees. Untimely rain that lashed the area in recent days have resulted in coffee berries dropping off trees. From his five-acre farm, he was expecting 200 bags of coffee this year. But the recent rain has taken away 150 bags. “My loss would be around Rs. 6 lakh. But, the time and hard work we put in to earn our crop can’t be measured in terms of money,” he says. Like him, hundreds of farmers have lost their crops in the last four to five days due to heavy untimely rain. Many lost the beans kept for drying. They could not do anything to protect the yield getting washed away in rainwater. Bapu Dinesh, a coffee planter, said sudden rain washed away coffee beans spread on the drying yards. “This has affected the production of the next year as well,” he said. The farming community in Mudigere have already gone through difficult times in the last two years. The area witnessed heavy rain and landslips in 2019 and 2020. Bhaktesh, a paddy grower, had harvested paddy and spread the yield on the ground for drying a week ago. “A day after, rain started. The crop exposed to rain has become completely wet,” he said. He had spent about Rs. 60,000 on his one-and-a-half acre farm expecting a yield of at least 15 quintals. “I can hardly get three-four quintals of paddy,” he said. A majority of paddy growers in the region cultivate the crop for consumption at home, not for the market. Now, they are forced to purchase rice from the local market. “This is a strange experience. Earlier too, we experienced untimely rain in January, but it was limited to a day or two,” said Anil, another farmer. Unseasonal rain in the Malnad and coastal belt over the last week has hit processing of harvested arecanut too. Drenching of arecanut will affect the quality and the prices they fetch, say farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/unseasonal-rain-showers-woes-on-karnataka-farmers/article33546268.ece
11 January 2021||GUWAHATI,||Arunachal harbours a vanadium source||Arunachal Pradesh, considered a sleeping hydropower giant, is likely to become India’s prime producer of vanadium, a high-value metal used in strengthening steel and titanium. Exploration being carried out by the Geological Survey of India (GSI) has placed the eastern Himalayan State on the vanadium map of the country, and geologists are confident of identifying a deposit soon. India is a significant consumer of vanadium, but is not a primary producer of the strategic metal. It is recovered as a by-product from the slag collected from the processing of vanadiferous magnetite ores (iron ore), GSI officials said. According to data provided by the GSI, India consumed 4% of about 84,000 tonnes of vanadium produced across the globe in 2017. China, which produces 57% of the world’s vanadium, consumed 44% of the metal. “We found promising concentrations of vanadium in the palaeo-proterozoic carbonaceous phyllite rocks in the Depo and Tamang areas of Papum Pare district in Arunachal Pradesh. This was the first report of a primary deposit of vanadium in India, with an average grade of 0.76% V2O5 [vanadium pentoxide],” a GSI specialist said. Vanadium mineralisation in Arunachal Pradesh is geologically similar to the “stone coal” vanadium deposits of China hosted in carbonaceous shale. This high vanadium content is associated with graphite, with a fixed carbon content of up to 16%. Geologists discovered two bands of about 7-metre thick carbonaceous phyllite for a length of more than 6 km in the Depo area. This prompted the GSI to extend its search to other areas of the State. “Good prospects” of vanadium for a cumulative length of 15.5 km and an average thickness of 7 m were found in the Deed, Saiya and Phop areas of Lower Subansiri district. Vanadium content was also found in the Pakro area of Pakke-Kesang district, Palin-Sangram in Kra Daadi, Kalamati in West Siang, Kalaktang in West Kameng and Kaying in Siang district. “The expected grade of vanadium mineralisation in Arunachal Pradesh is comparable to the important vanadium deposits of the world. The largest deposits are in China, followed by Russia and South Africa,” the specialist said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/arunachal-puts-india-on-vanadium-map/article33546304.ece
11 January 2021||Srinagar,||Army official led operation with ‘eye on Rs. 20 lakh prize money’||Army Captain Bhoopinder Singh, alias Major Basheer Khan, of the 62 Rashtriya Rifles, had taken a lead in engaging the three “militants”, who turned out to be civilians later, in a “staged” gunfight in Shopian in July 2020, “with an eye on the prize money of Rs. 20 lakh”. According to the police chargesheet, four out of the 75 witnesses in the case in their statements recalled how the Captain “initiated a few bursts of live ammunition even before a cordon was laid”. The others joined him very late in engaging the suspected militants. Two civilians — Tabish Ahmad, a resident of Shopian, and Bilal Ahmad, a resident of Pulwama — who acted as sources for the Army in providing the tip-off, were also part of the operation and provided a cover to the Captain, the chargesheet said. “They [Captain and two civilians] purposefully destroyed evidence of real crime that they have committed and also have been purposefully projecting false information as part of a criminal conspiracy hatched between them with motive to grab prize money of Rs. 20 lakh,” the chargesheet said. The Captain, who was heading the operation in Amshipora village in Shopian, later showed two pistols with two magazines, four empty pistol cartridges, 15 live cartridges and 15 empty cartridges of an AK series weapon; and other objectionable items as recoveries from the encounter site, it said. The police have already submitted a chargesheet against the Captain and two others in the case, which saw three civilians — Abrar Ahmed, 25, Imtiyaz Ahmed, 20 and Mohammed Ibrar, 16 — dead. They were all labourers from Rajouri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/army-official-led-operation-with-eye-on-rs-20-lakh-prize-money/article33546306.ece
11 January 2021||Hyderabad,||Body of missing man found in trolley bag||A 25-year-old auto driver was bludgeoned to death by two of his friends, who later stuffed the body into a trolley bag and dumped it on Dairy Farm road at Rajendranagar. While the offence took place on December 8, it came to light only on Sunday after the suspects confessed to the crime. According to the police, the victim, Mohammed Ilyas alias Riyaz, an auto driver from Ghouse Nagar in Chandrayangutta, went out with his friends Syed and Feroz in his three-wheeler on the afternoon of December 8. They purchased liquor at three or four wine shops at Chandrayangutta, Pahadi Shareef and Mailardevpally and consumed it in the vehicle till late evening. As Riyaz used to tease Feroz’s sister and frequently passed lewd comments, the latter recalled the incidents and picked an argument with him in an inebriated condition and soon it turned into a violent fight, Shamshabad DCP N. Prakash Reddy said on Sunday. Feroz and Syed picked up a boulder and clobbered the victim’s head, he said. “While they were moving in the area to dispose the body, they found a trolley bag near a garbage pile in which they stuffed Riyaz’s body and abandoned it near Pillar No. 223 of PVNR Expressway,” the officer said. Riyaz was earlier accused of a murder reported at Chandrayangutta police station, while Feroz and Syed were booked for pickpocketing by Kukatpally police. When Riyaz did not return home till the next day, his mother along with other family members started looking for him and later found his auto rickshaw abandoned. By evening, she approached Chandrayangutta police and lodged a man missing complaint. Suspecting something was amiss as Riyaz was already accused in a murder case, local police roped in South Zone Task Force team, who analysed the video footage of the surveillance cameras in the area and found the victim with his friends. In the wee hours of Sunday, Syed and Feroz confessed to the crime after they were picked up and ‘helped’ the investigators in finding the body. The duo was remanded to judicial custody by Rajendranagar police.  While they were moving in the area to dispose the body, they found a trolley bag near a garbage pile in which they stuffed Riyaz’s body and abandoned it near Pillar No. 223 of PVNR Expressway. N. Prakash Reddy   Shamshabad DCP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/body-of-missing-man-found-in-trolley-bag/article33546272.ece
11 January 2021||HYDERABAD,||Genco looking to utilise surplus workforce||Telangana State Power Generation Corporation (TSGenco) is scouting for new avenues to utilise the services (allotment of work) of its surplus workforce at its disposal now, following the implementation of the D.M. Dharmadhikari report on the division of employees between the power utilities of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. As the Singareni Collieries Company Ltd (SCCL) — that also runs the 2×600 megawatt thermal power station at Pegadapalli near Jaipur in Mancherial district — has decided to outsource the operations and maintenance of the project, the Genco has decided to participate in the bidding. “If successful, TSGenco will get the O&M contract of the power plant for a period of five years and it will enable the management to adjust its surplus workforce,” a senior engineer said. Apart from the 655 employees, mostly engineers, who were allotted to Telangana from AP recently after the Supreme Court ruling for the implementation of the one-man committee report in toto, the Genco has some surplus staff following the retirement of 8 units of the Kothagudem Thermal Power Station with the generation capacity of 720 mw – 4×60 MW and 4×120 MW. More technical staff would be at its disposal with the expected retirement of two more units of 250 MW capacity in the coming years in tune with the Environment Ministry’s directions to shut all sub-critical thermal units in a phased manner. The two units have already served for about 25 years each. “The surplus workforce could be adjusted in the 5×800 MW Yadadri Thermal Power Station once it is commissioned and for the remaining two units of the 4×270 MW Bhadradri Thermal Power Station, but till then they have to be adjusted somewhere and the O&M contract would be the appropriate choice,” the sources said. As the norms for getting environmental clearance to the thermal power projects is getting harsher by the day, the Genco also has plans to avail the land available in KTPS following the retirement of 720 MW capacity units for solar power generation, although establishing an ultra super critical thermal plant is also in its plans. At present, the Genco has only 1 MW of solar power generation capacity of its own.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/genco-looking-to-utilise-surplus-workforce/article33546640.ece
11 January 2021||KALPETTA,||Wayanad forest officer injured in tiger attack||A Range Forest Officer (RFO) who was on duty at Kolavally, near Pulpally, on the Kerala-Karnataka border was attacked by a tiger on Sunday afternoon. T. Sasikumar, 55, RFO, Chethalayath forest range of the South Wayanad forest division, came under attack around 2.30 p.m. at a private plantation at Kolavally while a Forest Department team led by him was on a search operation for the tiger, South Wayanad Forest Divisional Officer B. Ranjith Kumar told The Hindu . He has been admitted to a private medical college hospital at Meppadi in the district with serious injuries on his left shoulder. Three months ago, Mr. Sasikumar had been injured in a tiger attack at Anappara, near Pulpally. Domestic animals killed The animal had triggered panic among villagers at Seetha Mount, Parakkavala, and Kolavally for the past four days, killing three domestic animals. As per a directive of the Chief Wildlife Warden, the Forest Department on Friday evening set up a cage to capture the animal. Six surveillance cameras too were installed in the area. The tiger could have reached the human habitation from the adjacent Bandipur or Nagarhole tiger reserves in Karnataka after crossing the Kabani river, Mr. Ranjith Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/wayanad-forest-officer-injured-in-tiger-attack/article33546281.ece
11 January 2021||KOCHI,||Lakshadweep removes quarantine norm||The Lakshadweep administration has issued a revised standard operating procedure (SOP) with effect from December 28, 2020, by doing away with the mandatory quarantine guideline for those arriving at the islands from Kochi. The islands are yet to report a single positive COVID-19 case. Anyone can now visit the islands from the mainland with a negative test report of RT-PCR obtained 48 hours before the travel, according to a communication from the administration. The statement noted that 861 persons had come back to various islands from the mainland between December 28, 2020, and January 6, 2021. The people have now adopted COVID-appropriate behaviour such as wearing masks, using hand sanitisers, and ensuring social distancing in public places across the Union Territory, it said. Strict surveillance In view of the revised SOP, the administration has put a system in place at Kochi, Beypore, and Mangaluru for strict surveillance and monitoring of the movement of people and materials from these entry points to the islands. It has also ensured COVID-care facilities in all the 10 inhabited islands, the communication added. Praful Patel, Administrator, has appealed to all the residents of the Union Territory to follow the revised SOP in letter and spirit so that they can keep Lakshadweep COVID-free in future too.  The islands are yet to report a single positive COVID-19 case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lakshadweep-removes-quarantine-norm/article33546700.ece
11 January 2021||January 11 2021 00:00 IST,||SC Bench to study Aadhaar verdict today||In his dissent, Justice D.Y. Chandrachud called Aadhaar “unconstitutional”. On January 11, five judges, who include, besides Justices Khanwilkar and Chandrachud, Justices Ashok Bhushan, S. Abdul Nazeer and B.R. Gavai, would consider the review pleas in the chambers at 1.30 p.m. The court is considering the review pleas almost two years after some of them were filed. Mr. Ramesh’s petition, one of the earliest of the lot, highlighted the passage of the Aadhaar Act as a Money Bill by superseding the Rajya Sabha. He said this was a “fraud on the Constitution”. Justice Chandrachud had said that though this may been done out of political expediency, the fact that it was a “subterfuge” and debasement of constitutional authorities could not be overlooked. Another review petition filed by Imtiyaz Ali Palsaniya said the September 29, 2018 majority judgment did not examine certain vital issues connected to the scheme and it parent statute. The petition points to Section 2(k), which specifically prohibits any person from parting with any information which is pertaining to one’s “income”. It said the provision categorically states that the demographic information shall not include information pertaining to one’s income statement. “Despite a clear legislative mandate to the contrary, Section 139AA of the Income Tax Act, 1961 made it compulsory to ensure that PAN card is linked with one’s Aadhaar details. The proviso to Section 139AA(2) further states that in case a person fails to intimate Aadhaar number, the PAN of the person shall be deemed to be invalid, and this failure to link will result into a situation wherein the person will be treated as if he had never applied for a PAN card,” the petition said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-bench-to-study-aadhaar-verdict-today/article33546284.ece
11 January 2021||January 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Protesters ransack venue of Haryana CM’s meeting||Hundreds of agitating farmers, waving black flags against the Centre’s agriculture sector laws, were stopped by the police, which had erected barricades at all entry points to the village. The protesters, however, broke through the barricades and reached the venue. “There was no clash with farmers. To maintain the law-and-order situation, we had to use water cannons and tear gas after the agitators broke the barricades that were erected on roads leading to the event site,” Ganga Ram Punia, Superintendent of Police, Karnal, told The Hindu . “So far, no case has been registered against anyone,” he said. ‘Farmers defamed’ Mr. Lal, condemning the episode, said the incident took place at the behest of people who were trying to use farmers for their vested interests. “A video of Gurnam Singh Chaduni (president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union) had been circulating in which he could be heard instigating farmers against today’s event and they stand exposed now. Such people are defaming farmers. Farmers don’t have such nature or temperament,” said Mr. Lal, said at a press conference in Chandigarh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/protesters-ransack-venue-of-haryana-cms-meeting/article33546285.ece
11 January 2021||GUWAHATI,||BJP to kick off election campaign from Silchar||A “tradition of gratitude” will make BJP national president Jagat Prasad Nadda kick off the party’s campaign for the 2021 Assam Assembly election from Silchar on Monday. Mr. Nadda is scheduled to address a public rally in the southern Assam town, the largest urban centre in the Bengali-dominated Barak Valley that gave the BJP its first electoral win in 1991. The BJP had won 10 Assembly seats that year, nine of them in Barak Valley, which has a total of 15 constituencies across three districts. The Valley was the main reason why the saffron party had garnered 16.68% of votes across the 48 seats it contested, a jump from the 3.56% of the votes across 37 seats contested in the 1985 polls. “Starting an election campaign from Barak Valley, specifically Silchar, has been a party tradition to express gratitude to the people there for giving us a toehold,” Assam BJP spokesperson Rupam Goswami said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had started the party’s campaign in Assam for the 2019 Lok Sabha election from Silchar, he added. The BJP had won seven of the State’s 14 parliamentary seats that year, including Silchar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-to-kick-off-election-campaign-from-silchar/article33546305.ece
11 January 2021||Pune,||Hospital fire: Uddhav warns of stern action||In the wake of the horrific tragedy in which 10 newborn babies died in a hospital fire in Maharashtra’s Bhandara district, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said that orders had been given for conducting a safety and fire audit of all government hospitals across the State. Mr. Thackeray visited the Bhandara district general hospital on Sunday. He met the grief-stricken parents who lost their babies in the accident which occurred in the wee hours of Saturday. He also spoke to health officials in the district, which is part of the State’s Vidarbha region. Promising that stern action would be taken against those found guilty of negligence, Mr. Thackeray said that a committee had been formed by the administration to conduct a comprehensive probe into the tragedy. “I approached the parents of the deceased children with folded hands…I have no words to console them…certainly, there will be an inquiry. The probe we have announced will also check if the fire was indeed an accident or it was because of ignoring an earlier safety report,” said Mr. Thackeray, who was accompanied by Assembly Speaker Nana Patole and Minister Vishwajeet Kadam. The committee would comprise the divisional commissioner and Mumbai fire brigade chief P.S. Rahangdale, the CM said. Reassuring the victims’ kin that the truth would come out, Mr. Thackeray said that while the inquiry would not recklessly hold anyone responsible, stringent action would be taken if it emerged that there was negligence on part of authorities. “The purpose of the committee’s investigations will be to prevent such unfortunate incidents from recurring in the future…I have also directed the authorities to investigate if there have been any incidents of ignoring safety regulations at hospitals during the COVID-19 pandemic,” he said. Meanwhile, former chief minister and Bharatiya Janata Party’s Leader of Opposition in the Assembly, Devendra Fadnavis, has demanded that a case of culpable homicide be lodged against the hospital authorities. “This accident at a district government hospital is a ‘black day’ for Maharashtra,” Mr. Fadnavis said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hospital-fire-uddhav-warns-of-stern-action/article33546308.ece
11 January 2021||January 11 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Relax detention norms to prevent drop-outs’||Awareness and enrolment drives would then need to be conducted to ensure that such children return to the school system, it said. As schools slowly reopen for physical classes, students may need bridge courses to adjust to the school environment, and remedial learning programmes to mitigate learning loss and inequality, said the Ministry. Identifying students across different grades based on their learning levels, and relaxing detention norms to prevent drop-out this year, have also been recommended. For those who are still studying from home, targeted home visits, counselling and distribution of worksheets and other supplementary material to support home-based education are needed. Easy and timely access to uniforms, textbooks and mid-day meals are also needed to prevent drop-outs. ‘Increase access’ The Ministry guidelines mention the need to increase the access to online and digital resources, as well as televisions and radios, but also said that classes in small groups at classrooms-on-wheels had to be explored as the pandemic abates in many areas. For children who cannot go to school, the Ministry also offered guidelines for the continuation of non-residential training through volunteers, local teachers and community participation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/relax-detention-norms-to-prevent-drop-outs/article33546265.ece
11 January 2021||January 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Q3 private investment in manufacturing up||Overall fresh project expenditure between April and December 2020 remained 26.1% lower than the same period a year ago, indicating that “we are still far away from the normal projex (project expenditure) activities registered in the pre-COVID 19 period,” the firm’s latest “Survey of Project Investments in India” noted. With interest rates expected to remain low and COVID-19 vaccination to gain traction in Q4/FY21, Projects Today expects projex activities to return to normalcy by the first quarter of 2021-22. A total of 2,085 projects, entailing investments of Rs. 2,76,482.7 crore, were announced in the third quarter of 2020-21, as against 2,326 projects worth Rs. 2,50,697.5 crore between July-September 2020. While manufacturing sector investments surged 102.2% in Q3 over Q2, utilities (11.25%) and mining (1.12%) were the others to record growth. Investments in electricity projects collaps-ed by 35.2% over the previous quarter, and fell by a sharper 66.9% in irrigation. Maharashtra received the highest investment projects in Q3, followed by Andhra Pradesh and Gujarat. Tamil Nadu, came in a close fourth with 156 projects worth over Rs. 24,100 crore in Q3. New project investment intentions from the government declined by 7.21% in terms of project expenditure and 19.32% in terms of projects, compared to the previous quarter. “Within this segment, the fall was steeper at the State government level. After recording 175.1% increase in fresh investment intentions in Q2, the segment registered a steep fall of 24.5% in Q3. The fall in revenues has been cited as one of the main reasons forcing State-controlled agencies to prune investment intentions,” the report said, adding that infrastructure spending, critical for reviving growth, has suffered. The number of project investments announced by the Centre fell from 473 in Q2 to 381 in Q3, but the outlay on the projects rose 22.8% quarter-on-quarter from Rs. 54,900-odd crore in Q2 to Rs. 67,475 crore in Q3. Projects Today also recorded improvements in the implementation ratio of existing projects, and saw more projects shifting from the drawing board to the execution stage between October and December 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/q3-private-investment-in-manufacturing-up/article33546266.ece
11 January 2021||MYSURU,||KSOU plans to distribute tablets to students||If everything goes as planned, the Mysuru-based Karnataka State Open University (KSOU), which has stepped into its 25th year, has proposed to distribute tablets to students taking admissions in July cycle this year. In the last cycle (admissions from July 2020), more than 18,000 students took admissions to 35-plus courses and the entire process happened online, with the university bringing in reforms in admissions and examination procedures for the benefit of the students, besides making it transparent. “We had planned to distribute tablets with preloaded lessons of the respective courses from last year itself. However, since the university still had printed lessons and are expected to last until this year, we put off the proposal for the July cycle since we don’t want to waste the already-printed lessons. Once the printed lessons deplete, we shall examine whether to go for printing once again or switch over fully to e-lessons, making them available online and preloading them in the tablets,” said Vice-Chancellor S. Vidyashankar. He told The Hindu that the number of admissions may rise in the January cycle this year and the university was hoping to double the admission numbers considering the exclusive right it recently received on running Open and Distance Learning (ODL) courses in the State. The university has launched its Android-based mobile application besides a platform for easy access of information for the students such as course details, prospectus and admissions/examination information. “When we are switching over to digital mode, bringing in reforms and incorporating new technologies, we thought of giving tablets to the students as part of their admissions to make learning even more easier. If we buy the devices in bulk, we may get the them at a lesser price. After the January cycle, we shall look into the proposal of introducing tablets, following the mandatory procedures sticking to the government guidelines,” said Prof. Vidyashankar. Arguing that the university was focusing on revamping the way the distance education was reached and taught to students, the VC said new courses would be introduced upon getting the nod from the University Grants Commission (UGC). More IT-based courses and science courses are getting launched, keeping in view the job sector and the emerging areas. “Our thrust is on improving the gross enrolment ratio (GER), attracting more students to higher education. With ODL getting new impetus, we would be reaching out to more number of students, thereby improving the number of students taking higher education,” he added. Awaiting approval The KSOU is already running 35-plus courses. The programmes awaiting UGC approval include Bachelor of Science, Bachelor of Business Administration; Bachelor of Computer Applications; Bachelor of Science in Information Technology (B.Sc IT; Bachelor of Science in Human Development; MA in Education; MA in Telugu; Master of Science in Information Technology; Master of Science in Botany; Master of Science in Zoology and Master of Science in Food Science and Nutrition. The KSOU’s proposal for launching new programmes in the online mode is also before the UGC. The courses proposed for the launch in online mode are Master of Commerce; MBA; MA in Economics; M.Sc Information Technology; M.Sc Computer Science; MA in English; MA in Hindi and MA in Kannada.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ksou-plans-to-distribute-tablets-with-preloaded-lessons-of-courses-to-students/article33546632.ece
11 January 2021||Kolkata,||Trinamool questions Nadda’s claim on temple antiquity||Referring to BJP president J.P. Nadda’s visit to a temple, the Trinamool Congress on Sunday questioned the claims by the party that Chaitanya Mahaprabhu had visited it. On Saturday, Mr. Nadda visited the Radha Govind temple in Bardhaman and the party leadership claimed that Chaitanya Mahaprabhu had visited it. Visits to temples have been included in the itinerary of senior BJP leaders. “Shri@JPNadda & his entourage of tourists from the BJP had again proved their glaring disconnect with Bengal. Temple built in 1839 was hailed as one where the initiation of Chaitanya Mahaprabhu took place whereas Mahaprabhu breathed his last in 1534,” the TMC said on its official Twitter handle. It also recalled a faux pas during Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s visit when he allegedly garlanded a statue of a tribal hunter claiming that it was Birsa Munda. During the day, the priest of the Sarvamangala temple, which Mr. Nadda had visited, said the BJP president was allowed into the temple just like any other common person. He, however, said Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has done a lot for priests by giving allowances and extending several State government schemes to them. A similar situation erupted after Mr. Shah’s recent visit to Baul singer Basudev Das Baul house where the BJP leader had lunch. After Mr. Shah’s visit, the singer had praised Ms. Banerjee. He was also present at Ms. Banerjee rally at Bolpur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trinamool-questions-naddas-claim-on-temple-antiquity/article33546735.ece
11 January 2021||HYDERABAD,||Robotic neurosurgery to detect seizures||KIMS Hospital here used robotic neurosurgery to detect seizures centre in a nine-year-old boy’s brain. Stating that the treatment is offered only in three to four cities, KIMS management claimed that for the first time the procedure was used in Hyderabad. A robot with image guidance helps in achieving precision and faster neurosurgery, and was recently launched in KIMS Hospitals’ Department of Neurosurgery. It helps in various brain surgeries, including stereotactic guided brain tumour biopsy, in Parkinson’s disease (deep brain stimulation), and surgery for brain tumour. The nine-year-old was brought to the hospital with uncontrolled seizures in spite of multiple medications. The problem persisted for almost five years. “He used to get 6-7 seizures daily and was unable to attend school, though the remaining body development is normal. He was initially evaluated with MRI brain and video EEG by neurologist Sita Jayalaxmi. However, the origin of the seizure could not be localised. For such patients, electrodes have to be kept in the brain to find out seizure onset. In this case, robotic-guided eight electrodes were placed in the brain by neurosurgeon Manas Panigrahi to record brain electrical activity, which helps identify the place from where seizures are coming,” informed a press note.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/robotic-neurosurgery-to-detect-seizures/article33546647.ece
11 January 2021||COIMBATORE,||5 Keralites among 6 held for carjack||Special teams of the Coimbatore District (Rural) Police on Sunday arrested six persons, including five from Kerala, in connection with a carjacking reported at Navakkarai on December 25, which the police suspect was to steal hawala money. According to the police, the accused committed the crime to steal suspected hawala money concealed in hidden compartments in the car. K. Unnikumar alias Raju (44) from Pillaiyarpuram at Podanur, C. Santhosh (36), S. Sandeep (32), C. Radhakrishnan (47) from Palakkad, C. Srijith (27) and M. Subin (29) from Thrissur were arrested on Sunday. Police recovered Rs. 5 lakh from the accused and remanded them in judicial custody. One of the special teams picked up Unnikumar based on specific information late on Saturday and he confessed to the crime during police questioning. As per the confession of the accused, they intercepted the car travelled by Abdul Salam (50), a realtor from Malappuram, and his driver Shamsudheen at Navakkarai around 4 a.m. on December 25. Mr. Salam had complained to the K.G. Chavadi police that unknown men took away the car and Rs. 27.5 lakh after assaulting him and his driver at Navakkarai when they were travelling from Bengaluru to Malappuram on December 25 morning. The police found the car abandoned at Madampatti the next day. When the car was inspected at K.G. Chavadi station, police found Rs. 60 lakh and Rs. 30 lakh in two secret compartments. The money, suspected to be for hawala transactions, was handed over to the Judicial Magistrate Court at Madukkarai. The police have informed the Enforcement Directorate and the Income Tax Department about the seizure of the money.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/six-arrested-in-navakkarai-robbery-case/article33546510.ece
11 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Kerala Lottery ticket sales booming||The Kerala Lottery’s ticket sale has soared over the last few months, despite the pandemic-induced crisis. In November 2020, the daily sales had reached 1,00,20,000 tickets. This is the first such increase since the weekly ticket price went up to Rs. 40, though ticket sales have crossed the one crore mark in the past also. The December figures show that an average of more than 90 lakh lottery tickets are sold daily. This increase should be seen against the sales in 2015 when only 50 to 60 lakh weekly tickets were sold per day.  The weekly lottery tickets, which had draws on all seven days, were cancelled for more than 90 days from March 2020, when the lockdown began. Since then, the sales were increased from three days a week to five days except for Thursdays and Sundays. By the time ticket sales resumed in September, 46 lakh tickets were being printed. When the ticket sales resumed after lockdown, coupons worth Rs. 3,500 were issued to the members registered with the Lottery Welfare Board. Detecting fake tickets The Lottery Department has benefited from a new system to detect fake tickets in the market. A mobile app called ‘Bhagyakeralam’ has been developed to scan the QR code on tickets to check if they are fake. The lottery tickets designed with C-DIT’s technical assistance include seven security measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-lottery-ticket-sales-booming/article33546701.ece
11 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||New officer to probe POCSO case in Kerala||Kerala police chief Loknath Behera on Sunday entrusted IGP, South Zone, Harshita Attaluri, with investigation into the child abuse case in which the victim’s mother was arrested by the Kadakkavoor police recently. The 45-year-old woman was arrested under the provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012, following a complaint that she had sexually harassed her 13-year-old son. Allegations of bias and lapses in handling of the case that were levelled against the police have prompted the decision to transfer it to a senior officer, who will investigate the circumstances that led to the complaint and its veracity. ‘Reason for false case’ The case took a curious turn a day ago after the woman’s mother accused her son-in-law of foisting a false case against her daughter. The complaint was purportedly spurred by the man’s animosity towards his wife after she questioned his decision to marry for the second time without divorcing her. The couple’s younger son also claimed that his brother, the supposed victim, had been threatened by their father to complain against their mother. Murkier issue The issue turned murkier on Sunday when Thiruvananthapuram Child Welfare Committee (CWC) chairperson N. Sunanda alleged lapses on the part of the Kadakkavoor police in including her in the First Information Report (FIR), registered on December 18, as the informant. She told the media that the CWC had neither provided any information nor directed the police to investigate the complaint. Terming the purported error a “serious lapse”, Ms. Sunanda said the CWC had arranged counselling by a social worker after the child was produced before the committee. Later, the counselling report was submitted to the Kadakkavoor police. The revelations prompted local residents to constitute an action council to seek “justice for the mother” and also geared up to launch agitation against the local police. Kerala Women’s Commission member Shahida Kamal held the police responsible for showing undue haste. The Kadakkavoor police refuted the CWC chairperson’s comments and stuck to their stance. Letter They claimed that they were in possession of a letter supposedly sent by the CWC that had paved the way for the police proceedings against the accused. They said a statement given by the victim to a woman magistrate as well as his medical examination formed the basis of their investigation.  The case took a curious turn a day ago after the woman’s mother accused her son-in-law of foisting a false case against her daughter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/new-officer-to-probe-pocso-case-in-kerala/article33546278.ece
11 January 2021||Patna,||Kushwaha to head JD(U) Bihar unit||On the second day of a two-day State executive committee meeting of the ruling Janata Dal(U) in Bihar, on Sunday, former MLA Umesh Kushwaha was appointed new State party president. Basistha Narayan Singh, the incumbent State president, had expressed his inability to continue in the post on health grounds. Umesh Kushwaha lost the Assembly election in October-November 2020. On Saturday, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, while addressing the meeting, said, “We failed to anticipate who our friends were and on whom we should have placed our trust in the election.” “The seat distribution within the National Democratic Alliance should have been done five months before the election. It was not done and as a result, the JD(U) had to pay a heavy price,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kushwaha-to-head-jdu-bihar-unit/article33546286.ece
11 January 2021||Jammu,||Explosives defused in Poonch||Security forces defused explosives fitted to a two-wheeler in the Pir Panjal Valley’s Poonch district on Sunday. An official said an abandoned two-wheeler was spotted near the Pankha area in Mendhar. Later, a bomb disposal squad rushed to the area and the Mendhar-Gohlad road was closed. “The security agencies successfully defused the locally made improvised explosive device,” the police said. Meanwhile, the Pakistan Army violated ceasefire agreement along the Line of Control in the Pir Panjal’s Rajouri and Poonch districts. “Pakistan Army targeted the Indian positions in the Balakote area of Poonch district and the Nowshera area of Rajouri district,” officials said. There were no reports of any casualty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/explosives-defused-in-poonch/article33546291.ece
11 January 2021||Kolkata,||West Bengal CM announces free vaccines||A fresh controversy erupted after Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee’s letter to health workers in the State, in which she said that her government would provide the COVID-19 vaccine free of cost to the people, became available in the public domain. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has alleged that the Trinamool Congress (TMC) was trying to take credit for the vaccine roll-out. “You are aware that a vaccine for COVID-19 is in the process. I want to inform with joy that the State government will make the vaccine available free of cost to every person of the State,” Ms. Banerjee said in the letter. Ms. Banerjee further said that the vaccine would be made available to police personnel, home guard members of the disaster management force, and frontline healthcare personnel. “Pishi [aunt, referring to Ms. Banerjee] was a disaster when it came to managing Covid. From doctors to policemen, everyone protested against Chief Minister’s apathy. But now that the center has announced free priority vaccination for 3 crore frontline workers across the country, Pishi is rushing to take credit,” BJP IT cell chief and co-in-charge for West Bengal Amit Malviya tweeted. The development comes a day before Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to hold a meeting with the Chief Ministers of States on vaccine distribution. The Union government has announced that the vaccine will be administered to people starting January 16. It is not clear whether Ms. Banerjee will participate in the meeting or not. BJP president J.P. Nadda on Saturday expressed hope that the West Bengal Chief Minister would attend the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/west-bengal-cm-announces-free-vaccines/article33546307.ece
11 January 2021||Pune,||Security of Fadnavis, Raj Thackeray scaled down||The Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government in Maharashtra has downgraded the security cover of a number of prominent opposition leaders, including BJP Leader of Opposition in the Assembly Devendra Fadnavis and his family, former Uttar Pradesh governor Ram Naik, and Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief Raj Thackeray. It has also withdrawn the security cover of BJP State president Chandrakant Patil. BJP leaders have condemned the decision and dubbed it ‘vendetta politics’. According to a government notification issued on January 8, Mr. Fadnavis will now get a ‘Y-plus security with escort’ instead of his earlier ‘Z-plus’ cover, which included a bulletproof vehicle. The security of his wife Amruta Fadnavis, and his daughter, has been downgraded from ‘Y-plus with escort’ to the lesser ‘X’ category. “I have no worries…I have full support of the public of Maharashtra, and being a people’s person, this move will have no impact on my travels to meet people and gauge their problems,” Mr. Fadnavis said. Likewise, security cover of MNS chief Mr. Thackeray (also Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray’s cousin) was downgraded from ‘Z’ to ‘Y-plus with escort’. Besides Mr. Patil, the security detail of BJP leader and former Chief Minister Narayan Rane, former minister Sudhir Mungantiwar, and senior leader and spokesperson Madhav Bhandari has been withdrawn while that of former minister Ashish Shelar has been downgraded. Mr. Rane had a ‘Y-plus’ category security. Former minister Rajkumar Badole, BJP MLAs Prasad Lad and Ram Kadam, and former speaker and BJP legislator Haribhau Bagde have also lost their security cover. “I have no complaints, but should anything ominous happen to any of us, then the Thackeray government will be responsible for it,” said an irate Mr. Rane, a former Shiv Sainik and a bitter critic of Mr. Uddhav Thackeray. The security of State Lokayukta M.L. Tahiliani has been downgraded from ‘Z’ to ‘Y’ while those of Republican Party of India (A) chief Ramdas Athawale, a BJP ally, and that of Central Minister Raosaheb Danve have been downgraded as well. “This politics of malice will have no impact on former CM Mr. Fadnavis and other BJP leaders who will continue to highlight the problems of people… This decision merely reflects the mindset of the Thackeray government. During the pandemic, it was Mr. Fadnavis who was travelling to every nook and corner of the State while Mr. Uddhav Thackeray was sitting at home,” State BJP spokesman Keshav Upadhye said. While the State government has upgraded the security of two persons, downgraded those of 11, withdrawn the cover of 16 more, 13 persons have been added to the list of those provided official cover. Prominent among them are Sunetra Pawar, wife of Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, and Varun Sardesai, the secretary of the Yuva Sena and nephew of Mr. Uddhav Thackeray’s wife, Rashmi Thackeray.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/security-of-fadnavis-raj-thackeray-scaled-down/article33546336.ece
11 January 2021||January 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Slippery slope||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/slippery-slope/article33546316.ece
11 January 2021||ANANTAPUR,||Treasure hunters’ gang busted, 11 arrested||The Anantapur police, which have tightened vigil at the places of worship following the reports of desecration of idols elsewhere in the State, busted a gang of treasure hunters and arrested 11 persons, while two more are on the run. Ten cellphones, three motorcycles, some broken earthen pots, two shovels, and a crowbar were seized from the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/treasure-hunters-gang-busted-11-arrested/article33546393.ece
11 January 2021||Kohima,||No fire spotted in Nagaland's Dzukou range; operations to be scaled down: DFO||As no active fire was noticed in Nagaland’s Dzukou range on Sunday, operations will be scaled down but the situation will be monitored, a Forest officer said. A fire erupted in the Dzukou range in Kohima district on December 29 last year, damaging flora and fauna over a large area. “A low-intensity smoke was spotted during aerial surveillance but as it is far from the base camp, operations will be scaled down from tomorrow,” Kohima Divisional Forest Officer (DFO) Rajkumar M. said.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-fire-spotted-in-nagalands-dzukou-range-operations-to-be-scaled-down-dfo/article33546520.ece
11 January 2021||KOTTAYAM,||‘Chandanakkudam’ celebrated sans frenzy||Keeping with the tradition, the unique bonhomie between Lord Ayyappa and his trusted Muslim lieutenant Vavar was relived on Sunday — but through a town bereft of black-clad pilgrims. Marking the final phase of this edition of the annual Sabarimala pilgrimage season, the Chandanakkudam celebrations at the Nainar mosque in Erumeli were held on Sunday. The event was staged in strict adherence to the COVID-19 guidelines with the number of persons attending the procession limited to 20. The procession, which began from the Nainar mosque around 7 p.m., was accorded receptions at various points, including the two Ayyappa temples in the town, and concluded by 10 p.m. — as against the usual timing of 5 a.m. the next day. Various art forms and percussion ensembles that often accompany the procession too had been cancelled. According to P.H. Shahjahan, president of the Erumeli Mahallu Muslim Jamaat, none of the rituals associated with the Chandanakkudam celebration were cancelled despite the restrictions. “In previous years, the procession used to move through a sea of pilgrims, who would start to gather on the streets here much before the procession begins and would remain there until next morning. But in view of the pandemic situation, it was staged as a low-key affair this time,” he said. Petta Thullal today Meanwhile, the Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB) has completed preparations for the ceremonial ‘Petta Thullal’ by the Ambalapuzha and Alangad teams, which is slated to begin on Monday. The two groups, comprising 50 members each, have already reached the town. “The two Ayyappa temples have been sanitised with the help of the Fire and Rescue Services personnel and since the Petta Thullal groups will not be leaving for Sabarimala immediately after the ritual, arrangements have been put in place for their accommodation at Erumeli,” said Krishnakumar Warrier, Deputy Commissioner, TDB. Antigen testing All members of the Petta Thullal groups are required to undergo antigen testing before attending the dancing ritual. The teams have been permitted to include one person above 60 years as the Periyon (group leader). However, the receptions usually accorded to the dancing teams at various points have been cancelled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chandanakkudam-celebrated-sans-frenzy/article33546276.ece
11 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||WPI turns its back on Congress-led UDF||The Welfare Party of India (WPI), the political arm of the Jamaat-e-Islami, appeared to have turned on the United Democratic Front (UDF), its ‘one-time election ally.’ WPI State president Hameed Vaniyambalam told The Hindu that the party would have no truck with the Congress-led alliance in the Assembly polls. The alliance with the WPI had worked to the advantage of the UDF in the local body polls. However, the Congress had forsworn the understanding despite having benefited from the compact. The WPI would now go it alone in the Assembly elections. (The Congress has reportedly viewed the move as the precursor of a covert WPI-Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] pact ahead of the Assembly elections. Such an arrangement had existed in local body polls in 2015. The WPI has denied the Congress charge) Mr. Vaniyambalam said the WPI would field candidates in party strongholds. It was too early to name the constituencies. The party would also wield its considerable social influence and organisational strength in other regions to exact maximum political advantage. WPI influence Mr. Vaniyambalam said south and central Kerala were not impervious to WPI influence. The nine-year-old party had won four seats on its own in Thiruvananthapuram. Similarly, the WPI had made gains in Ernakulam (six), Alappuzha (one) and Kollam (three). The WPI had given a leg-up to the UDF in the 2019 Parliament elections because it viewed the Congress as a secular national-level alternative to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Another party insider said the WPI was the victim of Congress infighting. UDF convener M.M. Hassan had found himself isolated in the party for having parleyed with Jamaat-e-Islami Amir M.I. Abdul Aziz at the behest of the Congress leadership. However, the Congress backtracked when the poll result did not meet its expectations. KPCC leadership had scapegoated the WPI for the party's poor showing. The LDF had raised the bogey of UDF courting fundamentalists. In some measure, the LDF campaign had succeeded in driving Hindu and Christian votes from the UDF. The "fallout" of the "electoral pact" with the WPI had forced the Congress to "rebuild bridges" with other community leaders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/wpi-turns-its-back-on-congress-led-udf/article33546277.ece
11 January 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha CM possesses properties worth Rs. 64.98 cr.||Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik possesses properties worth close to Rs. 64.98 crore, while his Cabinet colleague, Health and Family Welfare Minister Naba Kishore Das, has bought 80 vehicles since 2018. Mr. Patnaik and his Ministers have made their property public as per the announcement made earlier. Last month, Mr. Patnaik had announced that all people’s representatives would have to disclose their property details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/odisha-cm-possesses-properties-worth-rs-6498-cr/article33546298.ece
11 January 2021||New Delhi,||Two flight surgeons to train in Russia||Two flight surgeons will soon fly to Russia where they will get a hands-on experience in space medicine from their Russian counterparts for the Gaganyaan mission, an Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) official said on Sunday. The flight surgeons are doctors from the Indian Air Force (IAF) who have specialised in aerospace medicine. Flight surgeons are responsible for the astronauts’ health before, during and after a flight. The flight surgeons will also get to train with the prospective astronauts, the official said. The four test pilots of the IAF, chosen for India’s first manned mission to space, have been undergoing training at the Yu. A. Gagarin Research and Test Cosmonaut Training Centre near Moscow since February last year. Named after Yuri Gagarin, the first human to journey into outer space, the centre was built to support manned space programmes, space exploration activities, space engineering, cosmonauts’ training as well as ensuring their safety in space, and providing post-flight rehabilitation programmes for cosmonauts. The training of the Indian astronauts has been affected due to the COVID-19-induced lockdown in Russia, and they are expected to be back in the country by March. The flight surgeons will also travel to France for training. “The French module of the space surgeons training will be more theoretical,” the official added. France has a well-established mechanism for space medicine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-flight-surgeons-to-train-in-russia/article33546311.ece
11 January 2021||New Delhi,||B.Tech., engineering diploma of IGNOU till 2011-12 session valid: AICTE||B.Tech degrees and Diploma in Engineering and Technology awarded by IGNOU up to the 2011-2012 academic session will be treated as valid, the All India Council of Technical Education (AICTE) has said. The Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU) was offering the two courses through distance learning. However, the courses were discontinued after the University Grants Commission (UGC) said they were in violation of norms and technical courses could not be offered through the distance learning mode.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/btech-engineering-diploma-of-ignou-till-2011-12-session-valid-aicte/article33546313.ece
11 January 2021||New Delhi,||National Employment Policy likely by December||The Ministry of Labour and Employment is likely to give shape to the National Employment Policy (NEP) by December 2021, following the implementation of four labour codes and the completion of four major surveys, including one one migrant workers. The NEP will draw a broad road map to improve job opportunities in the country.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/national-employment-policy-likely-by-december/article33546314.ece
11 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Marina vendors say many old-timers left out, want fresh count||In November 1966, when the ship, Stematis, ran aground and large crowds gathered to see the spectacle, P. Kuppan, now 76, was a youngster and remembers having pushed his mother Ponnammal’s peanut cart to the spot to sell their wares. “Since my father died when I was young, my mother took up this business,” recalls the old-timer, who now sells sugarcane juice behind Gandhi Statue on Marina Beach. Having weathered many a storm in his life, not finding his name on the list of vendors on the Marina came as a blow to him. “I am saddened by this. I took up the sugarcane juice business before my son was born. He has been selling popcorn. Both our names are not on the list; so are those of Ayyasami, Anusuya, Selvam, Rathnam and many others in our bay. I pray to Goddess Periyapalayathamma that we be able to vend our goods again on the Marina,” Mr. Kuppan said. Vendors on the Marina have been complaining that they have not been enumerated properly and many names have been left out by the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC). Following a direction from the Madras High Court, the GCC has made several attempts to bring order to the place, including by enumerating the shops and trying to bring in stalls that look uniform, and even conduct elections for the associations. However, the vendors say all these have been done in a haphazard manner. P. Muthu, president, Tamil Nadu Nethaji Subash Chandra Bose Amaippu Saara Matrum Kattumaanam and Meen Pudi Thozilallar Paadhukaappu Peravai, who himself is a vendor and has been aggrieved by this process, has approached the court seeking a re-enumeration. “Certain GCC officials have just made up a list of vendors, they are just random names. We want a fresh enumeration under the direct supervision of the court,” he said, adding that vendors having merry-go-rounds, balloon aim and shoot stalls, too, should be allowed. “They are not allowing certain categories, we are told. Those who ran shops earlier should be allowed to vend again,” he added. K. Bharathi, of the South Indian Fishermen Welfare Association, said, “These shops, which are not permanent structures, have helped families educate children and settle them in their lives. They have not become affluent but continue to live in rented accommodation. During the lockdown, since the shops were shut, many went hungry, and on hearing that, NGOs stepped in to help. They are suggestions that shopkeepers prepare the items at home and sell them on the beach. That won’t work since people are doubly careful about what they consume. The civic body should take proper care while deciding something; there should be no loss of livelihood.” List ready Meanwhile, the GCC has finalised a list of around 18,000 applicants for hawking on the beach under the categories of A and B after the scrutiny of applications. The category A is for existing vendors and category B is for city residents who wish to start businesses on the beach. Civic officials said the list of persons eligible for participation in the draw of lots would be published on January 6. Smart carts would be allotted based on the draw of lots to be held in the presence of former Sikkim High Court Chief Justice Satish K. Agnihotri on January 20 and 21. More than 1,400 vendors of Marina beach have been found eligible for smart carts. Such applicants have submitted street-vending identity cards issued by the GCC. At least 16,000 city residents are eligible for licence to vend on the beach, said officials who scrutinised the applications. The officials said applications without signatures had been rejected. Applications submitted by residents of neighbourhoods outside the city limits had also been rejected. Civic officials said the first batch of 300 smart carts would be ready shortly. Another batch of 300 would be distributed to licence-holders one month after the launch. The last batch of 300 is expected before the announcement of the Assembly election. Fishermen are rejoicing since at a hearing on Friday, the High Court observed that the welfare of fishermen and their rights were more important than the beautification of the Marina. The court said beautification could be carried out simultaneously, but the welfare of fishermen should be the priority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/marina-vendors-say-many-old-timers-left-out-want-fresh-count/article33546455.ece
11 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Work on Vasantha Mandapam to resume||The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) will soon resume the conservation work at the Vasantha Mandapam of the later Chola-period Abathsahayeswarar temple-cum-fort in Senthamangalam in Villupuram district. “The work for restoration and conservation of the temple are over. We had dismantled the Vasantha Mandapam for reconstruction. The work could not be continued earlier because of the pandemic. We will start the work shortly,” said Mr P.S. Sriraman, superintending archaeologist of the ASI. Villupuram Lok Sabha member Ravikumar, who visited the temple a few days ago, also promised to raise the issue in Parliament and speak to the relevant Ministry to get funds for the work. Senthamangalam fort is an important historical site — it was here that Chola King Rajaraja III was imprisoned by one of his chieftains Kopperunjinga. Inscriptions found in Tiruvendipuram confirm the incident. “Senthamangalam was the capital of Kadavarayas, who served as the chieftains of Cholas. The temple and fort was constructed by Kadavaraya Kopperunjinga, the prominent [one] among the Kadava chieftains,” explained Mr. Ravikumar. The Kadavas began as small chieftains under the Cholas, but quickly established their supremacy. “Mohan Alkkoli alias Kulottunga-sola-kadavarayan was the chieftain of the Pallava extraction, who was in charge of policing in a small area near Tirumanikuli in South Arcot district, at around 1136 AD. But in the course of the next few years, the Kadava chieftain attained a more important position...” writes historian K.A. Nilakanta Sastri in his book The Colas . Citing various inscriptions, Sastry says, “These records reveal to us the beginnings of the feudatory family from which sprang the celebrated Kopperunjinga whose boisterous career shook the Chola empire to its foundations and hastened its downfall.” Mr. Ravikumar said the Dakshinamurthy statue in the temple was unique since it was seated on the Rishabha Vahana and the idol of Muruga had six heads and six hands instead of twelve hands. There is also a gigantic stone musical horse capable of producing music. A difficult task Mr. Sriraman said the reconstruction of the outer praharam was not an easy task as it would involve a huge amount of money. “Before the ASI started restoration works, one could not enter the temple. It was covered with thorny bushes. We worked for ten years and restored it,” Mr Sriraman said. He said while the inner units had been brought to shape, the incomplete portions, including the gopuram, could not be restored since there was no evidence for their shape.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/work-on-vasantha-mandapam-to-resume/article33546487.ece
11 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Govt. shielding Pollachi assault culprits’||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Sunday said the AIADMK government feared that the involvement of its party functionaries in the Pollachi sexual assault case would be exposed and had therefore tried to scuttle a DMK protest on the issue. Accusing the government of shielding the culprits and preventing their arrest, Mr. Stalin, at a ‘makkal ward sabha’ in Royapuram, Chennai, said the CBI had arrested three of the accused four days ago and one of them was a student wing leader of the AIADMK [since expelled]. “He is close to Local Administration Minister S.P. Velumani and there is a picture of him posing with the Minister.” He said the police had granted permission to party women’s wing leader M.K. Kanimozhi, to lead a demonstration in Pollachi, pressing for the arrest of the ruling partymen involved in the sexual assault only after he threatened to launch protests across the State. “I called our organisation secretary R.S. Bharathi and senior advocate N.R. Elango to speak to the DGP. I told them that if permission was not granted, I would lead protests across the State. My speech was recorded and sent to the ruling party. Permission was given to Ms. Kanimozhi only after that,” he said. The DMK leader said that when Ms. Kanimozhi spoke to him about the denial of permission, he told her to defy the ban. “The police sent back women who tried to reach the demonstration.” Mr. Stalin said the time had come to put an end to the AIADMK government, and that the birth of Thai , the Tamil month, would pave way for a new regime. Mr. Stalin also came down heavily on Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar, elected from Royapuram constituency, saying that he had used political power only to enrich himself and had not done anything for the constituency. Irregularities committed “Former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa did not accommodate him in the Cabinet [2011-16] because she had fully understood the irregularities committed by Mr. Jayakumar,” he said. The DMK leader said Mr. Jayakumar had committed irregularities in the purchase of walkie-talkies for fishermen to the tune of Rs. 30 crore. “I am saying this because we have submitted a memorandum to the Governor, asking him to initiate action against the Chief Minister and other corrupt Ministers,” he said. Mr. Stalin also decried attempts by some sections to portray former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa as “virtuous”, though she was convicted [Supreme Court had held that the charges would abate since she was dead]. Addressing the second conference of the DMK advocates’ wing in Chennai, he said, “For the first time in the history of India, a Chief Minister of a State was convicted [by the trial court]. It is no small achievement of the advocates’ wing, which waged a legal battle for 18 years.” He credited the legal wing with shattering the 2G scam. It was the argument of the lawyers that led to the trial judge acquitting all accused. “A. Raja was forced to quit the Union Cabinet and my sister Kanimozhi was also included in the case. Only those who closely watched our leader Kalaignar [Karunanidhi] would realise his agony,” the DMK president said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-is-shielding-pollachi-assault-culprits-stalin/article33546443.ece
11 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CMRL to make changes to save Moolakadai flyover||To avoid pulling down a portion of the flyover in Moolakadai, Chennai Metro Rail has begun making some changes in the alignment of one of the corridors in its phase II project. Of the three corridors in the phase II project — Madhavaram to SIPCOT, Madhavaram to Siruseri and Light House to Poonamallee — that totally add up to 118.9 km, the change in alignment to save the flyover is planned for the stretch between Madhavaram to SIPCOT. Moolakadai is one of the first few stations in the stretch which will be built underground. “The alignment changes only by a few metres. So, the location of Moolakadai and one or two stations near it only may change marginally. We are doing a survey for it now and will be finished shortly,” said an official of the Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL). Construction of this four-lane flyover at the intersection of the Madhavaram High Road and GNT Road had cost Rs. 49.55 crore and had begun in 2011. The work was beset with delays, including by the shifting of sewer mains by the Chennai Metrowater and sometimes hitches in acquiring land. The 613m-long flyover has a total of 18 deck slabs. Sources in the Highways Department said that the CMRL had suggested that two deck slabs in the centre of the flyover be removed to make space during the construction of their line. They had planned to reconstruct them after their work was completed. However, since motorists at this important junction would be inconvenienced due to this, the department turned it down. “We asked them to go for another option, which they have agreed to. The flyover will not be affected in any manner now,” said an official. Chennai Metro Rail has already called for tenders to build tunnels and underground stations for a major portion of the stretch from Madhavaram to SIPCOT — Madhavaram to Taramani now. Eventually, tenders will be floated for the remaining stretch as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cmrl-to-make-changes-to-save-moolakadai-flyover/article33546463.ece
11 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||A ride on a replica of the world’s first car||It was a travel back in time for many visitors at the Chennai Heritage Auto Display 2021 on Sunday as they enjoyed a short ride on the working replica of the Benz Patent-Motorwagen of 1886, the first automobile of the world. “It was fear and childlike happiness that overtook me. I was enthralled also when I took a ride on the Ford Quadricycle, which is said to be the first experimental automobile of Henry Ford which he built in 1896,” said K. Smitha, one of the visitors. Both models are manufactured by Coimbatore-based UMS Technologies. G.D. Rajkumar, managing director, UMS Technologies Private Limited, says the 1886 Benz Patent-Motorwagen was made by Karl Benz and his wife Bertha Benz drove on it first with her two children. “We have exported close to 100 such replicas to vintage and classic automobile lovers across the world. The uniqueness of this car is that it runs on benzine,” he says. A few years ago, the staff of UMS Technologies drove this model from Coimbatore to Chennai in 36 hours. “It is a handcrafted replica. One litre of benzine will help the vehicle run for 20 kilometers. The car has a five-litre tank,” explains S. Gunasekaran, manager, operations, UMS Technologies. Apart from this replica, there were over 60 vintage cars and 20 motorcycles on display at the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-ride-on-a-replica-of-the-worlds-first-car/article33546461.ece
11 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Leather exports to fall 30% this year’||Exports of finished leather, leather products and footwear from India is expected to decline by about 30% to $3.55 billion in the current financial year 2020-21, from $5.07 billion in 2019-20, amid weak demand from the U.S. and Europe, said Aqeel Panaruna, chairman, Council for Leather Exports. Mr. Panaruna pointed out that the exports declined 36.5% to about $2.23 billion in April-November 2020, from about $3.51 billion in the same period last year. As per available data, the exports dropped further by 17.4% in December 2020 in comparison to last year. He pointed out that many EU countries and the U.K. are under lockdown due to the COVID-19 pandemic, while the U.S. market has not recovered fully. “In our pre-budget proposals submitted to the Government, we have requested that the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS 2.0) may kindly be extended to the leather and footwear industry, as our sector had a setback on account of the COVID-19 pandemic, and for revival of export, there is a huge working-capital requirement,” he added. Mr. Panaruna also called for early notification of rates under the Remission of Duties and Taxes on Exported Products (RODTEP), which came into effect from January 1, replacing the erstwhile Merchandise Exports from India Scheme (MEIS). He pointed out that the Council for Leather Exports had a virtual meeting with the RODTEP committee on December 10, 2020 and had submitted industry data across all product segments, namely finished leather, leather goods, leather garments, footwear, footwear components, etc. The refund of duties is factored into the export prices, Mr. Panaruna pointed out, while calling for early notification of the rates. Import of leather, leather products and footwear has also declined drastically by 51.96% to $451.68 in April-November 2020 from $940.27 million in the comparable period last year. Furthermore, imports declined by 28.79% in December 2020 from last year as per preliminary data released by the government, he added. Mr. Panaruna hoped the exports would rise in 2021-22, mainly to Europe and the US.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/leather-exports-to-fall-30-this-year/article33546873.ece
11 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Railways offers cashless emergency treatment facility||In a move that will benefit lakhs of serving/retired employees and their dependent family members, the Ministry of Railways has rolled out a cashless treatment facility, in case of emergencies, at empaneled private hospitals. The decision follows several complaints that private hospitals were insisting on referrals from Railway hospitals, or were demanding advance payments, even during emergency hospitalisation. Improving system To improve the health delivery system on its network, the Railway Board, in a circular, said Railway medical beneficiaries (serving/retired), under emergency conditions, could get admission in railway empaneled hospitals, without prior referrals. “The empaneled hospital should not insist on referrals from railway hospitals or demand advances [payments] in emergency conditions, and the hospital will provide cashless/credit medical facilities to patients,” the circular said. Defining the nature of emergency medical conditions, the Railway Board said Railway authorities should make sure that the empaneled hospitals accept the Medical Identity Cards/Cashless Treatment Scheme cards issued to the staff. ‘Continue treatment’ “Situations may arise where Railway hospitals, after scrutinising the admission reports, submitted by an empaneled hospital, finds that the patient is not suffering from an emergency. In such cases, patients can continue to avail treatment at the empaneled hospital, if so desired, by paying Central Government Health Scheme rates or hospital rates, whichever is less on the patient’s cost,” the communication from the Railway Board said. The Railway Board added that a refusal to provide treatment to Railway medical beneficiaries, in emergency cases, without any valid grounds, would attract disqualification for the continuation of the empanelment.  The empaneled hospital should not insist on referrals from railway hospitals or demand advances [payments] in emergency conditions Railway Board||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/railways-offers-cashless-treatment-facility/article33546441.ece
11 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||City to get 2,330 additional polling stations||The Greater Chennai Corporation will create 2,330 polling stations, in addition to the 3,754 existing stations in 16 Assembly constituencies in the city, owing to COVID-19 restrictions. Corporation officials have received instructions to identify new buildings for the creation of new polling stations. However, this could pose a challenge in some localities, officials said. However, most of the new polling stations will be located in the vicinity of the residents’ homes. The Election Commission has directed the Corporation to create additional polling stations for areas with more than 1,000 electors. During the previous election, polling stations had a maximum of 1,500 electors on the rolls. Many of the additional polling stations would be located in buildings on the same premises as the existing ones, officials said. Currently, Velachery has the largest number of polling stations with over 1,000 electors. Of the 261 polling stations in Velachery, 203 had more than 1,000 electors, officials said. Dr. Radhakrishnan Nagar, with 247 polling stations, is set to get 140 extra polling stations. Perambur will add 159 stations to its existing 297, while Kolathur will get 198. Similarly, Villivakkam, Thiru Vi Ka Nagar, Egmore, Royapuram, Harbour, Chepauk-Thiruvallikeni, Thousand Lights, Anna Nagar, Virugambakkam, Saidapet, T. Nagar and Mylapore will get additional polling stations. Only 1,499 polling stations have less than 1,000 electors in the city’s Assembly Constituencies. Officials said the new polling stations would get all facilities to improve access to persons with disabilities. Former Corporation Councillor S. Mangala Raj said the creation of additional polling stations would lead to confusion among many residents on polling day. “Certain political parties may take advantage when residents are unable to vote in their usual polling stations. Residents have to be careful. Similar development of additional polling stations in other States reportedly favoured some political parties in power,” he added.  Certain political parties may take advantage when residents are unable to vote in their usual polling stations S. Mangala Raj Former Corporation Councillor||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-to-get-2330-additional-polling-stations/article33546447.ece
11 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PWD submits final draft of M-sand policy to government||The Public Works Department has submitted the final draft of the M-sand policy, to the government, earlier this week, after incorporating changes sought by various stakeholders. The policy is expected to come into force by March or April. The Department has recommended a reduction in the imprisonment period for violations, to one year, instead of the earlier two years. This follows representations from stakeholders, including associations for M-sand manufacturing units and lorry owners, during the second round of meeting. With the mushrooming of M-sand manufacturing units and the growing demand, the Department has accelerated the process to streamline trade. PWD officials said the imprisonment period, for various violations, had been recommended as a year. However, the fine levied would vary depending on the case of violations. If quarry operators or crusher units are found guilty of issuing forged certificates to M-sand manufacturing units, they will also attract a year of imprisonment. “We have agreed to suggestions of issuing transit passes to transporters and setting up surveillance cameras in the units. This will help curtail violations at the source point,” said an official. The Department has also extended the period to renew PWD licences, from three to five years. There are nearly 1,200 units functioning across the State. However, only about 270 have been approved by the PWD for product quality. While 67 applications are under scrutiny, about 400 have been identified as operating without approval. Once the policy is in place, PWD will have more powers to control adulteration, said officials. Noting that there may be size variations in M-sand due to sudden repairs, K. Chinnaswamy, president, Tamil Nadu Stone Quarry, Crushers and Lorry Owners’ Association, said PWD must initially provide them a timeframe to rectify repairs and take action if poor quality is detected again.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pwd-submits-final-draft-of-m-sand-policy-to-government/article33546438.ece
11 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||20 districts see under 10 cases, even as State records 724||Twenty districts recorded under 10 COVID-19 cases in Tamil Nadu, while Perambalur saw none. The State recorded 724 fresh infections, eight of which were detected among incoming passengers. These included four international passengers —two each from the U.A.E. and the U.S. Among domestic passengers, there were two from West Bengal and one each from Odisha and Bihar, who arrived by surface transport, health officials said. As on date, 7,164 persons are undergoing treatment or are under isolation. The State’s tally touched 8,26,261. On Sunday, 857 persons were discharged after treatment, taking the total figure to 8,06,875. The State also recorded seven deaths. All the deceased had co-morbidities. Public health officials said of the approximately 2,300 passengers who travelled from the U.K., between November 25 and December 23, last year, 2,146 have been traced and tested. Of them, 24 tested positive for COVID-19. Details of the passengers include cross notification from/to other States. Tracing of other passengers is under way, officials said. According to the daily health bulletin released by the Directorate of Public Health, 208 fresh infections and one death was recorded in Chennai district. A total of 240 persons were discharged after treatment. As many as 2,182 persons are currently undergoing treatment in the district. So far, 2,27,800 persons have been infected in the district. Its toll touched 4,045. Coimbatore (1), Ramanathapuram (2), Thanjavur (2) and Tiruvallur (1) districts reported deaths. Four of the deceased had diabetes mellitus. One person had chronic liver disease and another had chronic liver disease. Yet another person, whose death was recorded, had a history of pulmonary tuberculosis and was also suffering from chronic kidney disease. The State added one more private testing facility in Tiruvallur, taking the total number of testing centres to 180. As many as 63,794 persons were tested in the last 24 hours, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/20-districts-see-under-10-cases-even-as-state-records-724/article33546446.ece
11 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||It is worrying that only a few Vanniyars have been made HC judges, says Ramadoss||Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) founder S. Ramadoss on Sunday said it is a matter of serious concern that only 13 people from the Vanniyar community have been elevated as judges of the Madras High Court in the last 25 years, despite it being one of the most populous communities in the State. Stating that there were hundreds of meritorious lawyers and judicial officers in the community, Mr. Ramadoss said they were being deliberately neglected to keep them away from centres of power. He urged the Advocates Forum for Social Justice (AFSJ), also founded by him, to strive towards the cause. After releasing a portrait of former Madras High Court judge K.M. Natarajan, Mr. Ramadoss said he was the first from the Vanniyar community to be elevated as a judge of the High Court and also someone who worked tirelessly for the upliftment of the members of the community. The PMK founder expressed surprise over some judges from the Vanniyar community recusing from hearing cases related to the group and the PMK. In his address, former Madras High Court judge P. Kalaiyarasan recalled his long association with Natarajan. He said those from the Vanniyar community were not elevated to the High Court at a young age and were thereby deprived of the opportunity to become senior judges. PMK youth wing leader Anbumani Ramadoss met former Madras High Court Chief Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul (now a Supreme Court judge) during the latter’s tenure. It was only after the meeting that two young lawyers from the community were elevated. Pointing out that they both were now serving as judges of the High Court, Mr. Kalaiyarasan said the community should be ever thankful to Justice Kaul. Subsequently, the AGSJ executive committee meeting was held virtually and Mr. Balu was appointed as its president.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/it-is-worrying-that-only-a-few-vanniyars-have-been-made-hc-judges-says-ramadoss/article33546471.ece
11 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘CRZ clearance needed for SWD along ECR’||The Expert Committee appointed by the Southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT), which visited East Coast Road recently to inspect the Greater Chennai Corporation’s stormwater drain project, has confirmed in its interim report the requirement of environment clearance under the Coastal Regulation Zone notification. The report, a copy of which has been accessed, said the project authority had not obtained the clearance prior to the commencement of the construction activities. It said there was no provision for obtaining ex-post-facto clearance and recommended that the NGT and the Tamil Nadu State Coastal Zone Management Authority take appropriate action in this regard. The Superintending Engineer (south) of Metrowater, however, shared a dissenting view, which the committee recorded. Dissenting opinion He was of the opinion that CRZ clearance was not required since it was part of the infrastructure to be provided in the construction of roads since the project did not fall under CRZ 1A. M/s. Kocks Consultant, the firm appointed by the German Development Bank KfW, the funding agency of the project, had submitted in its detailed project report that no environmental clearance was required. The committee had been constituted by the NGT to study the impact the construction of the stormwater drain network would have on the coastal aquifer system along the ECR from Kottivakkam to Uthandi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/crz-clearance-needed-for-swd-along-ecr/article33546458.ece
11 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||GCC to beautify Buckingham Canal on MRTS stretch||The Buckingham Canal along the Kasturba Nagar-Thiruvanmiyur stretch of the Mass Rapid Transit System (MRTS) is set to become an urban green plaza, similar to the T. Nagar pedestrian plaza. For years, the canal along this stretch has remained neglected with the growth of wild bushes, and the dumping of garbage and construction debris. Once the work is completed, the stretch, which runs parallel to the Information Technology Expressway, will become a green zone with several amenities for Adyar residents. L. Nandakumar, Chief Engineer (General), Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC), said the civic body had started beautification of both the sides of the canal under the elevated section of the MRTS to a length of over two kilometres. It had received a no-objection certificate from the Water Resources Department for the project costing Rs. 20 crore. According to officials, the urban plaza will house a Miyawaki forest, a four-metre-wide shared pathway and cycle track, an open air theatre, a children’s park, and divider islands linking both sides of the canal. The divider islands will have benches, street lights and model public conveniences. Over 40,000 saplings will be planted along the stretch. Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash said the project was being executed in two components, on the eastern and western sides of the canal. “The project is expected to be completed by April ... The work of clearing and levelling the site began more than a week ago.” Poor maintenance of the space along the canal and the presence of prominent institutions on the one side and the MRTS station on the other made the project imperative, Mr. Prakash said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/buckingham-canal-on-mrts-stretch-to-become-green-plaza/article33546451.ece
11 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rahul Gandhi likely to tour western districts||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi is likely to make a three-day visit to the western districts of the State later this month, the AICC in-charge for Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Goa, Dinesh Gundu Rao, said in Chennai on Sunday. “The dates will be finalised later. Mr. Gandhi will be covering Coimbatore, Tiruppur and Erode, among other districts, as part of his first visit, in the run up to the Assembly election,” he said. Earlier, Mr. Rao addressed the State executive committee and State office-bearers’ meeting in Sathyamurthy Bhavan, in the presence of Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K.S. Alagiri and other senior leaders The State executive committee passed a resolution urging the BJP government at the Centre to withdraw the three farm legislation. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Alagiri said the party was organising a protest, in all the 234 constituencies in the State, on January 18. Another resolution that was passed urged the CBI to take measures to vacate the stay on inquiry against Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and commence investigation into corruption charges levelled against three other Ministers. If the actions are not taken, the party also warned of massive protests, before the CBI office in Chennai.  Another resolution that was passed urged the CBI to take measures to vacate the stay on inquiry against Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rahul-gandhi-likely-to-tour-western-districts/article33546433.ece
11 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||12 persons held in Kilpauk for gambling||Personnel from the Kilpauk police station on Sunday arrested 12 persons, including five women, for gambling. Following a tip-off, a special team mounted surveillance on a house in Shastri Nagar. The team raided the house and found its residents placing bets. The police arrested Raj alias Arockiaraj, 24, Natraj, 50, Karnan, 39, Babu Reddy, 50, and eight others. Playing cards and Rs. 72,780 in cash were seized from them. They were released on bail later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/12-persons-held-in-kilpauk-for-gambling/article33546448.ece
11 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||When arrack flowed freely on the sands||The shops on the Marina have been there for over seven decades, recall old-timers. “There were shops when Arignar Anna and MGR were the Chief Ministers. We have watched them drive past us and waved at them. No police or Corporation officials came threatening us,” said a former paan vendor, who sold “sweet beeda” behind the Gandhi Statue since the 1980s. In the 1970s, a pack of peanuts used to be sold for 10 paise and a mango piece for just 2 paise. “There were not many vendors at that time. Peanuts, corn on the cob, raw mangoes and sharbat used to be what beach-goers would find and, that too, at select locations. Of course, the mobile murukku and sundal vendors were very much part of the ethos of the place, and these snacks continue to find a place on the sands,” said C. Ranganathan, who visits the Marina regularly. There also used to be a time when the beach was known for the sale of sundakanji , a fermented rice brew made on the beach and buried under the sand. In the late 1980s, there have been many instances of arrack being found by the city police during raids. Arrests, too, happened in areas, including Balaji Nagar and Rotary Nagar. Fishermen from some hamlets, including Urur and Olcott Kuppam, were also known to vend sundakanji , which was sold at Rs. 10 for a 300-ml sachet. “When things began to get out of hand, the police intervened and raids were conducted on the homes of those brewing this drink. They were asked to stop the business and instead sell food on the Marina, which is how another section of people got into it,” said Kabaddi Maran of Nochikuppam. Since many spots on the Marina and Besant Nagar beaches were not very populated after dark, they were also chosen by some beach-goers to consume alcohol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/when-arrack-flowed-freely-on-the-sands/article33546456.ece
11 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai DRDE unit designs products for Navy||The Combat Vehicles Research and Development Establishment (CVRDE) in Avadi, a unit under the Defence Research and Development Establishment (DRDE), has designed various equipment for the Navy. The CVRDE has indigenously designed and developed 3 Ton Retractable Landing Gear Systems for TAPAS and 1 Ton Landing Gear System for SWiFT UAV, an official release said. It also dedicated 18 types of filters for submarines under the Atmanirbhar programme. The equipment were handed over to the director of the Aeronautical Development Establishment, Bengaluru, by director of CVRDE, Chennai. G. Satheesh Reddy, Secretary, DD (R&D) and Chairman of the Defence Research and Development Organisation was present at the event. The 18 types of state-of-the-art indigenously developed hydraulic, lubrication and fuel filters for P75 Submarine for Indian Navy, duly qualified by DGQA (N), were also handed over to the Navy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennai-drde-unit-designs-products-for-navy/article33546473.ece
11 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Protest held to demand fee cut in three colleges||The Doctors Association for Social Equality conducted a four-hour dharna on Sunday demanding reduction of fee in three colleges, including two medical colleges and a dental college that the government has taken over. The State government had taken over Annamalai University, the affiliating institution for Rajah Muthaiah Medical College and Rajah Muthaiah Dental College. It also took over the Institute of Road Transport-run medical college in Erode two years ago. The seats in these colleges are filled through counselling by the Directorate of Medical Education but the tuition fee has not been brought on a par with that in government colleges. G.R. Ravindranath, general secretary of the Association, pointed out that in Rajah Muthiah Medical College students must pay Rs. 4 lakh, whereas in government colleges the fee is Rs. 13,610. Similarly, in the Erode Government Medical College students must pay Rs. 3.85 lakh. Parents of students in Annamalai University have held several demonstrations without success. The fee structure for PG medical students is much higher at Rs. 9.5 lakh, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/protest-held-to-demand-fee-cut-in-three-colleges/article33546474.ece
11 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rajini’s fans want him to reverse his decision||Despite Rajini Makkal Mandram urging fans not to organise protests, fans of actor Rajinikanth held an agitation, in Valluvar Kottam, Chennai, appealing him to reverse his decision to not enter politics. Having managed to mobilise fans from across Tamil Nadu, protesters appealed to the actor to consider the importance of the upcoming Assembly election, and the need for him to enter politics to “save Tamil Nadu”. They repeated the actor’s slogan “Now or never”. Several fans said they had come together in the hope of changing Mr. Rajinikanth’s stance, without any expectation. “We have come from across the State. Thousands have gathered here, despite the fact that RMM warned its office-bearers not to support the initiatives,” said a fan, who had come from Coimbatore. Some even said they would not vote in the upcoming election if Mr. Rajinikanth did not start a party. A well known politician, who had supported the actor since he announced in December 2017 that he would enter politics, said the crowd could force a rethink in the actor. “The crowd has assembled without any mobilisation. They have made a last ditch effort. Mr. Rajinikanth should realise the pull he has among the people. I think he will rethink his decision,” he said. However, RMM members said they did not expect the actor to change his decision.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rajinikanths-fans-want-him-to-reverse-his-decision/article33546440.ece
11 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Former V-C welcomes tenure extension||P.K. Ponnuswamy, who had served as vice-chancellor in the University of Madras and Madurai Kamaraj University, has welcomed the recent tenure extension to vice-chancellors of Bharathidasan and Periyar Universities. In a letter to the Governor, he said, “This is the best way of allowing the administration of a university to go uninterrupted.” He disapproved appointing the Higher Education Secretary as convener of the committee overseeing universities’ functioning in the absence of vice-chancellors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-v-c-welcomes-tenure-extension/article33546470.ece
11 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||10 women rescued from prostitution||The anti-vice squad of the Central Crime Branch (CCB) arrested two men for running a sex racket in different places in Adyar. Following information received by the Assistant Commissioner, a special team raided a premises at SBI Colony on Saturday night and found that the residents were running a brothel under the guise of a spa. The police arrested broker Velmurugan, 32, of Aruppukotai. He kept four women in custody and forced them into sex work. They are on the lookout for the spa’s owner. Another team raided a house at an apartment in Gandhi Nagar, Adyar, and arrested Venkatesan, 27, of Ponneri, who forced two women into prostitution. Personnel form the Virugambakkam police station on Saturday arrested K. Srinivasan, of Vadapalani, and Wasira Banu, 53, of Saligramam, for running a brothel at a house in Saligramam. Four women were rescued from them. The rescued women were sent to a special home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/10-women-rescued-from-prostitution/article33546459.ece
11 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vedanthangal sanctuary reopens||The Vedanthangal Bird Sanctuary was reopened for visitors on Sunday after a gap of nearly 10 months. The sanctuary was shut for visitors in 2019 during the lockdown due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Around 250 persons visited the sanctuary on Sunday. Officials from the Forest department said strict norms had been put in place to ensure safety of the visitors. “Thermal scanners and sanitisers have been kept at the entrance and all visitors were expected to compulsorily wear masks. Our staff have been sensitised and all of them were asked to wear masks and gloves,” said G. Subbaiah, Sanctuary Range Officer. The place is open for visitors from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. Currently, the Vedanthangal sanctuary has over 27 different species of birds that are around 16,000 in number. “In 2018, the tank was nearly dry and we had only around 2,000 birds, but this year, the rains have been good and the tank is brimming. There are glossy ibis, white ibis, pelicans, cattle egrets, large egrets, spot billed ducks, cormorants and herons among other birds,” Mr. Subbiah said. In 2019, the sanctuary had around 12,000 birds. For sanctuaries in Tamil Nadu that have reopened for visitors, including the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve, the Tamil Nadu Forest Department has issued SoPs, which specify guidelines on how to implement safety norms. A senior forest official said since last year, field staff have been trained and sensitised to follow these safety measures and also ensure that visitors follow strict physical distancing guidelines as well as wear masks at all times.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vedanthangal-sanctuary-reopens-after-10-months/article33546489.ece
11 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘India has fallen behind in research’||India has fallen behind in clinical surgery research despite having a population of 1.3 billion people, said Pala Babu Rajesh, vice-president of the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh. Delivering the Prof. S.M. Chandramohan Oration virtually on the topic “Training and Practice in Surgical Profession — The United Kingdom Perspective” on Sunday, he said the number of research papers getting published in peer-reviewed journals from India was far lower than from countries like Japan. He said this was despite doctors in India possessing vast clinical experience. Stating that one often heard about doctors in India completing thousands of surgeries, Dr. Rajesh said these learnings were, however, not getting documented. He opined that technological advancements were likely to drive changes in the curriculum for the training of surgeons. He said the younger generation of doctors could straight away start by performing laparoscopic and other minimally-invasive surgeries without having to first perform many open surgeries. Dr. Rajesh elaborated on the postgraduate training curriculum for surgeons in the U.K. that may span up to eight years. Standardising training Abhay Dalvi, president, The Association of Surgeons of India (ASI), said discussions were happening in India to standardise the postgraduate training programme and the inadequacies in having the programme in its present three-year structure. M. Kanagavel, chairman, Chennai City Chapter of ASI, coordinated the oration and highlighted that a number of research papers that Dr. Chandramohan worked and helped with before his demise in July 2020 have been published since. All the speakers paid their tributes to the late surgeon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/india-has-fallen-behind-in-clinical-surgery-research/article33546457.ece
11 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Removal of MNM flags, posters is additional publicity: Kamal Haasan||The removal of Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) flags and posters in Coimbatore, ahead of his tour on Sunday, had brought additional publicity, the party chief Kamal Haasan told journalists at the airport on Sunday. “We would like to thank the minister and [Coimbatore] Corporation staff for removing posters as it had brought additional publicity,” he said If only they showed as much interest in public welfare as they had in removing the flags and posters, there would not have risen the need for him to enter politics, he added. Later, campaigning at various points in the city, Mr. Haasan said Tamil Nadu was ready for change. There was a historic opportunity in front of young voters to bring about a change in the State and he was there as a tool to help them bring about that change. When he had announced wages for homemakers as one of the MNM’s election promise, those who had initially laughed at it were now in awe of the scheme. Likewise, when he announced free laptop for every house, people had ridiculed him saying that he too was after freebie politics. It was not so, Mr. Haasan said and added that the computer would help them access government schemes without middlemen and do away corruption. In his closed-door interaction with representatives of various sections of society, the MNM head said he wanted cities in the State to help reach their potential.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/removal-of-mnm-flags-posters-is-additional-publicity-kamal-haasan/article33546509.ece
11 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||DIC plans series of activities to increase number of beneficiaries under UYEGP||The District Industries Centre, Coimbatore, is looking at a series of activities to increase the number of beneficiaries under the Unemployed Youth Employment Guarantee Programme (UYEGP) in the district. B. Karthigaivasan, General Manager of the DIC, told The Hindu recently that the State government has increased the subsidy under the scheme and relaxed the norms. The annual family income should be less than Rs. 5 lakh and the minimum education of the applicant should be Class VIII. The maximum subsidy available is Rs. 2.5 lakh and the maximum loan amount available for those going in for trade or service activity is Rs. 5 lakh. In the case of manufacturing activity, the maximum loan amount given will be Rs. 15 lakh. The General Manager said that about a month ago the DIC wrote to all the village panchayats in the district about the government schemes and distributed pamphlets about the programmes. It also plans to organise special camps, especially in rural areas. “This is the only scheme that gives subsidy for trade activity,” he said. Unlike earlier, the applicants do not have to attend interviews or training programmes now. Hence, the entire process of approving and sanctioning loans can be completed even within a month. In 2015-16, 393 applications were approved in the district under the UYEGP and Rs. 2.8 crore was disbursed as subsidy. Last financial year, as many as 198 units received Rs. 1.8 crore. This year, the district is looking at disbursing Rs. 1.8 crore. So far, 68 applicants have received Rs. 74.6 lakh as subsidy. “Every month the Coimbatore DIC receives nearly 40 applications. If the application is approved, it is sent to the banks. The banks process the application and if the loan amount is approved and disbursed, the banks and applicants can apply for the subsidy,” he said. With the spread of the COVID-19 this year, there was a slowdown in the applications received and approved initially. The process has picked up now and efforts are on to expedite the approval and sanctioning, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dic-plans-series-of-activities-to-increase-number-of-beneficiaries-under-uyegp/article33546496.ece
11 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||275 bird, 229 butterfly species documented in Coimbatore Forest Division in 2020||As many as 275 bird and 229 butterfly species were documented in the Coimbatore Forest Division in the year-long assessment done in 2020. The survey report, released by I. Anwardeen, Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, Coimbatore Circle, and District Forest Officer D. Venkatesh on Saturday, revealed that more species were documented in 2020 than in 2019 when 226 bird and 192 butterfly species were sighted. The survey, conducted by Coimbatore Nature Society (CNS), The Nature and Butterfly Society (TNBS) and WWF-India covered seven forest ranges of the division. Assistant Conservator of Forests M. Senthil Kumar supervised the exercise that saw the involvement of 70 naturalists and 43 Forest Department staff. According to CNS president P.R. Selvaraj, systematic surveys help in understanding the ecology of birds and their local and altitudinal movement better. TNBS president A. Pavendhan said that sighting of 229 species of butterflies out of the 278 species in the district’s check-list during the exercise augurs well for the healthy and safe habitat existing for butterflies in the division. D. Boominathan, landscape coordinator, WWF-India, suggested that more unexplored areas would be covered in future surveys. Bird diversity Among the total number of birds recorded, the passerine group of birds topped the list with 133 species. Major groups of birds documented were waterbirds (36 species), raptors (23), barbets and woodpeckers (15), doves and pigeons (13), cuckoos (11), swifts (8) and owls (7). The remaining 29 species were from groups such as ground-feeding birds, Sandgrouses, Kingfishers, Bee-eaters, Rollers, Hornbills, Nightjars, Trogons and Parakeets. Among the total birds sighted, 45 are migratory species. Interesting sightings during the assessment included migrant species such as Black Baza, a Compact Raptor, a Chestnut-winged Cuckoo, Red-headed Bunting and Grey-necked Bunting. Butterfly species A total of 229 butterfly species documented were from families such as swallowtails (16), whites and yellows (27), Nymphalidae (68), blues and judies (66) and skippers (52). A large congregation of Crows (Euploea species) was reported from Sirumugai range and Common Albatross, a butterfly known for its migratory behaviour, were seen in the thousands throughout Karamadai range.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/275-bird-229-butterfly-species-documented-in-coimbatore-forest-division-in-2020/article33546494.ece
11 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Police hand in glove with ruling party in Pollachi sexual assault case: Kanimozhi||When the sexual assault case came out in the open and since the police registered a case in early 2019, there was very little progress. The police were hand in glove with the ruling party so much so that by revealing the name of a survivor, they dissuaded other women from coming forward to lodge complaint, DMK women’s wing secretary M.K. Kanimozhi alleged. Leading an agitation in Pollachi on Sunday, she said that it was only after the DMK president M.K. Stalin raised the issue that the State government ordered for a CBI inquiry. Given the AIADMK government’s poor track record in protecting women and ensuring justice for the affected, it was surprising that a Minister had compared Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami to Abraham Lincoln. How could Mr. Palaniswami, who had pledged the State's interests with the Centre to remain in power, be compared to the American leader who fought to abolish slavery, she asked. Ms. Kanimozhi also said that while driving to Pollachi to lead the protest, the police, at the behest of ruling party, tried to stop DMK cadre and her from reaching the protest venue. The police allowed them to proceed only after Mr. Stalin threatened to make widespread the protest demanding justice for the affected women. Leaders and cadre from the DMK alliance – the CPI, CPI(M), KNMDK and a few others – took part in protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-hand-in-glove-with-ruling-party-in-pollachi-sexual-assault-case-kanimozhi/article33546512.ece
11 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore rural gets 397 Village Vigilance Police Officers||As many as 397 police personnel have been appointed as Village Vigilance Police Officers (VVPO) within the limits of Coimbatore District (Rural) Police. Police personnel of the rank of special sub-inspector, head constable and grade I constable were appointed as VVPOs and they will be in contact with the people assigned to them. The VVPOs will handle a WhatsApp group which will have as members village administrative officers, village assistants, panchayat presidents, vice presidents, ward members, councillors, teachers, traders and other stakeholders who are in close contact with people. Coimbatore Rural Superintendent of Police Ara. Arularasu said that the 397 VVPOs were appointed from January 1. According to him, they will be in-charge of villages and hamlets coming under 218 mother villages in Coimbatore rural. “Their main duty is grassroots level management of a wide range of issues. The WhatsApp group will even have overhead tank operators and lineman of the area as members. The VVPO for the area will act to resolve basic issues such as power failure or lack of water supply which may otherwise snowball into bigger issues or agitations. VVPOs gain the trust of people when they act timely. In return, they get intelligence on various issues from socially committed people,” he said. As of now, VVPOs will visit the villages assigned for them twice a week to get familiarised. Boards displaying the phone number and photo of VVPOs, phone numbers of the inspector, sub-inspector and the police station were installed in the 397 locations. Inspector General of Police (West Zone) K. Periaiah on Saturday visited some of the villages in Pollachi police sub-division and introduced the VVPOs for the areas to the public. He also handed over stationery article and books to school children. Salem In Salem, VVPOs for villages under Omalur police station were introduced recently. Mr. Periaiah, Pradip Kumar, DIG Salem Range, and S.Deepa Ganiger, Superintendent of Police, introduced the VVPOs for Kamalapuram, Palbakki and Pottiyapuram villages. The police said, over 350 VVPOs have been inducted till date in Salem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-rural-gets-397-vvpos/article33546502.ece
11 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Textile industry reiterates demand to remove ADD on viscose fibre||The National Committee on Textiles and Clothing (NCTC) has appealed to the Union Government to remove anti dumping duty (ADD) on viscose fibre. In a memorandum to the government, the Committee said because of the growing market opportunities worldwide for viscose blended textiles and clothing, the demand for viscose fibre has increased steeply not only in India, but also across the globe. Imported price As the imported price of viscose yarn was cheaper due to high anti-dumping duty prevailing on the domestic viscose staple fibre, the weaving and knitting sectors were importing large volume of VSF spun yarn. The import of VSF spun yarn increased from 2 million kg in 2016-2017 to 56 million kg in 2019-2020. In the post-Covid market scenario, viscose fibre price has increased from $ 1.15 to $ 1.50 a kg. As the domestic viscose fibre price was expensive due to anti-dumping duty (upto US$ 0.512 per kg), the demand for domestic spun yarn also reduced. Thus, the availability and price are affecting the entire viscose textile value chain, especially the knitted and powerloom sectors. Weavers in all the major viscose powerloom clusters in Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, and Gujarat are agitating against the steep increase in viscose fibre prices. Hence, the Union government should remove the anti-dumping duty on visocse fibre. The Textile Ministry has recommended removal of the duty on the fibre as it will ensure availability of raw material at affordable prices. Removal of the anti-dumping duty will ensure that Indian viscose prices are on a par with the global prices and the entire value chain is globally competitive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/textile-industry-reiterates-demand-to-remove-add-on-viscose-fibre/article33546495.ece
11 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘AIADMK not protecting the affected women’||DMK women’s wing secretary M.K. Kanimozhi on Sunday accused the AIADMK government of trying to protect the accused in the Pollachi sexual assault case. Leading an agitation in Pollachi, she said the government had made efforts to protect the accused and this showed that the ruling party was not interested in helping the affected women get justice. The recent arrest of K. Arulanantham, AIADMK’s students wing secretary for Pollachi town [since expelled], showed that the ruling party had protected him from arrest so that his political masters were shielded. When the DMK returned to power, it would ensure that the affected women got justice. The party would not rest till then. The protest had nothing to do with the impending Assembly election, Ms. Kanimozhi said, adding that she wanted the real accused to be arrested. She urged the AIADMK government to stop protecting its Ministers, their family and party cadre.  When the DMK returns to power, it will ensure that the affected women get justice M.K. Kanimozhi DMK women’s wing secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-not-protecting-the-affected-women/article33546436.ece
11 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Panchayat vice-president, brother held for murder||The Periyanaickenpalayam police on Saturday arrested vice-president of Vellamadai grama panchayat and his brother in connection with the murder of a man who worked at the chicken stall run by the former. The police said that R. Ganesan (42), vice-president of Vellamadai panchayat and a resident of Andal Nagar at Samanaickenpalayam, and his brother R. Muruganandam (33) from Vaiyampalayam, an advocate practising in Coimbatore, were arrested late on Saturday. According to the police, P. Sureshkumar (25) of Netaji Nagar near Samanaikenpalayam worked at the chicken stall run by Ganesan, who belongs to DMK. “Sureshkumar often gave information to Ganesan’s wife Thulasimani (38) about Ganesan’s activities. This led to quarrels between the husband and wife and Thulasimani left for her paternal house recently”, said the police. Following this, Ganesan told Sureshkumar not to come for work. On January 4, Sureshkumar went to Thulasimani’s paternal home at Periya Mathampalayam under the influence of alcohol around 8.30 p.m. and stabbed her during a quarrel. He also stabbed the woman’s father Nagaraj (62), who came for her rescue, the police said. The injured father and daughter were admitted to a private hospital in Coimbatore. According to investigators, Sureshkumar was found dead in front of Nagaraj’s house after the incident. The police initially suspected that Nagaraj could have assaulted Sureshkumar in an attempt to save himself and his daughter. However, during the course of the investigation, Ganesan and Muruganandam confessed to the police of bludgeoning Sureshkumar to death. They were arrested late on Saturday and remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panchayat-vice-president-brother-held-for-murder/article33546506.ece
11 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Vizha concludes||The nine-day annual Coimbatore Vizha concluded on Sunday with a series of events. The virtual cyclathon had nearly 300 registrations and the marathon had nearly 900 registrations. As many as 35 of those who had registered for the cyclathon assembled at Race Course road and rode on seven different routes. The Pitch, which is to encourage startups, had over 90 registrations. The final pitching was held on Saturday and three select companies received cash prize of totally Rs. 45,000. Two of these startups are from Coimbatore and one from Mumbai. The Art Street, which was virtual this year, had separate online galleries for the participating artists and workshops were held on Sunday too. For Chef’s Plate, an online cookery contest, 10 of the 60 registrations went to the finals held on Sunday evening. On the final day, there was a music programme presented by Crescendo music club. The Vizha, anchored by Young Indians (Yi), had gone virtual this year because of the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-vizha-concludes/article33546492.ece
11 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||EV charging station inaugurated||MG Motor and Tata Power have installed a 60 kW public EV charging station at the MG Dealership in Coimbatore. The initiative is a part of MG’s recent partnership with Tata Power for the deployment of 50 kW and 60 kW DC Superfast Charging Stations across the country. The EV charging station can be used for all vehicles compatible with CCS fast-charging standard. MG ZS EV, a pure electric internet SUV, can be charged up to 80 % in 50 minutes at the facility. According to Gaurav Gupta, Chief Commercial Officer, MG Motor India, Coimbatore is a key industrial hub of India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ev-charging-station-inaugurated/article33546500.ece
11 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||GSEA local winners||Entrepreneur’s Organisation (EO), Coimbatore chapter, hosted the local edition of Global Student Entrepreneur Awards (GSEA) recently. The regional finals will be held in Bhopal. The contest is for student entrepreneurs who actively run a business. More than 1,700 competitors from over 41 countries will take part in the global finals. Winners here received cash prize money along with the mentorship opportunity to compete with South Asia Finals. The winners here are Poornima, Dilip Kumar, and Kumaraguru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gsea-local-winners/article33546499.ece
11 January 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Woman held for cheating||The District Crime Branch police on Saturday arrested a 42-year-old woman on charges of cheating a 53-year-old man over the sale of a house. The police said the accused, Muneera Begum of Kondur near Cuddalore, was arrested based on a complaint lodged by Vivek of Cuddalore. According to the police, Begum proposed the sale of her house through two real estate brokers, Janakiraman and Doraiswamy in November 2019. Trusting Begum, the complainant decided to buy the property and paid Rs. 19.50 lakh in different instalments. Vivek later signed an agreement with Begum who assured him of the sale and of the completion of the registration process in three months. The police said the complainant was not allotted the house. Also, he found that the house was sold by Begum to another person. The police arrested Begum from her mother’s house in Thanjavur and launched a search to nab two others who are at large.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-held-for-cheating/article33546878.ece
11 January 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Three persons killed as car overturns||Three persons, including two women, died and two others sustained injuries when the car they were travelling in overturned and caught fire at Kallur near Thittakudi on Sunday. The names of the two of the three victims were given as Subramani, 40 and Selvarani, 35, while the identity of the third person is yet to be ascertained. The accident occurred around 2.30 p.m. According to the police, Muthukumar, 40, of Theni was travelling in the car with his wife Selvarani, son Sai Advik, 5, and a relative from Theni to Chennai. Subramani, hailing from Theni, was driving the car. When they neared Kallur, the car skidded off the Chennai-Tiruchi national highway and overturned into a roadside pit after Subramani lost control of the vehicle. In the impact, the car caught fire. While Subramani was charred to death, Selvarani and the others sustained serious injuries. They were rushed to the Thittakudi General Hospital where Selvarani and another unidentified person died. Further investigations are on.  The car skidded off the Chennai-Tiruchi highway, overturned into a roadside pit and caught fire||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-persons-killed-as-car-overturns/article33546882.ece
11 January 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||9 held for kidnapping businessman||The Erode police on Sunday arrested nine persons for kidnapping and holding hostage three persons near Sathyamangalam. The police said Ranjithkumar and Prem, reportedly a functionary of Hindu mahasanbha in Coimbatore, recently contacted Mohan, who is into antique business in Chennai, and invited him to Sathyamangalam to talk business on certain antique items. Mohan, along with driver and his friend Rahman reached Sathyamangalam on January 7. An unidentified gang posing as policemen kidnapped the trio and held them hostage at a farm house at Gandhi nagar in Sathyamangalam. The gang demanded a ransom of Rs. 5 crore from Mohan’s wife to release him. Vidhya transferred Rs. 21 lakh in three transactions to the account of one Ramesh from Dharmapuri. Later, Vidhya complained at the Sathyamangalam police station and a special team rescued Mohan and others. The police arrested nine persons and recovered Rs. 9 lakh, 16 sovereigns gold jewellery and three cars. The accused were remanded and the police are on the lookout for six more persons involved in the crime. According to the police, the gang has been involved in duping many people. Further investigations are under way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/9-held-for-kidnapping-businessman/article33546603.ece
11 January 2021||Karaikudi,TAMIL NADU||CSIR-CECRI invites applications from experts||The Council of Scientific and Industrial Research-Central Electrochemical Research Institute (CSIR-CECRI) has sought an Expression of Interest (EoI) from experts for the development of multimedia content for CSIR-virtual lab. Under the Jigyasa programme (a student-scientist connect programme) implemented by CSIR in collaboration with Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan, CECRI plans to develop e-learning modules with audio visual clippings and animation for conducting programmes on the virtual platform. In connection with this, CSIR-CECRI has sought Expression of Interest from Industrial organisations/Technical Consultancy organisations/ individuals to partner with this activity. Interested applicants can send their Expression of Interest in a sealed cover super scribing “Expression of Interest for the development of multimedia content for CSIR-CECRI Jigyasa Virtual Lab” to The Director, CSIR- Central Electrochemical Research Institute, Karaikudi – 630 003, Tamil Nadu by post. The application including the company profile and samples from the past experience should reach the address on or before January 25 by 4.00 pm. The shortlisted applicants will be called for further discussions. For more details applicants can visitwww.cecri.res.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/csir-cecri-invites-applications-from-experts/article33546598.ece
11 January 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Two persons killed in wall collapse||Two persons including an 8-year-old girl died when a wall of a building collapsed during an eruthu vidum vizha held near Veppanapalli here on Sunday. The police said the event was organised without permission. The deceased were identified as Meghashree (8) and Munibala (62). The eruthu vidum vizha was organised as part of a temple festival in Neralagiri village at Veppanapalli. Close to 200 bulls were brought from various places for contesting in the event. Hundreds gathered at the place to watch the event. Over 30 persons were watching the event from the terrace of one of the houses and people were also sitting on the side porch of the house. Unable to bear the weight, the side wall of the terrace collapsed and the debris fell on people sitting on the side porch in which the two persons died, the police said. Over 30 persons suffered injuries and they were rushed to Veppanapalli government hospital. Superintendent of Police Bandi Gangadhar visited the place and conducted inquiries. P. Murugan, DMK MLA, visited the injured at the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-persons-killed-in-wall-collapse/article33546607.ece
11 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Car for best bull, tamer at jallikattu’||A car will be awarded each to the best bull and player during the jallikattu events scheduled to be held during the Pongal festival, said State Revenue Minister R.B. Udhayakumar in Madurai on Sunday. Addressing mediapersons after participating in the ‘muhurtha kaal’ ceremony held at Alanganallur, Mr. Udhayakumar said that the Chief Minister and Deputy Chief Minister would flag off the jallikattu event at Alanganallur on January 16 at 8 a.m. Other senior Ministers would also witness the jallikattu, he added.  Officials from the departments of revenue, health, public works, local bodies and police were working in tandem while making arrangements for the jallikattu events, said Mr. Udhayakumar. The Minister said instructions were given to local bodies on how to construct barricades in the arena to ensure compliance with COVID-19 precautions. Collection yards had been cleaned at all the three venues; CCTV cameras would also be installed in the arenas, he said. The spectators’ gallery would be built in such a manner that physical distancing was ensured. Drinking water, toilet and parking facilities for spectators would also be arranged, he added. Mr. Udhayakumar said that 430 bull tamers at Avaniapuram, 651 at Palamedu and 655 in Alanganallur had been declared medically fit during basic medical screening held on Saturday. Collector T. Anbalagan and Sholavandan MLA K. Manickam were present at the event. RT-PCR tests Meanwhile, RT-PCR tests for bull tamers participating at Avaniapuram jallikattu event commenced on Sunday and will continue on Monday. City Health Officer P. Kumaraguruparan said that test results of players participating in Avaniapuram would be received by January 12. RT-PCR tests would be conducted for those participating in Palamedu on January 11 and 12; and Alanganallur on January 12 and 13.  Spectators’ gallery will be erected in such a way that physical distancing is ensured  R.B. Udhayakumar  Revenue Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/car-for-best-bull-and-player-at-jallikattu-says-minister/article33546479.ece
11 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Do not give exclusive reservation without caste-based census: de-notified communities||Leaders of de-notified communities have warned of serious backlash if the State government unilaterally announced exclusive reservation for Vanniyars among the Most Backward Communities. The Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) has demanded 20% exclusive reservation for Vanniyars in government jobs and higher education.“Southern districts will literally burn if the reservation for Vanniyars is declared without caste-based census,” said one of its leaders and former All India Forward Bloc MLA P.V. Kathiravan. A few hundred members belonging to many of the 68 DNCs staged an impromptu agitation on Madurai railway junction premises demanding to declare them as de-notified tribes. “We do not want two certificates - DNCs for State government and De-notified Tribes for the Centre,” he said. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Kathiravan said just because PMK is an alliance partner of the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, the State government should not take a unilateral decision. “If Vanniyars, who are part of MBC, are given exclusive reservation [He claimed the government was examining giving 15% reservation] , then DNCs will be left with only 5% reservation,” he said. Those communities who vehemently opposed the British regime were declared notified communities and were subjected to repressive measures. “We cannot give up our rights. We are ready to sacrifice our lives to uphold them,” he added. DNC leaders P. Ayyakannu and B. Thavamani Devi were among those who took part in the protest.  Just because PMK is an alliance partner of the AIADMK, the State government should not take a unilateral decision  P.V. KathiravanAIFB MLA||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/do-not-give-exclusive-quota-without-caste-based-census/article33546466.ece
11 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Pay 50% salary to private school teachers’||Several schools have faced extreme financial crisis during the COVID-19 pandemic, and, hence, the government must pay at least 50% of the salary to private school teachers until schools reopen, demanded Federation of Private Schools Association (FePSA), a federation of associations from 38 districts in the State. The members of Federation of Private Schools Association passed several resolutions at a meeting held here on Sunday. More than 200 members participated in the meeting. Schools must reopen for students from Class 1 onwards before the end of January, said M. Arumugam, State president of FePSA. Schools that were not functioning during the COVID-19 pandemic must be given time extension to pay insurance and road tax for their vehicles. Loan payment Private schools and government-aided schools must also be given time extension to pay their instalments for the loan until the schools reopen. The rule necessitating primary and nursery schools to get approval from Directorate of Town and Country Planning must be cancelled. The recognition orders issued for private schools must be extended for a five-year period. “For schools that have recognition orders and have been successfully functioning for 10 years, the government must extend the recognition orders permanently,” said Mr. Arumugam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pay-50-salary-to-private-school-teachers-until-reopening/article33546590.ece
11 January 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Armed men break chairs at BJP office in Madurai||An armed gang allegedly entered the Bharatiya Janata Party Madurai rural district office premises on Sunday and broke some plastic chairs, prompting senior police officers to rush to the spot. Following the incident, a group of BJP cadres blocked Sivaganga Road at Melamadai here demanding the arrest of the accused. No one was injured in the incident, Assistant Commissioner of Police (Anna Nagar) T.K. Grace Lily said. “Five masked men barged into the terrace of the party office and damaged a few chairs. However, they could not attack party leader Maha Suseendran and a woman, who were at the office as they had locked the door from inside,” said Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) R. Shiva Prasad. The BJP leader had complained that the armed men attempted to attack them. Earlier, tension prevailed in Tiruppalai area when BJP cadres erected flags and loud speakers near the gate of Jumma Masjid in the area on Saturday night. The flags and banners were kept to welcome party State president L. Murugan for Pongal celebrations on Sunday. “After we lodged a complaint, Tallakulam police removed the flags and speakers. We had expressed our apprehension that the BJP cadres could beat drums near the mosque,” said Hazrat of the mosque Mohammed Ishak. After the police could not prevent drum beating on Sunday, cadres of the Social Democratic Party of India and the Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi staged a road roko. After Pongal celebrations, Mr. Murugan left the place taking another road. Mr. Suseendran had sent a video message on Saturday night alleging that party flags and banners were destroyed and dumped in the drainage by the local people and the VCK cadres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/armed-men-break-chairs-at-bjp-madurai-rural-district-office/article33546465.ece
11 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Withdraw cases filed against 179 protesters: MP||The peaceful jallikattu protests that took place across the State in 2017 have stood as an example for farmers who are protesting in the national capital against the agricultural laws, said Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan here on Sunday. Speaking at a conference held to stress the State government to withdraw cases filed against 179 jallikattu protesters in Madurai district, he said the jallikattu protests were the people’s dissent against the Central government’s agenda to attack the tradition of the State. He reiterated that the State government must immediately withdraw the cases filed against the jallikattu protesters. Although the State government takes credit for conducting jallikattu in 2017, it was truly the protesters across the State who fought to protect the tradition of the State, said May 17 Movement coordinator Thirumurugan Gandhi. “Instead of recognising the protesters, the government has filed cases against them. This shows that the government sees the people as their enemy,” he said. If the State government did not withdraw cases against the protesters, then they will have to face adverse consequences during the elections, he added. R. Murali, national secretary of People's Union for Civil Liberties, demanded the government to immediately release findings of Justice S. Rajeswaran Commission that was appointed to probe into the violence on the last day of jallikattu protests. “The government and police tried to frame the protesters as anti-social elements. By foisting cases against the protesters, the government is aim is to stop any democratic protests in the State,” he added. Several social activists from across the State spoke at the event. Resolutions were also passed stressing the government to immediately withdraw cases filed against the protesters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/revoke-cases-filed-against-jallikattu-protesters/article33546476.ece
11 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Traditional varieties of paddy on display||An exhibition on traditional varieties of paddy was organised by Madurai District Tiny and Small Scale Industries Association (MADITSSIA) Club here on Saturday as part of the pongal celebrations. More than 170 varieties of paddy were kept on display at the event. The event was inaugurated by MADITSSIA president B. Muruganantham. MADITSSIA Club president A.R.M. Ramasamy and MADITSSIA Trust Foundation Chairman P.T. Krishnamoorthy were present. Apart from the exhibition, pongal was cooked and traditional folk arts were performed at the event. The importance and medicinal value of paddy was explained at the event. The students of the Agricultural College and Research Institute and the general public attended the exhibition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traditional-paddy-varieties-on-display/article33546786.ece
11 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||CM-led agitation against L-G ends abruptly after three days||The agitation by the Secular Democratic Progressive Alliance demanding recall of Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi wound up abruptly on Sunday. The agitation launched on Friday by SDPA, which includes ruling Congress, was earlier planned to be held for four days. Secretary of the CPI and convenor for the alliance A. M Saleem told The Hindu that they would relaunch the agitation after Pongal festival. In the informal consultations held by leaders of various constituents, a consensus emerged to hold continuous protests including hunger strike, dharnas and a signature campaign, he said. According to a Congress leader, there was a request from workers to wind up the agitation one day earlier in view of Pongal festival. Also, traders were facing inconvenience due to the traffic restrictions in the area around the venue of the stir and Central forces in the Boulevard, the leader said. In a related development, Ms. Bedi wrote to Social Welfare Minister M. Kandasamy informing him that she had called for status report from Secretaries on the issues he had raised in a letter to her on January 9. Ms. Bedi informed the Minister that she would inform the date for discussion as soon as possible. Speaking on the last day of the agitation, Mr. Kandasamy said it should be a long-drawn-out battle against the Lt. Governor to protect the rights of the people of the Union Territory. Ministers and elected representatives have to wait endlessly to have an audience with the Lt. Governor to discuss issues concerning people, he charged. Government whip R. K. R Anantharaman said the agitation should be intensified until the Lt. Governor was either recalled or demits office. The main objective should be to obtain Statehood, he said. CPI (M) Politburo member G. Ramakrishnan said Ms. Bedi had made her intentions clear when she administered the pledge to three BJP leaders appointed by the Centre as nominated legislators. The intention of the Centre was to disturb the ruling government, he charged. Minister begins protest Soon after the agitation led by the Congress against Lieutenant Governor was wound up near Anna Statue, Social Welfare Minister M. Kandasamy launched an agitation on the portico of the Assembly demanding an audience with the Lieutenant Governor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/narayanasamy-led-stir-against-kiran-bedi-ends-after-3-days/article33546468.ece
11 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Jipmer to hold second stray vacancy counselling on Jan. 15||Jipmer will conduct a second stray vacancy round of counselling on January 15 for vacant MBBS 2020-21 session seats of Jipmer Karaikal campus. A notification issued by Jipmer Dean (Academic) superseded the previous circular limiting the stray counselling to a single round on Sunday and set forth a second round of counselling for filling stray vacancies. The counselling will be conducted on Jipmer Puducherry campus. Registration is mandatory and registered candidates should be willing to participate in-person, if shortlisted, for the second round of Jipmer stray vacancy counselling. All candidates whose names appear on the “Eligible list for stray vacancy round UG 2020 MBBS/BDS (Open)” uploaded by the Medical Counselling Committee on January 7 must register with Jipmer, if they wish to participate in the second round of stray vacancy counselling for Jipmer Karaikal campus. Jipmer has also stipulated that registration should be completed by noon of January 12. From the eligible registered candidates, a list of candidates ten times the number of vacant seats in each category will be prepared based on merit and uploaded on www.jipmer.edu.in in the evening of January 12 along with the updated vacant seats list. Those candidates who have registered but their names are not shortlisted on the published merit list will not be allowed to participate in the counselling and are asked not to report to Jipmer. The second round counselling will be held from 8:30 a.m. at Dr. APJ Abdul Kalam JIPMER Auditorium. Further details as well as updates are available on onwww.jipmer.edu.in  Registration is mandatory and registered candidates should be willing to participate in-person||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jipmer-to-hold-second-stray-vacancy-counselling-on-jan-15/article33546883.ece
11 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. logs two more deaths and 30 new cases||The Union Territory recorded two more deaths on Sunday, taking the COVID-19 toll to 638 while 30 new cases were detected in the last 24 hours. The deaths were reported in Puducherry and Karaikal. Both patients were male and had diabetes mellitus. A 76-year-old patient died in Jipmer while an 82-year-old man breathed his last at the GH in Karaikal, a medical bulletin said. Toll in Puducherry The death toll in Puducherry stood at 521, followed by Karaikal (64), Yanam (45) and Mahe (eight). Of the new cases which were confirmed from 3,050 tests, Puducherry accounted for 22 newly-infected, Mahe seven and Karaikal one. No new cases emerged from Yanam, which now has just three cases (one in hospital and two in home isolation). With 40 patients discharged, the active cases in the Union Territory aggregated to 316. Of this, 156 were in hospital and 160 in home isolation. The test positivity rate was below 1% at 0.98%, case fatality rate 1.66% and recovery rate 97.52%. The Health Department has so far undertaken 5,16,036 tests of which 4,73,048 returned negative. 9 cases in Cuddalore Cuddalore district reported nine fresh cases of COVID-19 on Sunday, taking the district’s tally to 24,799. While 24,417 persons have been discharged, the active cases in the district stands at 69. In Villupuram district, two persons tested positive, taking the total number of cases to 15,079. Kallakurichi district reported two positive cases, taking the overall count to 10,836.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-logs-two-more-deaths-and-30-new-cases/article33546884.ece
11 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK stages protest against Udhayanidhi Stalin||The AlADMK Puducherry unit on Sunday staged agitations at two places in the town to condemn the objectionable remarks made by DMK youth wing leader Udhayanidhi Stalin, against Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami. AIADMK leader in the Puducherry Assembly and secretary (East wing) A. Anbalagan along with legislator Vaiyapuri Manikandan organised a demonstration in front of the railway station. The protesters raised slogans against Mr. Udhayanidhi and sought an apology from him for his remarks. Former legislator and party secretary (West wing) Om Sakthi Sekar and his supporters staged a demonstration near Subbaiah Statue. They also demanded an apology from the DMK for the comments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-stages-protest-against-udhayanidhi-stalin/article33546876.ece
11 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Minister for Social Welfare launches agitation against L-G||Social Welfare Minister M. Kandasamy started an indefinite agitation late on Sunday seeking an audience with Lieutenant Governor Kiran Bedi to discuss issues pertaining to his department. Soon after the agitation led by the Congress against Lieutenant Governor was wound up near Anna Statue, Mr. Kandasamy launched an agitation on the portico of the Assembly demanding an audience with the Lieutenant Governor. The Minister said he would not suspend the agitation till the Lt. Governor gives an audience.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-for-social-welfare-launches-agitation-against-l-g/article33546881.ece
11 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Health Department to send select samples to designated genome sequencing labs||The Health Department will shortly begin sending select samples that test positive for COVID-19 to designated genome sequencing laboratories as part of a national effort to map the defining characteristics of the mutant coronavirus variant that was recently reported in a few countries. So far, the Union Territory has not reported the return/visit of any traveller with air travel history to the U.K. or other countries that have identified the mutant strain, save for one air passenger who shared the domestic flight from Delhi to Chennai with a U.K. returnee and had been placed under a period of observation as a precautionary measure. Health Director S. Mohan Kumar said the Centre had stipulated extracting one in 100 samples for submission to the nearest genome sequencing laboratory from a list of designated centres. “We will most likely begin sharing samples with a designated lab this week,” he said. The designated centre could be either the DBT-InStem-NCBS in Bengaluru or the ICMR-National Institute of Virology in Pune. “Under the plan, we would be sending select samples in a single batch on a weekly basis,” said J. Ramesh, Nodal Officer (Codi-19/Infectious Diseases). Health officials said a genome sequencing study is crucial to differentiate the SARS-CoV-2 strain that has been in circulation from a mutant version reported first in the U.K., and later in a few other countries. Molecular-level studies on the genetic code could also be critical to evolving appropriate testing protocols and prevention campaigns before the second strain gains a foothold in communities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/health-department-to-send-select-samples-to-designated-genome-sequencing-labs/article33546886.ece
11 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘Students must be allowed to participate in the protest’||The Communist Party of India (CPI) has urged Senior Superintendent of Police Mahesh Banwal to withdraw an order directing students not to participate in thefour-day agitationcalled for by the Secular Democratic Alliance demanding the recall of Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi. In a statement on Saturday night, secretary of CPI A. M Saleem, accused the Police Department of threatening educational institutions to prevent student participation in the agitation. There is pressure put by the Police Department to thwart students’ involvement in the protest against Lt. Governor, the statement said. Freedom to participate in an agitation was the fundamental right of citizens. By issuing such an order, the Police Department has curtailed the democratic rights of students, the statement also said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/students-must-be-allowed-to-participate-in-the-protest/article33546877.ece
11 January 2021||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Pongal gift packs given to construction workers||Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar on Sunday distributed Pongal gift packs to as many as 6,959 construction labourers and pensioners belonging to Illupur and Viralimalai areas at Illupur in the district on Sunday. The gift pack includes rice, ghee, oil, jaggery, cashew nut, raisins and cardamom. Free dhothis, towels and sarees were given to male and female construction workers respectively. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Vijayabaskar said Pongal gift packs worth Rs. 2.83 crore would be distributed to as many as 37,942 construction workers and pensioners. The gift packs were being given as part of welfare assistance to the construction workers registered with the Construction Workers Welfare Board functioning under the Labour Department. Collector P. Uma Maheswari, officials from revenue and labour departments participated..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pongal-gift-packs-given-to-construction-workers/article33546575.ece
11 January 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Following arrests, fishermen plan protest||Fishermen associations in Ramanathapuram have announced that they will go on strike from Monday and have passed three resolutions at a meeting in support of the nine fishermen, from Thangachimadam and Rameswam, reportedly arrested by the Sri Lankan Navy for crossing the IMBL in the early hours of Sunday. According to sources in the Fisheries Department, 517 mechanised boats had obtained tokens from Rameswaram and ventured into the sea on Saturday, and over 2,000 fishermen from Rameswaram, Thangachimadam, Mandapam and other hamlets had gone for fishing in them. In a mechanised boat owned by A. Kirubai, son of Abaranam, of Manthope, Thangachimadam, nine fishermen, including Kirubai, 37; Valan Koushik, 24; Micheyaas, 30; Kingston, 28; Sam Stiller, 21; Nijaan, 30, and Brighton, 22, were sailing. They were arrested, said P. Sesu Raja, a fishermen’s association leader, adding that the Navy nabbed them while they were fishing in the Indian waters, closer to Katchatheevu. He said according to information reaching here, the arrested fishermen were taken to a camp in Kankesanthurai. Speaking to The Hindu , a senior official in the Fisheries Department, Chennai, said a total of 36 fishermen, in four mechanised boats from Rameswaram, had been arrested by the Sri Lankan Navy, in less than a month. With Saturday’s arrest, 45 fishermen and five boats have been taken by the Sri Lanakn authorities. When asked about a report that the Sri Lankan government had released seven of the 36 fishermen, he said they were yet to be handed over, as they were all quarantined in a camp due to COVID-19. Resolution passed Fishermen leaders, in a resolution passed at the meeting, condemned the Sri Lankan government for repeatedly arresting the fishermen, who, they claimed, were fishing only in the Indian territory. They insisted that both the Central and State governments should to consider their demands, immediately, and take steps for the release of the arrested fishermen. Until then, they have announced that they would remain off the sea.  According to sources in the Fisheries Department, 517 mechanised boats had obtained tokens from Rameswaram and ventured into the sea on Saturday||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/following-arrests-fishermen-plan-protest/article33546434.ece
11 January 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Food processing centre set up to develop value-added products||The Horticulture Department has started production of squash, jams and jellies from its produce at Karumandurai farm here. The department has set up a food processing centre to develop value-added products from organic produce it cultivated at the farm spread over 1,000 acre. According to the authorities, the department cultivates guava, mangoes, papaya, amla and tomato, brinjal, chillies and a few other varieties using organic methods. No chemical fertilizers are used. As part of imparting training to farmers and to develop value-added products, the department has set up the processing centre on the premises at Rs. 15 lakh. The officials said the products did not contain any preservatives and they would be marketed through Tamil Nadu Horticulture Development Agency outlets. At present, they were manufacturing pickles from lemon, amla and garlic. Jams, jellies and squashes were being produced from guava, papaya, apple, grapes and mango. V. Sathya, Deputy Director, Horticulture, said, “at present, we are producing 500 kg of various products and we are planning to increase it to one tonne gradually.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/food-processing-centre-set-up-to-develop-value-added-products/article33546606.ece
11 January 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Action against dumping waste in drains||The Salem Corporation has warned of stern action against persons dumping waste in drains or at public places here. On Saturday, a plogging event was organised by the Corporation at residential areas in Ammapet, Kondalampet, Sooramangalam and Hasthampatti zones and Corporation Commissioner N. Ravichandran took part in the activities at Kondalampatti. As many as 680 volunteers from Abirami Garden, Gopalapuram Rotary Welfare Association, Smart Salem, Round Table, Salem Youth Club, Chennai Silks, Pothys, Siva Textiles, Annai Indira nagar residents’ association and Salem Motorcycle Youth Association took part. About 735 kg of plastic waste was collected. Mr. Ravichandran warned that action would be taken against businesses and persons discarding waste in public places and in drains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/action-against-dumping-waste-in-drains/article33546604.ece
11 January 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Part-time teachers seek permanent jobs||Part-time teachers petitioned Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami here on Friday demanding steps to make their jobs permanent. Members of Tamil Nadu All Part-Time Teachers Association said that 12,920 part-time teachers were in the State and they were appointed by former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa to improve various skills of students. They were receiving Rs. 7,700 at present and they had work only three-and-a-half days a week. The petitioners demanded that their jobs should be made permanent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/part-time-teachers-seek-permanent-jobs/article33546609.ece
11 January 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Jawan laid to rest with military honours||G. Arumugam, 38, a Naik in the army who died of burns in Jammu on January 8, was laid to rest with military honours at Vadugapatti in Theni district on Sunday. According to family members, he served for the last 19 years in the army. On December 27, 2020, officials informed them that when Arumugam was on duty at a post in Jammu, a fire at a bunker led to destruction of materials there. In an attempt to put out the fire, he stumbled upon the stove in which the kerosene had spilled and his track suit caught fire. He was given first aid and rushed to hospital. Subsequently, he was shifted to a hospital in Udhampur where he died on January 8. The body was airlifted to Coimbatore and brought here by road. Senior military officials, Collector M. Pallavi Baldev, Superintendent of Police Sai Charan Tejaswi and other authorities laid wreaths. Following a guard of honour, the jawan’s body was laid to rest. The jawan is survived by his wife Pandirani, 35, daughter Jeyasri, 13, and son Palsabari, 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jawan-laid-to-rest/article33546563.ece
11 January 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||New barrage gets a control room||Construction of a building for carrying out single-point monitoring and control to operate the gates of the new barrage at Mukkombu has begun. The building that would house the monitoring and control system is coming up on the riverbed between the southern and northern arm of the barrage. The building is being constructed above 73.84 feet of the maximum flood level and pPiles will bear the weight of the G+2 story building. Sources told The Hindu that the ground floor will have provisions for housing diesel generators to operate the gates in case of power failure. It would be a complete backup mechanism to operate all 55 gates of both southern and northern arms. A conference hall and an office room would form the first floor of the building. The second floor would be allotted for accommodating all monitoring and control mechanisms. A senior engineer said that the control room has been designed to view the flow of water clearly both upstream and downstream. Transparent glass would cover a portion of the building. Separate panels for all 55 gates-45 in southern arm and 10 in northern arm-would be established in the second floor. The gates could be operated manually and electronically. The engineer said apart from continuously monitoring the reservoir water level, the system would envisage increase or decrease in level by taking into account the geographical contours of the area and other factors. The sensor would measure the rise or fall in water level. It would enable the adjustment of water outflow to maintain the required level. All aspects of water discharge, inflow, outflow, sudden increase in inflow, water current, water level and others would be displayed on panels. Out of 55 hydraulic shutters, eight shutters have already been erected. The average weight of each shutter was about 10 kg. Each of them has been fabricated as per the requirement. One of the shutters has been commissioned to study the functioning of it. It was found that it was performing well. A few modifications would be made to improve its efficiency. Ten more shutters were ready for erection. They would be erected in the next few days. The engineer said that though the extended spell of northeast monsoon had been posing a challenge, work was well on target. With the deployment of additional work force, the work has been expedited, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-barrage-gets-a-control-room/article33546567.ece
11 January 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Kushboo joins in Pongal celebration||Actor-turned-politician Kushboo Sundar joined scores of BJP women cadre to celebrate Pongal in Koppu village in the predominantly rural Andhanallur block on Sunday evening. The event organised by the party saw the participation of nearly 500 women who, in groups, prepared Pongal in the traditional way with firewood. While, women prepared the sweet dish, children showcased their skills in traditional dance forms. Ms. Kushboo told mediapersons on the occasion that the upcoming elections would be a litmus test for both DMK and AIADMK under the new leadership. However, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palanisami had proved his worth as a leader, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kushboo-joins-pongal-celebration/article33546565.ece
11 January 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Residents raise issue of irregular garbage collection||Residents of houses tucked in bylanes of Chinnakadai Street complain that the regularity of garbage collection by workers deployed by the Tiruchi Corporation leaves much to be desired. “Of late, the conservancy workers are not only irregular, but also speak harshly when we emphasise on regularity”, a resident of Kollimettu lane said. “Earlier, full-time workers used to be courteous. But now, those deployed under contract system are rude,” he said. The main problem faced by the residents is that the workers station themselves at certain points and expect the residents to bring the garbage. Not all residents are in a position to take the garbage to the collection point in a matter of minutes. Accumulation and spillage of garbage on the narrow lanes, they fear, will create hygiene problems during the pandemic period. What they look for now is door-to-door collection of garbage and also courteous behaviour of the workers. The stand of the civic body, however, is that the workers do go on a daily basis. According to field-level officials, the civic body is trying to do its best in garbage collection overcoming manpower constraints.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-raise-issue-of-irregular-garbage-collection/article33546570.ece
11 January 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||After nearly a year, rescued woman reunited with father||Nearly a year after a 30-year-old woman from Maharashtra was rescued in the city and accommodated in a home, she was reunited with her father on Saturday. Sangeetha was found wandering at Mannarpuram on January 16 last year and the Cantonment police had brought her to Anbalayam Home for the mentally ill where she was accommodated. The woman was in a mentally disturbed state when she was rescued and could not convey anything clearly when inquired except for her name, says T. K. S. Senthilkumar, the founder president of Anbalayam Home. The woman was given food and shelter and also psychiatric treatment. The woman had initially said she had alighted in Tiruchi while coming on a train from Ariyalur. This prompted the volunteers at the home to carry out a search in that town in a bid to trace her near ones. However, the efforts did not yield any results. A few months later, the woman began to show good improvement and disclosed that she hailed from Solapur and that she had a male child. Subsequently, one of the volunteers by name Gautham who knew Hindi got in touch with the Solapur police seeking their assistance in tracing the whereabouts of Sangeetha’s relatives and sent the photograph of the woman through WhatsApp. This move clicked and Sangeetha spoke to her husband’s brother staying at Solapur, her three-year-old child and relatives through WhatsApp video call recently, said Mr. Senthilkumar. The relatives of Sangeetha conveyed the information to her father Lakshman who works in a poultry farm near Pollachi. Lakshman began to speak to Gautham thereafter. Mr. Senthilkumar further said the woman and her husband Shivaji were working as labourers in Ariyalur from where the woman went missing. Her husband had searched for his wife and had returned to Maharashtra unable to trace her. The woman thereafter reached Tiruchi where she was rescued. It was an emotional moment, when the rescued woman was finally reunited with her father and stepmother after necessary checks were conducted when they came to take her back. Sangeetha called up Anbalayam on Sunday morning to inform them that she had reached Pollachi, Mr. Senthilkumar added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/after-nearly-a-year-rescued-woman-reunited-with-father/article33546579.ece
11 January 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||67 new positive cases and two deaths recorded||The districts in the central region on Sunday recorded a significant drop in COVID-19 cases with a total of 67 patients testing positive as against 92 cases on Saturday. Two deaths, both in Thanjavur, were reported. A 72-year-old man who had been suffering from diabetes, and a 57-year-old woman with a history of coronary artery disease died at the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital. Tiruchi reported 20 fresh cases, while Thanjavur accounted for 16 patients. Most patients who tested positive were local index cases, asymptomatic patients and their contacts. Two patients who had been undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital were discharged after recovering from the viral infection. All other districts in the region reported less than 10 fresh cases. In Nagapattinam, nine patients reported positive. Among them were local index cases with no travel or contact history or patients with a history of Influenza-Like Illnesses and their immediate contacts. Tiruvarur and Pudukottai reported seven patients each for COVID-19 while Karur district reported six. Meanwhile, only six active cases remained in the district after one patient was discharged from the Government Medical College Hospital on Sunday. Ariyalur reported two fresh cases while in Perambalur no one tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/67-new-positive-cases-and-two-deaths-recorded/article33546568.ece
11 January 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Roosters in the region get ready to fight ahead of Pongal||Organisers of rooster fights are in full swing to prepare their birds for the contests connected with Pongal celebrations. Though the conduct of such events requires securing prior permission from the district authorities, the contests also take place without legal sanction, say the organisers. Special feed According to Ashok Kumar, a trainer, the birds are reared specifically for competitions. “People come forward to purchase them for as much as Rs. 15,000, but we do not sell them because they bring us accolades,” he said.  “"We travel to other districts to take part in competitions. There is a large competition to be held in Tirunelveli, for which we are training the roosters,” he said. The roosters are fed millets powder, almonds, soup and other such nutritious food for three weeks prior to the competition, Mr. Ashok said.  Many contests take place without legal sanction Organisers||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ahead-of-pongal-roosters-get-ready-for-action/article33546481.ece
11 January 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Restore stoppage of trains at Papanasam||The Train Passengers Association of Papanasam in Thanjavur district has appealed to Railway Minister Piyush Goyal to restore the stoppage of the Mysuru- Mayiladuthurai- Mysuru and Chennai - Tiruchendur - Chennai express trains at Papanasam railway station. The two express trains had a stoppage at Papanasam for nearly 10 years and were well patronised as well. The sudden removal of the stoppage of the two express trains has caused huge hardship for passengers coming from various parts of the country to Papanasam which is a major pilgrim centre and a taluk headquarters in Thanjavur district, the Train Passengers Association secretary T. Saravanan said in a memorandum sent to the Railway Minister last month. It was surprising to know that the stoppages of these two trains have been provided to Aduthurai and Kuttalam stations which have less patronage as compared to Papanasam, he said adding that it was deeply regrettable that Papanasam was deprived of stoppage of these two trains. Considering the importance of Papanasam from the social, cultural and economic point of view the railways should provide for stoppage of the two trains at Papanasam, Mr. Saravanan said and appealed to the Railway Minister to consider their plea and sought favourable action. In the absence of the stoppage of these two trains, rail travellers boarding from Papanasam had to travel nearly 30 kilometres to Thanjavur causing hardship to them, said Mr. Saravanan, a member of the Divisional Rail Users Consultative Committee, Tiruchi Division. Citing a reply given by the Southern Railway to a RTI application filed by him last month, Mr. Saravanan said the annual ticket revenue of Papanasam station was Rs. 1.58 crore for the year 2019-20. The annual ticket revenue of Aduthurai and Kuttalam stations were Rs. 77.2 lakhs and Rs. 63.4 lakhs respectively for the year 2019-20 as per reply given by the Southern Railway.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/restore-stoppage-of-trains-at-papanasam/article33546577.ece
11 January 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Rain has spoilt turmeric yield in Tirunelveli, say farmers||With just a few days left for Pongal festival, harvest is almost over in Tirunelveli district. While a majority of paddy farmers have expressed satisfaction with the yield, it is not the case with others. Turmeric farmers in Cheranmahadevi and the surrounding areas, in particular, face loss this season due to rain. It rained last week in the district when farmers were set to harvest turmeric. “With water-logging complaints, they were unable to harvest the produce and bring it to the market. The yield was also not good this time,” said K. Manikandan, a farmer. Since coverage area is limited to Cheranmahadevi and some parts of Tirunelveli Town, a majority of merchants have planned to transport turmeric from Erode for Pongal sales as the output in these areas may not meet the requirement. Also, farmers are not confident of selling the turmeric in the market since the yield is not good. They may not get a lucrative margin after paying labour and meeting other expenses, Mr. Manikandan added. Consumers buy sugarcane, rice and turmeric for celebration during Pongal. While paddy is grown locally in a big way, sugarcane is procured from Madurai, Thanjavur and Theni districts. Turmeric farmers are keeping their fingers crossed as they are apprehensive of loss due to continuous rainfall in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rain-has-spoilt-turmeric-yield-in-tirunelveli-say-farmers/article33546588.ece
11 January 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Homoeopathy doctor held for sexual assault||The Tiruppur Rural Police arrested a 50-year-old homoeopathy doctor from Perumanallur on charges of sexually assaulting a 14-year-old girl who worked as an attender at his clinic. The doctor ran a homoeopathy clinic near Uthukuli. As per the complaint lodged by the girl’s mother at the All Women Police Station, Kangeyam, her daughter, a class IX student, worked at the clinic of the accused for the last four months when she did not have classes. On Saturday, the girl told her mother that the doctor assaulted her sexually on various occasions during the four months. The mother lodged a complaint with the police on Saturday. The doctor was arrested for offences under Sections 5(e) (whoever being on the management or staff of a hospital commits penetrative sexual assault on a child in that hospital), 5(l) (whoever commits penetrative sexual assault on the child more than once or repeatedly) read with 6 (punishment for aggravated penetrative sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and Section 506(ii) (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. He was produced before a judge on Sunday and remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/homoeopathy-doctor-held-for-sexual-assault/article33546503.ece
11 January 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||MTR reopens to tourists||The Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) in the Nilgiris was reopened to tourists on Saturday. It remained closed for nine months due to COVID-19 pandemic. Officials from MTR said that the decision to reopen the tiger reserve was taken by the government after consulting the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests and Chief Wildlife Warden. Strict protocols have been established to minimise the risk of COVID-19 transmission among visitors, officials said. Visitors have been told to wear either a triple-layer or N95 mask without fail and they will be made to undergo a thermal scan before being allowed to enter. They should carry a valid ID proof, and disclose any existing medical conditions and travel history. Safari vehicles will only be allowed to operate at 50 % capacity, while rest houses can be occupied by only a maximum of two persons and dormitories will be only at 50 % capacity, officials said. Vehicle safaris will be operational between 6.30 a.m to 10 a.m and between 2 p.m. and 5 p.m. The elephant camp will be open to tourists from 8.30 a.m to 9 a.m and from 5.30 p.m to 6 p.m, with only a maximum of 30 persons allowed to enter. People exhibiting any symptoms consistent with COVID-19 will not be allowed to enter, officials said. The Mudumalai Tiger Reserve was closed in March 2020, along with other tourist places in the Nilgiris. Starting from September, the district gradually once again opened up for tourism. With the reopening of the tiger reserve, all tourist spots that were closed due to the pandemic in the Nilgiris are now open.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mudumalai-reserve-welcomes-visitors/article33546485.ece
11 January 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||19 new cases reported from Vellore||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 20,430 with 19 new cases reported on Sunday. While a total of 19,910 have been discharged, the active cases stand at 177. The district's death toll is 343. In Ranipet district, 8 cases were reported positive taking the total to 16,007. In Tirupathur district, the total number of positive cases stood at 7,508 with 5 new cases on Sunday. In Tiruvannamalai district, 8 new cases were reported, taking the total number of cases to 19,246. Out of this, 18,889 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 74.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/19-new-cases-reported-from-vellore/article33546879.ece
11 January 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Two children drown in pond||Two children drowned in the pond of a temple at Sithalingamadam near Villupuram on Saturday night. The victims were identified as M. Keerthana, 12 and K. Mahalakshmi, 5. According to the police, Keerthana, a student of Class VII in a private school in Hosur in Krishnagiri district, had come to her grandmother’s house in Sithalingamadam for the holidays. Mahalakshmi was a student of Class I studying in a private school in Thiruvennainallur. On Saturday eveningJanuary 9, the children went to the Eswaran temple in Sithalingamadam, where they fell into the pond and drowned while taking a dip. When they failed to return after sometime, the families launched a search and found their bodies floating in the pond. A case has been registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-children-drown-in-pond/article33546507.ece
11 January 2021||January 11 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tejas Express service resumes||Su. Venkatesan, MP, received the passengers of Tejas Express with sweets welcoming Southern Railway’s decision to re-introduce the train on Sunday after it was cancelled for a brief period. Southern Railway had cancelled the Chennai Egmore-Madurai Chennai Tejas Express trains with effect from January 4 due to poor patronage. However, after the intervention of the MP, the train services have been resumed from Sunday. Mr. Venkatesan said that poor patronage should not be a criteria for cancelling the services when the Centre itself was asking passengers to make only essential journeys. Besides, exorbitant fare was also a reason, he said. Mr. Venkatesan also demanded that the Tejas train should be named after Tamil Sangam. He wondered why the railway administration was confusing the passengers with train numbers. “Even if they are special trains, the trains could be named after the existing names like Pandian or Nellai special train,” he said. Passengers, who got down from the train, said that the train was very convenient and should be run as usual.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tejas-express-runs-again/article33546562.ece
11 January 2021||January 11 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Erode reports 27 new cases||Coimbatore district on Sunday reported 76 new cases of COVID-19. The district had 704 patients under treatment in different hospitals on Sunday while 87 persons returned to their homes after recovering from the disease. The district’s death toll increased to 661 with the death of a 49-year-old man in the early hours of Sunday. According to the Health Department, the patient was admitted to the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital on January 7. He was also suffering from diabetes and systemic hypertension, said the Department. Tiruppur district reported 27 new cases. The district had 252 patients under institutional care as of Sunday. As many as 39 persons recovered from the disease and got discharged from hospitals on Sunday. In the Nilgiris, 13 people tested positive on Sunday. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 8,046. The number of deaths in the district stood at 47 on Sunday while 86 people are undergoing treatment. Erode district reported 27 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 13,968. While 36 persons were discharged, 225 persons are under treatment. As many as 48 positive cases were reported in Salem on Sunday. According to health department officials, 40 cases were indigenous including 24 in Salem Corporation limits. Eight patients have returned from Namakkal, Erode and Krishnagiri. Namakkal reported 12 cases. Four indigenous cases were reported in Dharmapuri and six in Krishnagiri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-district-reports-76-new-cases-one-death/article33546505.ece
11 January 2021||January 11 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Good response to farmers’ schemes’||In a bid to help farmers double their earnings and maintain fertility of land throughout the year, the Central and State governments have announced a number of schemes and subsidies, said Collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver here on Sunday. Interacting with farmers at Ariyanendal village near Paramakudi, he said the district had wide coverage of paddy crop. After harvest, a majority of farmers left their land dry and carried out farming activities only during the next season. Hence, the governments had announced sops that would encourage them to take up farming post-paddy harvest. In one such incident, a farmer in the district raised corn in his field. As a motivation, he was given Rs. 30,000 as subsidy. Moreover, field staff led by Assistant Director (Agriculture) shared techniques on growth stages of the commodity since farmers were familiar only with paddy. Similarly, in Bogalur village, Mr. Ponraj was informed by a farmer that he was using a technique that would give him higher yield under system rice intensification (SRI). The government gave Rs. 5,000 each to such farmers, Joint Director (Agriculture) K. Gunabalan said. In Paramakudi, chilli farmers could utilise the integrated marketing committee’s space to use a grade separator and sell their produce directly to buyers without any middlemen. The gadgets were available to farmers who could use them as value addition, which might add up the selling price, said Deputy Director (Agriculture) S.S. Shaik Abdullah. In all, about 100 farmers in the district benefitted from the schemes and raised alternative crops after harvest. The Collector urged the officials to rope in more farmers so that they could get enhanced income and also keep the soil fertile. Under the kudimaramathu scheme, many tanks and ooranis helped in conservation of water, which coud be an added advantage to farmers to engage in farm activities. Besides, the State government offered subsidies to dig borewell and for drip irrigation, the officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/good-response-to-farmers-schemes-collector/article33546595.ece
11 January 2021||January 11 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Run train between Theni and Chennai’||Southern Railway should run an express train connecting Theni with Chennai from May after completion of gauge conversion work between Madurai and Theni, said Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan. After inspecting gauge conversion work at Andipatti and Theni on Friday, Mr. Venkatesan, who is also a Railway Consultative Committee member, said the gauge conversion work between Madurai and Andipatti had been completed and cleared for traffic by the Commissioner for Railway Safety. Similarly, the work up to Theni was likely to be completed by April. “As and when the broad gauge track is rendered available up to Theni, the railways should strive not only to run passenger train services between Madurai and Theni, but also run an express train to connect Theni with Chennai,” he told reporters. ‘Extend one train’ He said one of the express trains originating from Madurai could be extended up to Theni. Mr. Venkatesan said Southern Railway General Manager John Thomas had stated that the work between Theni and Bodi would be completed by September.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/run-theni-chennai-express-train/article33546589.ece
11 January 2021||January 11 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Woman raped in train||“They warned her of dire consequences if she complained to the police. To ensure that she did not talk to the Railway Protection Force (RPF), they accompanied her out,” said an RPF source. An RPF constable did intercept the trio, but Suresh and Abdul Ajiz told him that the woman had been found sleeping on the train and had missed her destination. But the woman later complained to the GRP. Inspector Padmakumari and sub-inspector Mariappan started an investigation. They checked the staff attendance details and found that Suresh and Abdul Ajiz had punched in around the time the incident took place. “The identification details provided by the woman matched those given by the RPF constable who had intercepted the three. So we nabbed them and booked them for raping and threatening the woman,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-raped-on-train/article33546431.ece
11 January 2021||January 11 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reader’s Mail||Of the hundreds of city buses in Madurai, only a few are ordinary service buses while the rest are ‘luxury buses’ with high fare. But 50% of the services in Chennai are ordinary. It is an irony that on seeing the poor condition of people in Madurai, Gandhiji started wearing only dhoti. The TNSTC Madurai division must increase the number of ordinary city bus services, as in Chennai, taking into account the large number of people belonging to the economically weaker sections in Madurai. M. Saravanakumar,  Solai Azhagupuram    That the Chennai-Madurai-Chennai Tejas Express is not running to full capacity is a known fact. The railway authorities should provide stoppages at Dindigul and Villupuram and remove the stoppage at Kodai Road. Villupuram is a transit point to reach Puducherry and the train service may be economically viable if these stoppages are provided.  C.A. Pradeep, Moondrumavadi   Cows and buffaloes roaming or lying down on the middle of the road has become a common scene in Madurai. These animals pose a threat to the safety of pedestrians and vehicle users. Moreover, this shows how irresponsible the owners of these domesticated animals are. One fails to understand why no action has been taken by the local body to impound these animals. Compounding this problem, one can see a lot of street dogs in all parts of the city. The authorities concerned must take action to address these issues.  S. Bala, TVS Nagar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail/article33546781.ece
11 January 2021||January 11 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore today||Religion   Thiruvenkatavan Charitable Trust: Margazhi prayers, Sri Venugopala Perumal and Sri Kalyana Venkatesa Perumal temple, Kovaipudur, 5.20 a.m.  General   Hindusthan College of Arts and Science: Road safety awareness programme, 9 a.m.  Jansons Institute of Technology: CSE - Alumni Talk, 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-today/article33546497.ece
11 January 2021||January 11 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||11-01-2021-city cinema||MUSIC DANCE DRAMA  ABBAS CULTURAL 29th Year - 9 Day Mega Annual Art Festival " SHRIRAM PROPERTIES-KALAI VIZHA 2021” powered by APOLLO HOSPITALS (Dedicated In Memory of Dr S.P. BALASUBRAHMANYAM) till 17th Jan 2021 Daily 4.00pm & 7.00pm at Vani Mahal, T.Nagar. Partly in Aid of LAKSHMI PAIN & PALLIATIVE CARE TRUST. Today- 4.00pm-SAI VIGNESH (ALL ARE WELCOME) 7.00pm-MAHATHI. Tomorrow 12th 4.00pm- TRICHUR BROTHERS, 7.00pm-JAYASHREE VAIDYANATHAN. 13th 4.00pm-SHRAVAN, 7.00pm Rafi-Kishore Classic Nite by ANIL BAJPAI & JOSYULA SEKHAR along with GANGA & SHEEFA. 14th 4.00pm-SUDHA RAGUNATHAN, 7.00pm Devotional songs by O.S.ARUN. 15th 4.00pm-ABHISHEK RAGHURAM, 7.00pm-NITHYASHREE MAHADEVAN. 16th 4.00pm Grand Fusion Concert by RAJHESH VAIDYA, 7.00pm-Krishna-The Lord of Rhythm "Musical Discourse by VISHAKHA HARI. 17th 4.00pm-SPOORTHI, 7.00pm -SID SRIRAM. Supported by: DINAMALAR, INDIAN BANK, TAMILNADU TOURISM, TNAGAR LKS GOLD HOUSE, BESTEN PUMPS, METAL PRODUCTS, INDIAN OIL, TVS MOTOR CO., GOPURAM, GIRI TRADING, COCK BRAND.ONLINE BOOKING:abbascultural.com,bookmyshow.com.Tickets @ Hall : 9710 633 633.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/11-01-2021-city-cinema/article33546483.ece
11 January 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘I’ll continue my fight for funds release’||“I did not say that the Chief Minister will be changed after Makara Sankranti. I only said that there will be some change in the State,” MLA and BJP leader Basanagouda Patil Yatnal said in Vijayapura on Sunday. He was clarifying about his recent remarks that there would be “a big change in Karnataka after Sankranti”. He said that there may be a change in his position too, though he quickly clarified that he would not become a Minister in Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa Cabinet. “I have decided that I will not serve as a Minister under him. I am also sure that I will not be invited. However, change is certain, and natural after Sankranti, and there may be changes in my position too,” he said. He said that he believes a big change will happen in Karnataka, which explains the visit of Union Home Minister Amit Shah to the State. “It could be either Cabinet expansion or Cabinet reconstitution, I don’t know,” he said. Caste and regional balance will be maintained when making party leaders Ministers, he said. “At present, I am only working towards the development of North Karnataka and Vijayapura district. I will continue my fight inside and outside my party for release of funds. I will fight for Rs. 25,000 crore for the next stage of Upper Krishna Irrigation Project and Rs. 200 crore for Vijayapura district development. I want the State government to start a government medical college in Vijayapura. I will make sure that I will try to get them,” he said. He denied that the BJP high command had initiated disciplinary action against him. There is no need for that. “I have not violated the party discipline. I have only spoken about maladministration and slow pace of development. How can that be indiscipline. If I had done so, the party high command would come to know about it through the government’s powerful intelligence network,” he said.  ‘No political agent’ On the controversy surrounding political agent Yuvaraj Swami, Mr. Yatnal said in Bagalkot on Sunday that he had not entertained any political agent who tried to promise him of Cabinet berth and other positions. There are several such agents in Bengaluru and New Delhi. It is unfortunate that some leaders are using them to get appointments with senior leaders in the party. “But I don’t do that. If I have to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi or other leaders like Amit Shah, I go to them directly. I don’t use any agents. If they come to me, I ask them to leave as I am among those who built the BJP in the State,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ill-continue-my-fight-for-funds-release/article33546627.ece
11 January 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘A common worker can reach high positions in the BJP’||“The BJP is a party where a common Karyakartha (party worker) can achieve higher party positions only due to dedicated hard work. But that is not so in the Congress. Congress leaders are born and not made. That is the essential difference between the two political parties,” Union Minister Pralhad Joshi said in Hubballi on Sunday. He was speaking at an event to felicitate party workers who won gram panchayat polls. “I have seen Congress leaders distributing sweets on the birth of Priyanka Gandhi’s son as the birth of their new leader. A few years ago, I witnessed this incident in Durgad Bail in Hubballi. When I asked the local Congress leaders, they said that they were celebrating Priyanka Gandhi being delivered of a baby boy. That is how they celebrate. That is why I say that in the BJP, you fight on the street and become a leader. But in the Congress, when two leaders meet and go into a room, a new leader is created,’’ he said. He also criticised Rahul Gandhi for being negligent about his duties as an Opposition leader. “Rahul Gandhi leaves the country whenever he feels like it. He tweets and runs away on foreign tours,” Mr. Joshi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-common-worker-can-reach-high-positions-in-the-bjp/article33546624.ece
11 January 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Minister clarifies driver got diesel filled without his knowledge||Deputy Chief Minister and Transport Minister Laxman Savadi has admitted that the incident involving filling free diesel for his private car at an exclusive petrol pump in the NWKRTC depot in Belagavi was a mistake. He, however, clarified that it was unintentional. “My driver filled diesel from the NWKRTC depot in Belagavi without my knowledge or explicit directions. Neither the NWKRTC staff nor my driver realised that it was wrong. They were not acting on my directions or with my knowledge. I will ask them not to repeat such mistakes in future,” he told journalists in Athani in Belagavi district on Saturday. The incident was reported on Friday. He was responding to allegations that he had misused his powers and had diverted resources from a public sector transport undertaking for his personal use. These allegations were raised after pictures of his vehicle being refuelled at the NWKRTC depot were shared widely on social media on Saturday. The Minister blamed his opponents for using such trivial incidents to malign him. “I come from a wealthy family. God has been kind to us. I am not greedy or cheap to get fuel worth Rs. 3,000 for my personal vehicle from NWKRTC. Some faceless opponents are using this to malign me. I pray to God to bless them,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minister-clarifies-driver-got-diesel-filled-without-his-knowledge/article33546626.ece
11 January 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Ravishankar criticised||Pramod Mutalik, founder of Sri Ram Sena Hindustan, has criticised Sri Sri Ravishankar of Art of Living and D. Veerendra Heggade of Sri Kshetra Dharmasthala for wishing people on New Year’s day and for decorating their campuses on New Year Eve. He reasoned that such practices were western and would encourage conversion of young people to Christianity. Both the leaders should announce that New Year celebrations will not be held on their campuses next year. Otherwise, SRSH activists will hold dharnas against them, he said. “Sri Sri Ravishankar even wished his followers wearing a different dress for New Year. That is not acceptable. He should seek an apology for it,’’ he told journalists in Belagavi on Sunday. He said that he was interested in contesting as a BJP candidate for the Belagavi Lok Sabha bypolls. “I am planning to meet Union Home Minister Amit Shah during his visit to Belagavi on January 17. BJP State president Nalin Kumar Kateel has assured me of arranging a meeting,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ravishankar-criticised/article33546625.ece
11 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||It will be two months before general public can be vaccinated: Sudhakar||It will take about two months to vaccinate the public, after vaccinating healthcare workers in the first round, said Health & Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar. Speaking to reporters after inspecting a vaccine storage facility in Bengaluru, he said that experts’ opinion will be sought to decide whether every person should be vaccinated or not. The Minister said that State was well prepared to store vaccines with two walk-in coolers with a capacity of 45 lakh doses each in Bengaluru and one more expected to be provided by the Centre. “Apart from this, we have five regional storage centres at Chitradurga, Kalburgi, Dakshina Kannada, Mysuru and Bagalkot. We also have a corporation storage facility in every district, while BBMP has 50 blocks. Totally, we have 2,767 cold chain points,” he said. Explaining the distribution network, Dr. Sudhakar said vaccine will be sent to regional storage centres through 900 vaccine carriers. It will be further distributed to district centres from there. “About 24 lakh syringes have arrived and we are getting 13.9 lakh dosages of vaccines in the first phase. The State is fully prepared to distribute the vaccine,” he added. “We have close to 900 vehicles logistically to support us in the transportation of vials. More or less we are geared up and are quite well-prepared to handle the vaccine programme in Karnataka,” he said. Asked if healthcare workers were ready to be vaccinated, Dr. Sudhakar said, “They are all eager to receive their vaccine because they all know that it is a very safe vaccine. Humongous effort and tireless work of scientists and doctors have gone into it in the last 10 months. They have taken every factor into consideration and they have come out with a vaccine. There have been primary, secondary and tertiary trials. Our regulatory bodies have allowed this to take place. We should believe in the system.” Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be interacting with the Chief Ministers of all the State through video conference on Monday.  We are waiting for clear instructions and guidelines from the Government of India. If they allow us, as a Health Minister, I will be the first person to take the vaccine. We have to imbibe confidence in the people. So why not? K. Sudhakar Health Minister   Number of vaccine stores  State: 2  Regional: 5  District: 30  Corporation: 1  Block: 50  Cold chain points: 2,767||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/it-will-be-two-months-before-general-public-can-be-vaccinated-sudhakar/article33546405.ece
11 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Anti-cow slaughter Ordinance violates fundamental rights’||Former Supreme Court judge V. Gopala Gowda has termed the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Ordinance, 2020, brought out by the State government “unconstitutional” and violative of the fundamental rights of the farmers. Addressing a gathering at the State-level conference on the law, organised by the Karnataka Raitha Sangha and Hasiru Sene, he said the Ordinance has been brought in an “emergency manner” by sidelining the State legislature. He said the State government taking the route of Ordinance was “nothing but backdoor tactics.” The Governor should have considered these factors before signing the Ordinance, he said, and added that he supports the legal fight against the “unconstitutional Ordinance.” “It is no one’s business to dictate who should eat what... The stand taken by the government also impact financial freedom of the farmers,” said Mr. Gowda. Congress plans protests Meanwhile, the Congress has said that it will resort to street protests and jail bharo against the “anti-farmer” legislations brought by the State and Central governments. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Sunday said that a plan would be chalked out during the Congress Legislative Party meeting, which will be convened shortly. He was speaking during the release of the booklet “Five Acts and several lies”. The booklet has been brought out to create awareness about how various legislations will adversely impact the lives of farmers, including the Karnataka Land Reforms (Amendment) Act, 2020, and the anti-cow slaughter Ordinance. He said that the BJP leaders were peddling lies several laws, including amendment to APMC Act. “Though in the initial days it could be profitable for the farmers, later they may not be able to get a good price for their produce,” he added. Accusing BJP leaders of being ignorant of the economy revolving around cattle in rural areas, Mr. Siddaramaiah said it will not impact big businesses. “I urge the government, which has brought the anti-cow slaughter Ordinance to ban import of beef from New Zealand or Australia, and also stop export of beef from here. The legislation will only impact small farmers who have to now maintain old cattle or the leather industry that is dependent on hide,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/anti-cow-slaughter-ordinance-violates-fundamental-rights/article33546416.ece
11 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Four injured as fuel tank of bike explodes||Four people were injured when the fuel tank of a motorcycle that was parked near a bike repair garage at K.P. Agrahara caught fire and exploded on Sunday. The garage owner, Annamalai, 40, along with three others who were on premises — Punith Shankar, 28, Nanjunda, 22, and Vishwanath, 20 — were injured. According to the police, Annamalai and Nanjunda are said to be in critical condition. “The bike had been sent to their garage to be serviced. The incident occurred when Annamalai and Nanjunda removed the tank from the bike and kept it near an electrical pole outside the shop,” said a police officer. The police are investigating claims that a spark from the pole came in contact with the tank that was filled with petrol. While Annamalai and Nanjunda were trying to put the fire out, it exploded. Four passersby escaped narrowly but the explosion threw them on to the road. Based on a complaint filed by Punith Shankar, the police registered a case against Annamalai and Bescom officials. “The complainant stated that an electric spark led to the mishap. However, an investigation will reveal the cause,” a senior police officer said. Teams from the Forensic Sciences Laboratory and Fire and Emergency Services visited the spot to ascertain the cause.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-injured-as-fuel-tank-of-bike-explodes/article33546398.ece
11 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Man kills live-in partner, her mother; surrenders||A 25-year-old woman and her mother were killed allegedly by the daughter’s live-in partner at their house at Devanahalli on Saturday night. The accused, identified as Malay Kumar Fareed from Assam, later surrendered before the police and allegedly confessed to the crime. According to the police, he was in a relationship with Ramadevi and the couple had a four-month-old child. She and her mother, Lakshmidevi, 52, hailed from Bagepalli in Kolar district. A senior police officer said the incident took place Saturday late night when Lakshmidevi’s husband and her son were at Hoskote. “Fareed and Ramadevi were in the relationship for a couple of years. The probe so far has revealed that the two were arguing about marriage. Fareed kept dodging her requests,” said the police officer. On Saturday night, Ramadevi brought up the status of their relationship. Fareed told the police that in anger, when they were asleep, he attacked them with a machete. Later, he came to the police station and confessed the crime. “In his confession, Fareed said he worked as a fabricator at an under-construction apartment while Ramadevi did housework. They started seeing each other in 2018. After they had the child in September 2020, Ramadevi decided they should get married. Her mother reportedly also confided in some of her friends in the apartment, and asked that they advise him to marry her daughter,” said the police officer. The Devanahalli police on Sunday conducted the mahazar and shifted the bodies for post-mortem. Fareed was arrested. He had been remanded in judicial custody, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-kills-live-in-partner-her-mother-surrenders/article33546400.ece
11 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||792 new cases of COVID-19 in State; virus claims two more||While efforts are on to contain the spread of a new strain of the novel coronavirus, which is reportedly highly infectious, the number of new cases detected in the State remains less than 1,000. Karnataka on Sunday reported 792 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total number of cases since the start of the pandemic to 9,27,559. Two people - one from Mysuru district and the other from Tumakuru - died of COVID-19 as per the media bulletin issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare. With this, the death toll rose to 12,140. This is apart from 19 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. A total of 593 patients were discharged. This takes the total number of recoveries across Karnataka currently to 9,05,751. Among the 9,649 active patients, 202 remain in the ICU. The positivity rate for the day stood at 0.69% while the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) was 0.25%.  Bengaluru Urban At 453, Bengaluru Urban had the maximum number of cases among all districts, taking the total number of cases to 3,92,581. Zero deaths were reported from the district. To date, 4,346 people have died of COVID-19 in Bengaluru Urban. In all the other districts, the number of new reported cases remained under 40. Dakshina Kannada had the second highest number of COVID-19 cases at 39 while Bagalkote reported zero cases.  As many as 1,13,206 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours. This number includes 1,08,526 RT-PCR tests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/792-new-cases-of-covid-19-in-state-virus-claims-two-more/article33546408.ece
11 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Competitive exams: II PU students in a fix||II PU science students whose syllabus has been cut by 30% this academic year are anxious about what will be covered in the competitive examinations. A student said it was not clear whether they should focus on the trimmed syllabus or the complete one for the entrance examinations. Science students preparing for the board examinations are also gearing up for various competitive examinations for admissions to professional courses. This includes NEET, JEE, CET, and the COMEDK. The topics covered in these examinations are based on the curriculum of Classes 11 and 12. A second year PU science student said that while the portion has been cut for the board examination, she is yet to get information on the syllabus for the competitive exams. “As of now, I am reading and revising only from the trimmed syllabus. We may get another five or six months to appear for competitive examinations and we hope that the authorities will soon announce the syllabus,” she said. Snehal R., director, DPUE, said they had reduced the syllabus by 30% for 2020-21. “To maintain uniformity, we have trimmed the syllabus based on what the Central Board of Secondary Education has done,” she said. A senior official in Karnataka Examinations Authority that conducts the CET, said it was yet to have a meeting on conducting CET-2021. “But in all probability, we will stick to the trimmed syllabus prescribed by the DPUE. Once, we make a decision, we will inform students,” the official said. S. Kumar, executive secretary, Consortium of Medical, Engineering and Dental Colleges of Karnataka, said their syllabus would be aligned with the cuts made by the respective boards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/competitive-exams-ii-pu-students-in-a-fix/article33546411.ece
11 January 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Special cover on CGK to be released today||The Department of Posts will release a special cover on noted theatre personality C.G. Krishnaswamy, popularly known as CGK, on Monday. He was the founder of Ranganirantara, a forum for theatre movement in Karnataka. According to a press note from the Department of Posts, Chief Postmaster General, Karnataka Circle, Sharda Sampath will release the special cover at Ravindra Kalakshetra on J.C. Road at 6.30 p.m. It will be available for sale at the Philatelic Bureau of Bengaluru GPO, Mangaluru GPO, Mysuru HO, and Belagavi HO in Karnataka Postal Circle, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/special-cover-on-cgk-to-be-released-today/article33546415.ece
11 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Farmers’ R-Day parade’||Farmers in Karnataka plan to take out a parade with tractors and agricultural implements on January 26 to express solidarity with the agitating farmers in New Delhi. Announcing this at a preliminary meeting organised by Jagrutha Karnataka here on Sunday, Badagalapura Nagendra, president of Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha, said it would be a “Farmers’ Republic Day parade” in protest against changes to farm laws brought by the State and the Centre. Farmers leaders from other southern States also took part in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmers-r-day-parade/article33546420.ece
11 January 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Power shutdown||There will be no power supply on Tuesday from 10.30 a.m. to 6.30 p.m. in areas serviced from Sarakki substation in view of conversion and cable work. According to a release, the areas to be affected are K.R. Layout, Venkatadri Layout, 1st, 2nd, 3rd, and 4th Cross, Panduranganagar, behind Apollo hospital, and D.S. Palyachurch road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-shutdown/article33546394.ece
11 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Labourer killed||A 35-year-old labourer was bludgeoned to death allegedly by his friend over a trivial row near City Market on Saturday night. The victim, Ajith Chotu, and the accused, Chandra Kumar, a wall painter by profession, got into an argument while drinking alcohol. “The fight turned ugly and escalated when Chandra pushed Ajith on the ground and crushed his head with a boulder,” said the Halasuru Gate police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/labourer-murdered/article33546399.ece
11 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Metered sales of Bescom plummets||Like all economic activities, Bangalore Electricity Supply Company (Bescom) too saw metered sales plummet last year. Post lockdown, HT sales reduced by 24.5% from April to November when compared to 2019–20 financial year, and LT sales by 9.5% for the same period, officials said. Senior Bescom officials said this was the biggest drop in sales seen in recent years. Apart from the obvious dip in commercial and industrial activities owing to the outbreak of the pandemic, the subsequent lockdown and the general chaos that has ensued since, domestic consumption too saw a marked reduction. “Those who were from outside the State vacated their accommodation here and went back to their home towns as they had the work from home option. This could be one of the reasons. Even today, many PG accommodation facilities are vacant,” an official pointed out. The power utility recently filed a tariff revision petition with the Karnataka Electricity Regulatory Commission (KERC) seeking an average Rs. 1.39 per unit hike, and lower metered sales was one of the reasons cited to justify the hike. Power purchase cost According to Bescom, its major expenditure is power purchase, the cost of which accounts for nearly 84% of the total expenditure. The average power purchase cost for FY 2020–21 is Rs. 5.91/unit as against the KERC-approved power purchase cost of Rs. 5.39/unit. The increase in power purchase cost cited is Rs. 844.52 crore. Bescom’s tariff revision petition has proposed to introduce non-telescopic tariffs for domestic consumers owing to the power surplus in the State, pitching it as an advantage for consumers whose consumption is below 200 units. With an eye on wooing HT consumers back to the grid, encouraging them to use more electricity and tackle those who are opting for open access too, Bescom has proposed a slew of measures. Among them is an incentive scheme for HT industrial consumers whose consumption exceeds 1 lakh or 2 lakh units. For those whose consumption in a month for the current year is 10% more than the average consumption of the previous year, a discounted rate will be offered. It has also sought to increase fixed charges for HT consumers opting for open access. In November, the KERC had approved an average 40 paise per unit hike for the ongoing financial year. The delay in announcement was a result of the COVID-19 outbreak, owing to which the KERC had decided to not impose the hike retrospectively, while maintaining that the arrears would be recovered in the coming financial years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pandemic-effect-metered-sales-of-bescom-plummeted-last-year/article33546401.ece
11 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CCB questions actor’s brother for second time||The Central Crime Branch probing the Yuvraj Swamy fraud case, on Sunday, questioned Kannada actor and producer Radhika’s brother Raviraj on financial transactions between them to the tune of several lakhs. This is the second time that Raviraj has been summoned for questioning over the nature of his relationship with Yuvraj, who is accused of cheating people of crores of rupees by promising them seats in government boards and other key postings. The questioning was held for around two hours. “Raviraj was questioned based on the statement given by his sister Radhika,” said a senior police official. The CCB, while investigating Yuvraj’s financial dealings, found he had around 47 bank accounts and had transferred huge amounts of money to many people, including Radhika. She claimed she received Rs. 15 lakh as an advance for a film that Yuvraj was producing. According to sources, CCB suspects that some of the transactions were done to evade tax. “He was operating from other people’s accounts to evade I-T department,” police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ccb-questions-actors-brother-for-second-time/article33546421.ece
11 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Foreign nationals held; drugs seized||The South division police on Sunday arrested seven foreign nationals and recovered synthetic drugs worth Rs. 12.4 lakh from them. The drive was carried out by personnel of three police stations — Talaghattapura, Kumaraswamy Layout, and Basavanagudi — across multiple locations. Five of the accused hail from Nigeria, one from the Republic of the Congo, and another from Ivory Coast.Harish Pande, Deputy Commissioner of Police, South division, said the accused were caught dealing in MDMA and ecstasy blot papers. The police are now investigating to ascertain the source of the drugs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/foreign-nationals-held-drugs-seized/article33546397.ece
11 January 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Governor collects stone blocks for Hanuman temple||Governor Vajubhai Vala paid a visit to Anjanadri Hill in Koppal district on Sunday and collected two brick-sized stone blocks from Anjanadri Hill for laying foundation for a Hanuman Temple at his native village in Anand district of Gujarat. The Governor arrived by helicopter from Bengaluru and landed at a temporary helipad developed for his visit on Anegundi Ground from where he used a car to reach the holy Anjanadri Hill which is believed to be the birthplace of Lord Hanuman. As per information provided by Koppal Assistant Commissioner Narayan Reddy, Mr. Vala offered puja to two brick-sized stone blocks before collecting them. Considering Mr. Vala’s age and his inability to climb the 525 steps to reach the summit of the holly hill, the administration had made arrangements at the foothill for him to offer the puja. Later, the Governor said that the stones would be used for laying the foundation for Hanuman Temple at his native place in Gujarat’s Anand district. “The number of Hanuman devotees is almost equal to that of Ram devotees. This Anjanadri Hill is believed to be the birthplace of Lord Hanuman and I am taking these stones for laying the foundation for Hanuman Temple to be built at my native place in Gujarat,” he said. Lok Sabha Member from Koppal Karadi Sanganna, legislator Pranna Munavalli, Inspector-General of Police (Ballari) M. Nanjundaswamy, Deputy Commissioner Suralkar Vikas Kishor, Superintendent of Police T. Sridhar and a few BJP leaders were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/governor-collects-blocks-for-temple/article33546418.ece
11 January 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||New flight||Star Air will launch its service between Kalaburagi and Tirupati on Monday under the RCS-UDAN scheme. Star Air will operate on Monday, Wednesday, Friday, and Sunday. The company is offering inaugural flight tickets starting at Rs. 999.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-flight/article33546419.ece
11 January 2021||Kottigehara (Chikkamagaluru),KARNATAKA||Tejaswi still reaches out to youth||Was there a real person called Mandanna? Did a scientist by name Carvalho live in Mudigere?... These were some questions posed to Rajeshwari Tejaswi, wife of the late Kannada writer K.P. Poornachandra Tejaswi, at an interaction at Kottigehara, as part of a two-day workshop designed for young readers. Around 40 youngsters from different parts of Karnataka gathered, curious to listen to Rajeshwari’s responses to questions. The event, which concluded on Sunday, was part of the two-day ‘Tejaswi Odu’ programme organised by Kosha Odu Desha Suttu and K.P. Poornachandra Tejaswi Pratistana at Kottigehara in Mudigere taluk. Rajeshwari, 84, responded with enthusiasm. “None of the characters in his novels were really fictional. However, he was creative in the way he sketched the characters,” she said. Tejaswi passed away in 2007. Even 13 years after his death many people, particularly the youth, visit his house near Mudigere. “Many fans of Tejaswi visit our place. It is because of their love for the writer,” she said. Appreciating the fact that Tejaswi's novels - Carvalho, Chidambara Rahasya, Jugari Cross were widely read by the youth, Ms. Rajeshwari suggested the youth read his non-fiction works such as Vimarsheya Vimarshe and Hosa Vicharagalu.  The participants also raised critical issues about his writings. One reader raised objections to the use of some words, such as gayyaligalu to refer to bold women. Ms. Rajeshwari opined that said he used that word with an affirmative tone. “He used the word to tell the readers how strong those women characters were. Because they were strong they could bring a change. He once told me that I was not gayyali, to convey that I was not strong enough,” she said. Kosha Odu Desha Suttu, a forum to encourage reading and travelling, had asked the participants to read Carvalho, Chidambara Rahasya and Kiragurina Gayyaligalu before the event.  Somanath P.Gurappanavar, a literature student from Hanagal in Haveri district, said, “During the lockdown, I read most of his works. I like him because he speaks about science, history, nature and all other subjects,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tejaswi-still-reaches-out-to-youth/article33546407.ece
11 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Unseasonal rain hits arecanut processing in coastal region||Unseasonal rain in the coastal belt in the last week has hit processing of arecanut harvested by farmers. Arecanut growers are now sun drying the arecanut harvested since over a month. Drenching of arecanut spread over in the yards will affect the quality of produce, said Ramesh Kaintaje, an agriculturist from near Mani. Farmers sun dry arecanut harvested for between 48 days and 60 days. If a majority of farmers have now completed the first harvest, a few farmers have even completed the second harvest and are sun drying it. The produce in the yards has become wet in the sudden and unexpected rainfall. This is the peak season of arecanut processing where it is left drying in the sun. Rainfall has hit 50 % of the harvested produce of some farmers, he said. Mahesh Puchchappady, general secretary, All India Areca Growers Association, Puttur, said that the production of arecanut has come down in the 2020-21 season due to low yield which is because of various weather associated factors. The rain now is posing a threat to the quality of whatever produce farmers have harvested and are sun drying. Mr. Kaintaje said that since flowering also begins in arecanut palms now continuous rain will result in button shedding. Inflorescence emerges in increasing trend from October to February and gradually, it declines from March onwards. Heavy rain during this period is not good. On the other hand, prices of chali (white arecanut) variety has reached an all-time high now. The old stocks now command Rs. 410 per kg and new stocks fetched Rs. 355 a kg. Sources in the Central Arecanut and Cocoa Marketing and Processing Cooperative Ltd. (CAMPCO) attributed the hike in prices to shortage in production and negligible imports since the lockdown last year. Since imports are minimal, the consumer market in North India is entirely dependent on domestic supply which is not up to the tune of the demand. Kole roga (fruit rot disease) which hit arecanut plantations on a vast scale in the 2018 and 2019 rainy season resulted in crop loss thus creating scarcity now in the supply of old stocks. Mr. Puchchappady said that except large growers, small and marginal growers do not have stocks with them. Hence, a majority of farmers have been deprived of getting high prices for the old stocks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/unseasonal-rain-hits-arecanut-processing-in-coastal-region/article33546797.ece
11 January 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Ramakrishna Mission urged to continue with Swachh Mangaluru||While urging the Ramakrishna Mission to continue with the Swachh Mangaluru programme, people asked the organisation to work towards making the city a ‘zero waste’ one. During the public consultation on ‘What next to Swachh Mangaluru’ held at the Ramakrishna Mutt premsies here on Sunday, a suggestion was made to involve more children in the cleaning work to make them more aware on the need to lead a clean life. At home Councillor Premanand Shetty said the focus of the mutt should be on making people process the waste at their homes. “A unique campaign should be taken up to make people process waste at their houses,” he said. Former councillor Prakash Saliyan expressed the need for waste collection centres at every ward and said people should be made aware about waste segregation. Stressing on making children aware about cleaning, District Armed Reserve Head Constable Balakrishna Bhat asked the mutt to make more people adopt pot composting of wet waste. Activist Ganesh Mulky said a campaign should be held for making of eco-bricks by stuffing non-recyclable chips packets and other plastic packets in glass bottles. Anil Rao, who has been involved in the Swachh Mangaluru programmes, said many volunteers have been involved in the cleaning programmes coordinated by the mutt. “We are now getting restless. We need the mutt to continue with the cleaning programme,” he said. Subhodaya Alva said the cleaning programme should be held till the city becomes litter-free. Lecturer Subhadra Bhat said educational campuses should maintain clean campuses and Miyawaki forests should come up. Lecturer Smitha Shenoy and activist Shettigar said people should be aware of the laws governing waste segregation and fine should be collected from those throwing waste in public. Activist Sunil Kumar Bajal asked the mutt to take up campaign to develop solidarity among communities. Earlier, Ekagamyananada Swami from the mutt said the Swachh Mangaluru campaign was held from 2015 to 2019 and this was followed by a cleaning campaign involving various organisations. The mutt was promoting pot composing and community composting. “We want Mangaluru to become a zero-waste city,” he said. Pro-Chancellor of Nitte (Deemed to be University) N. Vinay Hegde, Swami Jitakamanandaji from Ramakrishna Mutt Mangaluru, president of Bhandary Foundation Manjunath Bhandary, former MLA Ganesh Karnik and Swami Mahamedhanandaji from Chennai also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ramakrishna-mission-urged-to-continue-with-swachh-mangaluru/article33546804.ece
11 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Beach cleaning, surf rescue training at Tannirbhavi||Members from various organisations, including We are Cycling and Mangalore Bikerni Group, took part in cycling, beach cleaning and surf rescue training sessions organised by Team Big Bang at the Tannnirbhavi beach on Sunday. The team Big Bang organised these events under the programme ‘Big Bang 2k21’ with the help of Yojaka (India) Pvt. Ltd., which maintains the beach. The programme was held, among other reasons, to promote healthy living, tourism and maintaining clean beaches. Many cycled all the way from Mangala Stadium to reach the beach at 7.30 a.m. A good number reached the beach via the ferry at the Sulthan Battery. Apart from cleaning the beach, the participants took part in bike stunts, zumba and beach workout. The Surf Rescue India members gave demonstration of cardio-pulmonary resurrection and surf rescue techniques.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/beach-cleaning-surf-rescue-training-at-tannirbhavi/article33546807.ece
11 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Exhibition-cum-sale of home-made products||Canara Bank, Circle Office, Manipal, will organise a two-day exhibition-cum-sale of home-made products by women entrepreneurs on its premises in Manipal from January 12. More than 25 women entrepreneurs will exhibit their products at the venue from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. The exhibition-cum-sale of products has been organised under the Canara Bazaar Scheme of the bank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/exhibition-cum-sale-of-home-made-products/article33546801.ece
11 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Phone-in programme for Class 10 students begins in Udupi district||Continuing with new initiatives to prepare Class 10 students to face this year’s final examinations, the Department of Public Instruction in Udupi has started conducting a weekly phone-in programme to answer questions related to the examinations and their syllabi. The first of the phone-in programme was held on Mathematics on Friday last. The programme will cover Science subject on January 15, followed by Social Science, English, Kannada and Hindi on the following Fridays. Deputy Director of Public Instruction (DDPI) N.H. Nagur, who initiated the move, said that the exercise will help students clarify their doubts. Among the 65 calls received on Friday included queries on how long will teaching will continue this academic year and when regular offline classes will start. There was a question on whether there will be change in the question paper pattern this year. There were questions related to Mathematics, some of which students had failed to ask their teachers, Mr. Nagur said. Mr. Nagur has been holding phone-in programmes since 2009. “I started it since when serving as Block Education Officer in Lingsugur,” he said. He did it again when he served in Basavanabagewadi, Vijayapura, Bagalkot and also in Dharward where he served as DDPI. “As I have found positive results, I have taken it up in Udupi too,” he told The Hindu . The DDPI has planned two rounds of phone-in programmes for all subjects till May. Apart from Mr. Nagur, subject expert teachers will attend the programme. Subjects have been divided among Udupi, Kundapur, Brahmavar, Byndoor and Karkala educational blocks which will conduct the programme. Mr. Nagur said that the department is also continuing with the Mission 95+, initiated by his predecessor, which involved preparing slow learners and ensuring that the maximum number of schools in the district scored 100 % pass in the SSLC examinations. The department has planned to hold open house sessions for Class 10 students in different parts of the district in February, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/phone-in-programme-for-class-10-students-begins-in-udupi-district/article33546802.ece
11 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Researcher Sridhara Uppura passes away||Sridhara Uppura, Yakshagana researcher and retired teacher of Kannada at Sharada College in Basruru in Udupi district, passed away at his residence in Koteshwara in Udupi district on Sunday. He was 67. He is survived by his wife and two sons. Sridhara Uppura was the son of well-known Yakshagana Bhagavatha and Guru late Narnappa Uppura. Sridhara Uppura obtained his Ph.D. from Mangalore University for his thesis, Badaguthittu Yakshagana Parampare, Prayoga. He wrote Yakshagana scripts Mohana Tarangini, Raja Prabhanjana, Sathi Maya and Dhanvanthri Chikitse. He instituted an endowment fund named after his father Naranappa Uppura with Yakshagana Kalaranga of Udupi and presented award in memory of his father to Yakshagana artistes for the last 22 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/researcher-sridhara-uppura-passes-away/article33546795.ece
11 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Coast Guard rescues fishermen||The Indian Coast Guard on Sunday rescued 11 fishermen from Tamil Nadu, including one with severe burns, from a fishing boat that caught fire after a cylinder blast 140 nautical miles from New Mangalore Port. According to a press release, the Coast Guard Centre in Mumbai received a distress call at 10 a.m. from a professor, Antony Rai, about the Tamil Nadu fishing boat named IFB AVKM (IND -TN-15-MM-5297) being engulfed in fire. Immediately, two offshore patrol vehicles Sanchet and Sujeet were sent towards the fishing boat. Message was also passed to two merchant ships that were near the fishing boat. The Coast Guard aircraft CG Dornier was diverted towards the fishing boat. The offshore patrolling boats sailed at their maximum speed to reach the place at around 1 p.m. and evacuated the fishermen from their boat. The Coast Guard liaised with New Mangalore Port for berthing of the patrolling vessel that was bringing in the fishermen. Arrangement was made to shift the injured fishermen in an ambulance to the Government Wenlock Hosptial.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/coast-guard-rescues-tn-fishermen/article33546409.ece
11 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Disposing of legacy waste is a challenge: MLA||While stating that the disposal of legacy waste at the landfill site in Pachchanady was a challenge, Mangaluru City South MLA D. Vedavyas Kamath on Sunday said there is a urgent need to put a stop to this waste that has accumulated over several years. Speaking at ‘Swachh Mangaluru, what next’ - a public consultation programme of Ramakrishna Mutt, Mr. Kamath said over three lakh tonnes of waste have been dumped at the landfill site. The garbage slip from the site has caused extensive damage to Mandara Kudupu residents following heavy rain in August 2019. “It’s sad to see the problems the residents are facing,” he said. The legacy waste, he said, has been dumped in a way that is difficult to segregate and process it. While stating about several agencies that have studied the landfill site, Mr. Kamath said, “It’s challenging to dispose it as its in an in-disposable state.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/disposing-of-legacy-waste-is-a-challenge-mla/article33546808.ece
11 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Evidence of megalithic culture found in Periyapatna taluk||A megalithic burial site and neolithic tools have been discovered in an agricultural field at Koorgallu village in Bettadapura hobli of Periyapatna taluk in Mysuru. The site came to light almost two weeks ago when a local farmer was preparing the land using heavy earthmoving equipment and the tools and stones used for burial practices were cleared from the site and dumped aside. This came to the notice of S.G. Ramadas Reddy, Associate Professor of History, Government First Grade College in Kuvempunagar through one of his students. He visited the spot recently and on studying the site concluded that the entire area was once a megalithic burial site and was proof of human settlement in the place. “I collected the material from the debris heap and discovered that the stones used for burials, the pottery and other artefacts could be dated to 3000 BC,” said Mr. Reddy who has made extensive field surveys to study megalithic burial sites in different parts of the State. Mr. Reddy said based on the information provided by the local community, he procured a few tools which was in the possession of a family and they were neolithic tools that could be dated to 4000 B.C. “A report published by archaeological department states that surveys conducted in the past had also yielded many inscriptions which reinforces the view of continuous human habitation in the area,” Mr. Reddy added. The recovery of megalithic burial material and neolithic tools is the first for Periyapatna taluk, said Mr. Reddy. He said there was no protection to megalithic burial sites from the State Archaeological Department who cite paucity of human and financial resources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/megalithic-burial-site-neolithic-tools-discovered-in-mysuru-dist/article33546392.ece
11 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Mayoral polls: JD(S) prefers to sit in Oppn.||The Janata Dal (Secular) members in the hung Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) are reportedly preferring to sit in the Opposition instead of aligning with the Congress or the Bharatiya Janata Party. At a meeting held here on Sunday ahead of the Mayoral polls, JD(S) members and former Mayors favoured the party maintaining equidistance with the Congress and the BJP. “Even if we don’t have power, it is alright. Let us sit in the Opposition,” said former Minister S.R. Mahesh while seeking to express the opinion of the JD(S) councillors and former Mayors attending the meeting. The JD(S) has 18 members in the 65-member MCC. The BJP has 22 while the Congress has 19, besides five Independents and one BSP member. The JD(S), which had aligned with the BJP in the previous term, joined hands with the Congress after the 2018 MCC elections when the JD(S)-Congress coalition government headed by H.D. Kumaraswamy was in power. Pushpalatha Jagannath of the Congress was made the Mayor in the first term while incumbent Mayor Tasneem from the JD(S) occupied the post in the second term. Under the terms of present alliance with the Congress, the third term is to go to Congress and the last two terms to the JD(S), explained Mr. Mahesh. But, the relationship between Congress and JD(S) has been strained in view of developments in the parties at the State-level and the non-cooperation by Congress members of the MCC with Ms. Tasneem, he said. Hence, most MCC members are not in favour of either continuing the alliance or joining hands with the BJP. “The opinion of the party councillors and former Mayors will be communicated to the party’s State leadership, who will take a final decision,” Mr. Mahesh added. He also reacted angrily to statements issued by BJP leaders that the saffron party will have its first Mayor of Mysuru in alliance with the JD(S). “The JD(S) has not been pledged with anybody,” he remarked. BJP MP Pratap Simha and BJP MLA S.A. Ramdas have both expressed confidence of striking an alliance with the JD(S) while Congress’s Tanveer Sait claimed that the alliance between Congress and JD(S) will continue. Ms. Tasneem’s tenure is scheduled to end on January 18, but the government is yet to announce the reservation for the post of Mayor and Deputy Mayor. Meanwhile, Ms. Tasneem has urged the State government to extend her tenure on the grounds that she was unable to take up programmes in view of COVID-19. She said the government did not release any funds for development works during COVID-19 and the MCC was also not able to generate any revenue during the period. Hence, she was planning to give a memorandum to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa during his visit to Mysuru on Monday.  The opinion of party councillors and former Mayors will be communicated to the State leadership, who will take a final decision.S.R. MaheshFormer Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mayoral-polls-jds-prefers-to-sit-in-oppn/article33546819.ece
11 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Value addition to banana to receive a boost||The first batch of select entrepreneurs who can add value addition to prolong the shelf life of perishable horticultural and agricultural products will be trained at the Central Food Technological Research and Training Institute (CFTRI) from Monday. This is under the Pradhan Mantri Formalisation of Micro Food Processing Enterprise (PF FME) Scheme announced by the Centre, under which the State has identified one district for one product (ODOP). Mysuru has been selected for value addition to banana and six persons from the district will take part in the training. The CFTRI will conduct training for entrepreneurs from across the State and such development programmes will be held frequently to handhold the participants venturing into entrepreneurship. Joint Director of Agriculture M. Mahanteshappa said the focus is on perishable products which cannot be preserved for more than a couple of weeks unlike agricultural produce that have a long shelf life. Nearly 2,000 hectares of land is under banana cultivation in Mysuru district and there was good demand for the banana-based processed food products as well. The entire exercise is part of Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan and is expected to give the micro food processing sector a fillip. The focus is only on one product per district so as to reap the benefit of scale in terms of procurement of inputs and availing services, including product marketing. The identification of the product for each district is also based on the presence of ancillary or allied units that can benefit from promoting a particular crop or product. Mr. Mahanteshappa said there is a 35% credit-linked capital subsidy for shoring up infrastructure for value addition of the produce qualified under ODOP. In Mysuru district, 60,803 hectares is under horticultural crops of which banana cultivation covered nearly 12,782 hectares, as per the Department of Horticulture. The production in 2018-19 was 2,42,940 tonnes and the yield was pegged at 19.01 tonnes per hectare. Banana plantation was maximum in H.D. Kote where the fruit covered 4,734 hectares and the production was 89,907 tonnes followed by Nanjangud (3,667 hectares and 66,200 tonnes of produce). The bordering district of Chamarajanagar has been identified for value addition to turmeric. In all, 9,587 hectares was under turmeric production in 2018-19 in the district and the output was 56,122 tonnes with an yield of 5,785 kg per hectare.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/value-addition-to-banana-to-receive-a-boost/article33546820.ece
11 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Use of Kalamandira for political events flayed||The use of Kalamandira as venue for the BJP Jana Sevak convention scheduled for Monday has come under flak from the Congress. Party spokesperson M. Lakshmana has questioned the authorities for letting out Kalamandira and said that it is meant only for conducting cultural and non-political programmes. He said here on Sunday that he will file a case against the Department of Kannada and Culture which is responsible for its upkeep, for letting out the venue for a political function. He said this will set a precedent and the department will be forced to issue permission for other political parties too. Reacting to the outbursts of Law Minister J. Madhuswamy against an official, Mr. Lakshmana said it reflected poorly on the Minister. The language used by him against the public, religious heads and officials was objectionable, he said pointing out that a person who met the Minister to apprise him of his grievances was also at the receiving end of his behaviour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/use-of-kalamandira-for-political-events-flayed/article33546821.ece
11 January 2021||Staff Reporter,KARNATAKA||Amidst bird flu scare, visitor numbers at Bannerghatta Biological Park see a dip||As the bird flu scare has left the authorities on high alert amidst the COVID-19 pandemic, the Bannerghatta Biological Park (BBP), which had started witnessing a gradual growth in the number of visitors since it reopened, is again seeing a drop. According to official numbers, on Friday (January 8), the number of visitors to the park was 1,268, and the total revenue Rs. 2,97,560. On January 7, there were 999 visitors and the revenue generated was Rs. 2,27,140, while on January 6, 1,715 people visited the park and the revenue generated was Rs. 4,35,860. Compare this to numbers before the Christmas-New Year period (when the numbers were expectedly higher): on December 16, for example, there were 1,959 visitors which earned BBP Rs. 4,39,320, while on December 23, there were 2,183 visitors and the park generated Rs. 5,58,230 as revenue. Vanashree Vipin Singh, Executive Director, BBP, told The Hindu that though fear over the avian influenza was definitely a factor, there were other contributors too. “The numbers have reduced, but it would be difficult to say if it is because of avian influenza alone. Whenever it rains, the numbers go down. Also, schools also started for classes X and XII. So there are many variables,” she said. She also said the slump in numbers is temporary as was observed after the COVID 19 lockdown. The park — which is home to 378 birds from 45 species — recently announced a slew of measures to prepare the park for the avian influenza. These include proper cleaning of bird and animal enclosures with antiseptic solutions and ensuring the dryness of the enclosures; daily disinfecting in and around bird enclosures with antiviral spray and lime powder; not allowing people to eat, drink, or smoke while handling birds/animals; restricting the movement of persons and vehicles near the aviary and bird enclosures; and installation of antiseptic foot dips at the entry and exit gates for staff, visitors and vehicles. Meanwhile, the authorities at the Ranganathittu Bird Sanctuary said there was no drop in the number of visitors to the sanctuary as no case of bird flu has been reported. The birds in the sanctuary are being constantly monitored for signs of the disease, according to the authorities. It sees around 1,000 visitors during weekdays and about 3,000 during weekends. “There has been no drop in footfall. In case of any outbreak, the sanctuary will be out of bounds for the visitors,” said the authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/amidst-bird-flu-scare-visitor-numbers-at-bannerghatta-biological-park-see-a-dip/article33546403.ece
11 January 2021||January 11 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Man who robbed the elderly held||The Soladevanahalli police have arrested a man who allegedly targeted senior citizens and cheated them by promising pension and other benefits from the government. “The accused, Manjesh, had robbed nine people in the last few months after befriending them,” said a police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-who-robbed-the-elderly-held/article33546396.ece
11 January 2021||January 11 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||CoP||What is the best way to help a poor woman from any community walk with her head held high? You might say by paying her college fee, helping her acquire a skill, or funding a business she wishes to start. But the Brahmin Development Board in Karnataka has other ideas. The board set up last year by the BJP government seems to have decided that incentivising endogamous marriages is one way of emancipating poor Brahmin women. The board has promised Rs. 3 lakh to women who marry priests within the community and stay married to them for at least three years. While the name of the scheme – Maitreyi, a woman scholar of ancient India – might lead one to believe that it is women-centric, is it even meant to be? The board chairman, while announcing the scheme, openly talked about the need to help poor priests who have no assured source of income. Is there even room here for a debate on questions of a woman’s choice or problems in rewarding same-caste marriages?   The Textile Department’s proposal to procure sarees from weavers, who have been hit by COVID-19 and lockdown, is likely to remain only on paper. To help the weaving community, the Textile Department has submitted a Rs. 36 crore proposal to the Finance Department seeking money to buy six lakh sarees. It was proposed to procure sarees costing Rs. 500 to Rs. 600 each in order to clear the unsold stock. It was to be distributed among COVID-19 frontline warriors such as anganwadi workers, ASHAs, and Home Guards. After the Finance Department, which has been facing severe shortage of cash, rejected the proposal, it has been resubmitted by Textile Minister Srimant B. Patil. It remains to be seen if the Finance Department headed by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, who talks volumes about the poor, will stand up for poor weavers.   Recently, the street vendors of Hubballi-Dharwad were up in arms against the authorities after a special drive to evict them was launched. They gathered in large numbers to stage a protest alleging harassment. Their grouse was that they were being targeted without properly identifying hawking zones. They argued that while they were being targeted for occupying pavements, bigger shopkeepers, hoteliers and hospital owners were using pavements for parking with immunity. They sought to know why none dared take action against them. Even policeman, speaking off the record, admit that poor vendors have a point.   KPCC chief D.K. Shivakumar proved himself a tough taskmaster at a divisional meeting of party representatives in Bantwal last week. Mr. Shivakumar made it clear activists need not come to where he and former Chief Minister Siddaramiah were seated to register their attendance. “Cameras are capturing you all and we both can see it on the big screen,” he said, and went on to make it clear that merely marking attendance will not do. “You need to keep your mobile phones silent and be fully involved in the proceedings,” he said. Unlike earlier conventions, when all leaders were seen on stage, leaders sat below with workers this time.       Bageshree S. Nagesh Prabhu Girish Pattanashetti Raghava M.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cop/article33546414.ece
11 January 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Good progress for LIFE project at Paravoor||The construction of an apartment complex as part of the third phase of the Livelihood Inclusion and Financial Empowerment (LIFE) Mission at Paravoor here is making good progress. The housing complex is being constructed on 2.15 acres of land for 156 families. The foundation stone for the complex with two seven-storey blocks was laid by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in March 2020. However, the work got delayed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Piling work Officials said that 75 per cent of the piling work of one of the seven-storey blocks had been completed. P.P. Udaya Simhan, district coordinator, LIFE Mission said that prefabrication method was being used to build the complex. “The construction of the apartment complex will be completed in six months,” he said. Each seven-storey block will have 78 flat units. The 500-sq.ft. units will have two bedrooms, a kitchen, hall, among other facilities. Besides, a hi-tech anganwadi, rainwater harvesting facility, solar plant, drinking water facility, waste treatment system, park, parking space will be set up. The total cost of construction is estimated at Rs. 35 crore. The apartment complex is aimed at providing houses to those who have neither a home nor land. Earlier, the State government accorded administrative sanction for construction of four apartment complexes in different parts of the district in the third phase of the project. Apart from Paravoor, housing complexes will be constructed at Thazhakara, Pallipad and Mannancherry. The foundation stones of Pallippad and Mannancherry complexes have already been laid. The complexes in Pallipad and Mannanchery have been constructed in the land provided by the respective panchayats. Each complex could house 44 families. The complex at Thazhakara will be constructed in revenue land, which could accommodate 140 families. Apart from this, houses are also being constructed under cluster/housing complex schemes in the district as part of the third phase of the LIFE Mission. 17,500 houses Mr. Udaya Simhan said that more than 17,500 houses had been constructed under LIFE Mission in the district so far. In the first phase of LIFE Mission, the government had undertaken the construction of incomplete houses under various schemes, whereas in the second phase, it provided homes to land-holding homeless.  Each seven-storey block will have 78 flat units with each 500-sq.ft. unit having two bedrooms, a kitchen, hall, among other facilities||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/good-progress-for-life-project-at-paravoor/article33546765.ece
11 January 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Collector reviews breaking of pozhi||District Collector A. Alexander visited Andhakaranazhi pozhi on Sunday. After water entered several houses in Pattanakkad, Kadakkarappally and Thuravoor due to rain and sea erosion, the authorities the other day decided to cut open the Andhakaranazhi pozhi to ensure smooth flow of water into the sea. Mr. Alexander reviewed the breaking of pozhi, which began on Saturday. Meanwhile, the Irrigation Department has opened some of the shutters of the Thanneermukkom bund and Thottappally spillway following a rise in water level in Kuttanad. In December, all 90 shutters of the Thanneermukkom bund were closed down last month to prevent intrusion of brackish water into paddy fields. Increase in water level will be detrimental to the 'puncha' crop season, which is progressing in Kuttanad. Farmers have sown paddy in more than 25,000 hectares in Kuttanad and other parts of the district. Cultivation in 600 hectares were destroyed following bund breaches in Kuttanad in the puncha season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/collector-reviews-breaking-of-pozhi/article33546766.ece
11 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Campaign brings out undetected TB cases||The State’s ‘catch-up’ campaign to detect tuberculosis cases that may have gone undiagnosed during the COVID-19 pandemic between June and August, screened over six lakh people, tested 29,166 and diagnosed 802 people with tuberculosis (TB) between October and December 2020. The dip in tuberculosis cases detected between June and August 2020, when compared to figures in 2019, prompted the Health Department to initiate a ‘catch-up’ campaign as part of the Akshaya Keralam project. “There was a 40%-50% dip in active TB cases between June and August,” said M. Sunilkumar, State TB Officer. While 2,049 cases were detected in August 2019, the figure fell to 1,213 in August 2020. He identifies two reasons for the fall of around 1,500 cases in three months – people were afraid to visit health centres with the coronavirus doing the rounds and lab technicians were afraid to handle sputum for sputum microscopy. People were even reluctant to cough keeping the COVID-19 stigma in mind, he added. An analysis of the situation in August made the Health Department change tack. In 2018, a list of people vulnerable to TB was prepared in each panchayat. This vulnerability mapping exercise, which identified 7.75 lakh people, proved useful between October and December 2020, when ASHA workers reached out to them over phone to identify and test people with symptoms. Vulnerable segments Vulnerable populations include the elderly, people with chronic conditions who might be immunocompromised, smokers, and alcoholics. A hub-and-spoke model was set in motion for testing with samples being collected from homes, taken to PHCs, and then a diagnostic centre. Medicines were delivered at homes. People who showed symptoms like weight loss, cough, and fever but tested negative for COVID-19 were tested for TB. “We tried molecular diagnostics, which is automated, over sputum microscopy. This improved case finding,” Dr. Sunilkumar said. Private hospitals Mirroring the situation across the State, in Ernakulam, private hospitals diagnosed 25% more cases in 2020 when compared to 2019, said P.S. Rakesh, WHO consultant for TB elimination for Kerala and Lakshadweep. “There was a dip in diagnosis in the public sector since some hospitals were converted into COVID-19 treatment facilities. Patients may have depended on the private sector for other ailments. As part of the STEPS (System for TB Elimination in the private sector) programme, some patients were even directed to private hospitals from government ones handling COVID-19,” he said||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/campaign-brings-out-undetected-tb-cases/article33546720.ece
11 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Phase-II development at Vyttila need of the hour||Faced with additional influx of vehicles into the NH Bypass since Saturday, which created unprecedented snarls at Vyttila, demand is rife that the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), which owns the Edappally-Aroor NH Bypass, or the PWD, which built the Vyttila flyover, urgently take up the second phase development of the congested junction. Saturday’s chaos is a symptom of what is in store, since more private vehicles are expected to converge at the junction. Narrow slip road The NHAI or the PWD must initiate steps to widen the narrow slip road on the eastern side (Thripunithura side) of the flyover, if need be, by acquiring land, to carve out space for vehicles from Palarivattom wanting to turn left towards the Vyttila Mobility Hub or Thripunithura and those waiting for signal to turn right towards SA Road, said Sunitha Dixon, councillor representing the Kochi Corporation’s Vyttila Division. “Similarly, the NHAI must set the process in motion to build a four-lane underpass linking SA Road with the Vyttila-Thripunithura Road, in case the PWD (NH Wing), which built the flyover, is hesitant. “The NHAI is also duty-bound to extend the long-overdue proposal to service roads on the junction’s Palarivattom side by a few metres further north — where a wide enough underpass is possible, so that motorists can avoid the existing shoddily narrow underpass. On its part, the PWD (Roads Wing) must widen the bottlenecked two-lane stretch between Vyttila Junction and Kunnara Park, since it is considerably slowing down movement of vehicles at the junction,” she added. Long-term solutions Saturday’s chaos proves that government agencies must seek the help of traffic experts from NATPAC or people like Metroman E. Sreedharan to come up with long-term solutions to ensure safe and smooth movement of motorists and pedestrians in and around Vyttila. Traffic reforms like the one being tried out at the Palarivattom Bypass Junction, to do away with traffic signals, could be tried out in Vyttila, Ms. Dixon said. Private vehicles The phenomenal increase in the number of cars and two-wheelers whenever a flyover or bridge is commissioned is a common phenomenon. Especially so in Kerala, where people are obsessed with cars and SUVs. Urban planners and civic bodies must step in to lessen the ensuing congestion by augmenting modes of public transport like state-of-the-art buses, so that commuters have alternatives to private vehicles, said D. Dhanuraj, chairman, Centre for Public Policy Research (CPPR), a city-based think tank. Need for flyovers Ultimately, much thought must be given to whether cities like Kochi need elevated structures like flyovers, since augmenting a lane or two at junctions and emulating reforms being tried out at Palarivattom to bring about a signal-less junction can do wonders, at a fraction of the expense needed to build flyovers and bridges, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/phase-ii-development-at-vyttila-need-of-the-hour/article33546715.ece
11 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Traffic plan temporarily rolled back at Vyttila Jn.||The chaos that reigned in and around Vyttila on Saturday, soon after new traffic regulations were introduced following the commissioning of the flyover at the junction could have been avoided, if trial runs had been done in advance, traffic police sources said. Aimed at averting a repeat of Saturday, when Vyttila and roads leading to the junction encountered massive traffic gridlocks, the police on Sunday barred direct entry of vehicles from SA Road to Thripunithura and the Vyttila Mobility Hub. All vehicles from SA Road wanting to cross the junction were thus re-routed through the diversion corridor that was in place for the past three years when the flyover work was on. They thus had to turn left from SA Road, cross the narrow underpass beneath the Vyttila railway overbridge and proceed along the service road on the eastern side of the NH Bypass, subsequently joining the stream of vehicles along the bypass and then turn left towards the hub or Thripunithura. Traffic blocks Early on Sunday, barricades were placed to re-route vehicles and signal system switched off, taking note of the fact that permitting direct entry from SA Road, through the space beneath the flyover caused serpentine traffic hold-ups on the Palarivattom side of the junction on Saturday. The police will observe traffic movement during peak and off-peak hours in the coming days, following which a plan to route traffic beneath the flyover will be zeroed in on, it is learnt. However, such issues did not crop up on roads beneath the Kundannoor flyover, since vehicles has already been criss crossing beneath the flyover in either direction for the past couple of months. In addition, traffic movement at Vyttila is much more complex, since vehicles from multiple roads, including service roads, converge at the junction. Still, problems will persist on the north-western side of the junction as was seen on Saturday, since the two-lane bridge over railway tracks is ridden with potholes and problematic expansion joints and is too narrow to accommodate vehicles coming in three lanes from the flyover and in two lanes of the slip road beneath.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/traffic-plan-temporarily-rolled-back-at-vyttila-junction/article33546714.ece
11 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Tenants of burnt-out house seek lease amount||After their home at Pachalam caught fire early in December, Edwin D’costa and his family have been living amid the rubble for a month now. Firemen told Mr. D’costa that the fire was caused by a short circuit in the building that the family has taken on lease. But the owner of the building refused to take the explanation and has not returned the lease amount of Rs. 5 lakh despite repeated entreaties, he said. They noticed the fire around 3 a.m. and could only save themselves, Mr. D’costa said. Their belongings were almost entirely charred or destroyed, he added. The family, comprising Mr. D’costa’s wife, 96-year-old mother, and son, have been sleeping in a makeshift shed in the verandah of the building, he said. Since the wiring was shot, there is no electricity. They contacted V4 Kochi activists who helped send a complaint to the Chief Minister’s office. “It was forwarded to the District Collector and the police chief. But nobody has turned up to examine the site or address the situation,” said Jacob John, V4 Kochi activist.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tenants-of-burnt-out-house-seek-lease-amount/article33546710.ece
11 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Twelve centres identified for vaccination in district||As many as twelve centres have been identified in the district to administer the vaccine for COVID-19 in the first phase of inoculation for all staff associated with healthcare facilities, anganwadi workers and Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA). Nine government hospitals and three private ones will administer the vaccine in the first phase. These are the Government Medical College Hospital, Ernakulam General Hospital, Piravom Taluk Hospital, Chengamanad Community Health Centre, Kuttampuzha Family Health Centre, Chellanam Primary Health Centre, Thammanam Urban Primary Health Centre, District Homoeopathic Hospital, and District Ayurveda Hospital. Aster Medcity, Mar Baselios Medical Mission and MOSC Medical College are the private hospitals identified for the purpose. Private hospitals where more than 75 health workers have registered were selected. First phase As many as 62,000 people have registered for the vaccine in the first phase. In the private sector, 46,200 healthcare workers and staff have registered, while the figure stands at 15,800 in the government sector. Health officials in the district are expecting the vaccine to be dispatched from Chennai tentatively on January 13. The regional vaccine storage facility in Ernakulam would receive the doses meant for Idukki, Thrissur, Kottayam and Palakkad as well, said M.G. Sivadas, District Reproductive and Child Health Officer, who is the nodal officer for the vaccination drive. At each of the 12 centres, 100 people can be vaccinated on one day, Dr. Sivadas said. While 700 centres were identified, additional sites would be put to use depending on the number of doses that will be sent to the district. The second dose of the vaccine was to be administered after 28 days, he added. Health officials are hoping that the vaccination of a large number of health workers first will build confidence among others as well. The number of people in the district above the age of 50 and people with comorbidities below 50 who would voluntarily receive the vaccination after healthcare and frontline workers has not been estimated yet, said Dr. Sivadas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/twelve-centres-identified-for-vaccination-in-district/article33546712.ece
11 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||KMTA to take up parking, mobility plan||The first board meeting of the Kochi Metropolitan Transport Authority (KMTA), a body mandated with integrating different commuting modes and improving the quality of roads and allied infrastructure, is scheduled to be held on January 22. Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran, who heads the body, and senior officials of the Motor Vehicles Department (MVD) and related departments that are members of the body are slated to attend the meeting online from Thiruvananthapuram, while the others will most likely attend it from Kochi. The KMTA, which was constituted in November, is touted as the premier full-fledged metropolitan transport authority of its kind in India entrusted with ample powers to usher in qualitative improvement in the way people commute in the Greater Kochi region. The body had recently included in its agenda three critical issues that have to be implemented in the coming six months. They are the introduction of a smart parking system, revision of the Comprehensive Mobility Plan (CMP) readied in 2015 by Kochi Metro Rail Limited, and steps to promote non-motorised transport (NMT). Entry of Vypeen buses The long-pending demand to permit entry of private buses from Vypeen into the city, and augmenting of feeder network for public transport modes too were likely to figure in the meeting, sources said. The CMP must be rewritten after a passenger survey is conducted by a credible agency. It should be based on the detailed toolkit readied by the Union Ministry of Urban Affairs, said a key member of KMTA. “This is because a scientifically done CMP would be the basis for policy decisions and integration of different commuting modes,” he added. Team members The body is also in urgent need of an administrative team to do paperwork and liaison with officials of different departments, it is learnt. “The board meeting will hopefully take a decision on sending a person in the rank of Under Secretary and a pair of support staff on deputation with the KMTA. About 20 personnel having field experience are also needed on contract basis as project engineers in charge of planning, finance etc.,” said sources. In the absence of administrative staff to liaison with the State Secretariat, there is major delay in getting the concurrence of many key departments. Posting adequate number of personnel will help create awareness about the purpose and powers of the KMTA with the Secretariat staff and speed up paperwork. The KMTA also needs approximately Rs. 10 crore from the State budget to take up different projects this year. On its part, the Centre would allot funds if project reports were submitted in the statutory format, they added.  The CMP must be rewritten after a passenger survey is conducted by a credible agency. It should be based on the detailed toolkit readied by the Union Ministry of Urban Affairs KMTA member||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/smart-parking-mobility-plan-revision-among-issues-to-be-taken-up-by-kmta/article33546707.ece
11 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Maradu flat owners trying to regain rhythm of life||Life has been a tumultuous journey over the past one year for Rasheed Usman and his former neighbours. After Alfa Serene, the apartment that stood tall on the banks of the Vembanad lake at Maradu, was brought down for violating Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) rules, most of the apartment owners have shifted to rented houses. On January 11 last year, Holy Faith and the two towers of Alfa Serene were demolished after the Supreme Court took a tough stand on illegal constructions that came up on the banks of the lake. Mr. Usman and his family shifted to a rented apartment at Eda Kochi and he is now leading a legal battle to claim compensation for the loss the residents suffered. “Though the builder has offered to construct a new apartment at the original place for a price of Rs. 50 lakh, we are not keen on that proposal,” he said. Jacob Mathew, another resident of the apartment complex, now lives at Ravipuram in a house that he took on rent from his friend. “My two daughters are employed abroad. I don’t own a house and am unsure how it will factor when they are to be married,” he said. Almost all of the residents of the apartment complexes that were pulled down were initially paid a compensation of Rs. 25 lakh each by the State government. Though the court had directed the apartment owners to pay funds to the Balakrishnan Nair committee appointed for overseeing the disbursement of compensation, only meagre amounts were paid by the builders. Another crisis Some of the residents of Jain Coral Cove, another apartment that was constructed in violation of rules at Maradu and demolished on January 14 last year, are faced with another crisis. Most of the residents had purchased the apartments after raising bank loans for which the apartments were given as collateral security. After the demolition of the apartment, the collateral security became non-existent and the banks converted the home loans into personal loans for higher interest, said George Kovoor, a former resident and president of the residents’ association. After H2O, the flat where he lived for years, was demolished, M. Arun moved to an apartment in Panampilly Nagar. “It was a traumatic experience. All the residents, who had developed strong bonds among themselves, were scattered to different parts of the city. Yet, all are in touch with each other. Recently, we all met for the birthday party of a former resident’s child,” he said. After being pushed out of their homes, the former residents are trying to pick up the rhythm of life. They are trying hard to leave behind the memories and visuals of their homes and dreams being reduced to rubble in a few seconds’ time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/maradu-residents-trying-to-regain-rhythm-of-life/article33546706.ece
11 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||New outpatient block opened at taluk hospital||Health Minister K.K. Shylaja inaugurated a renovated outpatient block at the Kothamangalam taluk hospital via videoconferencing on Sunday. The existing outpatient facilities were spruced up and new rooms added along with a waiting room, besides modernising laboratories at a cost of Rs. 2.18 crore. The laboratories have been made easily accessible. The project was executed under the State government’s Aardram Mission, in an effort to make the hospital more patient-friendly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-outpatient-block-opened-at-taluk-hospital/article33546711.ece
11 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||650 more test positive, 718 recover in Ernakulam||As many as 650 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2, and 718 recovered in the district on Sunday. The source of infection of 63 people could not be traced. Seven health workers have newly tested positive. Thrikkakara recorded 34 new cases of the infection, Perumbavoor registered 20 and Angamaly 18. A total of 25,641 people remain in quarantine. The district’s active caseload is 8,990. For testing, 4,707 samples were sent on Sunday. Of the people recovering from the infection, 49 are at the Government Medical College Hospital and 68 patients are at the PVS Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/650-more-test-positive-718-recover-in-ernakulam/article33546708.ece
11 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Hotel staffer arrested||An employee of a popular eatery at Palarivattom here was arrested on Sunday on the charge of keeping a camera hidden in the toilet. The Palarivattom police identified him as Velmurugan, 24, of Palakkad. The police said the incident came to light when a woman member of a family who came to have food at the eatery on Sunday evening saw a mobile phone hidden in the toilet, with its camera on recording mode. The phone has been seized. The arrested youth has been charged under Sections 354 (assault or criminal force to outrage modesty of woman) and 354 C (voyeurism) of IPC, under Section 119 of the Kerala Police Act for taking photographs, recording videos or propagating them at any place in a manner affecting the reasonable privacy of women, and relevant sections of the IT Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hotel-staffer-held-on-charge-of-keeping-hidden-camera/article33546678.ece
11 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Booth panels||All booth committees of the Congress in Ernakulam will have to be restructured before January 26, All India Congress Committee (AICC) secretary Ivan D’souza has said. The political climate in the district is favourable for the Congress, and the party can win all the seats if it succeeds in addressing its organisational issues, he added. Addressing a District Congress Committee (DCC) meeting here, Mr. D’souza said party leaders should pay attention to the functioning of booth committees. “The Assembly elections will be an appraisal of the Left Democratic Front [LDF], and people’s resentment against the State government will reflect in the polls. The BJP, which is out to destroy the country, shall not be given a foothold in the State,” he said. The Congress has put up an impressive show in the civic polls in the district, Mr. D’souza said. DCC president T.J. Vinod, MLA, presided over the meeting. Benny Behanan and Hibi Eden, MPs, and V.D. Satheesan, P.T. Thomas, V.P. Sajeendran, and Anvar Sadath, MLAs, attended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cong-to-reorganise-booth-committees/article33546717.ece
11 January 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Logo of open varsity sparks a controversy||The recently released logo of Sree Narayana Guru Open University (SNGOU) has stirred a controversy with many organisations and political outfits registering their disapproval over its design. As per the official version, the logo reveals the image of Guru from an aerial angle through a creative convergence of colours, its tonal variations representing knowledge, peace, sustainable development, dharma, values and dignity. It also carries Guru's famous quote ‘Liberation through Education’ in English and Malayalam. The university had invited entries for the logo and the selected work was designed by Prof.M.Gadhi, Department of Architecture, TKM College of Engineering. Following the release of the logo, several persons had pointed out the absence of Sree Narayana Guru’s image or any symbol connecting it to Kerala’s most prominent reformist icon. “Mahatma Gandhi University may not have the picture of Gandhi, but it has the charkha, a symbol we instantly associate with him. All other universities have added something that indicate education or knowledge in their logos. This is perhaps the only exception and SNDP Yogam has already expressed its objection,” says Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) vice president and community leader Mohan Sankar. Though the university had formed a three-member jury to select the logo, no meeting was held to finalise the logo. No final meeting “I was part of the jury and we were asked to shortlist three from the hundreds of entries. There were many good and professional ones and it was a task choosing any three. As per the normal procedure, the jurors sit for a final discussion to select the logo but that wasn't held online or offline,” says architect Eugene Pandala. According to Sree Narayana Pensioners' Council, the first organisation to stage a dharna in front of the office demanding the withdrawal of the logo, the work is below average even from an artistic point of view since it fails to communicate with the commoner. “This is not a logo suited for a university and there isn’t even any abstract representation of Sree Narayana Guru in the logo. They claim you can find a top angle image, but it’s just an eyewash since many experts have pointed out the defects of the logo. The so called colour play loses all relevance when the logo gets printed in black and white. Misguiding public It's a deliberate attempt to avoid the image of Guru and the university authorities are trying to misguide the public through this false claim,” says council coordinator P.V.Rejimon. He also alleges that the current logo shares a startling similarity with the logo of Suncoast, a US-based financial institution. “We are planning to mail them pointing out the similarities since it's illegal to copy a logo. We want the authorities to reconsider the decision and select a proper logo from the entries recommended by the expert committee,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/logo-of-sree-narayana-guru-open-university-sparks-a-row/article33546680.ece
11 January 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||NCD clinics in Kollam to be strengthened||The Health Department has decided to strengthen the functioning of Non-communicable disease (NCD) clinics in the district as a preventive measure to control COVID-19 related mortality rate. “As per a study conducted by the Department, there are chances for the rate to go up if we don't take preventive steps. The mortality rate among persons above the age of 80 is 2.56 %, which is the highest. It's 2.25 and 1.06 for persons aged 71 to 80 and 61 to 70 respectively. The mortality rate among persons coming in the age group of 31 to 60 years is 0.22 while it's 0.03 among people below the age of 30,” said District Medical Officer Dr.R.Sreelatha. Meanwhile fatalities are comparatively high in all groups if the patients have diabetes, hypertension or heart and kidney related issues. The Department will offer special provision for senior citizen in outpatient department so that they don't have to wait in queues to get medicines. Those who can't travel can use eSanjeevani tele-medicine facility by downloading the app or registering in the portal. “There is also provision to buy one month’s medicine from the clinic and the public should utilise all these free services,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ncd-clinics-in-kollam-to-be-strengthened/article33546775.ece
11 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Corpn. standing committee members to be elected today||With the election of members to the eight standing committees in the Kozhikode Corporation scheduled to be held on Monday, the CPI(M), the leading party in the council, has released a list of probables for various standing committee chairpersons. While the CPI will get one post, the other LDF constituents have not been entertained in the matter. Interestingly, most of the probable candidates are debutants, while some are even first-time councillors. Deputy Mayor Musafir Ahamed is by default the finance standing committee chairman. Health is an important area of focus for the corporation. The health standing committee will be headed by S. Jayasree, who was one of the Mayor candidates of the CPI(M). She is a retired college principal and is a first-time councillor representing the Kottooli ward. Another debutant, Krishnakumari, a retired block development officer, who represents the Naduvattam ward of the corporation, will head the town planning standing committee, while O.P. Shijina, yet another debutant, who represents the Chettikulam ward, will head the development standing committee. Another surprise is the selection of C. Rekha as the education and sports standing committee chairperson. Rekha, 22, who represents the Eranhipalam ward, is the youngest councillor. She is also a national-level hockey player, who has represented Kerala many a time. The most experienced among the standing committee chairpersons is P.C. Rajan, who will head the public works standing committee. He was the development standing committee chairman in the previous council. P. Divakaran, who represents the Thiruthiyad ward, will be the welfare standing committee chairman, while P.K. Nasar of the CPI, who represents the Palayam ward, will be the tax and appeals standing committee chairman. The formal election of chairpersons will be held on January 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corpn-standing-committee-members-to-be-elected-today/article33546685.ece
11 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Home lab project spreads its wings across Kozhikode||Almost all the government, aided and approved unaided schools in Kozhikode districts will soon be covered under the home lab project of the District Institute of Education and Training (DIET) that involves setting up of little home-based labs to make science learning more effective. According to DIET sources, school students in 11 of the 17 sub-districts in Kozhikode had already set up home labs. The rest would be covered in the coming weeks. “By January 18, an official announcement on covering all schools is expected,” said D. Divya, science faculty at DIET. The project envisages inculcation of scientific temper in students, parents, and teachers and also build an affinity in their minds towards science subjects. Some other districts too are planning to emulate this project with DIET officials from Thrissur and Kannur evincing interest in it. There had been reports that some schools in Malappuram and Kasaragod too had tried to implement the project. The pilot scheme was launched by District Collector S. Sambasiva Rao at Sanskrit High School, Vattoli, on November 1. As many as 1,667 students had created small labs at their homes. Ms. Divya said that both retired and serving scientists at the Indian Space Research Organisation had complimented the idea. The project was launched to help students conduct scientific experiments at home using substances that are easily available. Initially, students in Classes 5 to 7 were involved in it. Now, it had been extended to those from Class 1 to 10, the sources said. Available materials Lemon, tamarind, soap, glass, ice cream balls, wires, battery, bottles, mirror, bulbs, and lens are being used for small experiments. These are expected to help students develop an interest in science as they will be able to relate their science lessons with the things around them. The experiments are now being linked to the curriculum to figure out what could be done in each term of the academic year, Ms. Divya said. Modules are being prepared in PDF format, which could be shared among parents and teachers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/home-lab-project-spreads-its-wings/article33546693.ece
11 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Rally in support of farmers’ stir||Hundreds of city residents and rural farmers took part in a ‘Maha Rally’ here on Sunday in support of the farmers’ agitation in New Delhi. The march, organised by the Kozhikode Citizens forum, was taken out from the Francis Road Junction. Representatives of various rural farmers’ organisations and action committees besides youngsters and children took part in the rally which culminated near the South Beach. Leaders of the forum said new farm laws were meant to uproot traditional farmers and support those who had monopolised agricultural trade. They also announced their plan to continue local agitations in support of farmers’ cause.  Protocol violated Meanwhile, the rally ended up in the open violation of physical-distancing protocol. Though there were strict guidelines to maintain it throughout the event, only very few could comply with it till the end. The police were found warning a few for not cooperating with regulations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hundreds-take-to-street-in-support-of-farmers-stir/article33546697.ece
11 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Crude bombs hurled at DYFI leader’s house in Kozhikode||A motorbike-borne gang hurled country bombs at the house of Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) leader Arjun Dev at Chakkittappara in Kozhikode on Sunday. The incident took place around 12.30 a.m. The front portion of the house, including doors and windows, was destroyed in the explosion. The miscreants, who are yet to be identified, reportedly threw crude bombs at the house thrice. Political tension Arjun Dev, who sustained minor injuries in the incident, was admitted to Perambra Taluk Hospital. Police sources said the attack was part of the continuing political tension in the area. DYFI activists from the area alleged that the bomb attack was carried out by a group of Rashtriya Swayam Sevak (RSS) workers. They also alleged that RSS activists had been spotted in the area a few hours before the attack.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/crude-bombs-hurled-at-dyfi-leaders-house/article33546691.ece
11 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||25% not using masks properly: survey||Even as the health apparatus in the State is on an alert to fight a new strain of the novel coronavirus, a survey held in the State capital has found that around 25% of people still do not use face masks properly. Among those who use the masks, 30% of men and 11% of women do not use them properly. According to functionaries of the Campaign Against Pseudo Science Using Law and Ethics (CAPSULE), Kerala, a wing of the Kerala Sasthra Sahitya Parishad, the survey was held to gauge people’s alertness level. As many 1,017 people in 11 locations in Thiruvananthapuram city were covered. One volunteer each was assigned for the purpose between January 2 and January 4. A total of 403 men (67.5%) and 363 women (86.4%) were using the face masks properly. As many as 179 men (30%) and 46 women (11%) were using the masks without covering their nose and mouth. Fifteen men (2.5%) and 11 women (2.6%) did not have face masks at all. In total, only 75.3% of the respondents were sticking to correct use. U. Nandakumar and M.P. Anil Kumar, chairman and convener, CAPSULE, Kerala, pointed out that the survey showed that at least some people were still lax towards observing personal protection measures. “There is nothing wrong in people coming out in public places as the restrictions on physical gathering have been eased now. Indications, however, are that Kerala might witness another wave of infection with the discovery of the new strain of the virus, which is reportedly more transmissible. Against this backdrop, we need to maintain physical distancing, wear face masks and wash our hands regularly until vaccine is made available to all,” they said. Studies done The CAPSULE functionaries claimed that institutions such as the World Health Organisation, the Mayo Clinic and the University of California in the U.S. had done studies on how the proper use of face masks can help reduce the spread of the infection.   Wrong use of masks Among those who use the masks, 30% of men and 11% of women do not use them properly.  Fifteen men (2.5%) and 11 women (2.6%) did not have face masks at all.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/25-not-using-masks-properly-survey/article33546677.ece
11 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Most councillors owe their victory to parties||Most councillors in the Kozhikode Corporation believe that they won the recent local body polls solely because of the influence of the political parties they represent. Of the 75 councillors, only three believe that their personal influence among the masses resulted in their win, while four think their personal influence along with that of the party had a role in their win, says a record of the personal data of the councillors made by the corporation. Based on information provided by the councillors themselves, more than half of them are proficient in a language other than Malayalam. Thirty-seven councillors are proficient in English, while 21 of them know Hindi and seven Tamil. However, most councillors are rather backward in educational qualifications. While 52 councillors have not gone past the school level, 20 of them have gone beyond school. There are 12 graduates, four postgraduates, two professionals and two PhD holders among them. Thirty-seven councillors are rather well-versed in the use of computer. The occupation of 27 councillors is public work, while that of the others is spread over various occupations such as business, agriculture, construction, and fishing. Three of them are unemployed, while seven are home makers. Reading seems to be the favourite hobby of most new councillors, while some like travelling and music. There are 27 councillors who have travelled abroad. Interestingly, one councillor has visited nine countries, while another has travelled to seven countries. Most councillors have travelled beyond Kerala. One of the them has visited 25 Indian States, while two others have visited 12 each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/most-councillors-owe-their-victory-to-parties/article33546684.ece
11 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Fresh probe into man’s death in jail||The District Police Chief (Kozhikode city) has ordered a fresh investigation into the allegation that Beeran Koya, a 61-year-old Kozhikode native, ended his life in district jail after he was falsely implicated in a child abuse case. The probe was ordered after family members of the victim took up the incident with police higher-ups. It was on January 6 that the man who was remanded in connection with a child sexual abuse case was found dead. According to the jail authorities, the man ended his life following the mental trauma he suffered subsequent to the arrest. According to his family members, he was booked under POCSO Act after some of his enemies filed a false petition with the police. There was also a ‘social media trial’ based on the incident. After the man was found dead, the jail authorities had taken disciplinary action against three staff. While two officers were transferred, another one was placed under suspension. The action was taken on the basis of an investigation report submitted by a Deputy Inspector General of Police exposing the casual surveillance measures adopted in the jail. Meanwhile, family members of the victim said it was primarily the arrest made by the local police on the basis of a ‘fake complaint’ that led to his death and policemen responsible for the incident should be suspended from the service.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fresh-probe-ordered-into-mans-death-in-jail/article33546690.ece
11 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Call for collective against neo-atheism||A meeting of the Kerala Nadvathul Mujahideen (KNM) here on Sunday sought what it called a “collective against neo-atheism” in the wake of alleged attempts to “inject atheism in the new generation”. The meeting was opened by T.P. Abdullakkoya Madani, president, KNM. A release quoting KNM functionaries said the recent debate between rationalist E.A. Jabbar and M.M. Akbar, founder director, Niche of Truth, an Islamic missionary organisation, at Malappuram, had “exposed the ignorance of neo-atheists. The neo-atheists should ponder over if the propagation of lies without studying religion and science is appropriate… The youth should come forward to respond to those who try to propagate neo-atheism through social media,” they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/call-for-collective-against-neo-atheism/article33546686.ece
11 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kala Utsav begins today||Kozhikode will host the State-level contestants for Kala Utsav, a national-level arts competition for school students, which begins on Monday. 18 events Students from all the States and Union Territories in the country will compete in 18 events. Due to COVID-induced restrictions, competitions are held online this time. The events will be live-streamed from Kozhikode while the judgement will be carried out from Delhi. Samagra Shiksha, Kozhikode, is coordinating the event. Studio set up District Project Coordinator Abdul Hakeem said that a state-of-the-art studio has been set up for live-streaming of events such as classical music, folk music, classical dance, folk dance and instrumental music. Besides, events such as painting, clay modelling and toy making will be held at the Government Higher Secondary School auditorium at Karaparamba in Kozhikode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kala-utsav-begins-today/article33546694.ece
11 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Over 10 lakh COVID tests conducted: Health dept.||As many as 558 people newly tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode district on Sunday and there were 511 recoveries. According to the District Medical Officer, there were 540 locally acquired infections, 11 had returned from other States, and three from abroad. The source of infection of four others is not known. Kozhikode corporation had 164 cases of local transmission while Vadakara and Eramala had 29 and 24, respectively. Active caseload from the district is 5,848. A total of 4,512 people are under home isolation. As many as 4,463 samples were tested and the daily test positivity rate is 12.50%. Meanwhile, the Health Department has claimed that the district had so far conducted 10 lakh lab tests, which was a first for any district. A total of 10,03,512 samples had been tested till January 10 and five lakh were sent to labs in the past three months alone. As many as 9,09,682 had turned out to be negative for the virus. So far, Kozhikode district had 91,290 COVID-19 patients. The cumulative test positivity rate for the district is 9.12%. There had been 318 deaths so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/over-10-lakh-covid-tests-conducted-health-dept/article33546695.ece
11 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Cong. worker sustains injuries in attack||An Indian National Congress worker from Avala who sustained serious injuries in an alleged attack was admitted to the Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, on Sunday. Manoj, a resident of Perincherikadavu, was allegedly attacked by a CPI(M) worker.  The Meppayur police have registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cong-worker-sustains-injuries-in-attack/article33546688.ece
11 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Man falls to death from building||A 50-year-old man died after falling from a multi-storey building at Thottumukkam in Kozhikode district on Sunday. The police identified him as K.K. Shaji. He was engaged in maintenance work atop the commercial building when tragedy struck. The incident took place around 2.30 p.m., the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-falls-to-death-from-building/article33546687.ece
11 January 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||IUML plans drive against CPI(M)||The Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) has decided to launch a campaign against the CPI(M) with the objective of exposing and parrying its alleged attempts to create communal polarisation in society. The drive under the banner of the IUML district committee will include a rally to protect secularism and a house-to-house campaign. IUML district president Sayed Sadikali Shihab Thangal will lead the campaign. A meeting of the district leadership held here on Saturday raised concern at the CPI(M) attempts to divide society on the basis of religion by injecting the “poison of communalism.” The CPI(M) is trying to destroy the communal amity that society had upheld for ages, IUML leaders said. According to Mr. Thangal, the CPI(M) was “deliberating attempting to communalise secular minds for temporary gains. The CPI(M) action will have far-reaching consequences in the Kerala society.” He said the current generation would have to remain witness to the destruction of Kerala’s secular fabric if the CPI(M) attempts win. He said it was the IUML’s responsibility to come forward and parry “the CPI(M)’s destructive move.” Constituency level meetings and leadership conclaves at panchayat and municipal levels will be held as part of the campaign. IUML general secretary P.K. Kunhalikutty, MP, inaugurated the meeting. Sayed Sadikali Shihab Thangal presided over the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/iuml-plans-drive-against-cpim/article33546733.ece
11 January 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||447 cases in Pathanamthitta||As many as 447 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Sunday An official bulletin issued here today said of the fresh cases, 424 people contracted the disease through local transmission and among these, the contact source of 34 cases were yet to be identified. Among the local bodies, Thiruvalla reported 28 cases, followed by Eraviperoor, Puramattom and Ranni-Pazhavangadi, which reported 18 cases apiece. Meanwhile, the disease claimed three more lives in the district. The victims were identified as a 38-year-old Kadambanadu native, 57-year-old woman from Thottapuzhassery and a 73-year-old man from Pandalam-Thekkekara, according to the official bulletin . With 281 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 6,474 active cases. Kollam The district reported 354 new COVID-19 cases and 229 recoveries on Sunday. Those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 include 352 contact cases, one health worker and one case without any known source. The district currently has 10,387 people under observation and the total number of samples collected is 6,32,671. While 771 people completed home quarantine on Sunday, the Health Department has traced 1,46,635 primary and 13,399 secondary contacts of the positive cases. Kottayam As many as 345 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Sunday Of the fresh cases, all but four contracted the disease through local contact. The fresh cases also included 45 children and 51 people aged above 60. With 60 cases, Kottayam municipality led the tally, followed by Changanassery with 27 cases. With 470 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 5,302 active cases. Alappuzha The district logged 265 COVID-19 cases on Sunday. Of the fresh cases, 255 patients contracted the disease through local transmission, while the source of infection of another 10 people remains unknown. Meanwhile, 218 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district tested negative. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district stands at 4,648.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/447-cases-in-pathanamthitta/article33546776.ece
11 January 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Arrangements in place for Makaravilakku||Elaborate arrangements have been put in place for the Makaravilakku festival at the Sabarimala Ayyappa temple on January 14. The rituals during the day will begin with a Nirmalyadarshanam at 5 a.m., to be followed by a Ganapathi Homam. The auspicious Makarasamkrama puja will begin at 8.14 a.m. The sanctum sanatorium will be closed at 1 a.m. after Uchapooja and reopen later at 5 p.m. The Thiruvabharanam procession will be accorded a reception at Sharamkuthi by 5.30 p.m. A team led by Devaswom Minister Kadakampally Surendran will receive the box carrying the Thiruvabharam at the sannidhanam. After decorating the Ayyappa idol with the Thiruvabharanam, the Mahadeeparadhana will be held at 6.30 p.m. This will be followed by the lighting of the Makaravilakku at Ponnambalamedu. After performing the Kalamezhuthupattu at Manimandapam, Ezhunellathu to the 18 holy steps will be held. The Ezhunellathu to Sharamkuthi will be held on January 19. The Makaravilakku festival will draw to a close after performing Guruthy at Malikappuram and the temple will close by 6.30 a.m. the next day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/arrangements-in-place-for-makaravilakku/article33546723.ece
11 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||A mermaid, a chopper & a turf war||Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran has informed sculptor Kanayi Kunhiraman that he was prepared for talks, with the installation of a decommissioned Indian Air Force (IAF) helicopter close to the 'Sagarakanyaka' - the breathtaking sculpture of a reclining mermaid by Mr. Kunhiraman on Shanghumughom Beach - snowballing into a controversy. Mr. Kunhiraman said he spoke to the Minister over phone on Sunday evening and the latter had expressed readiness for a discussion on the matter. The tourism promotion initiative had sparked outrage and a barrage of complaints, with an influential section of the cultural world rallying behind Mr. Kunhiraman who has demanded that the immediate environment of his work be restored to its former state. The sculptor maintained he would settle for nothing short of full restoration of the ambience around 'Sagarakanyaka. “'The helicopter has to be shifted elsewhere. I'm also prepared to help them develop it as an art work,” Mr. Knhiraman said on Sunday. The Mi-8, a medium twin-turbine assault chopper, perches on a massive platform to the south of the sculpture, just a stone's throw away from it. Art lovers allege that the menacing-looking machine, rather than the elegant sculpture which had won international acclaim, dominates the scene now. When contacted, Mr. Kadakampally Surendran indicated that the Tourism Department was not against a pragmatic solution to the controversy. “'Let Kanayi Kunhiraman and the people who have expressed opinions about it see it and we can then do as they suggest. Several of these opinions have been aired without seeing it,”' he said. On other hand, the Tourism Department is yet to finalise a decision regarding the complaints, Mr. Surendran said. The Indian Air Force and Kerala share a special bond after the 2018 floods and it was also the IAF's desire to put the helicopter on display, according to him. Both the Tourism Department and Mr. Surendran have drawn considerable flak, especially on social media, over the changes. Mr. Kunhiraman says he was not consulted on the changes. Later, when he complained to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, the latter had promised that the matter would be looked into once the local body polls were over in December. “'Needless to say that the immediate environment of a sculpture is also part of the canvas. The landscape is integral to it. How can anyone be so insensitive? Is this tourism development? What can I say. I almost got a heart attack when I saw it,”' Mr. Kunhiraman said. Even the grass-covered mound opposite the sculpture on which construction is taking place now was developed by Mr. Kunhiraman as part of his work. Incidentally, it is also the location of another, smaller sculpture created by him titled 'Vishramam.' The 'Sagarakanyaka' is 105 ft long and 25 ft high and took two years to create. Mr. Kunhiraman had undertaken the work for Kerala Tourism and it was completed in 1992. “'Back then I had consulted the local people and it took me one month to conceptualise the sculpture. The mermaid has sought refuge on land because the sea has become polluted. Much to her dismay, she finds the land also contaminated. She is beseeching the Sun to save the earth. That's the concept,” says Mr. Kunhiraman. Numerous artists, writers and cultural activists have come out in support of the sculptor, urging the government to rethink and shift the IAF helicopter to a more suitable location. Iconic art Keeping it near an iconic work of art would only serve to make Kerala a laughing stock before the world, according to them. Says writer Paul Zachariah, “'This is an example of cultural insensitivity. The construction may not have been deliberately intended to harm the sculpture, but it was sheer bad decision-making without proper application of the mind. One should remember that even the landscaping around 'Sagarakanyaka' was done by Mr. Kunhiraman to complement the sculpture,” Mr. Zachariah said. “Admitted that the land belongs to the government, but doesn't a work of art deserve respect?” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-mermaid-a-decommissioned-iaf-chopper-a-turf-war/article33546778.ece
11 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kudumbashree to pilot coir, craft stores||The Kudumbashree Mission will pilot two Coir and Craft stores in the State to provide a market for products manufactured by industries such as coir that employ women in large numbers. The stores are being set up as part of the Chief Minister’s 100-day programme. The stores will be piloted in Kasaragod and Alappuzha districts, though administrative sanction has been received to set up 300 of the targeted 500 stores. The store in Alappuzha will be at the municipal complex inside the Alappuzha private bus stand and that in Kasaragod at the Kalikadavu panchayat building at Pilicode. The stores, with an area between 100 and 500 sq ft, will provide a market for products manufactured by Kudumbashree enterprises and Kerala State Coir Corporation Ltd., with which it has entered into an agreement, apart from handicrafts. Cashew products There also plans to include cashew and products from other public sector undertakings such as Milma and Kerafed. The stores are also intended to double up as a storage for Kudumbashree Home Shops so that Kudumbashree women can pick up products from these store-cum-warehouses and distribute them to households. All panchayats have been directed find commercial space for Kudumbashree to set up the Coir and Craft store. Loan and subsidy The Kudumbashree will provide a soft loan of Rs. 5 lakh for starting each store. The mission has also fixed the layout for the stores. The beneficiaries have to be Kudumbashree enterprise groups, area development societies (ADS) or community development societies (CDS). Interest on the loan for the enterprise groups is 4%, while that for CDS or ADS committees is zero. The maximum repayment period is six years The Kudumbashree will provide a subsidy of Rs. 1.5 lakh to the beneficiaries subject to conditions. Its first instalment of Rs. 50,000 will be sanctioned if the interest and principle of the loan are paid in time in the first six months. If the payments for the next six months are also made in time, another Rs. 50,000 is allowed. The last instalment will be sanctioned when the repayment is complete.  There also plans to market cashew and products from public sector undertakings such as Milma and Kerafed||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kudumbashree-to-pilot-coir-craft-stores/article33546682.ece
11 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CM to hold talks with film forum reps today||Even as uncertainty looms large over the date of reopening of cinema theatres in the State, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will on Monday hold a meeting with various bodies to iron out the issues. The meeting is happening at a time when Film Exhibitors United Organisation of Kerala (FEUOK) has hardened its stance regarding reopening. FEUOK president and producer Antony Perumbavoor said on Saturday that the theatres in the State would not be opening only for the screening of the Tamil film Master , starring Vijay. He had said that a decision on this would depend on the State government’s stance on their demands in Monday’s meeting.  Shift in stance This shift in stance came only a few days after the exhibitors had earlier in the week expressed their willingness to reopen the theatres within a week. Participating in the meeting will be representatives of the Kerala Film Chamber of Commerce, FEUOK, Kerala Film Producers’ Association and Distributors’ Association. Subsidy Anil Thomas, vice president, Kerala Film Chamber of Commerce, told The Hindu that the organisations would demand a revival package from the government. “The theatres will be reopened if there is a favourable stance from the government towards the demands from the exhibitors. For the producers, we would also demand a subsidy of Rs. 10 lakh for films which are going to be released. As far as the disputes between the distributors and the exhibitors regarding the outstanding payments to be made by the exhibitors are concerned, it has almost been settled. These payments can be settled once the theatres reopen,” said Mr. Thomas. M.C. Bobby, general secretary of the FEUoK, said that the exhibitors were ready to reopen if three of their key demands were accepted by the government. “The first major demand is that the double taxation of theatre owners should not continue. There should be an exemption on entertainment tax. Regarding the electricity charges, we are ready to pay for what we have used, but the fixed charges for nine months when the theatres remained closed should be waived. Since all our existing licenses have expired, the government should extend these for six months, as there is no time now to renew these,” said Mr. Bobby. The State government had earlier this month allowed cinemas to reopen with 50% capacity from January 5, but the theatre owners refused to reopen until their demands are met. Though most of them had been keen on reopening for the Pongal release of the Vijay-starrer Master , considering the possible revenue, they now seem to prefer bargaining a better deal from the government.  The first major demand is that the double taxation of theatre owners should not continueM.C. Bobby General secretary, FEUoK||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-to-hold-talks-with-film-forum-reps-today/article33546725.ece
11 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||4,545 new cases reported in State||Kerala reported 4,545 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday when 45,695 samples were tested in the past 24 hours, taking the State’s cumulative case burden to 8,11,148 cases. The test positivity rate, which seemed to drop slightly the past two days, went right back to 9.95%. With 4,659 recoveries reported on Sunday, the active case pool in the State now stands at 64,179 cases. The cumulative COVID-19 recoveries in the State ever since the pandemic began has risen to 7,43,467 cases. 23 deaths The addition of 23 new deaths that happened in the past few days to the official list of COVID-19 fatalities on Sunday has taken the cumulative toll to 3,302. Of the 4,545 new cases reported on the day, in 78 cases, the Health Department has reported a history of travel outside the State. Of the 4,467 locally acquired infections, in 422 cases the source of infection remains untraced while the number of infected healthcare workers is 42. Among districts, Ernakulam reported 650 cases, Kozhikode 558, Pathanamthitta 447, Malappuram 441, Kollam 354, Kottayam 345, Thrissur 335, Thiruvananthapuram 288, Alappuzha 265, Kannur 262, Idukki 209, Palakkad 175, Wayanad 173 and Kasaragod 43 cases.  Three more persons, including travellers from the U.K., who arrived in the State between December 9-23, and their contacts, have tested positive for COVID-19 in the past 24 hours.  Till now, the State has received information only about six samples in which infection due to the U.K. virus variant B.1.1.7 has been detected. More results are awaited from NIV, Pune.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/4545-new-cases-reported-in-state/article33546730.ece
11 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||288 more cases in capital||The district recorded 288 COVID-19 cases and 395 recoveries as the number of active cases slid to 3,437 on Sunday. Barring a few imported cases, almost all cases have been attributed to local transmissions of the infections. Three health care workers have also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The district administration placed 1,485 people under quarantine. With this, the number of people being supervised for COVID-19 symptoms have gone up to 19,878 in houses and 66 in various institutions. Quarantine list A total of 1,255 people were excluded from the quarantine list after completing the mandated self-isolation period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/288-more-cases-in-capital/article33546901.ece
11 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||M.P. to replicate Kerala’s RT initiatives||Madhya Pradesh is set to launch Responsible Tourism (RT) on the lines of the Kerala’s initiatives that strive to make tourism a tool for the development of villages and local communities. Kerala Tourism’s RT Mission will implement the project in Madhya Pradesh under a 16-point programme. An official agreement in this regard is scheduled to be signed on January 13. High-level delegation On the eve of the ceremony, a high-level delegation from Bhopal will begin a week’s tour of Kerala to gather first-hand knowledge about RT. The 13-member team is to be led by Madhya Pradesh Tourism and Culture Usha Thakur. First to sign pact A few States are implementing the Kerala-model RT, but Madhya Pradesh will be the first to sign a pact with the government. The nodal officers for the project will be Madhya Pradesh Tourism Board director Manoj Kumar Singh and Kerala RT Mission coordinator K. Rupeshkumar. Visit to M.P. Once the delegation from Bhopal returns, a team of Kerala RT Mission will make a visit to Madhya Pradesh. Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran expressed pleasure over other States emulating Kerala’s RT model. “Of late, other States also have evinced interest in launching the Kerala-model RT. We will be happy to cooperate with them in implementing RT as a social development initiative,” he added. 20,000 units RT Mission has 20,000 units and 1,09,000 beneficiaries in Kerala. It has given local people a combined income of Rs. 38 crore from the State’s tourism sector. The Kerala Tourism’s MoU with Madhya Pradesh features a 16-point programme that includes steps to implement Kerala’s RT projects in Madhya Pradesh; help Madhya Pradesh chart its RT master plan; ready the human resources to implement the project; conduct training projects; list the criteria for the formation of district tourism promotion councils; locate sustained tourism projects so as to carry out RT projects; formulate social and economic security measures; help in gradation of hotels, resorts, and homestays; and form tourism clubs, lavatories, and rest rooms on the lines of Kerala’s RT.  An official agreement to implement the programme will be signed on Jan. 13.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mp-to-replicate-keralas-rt-initiatives/article33546909.ece
11 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||‘Minnal bypass night rider’ an instant success||Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC)’s non-stop ‘Minnal bypass night rider’ services, resumed after the lockdown, have become an instant hit among the long-distance commuters. The night services with limited stops through the bypass corridors of the State have good patronage as valuable time can be saved compared to the other modes of transport, according to the KSRTC.  Designated stops The designated stops on the NH and MC Roads are Kazhakuttam, Kollam, Alappuzha MS, Vyttila, Angamaly, Thrissur, Kozhikode, Kannur, Payannur, Perinthalmanna, Manjeri, Aricode, Thamarassery, Kalpetta, Kottarakara, Kottayam, and Muvattupuzha. The distance from Thiruvananthapuram to Kasaragod will be covered in 11-and-a-half hours by these services. The service that start from the Central bus station at Thampanoor at 4.30 p.m. will reach Kasaragod at 4 a.m. next day. Nine stops Only nine designated stops have been provided in the Thiruvananthapuram-Kasaragod route. The fare from the capital district to Kasaragod is Rs. 821 on peak days and Rs. 661 on non-peak days. The service from Kasaragod starts at 6.15 p.m. and will reach the Central bus station at Thampanoor the next day at 5.40 a.m. The KSRTC is operating ‘Minnal bypass night rider’ services from Thiruvananthapuram to Kannur, Sulthan Bathery, Mananthawadi, and Palakkad, and back.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minnal-bypass-night-rider-an-instant-success/article33546906.ece
11 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Milk powder, ghee included in free kit||The Kerala Cooperative Milk Marketing Federation (Milma) has recommended the inclusion of 200 gm of milk powder and 100 gm of ghee in the free kits being distributed through ration shops during the pandemic. Milma has informed the government that it can provide 200 gm of skimmed milk powder and 100 gm of ghee for every kit by utilising the excess milk procured in north Kerala. The Malabar regional union of Milma procures an average of 1.25 lakh litres of excess milk a day. The Ernakulam regional union collects enough milk for use in the central region. The Thiruvananthapuram regional union is balancing the shortfall of milk by channelling the excess milk procured from the Malabar region. Even then, Milma is yet to make full use of the excess milk that is being procured. To overcome the glut, Milma is proposing that 200 gm of skimmed powder and 100 gm of ghee can be given free of cost in the kits distributed through the public distribution system. At present, the kit does not contain milk products. The milk market in Kerala was yet to return to normal after the COVID-19 induced crisis and the Thiruvananthapuram region falls short by 40,000 litres a day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/milk-powder-ghee-included-in-free-kit/article33546683.ece
11 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Three techies held for possessing drugs||Four people including three techies were arrested by the City police with alleged possession of banned narcotic substances weighing 297mg during a wedding party at Nalanchira. Following a tip-off, the Mannanthala police arrested Nandu, 21, of Poojappura, Arjun, 28, of Kochuveli, and Kiran, 32, of Jagathy, all of who were employed in the Information Technology (IT) sector from a homestay at Step Junction during the wee hours of Saturday. The youths had apparently got together to celebrate a friend’s wedding. While the gang was purportedly caught with possession of MDMA and ganja packets, the police also arrested Vishnu alias Thambi, 25, of Vanchiyoor, who had allegedly supplied the drugs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-techies-held-for-possessing-drugs/article33546902.ece
11 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Woman arrested for robbery||The Medical College police arrested a woman for robbing the valuables of several people after luring them with sexual favours. The accused was identified as Sindu, 31, of Barton Hill colony. She was arrested on charges of stealing the valuables of a Kannettumukku native whom she had met near the casualty of the Government Medical College Hospital here on December 29. After luring him to a lodge, she fed the complainant liquor and made away with his gold necklace weighing 3.5 sovereigns, a bracelet, and Rs. 5,000 of cash after he passed out. The ornaments have been recovered from a jewellery outlet in Chala. Following her arrest, the accused purportedly confessed to have committed similar offences in the past. Further investigation would be conducted on the basis of the revelation, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-arrested-on-charges-of-robbery/article33546768.ece
11 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Former IIS officer dead||Former senior Indian Information Service (IIS) officer S.V. Menon passed away here on Sunday following a cardiac arrest. He was 76. Menon began his career in the Films Division and held various positions in the Press Information Bureau, National Film Archive of India, and Directorate of Advertising and Visual Publicity in New Delhi and regions. He retired as Director, Directorate of Field Publicity, Kerala-Lakshadweep region. He was a member of the Central Board of Film Certification advisory board and was also the Associate Director of John Abraham’s movie Agrahaarathil Kazhutha .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/former-iis-officer-dead/article33546727.ece
11 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Youth held on burglary charge||The Kovalam police arrested a youth for alleged burglary in Vizhinjam few days ago. The police identified the accused as Muhammed Haja, 20, of Township colony in Vizhinjam. He allegedly broke into the house of Izamudeen, who residents on Habour road, on January 2. He forced his way into the house after removing the grills of a kitchen window. After purportedly stealing two mobile phones and a watch, the accused fled from the house. On being alerted, a special investigation team of the police identified the perpetrator through CCTV visuals obtained from the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youth-held-on-burglary-charge/article33546903.ece
11 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Martial arts programme inaugurated||Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran on Sunday inaugurated the Kerala State Youth Commission’s martial arts training programme for young women to equip them with self defense techniques. Youth Commission chairperson Chintha Jerome presided over the function. The first training camp was held at the Vishwaroopam auditorium at Attukal. Ms. Jerome said the training programme would be held across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/martial-arts-programme/article33546769.ece
11 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Special Public Prosecutor appointed||R.S. Vijay Mohan, advocate of the Vanchiyoor court, has been appointed by the government as Special Public Prosecutor, Fast Track Special Court for Pocso and Rape Cases, Thiruvananthapuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/special-public-prosecutor-appointed/article33546908.ece
11 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Pulse Polio drive postponed||The Pulse Polio drive to administer oral polio vaccine to children under the age of five has been postponed in the State. Minister for Health K.K. Shylaja said on Sunday that the Union Health Ministry had directed the State to postpone the Pulse Polio drive as COVID-19 vaccine distribution was under way. The Pulse Polio immunisation programme was scheduled to be held on January 17 as part of a nationwide drive. The revised date would be announced later, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pulse-polio-drive-postponed/article33546724.ece
11 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Online classes||The online classes on Malayalam grammar conducted by the State Institute for Languages will commence on January 11. The coaching classes for competitive examinations, including those conducted by Kerala Public Service Commission, will also begin on Monday. All classes will be from 6.30 to 8 p.m. For details, contact the institute at 9447956162.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/online-classes/article33546726.ece
11 January 2021||January 11 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Waiting for the catch||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/waiting-for-the-catch/article33546699.ece
11 January 2021||January 11 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Examination rush||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/examination-rush/article33546771.ece
11 January 2021||January 11 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Greener pastures||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/greener-pastures/article33546868.ece
11 January 2021||January 11 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Finding a common cause||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/finding-a-common-cause/article33546905.ece
11 January 2021||January 11 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Exams during COVID times||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/exams-during-covid-times/article33546911.ece
11 January 2021||January 11 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Massive support||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/massive-support/article33546732.ece
11 January 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Treasure hunters’ gang busted, 11 people arrested||The Anantapur police, which have tightened vigil at the places of worship following the reports of desecration of idols elsewhere in the State, busted a gang of treasure hunters and arrested 11 persons, while two more are on the run. Ten cellphones, three motorcycles, some broken earthen pots, two shovels, and a crowbar were seized from the accused. “A gang of 13 people allegedly tried to dig in a cave in search of treasure at Nallagutta in Diguvuchekkavaripalli village in Tankallu Mandal on Saturday. Kadiri Deputy Superintendent of Police S. Bhavya Kishore and Circle Inspector T. Madhu raided the cave and arrested 11 of the accused, while two managed to escape,” Superintendent of Police B. Satya Yesu Babu told the media here on Sunday, adding that the police were on the lookout for those fled. Acting on a tip-off that the gang was digging a cave, the police raided the place. The accused have been identified as Anjaneyulu, the kingpin hailing from that village, Shaik Shafi, Patarla Venkataramana, P. Nagaraju, J. Srinivasulu, N. Anjaneyulu, Pappireddy Suryanarayana Reddy, N. Mohammed Ghouse, Sayyed Hayat Basha, Shaik Babjan, and Epuri Narsimhalu. Mallikarjun from Kadiri and Kottayya from Chitvel village in Kadapa district escaped from the scene. “The gang reportedly had heard from their ancestors that many people had searched for treasures at that place where pots filled with precious material were believed to have hidden there. The gang conducted a survey for three days after a cattle-rearer told them about the spot. On Saturday, they were digging the palce when the police party raided,” the SP added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/treasure-hunters-gang-busted-11-held/article33546332.ece
11 January 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman ‘murdered’ by live-in partner||A 35-year-old auto-rickshaw driver, identified as Mallikarjuna, allegedly killed his live-in partner, a 32-year-old woman Kamsala Yashoda, in their rented house in Ashok Nagar area of the city on Sunday. One Town Circle Inspector Prathap Reddy said that the relatives of Yashoda got a call from the accused at around 7.30 a.m. that she died. The relatives alerted the police. “The accused allegedly hit the woman on her head with a pestle stone and she bled to death. Yashoda married to one Shankar some 12 years ago and they have two sons. She had been living separately for the last eight years reportedly owing to marital discord. She was said to have been in a live-in relationship with Mallikarjuna for the past seven years,” the CI said. The police suspect that Mallikarjuna killed the woman, suspecting her fidelity. A case has been registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-murdered-by-live-in-partner/article33546357.ece
11 January 2021||ANTARVEDI (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||New temple chariot ready for kalyanotsavam at Antarvedi||Backward Classes Welfare Minister Ch. Venu Gopala Krishna on Sunday inspected the works of the chariot of Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple at Antarvedi in East Godavari district. Accompanied by Razole MLA Rapaka Vara Prasad, Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna enquired about the final touches and paintings to the chariot that was made by the Hyderabad-based craftsmen on the temple campus. In an interaction with the endowments authorities, Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna directed them to get the work finished without any delay. “The way the chariot works are progressing is impressive. Constant monitoring by the authorities concerned is enabling the workers meet the deadline. The chariot will be used in the coming kalyanotsavam in February,” said Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna. The annual event is scheduled to be celebrated between February 19 and 28, according to the temple authorities. Trial run conducted The Minister also reviewed the security arrangements on the temple campus. The new chariot remains under the watch of the police personnel round the clock. Recently, the temple authorities conducted a trial run of the chariot and it met all the technical parameters. “But for painting, the chariot is ready to use. It will be inaugurated on an auspicious day soon,” said Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna. It may be recalled that the temple chariot was gutted in September last.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-temple-chariot-ready-for-kalyanotsavam-at-antarvedi/article33546619.ece
11 January 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police zero in on ID liquor dens near T.N. border||The Chittoor sub-division police in the early hours of Sunday conducted a cordon and search operation at Rasanapalle village in Gudipala mandal and the neighbouring forests bordering with Tamil Nadu, acting on information about making of illicit-liquor. Deputy SP (Law and Order) N. Sudhakar Reddy and Circle-Inspector (Chittoor Rural West) C. Lakshmikanth Reddy led the operation with four special parties, consisting of 50 personnel from rural circle and armed reserve force. Rasanapalle village is known for ID liquor making activity, spread over a vast area of forest. Offender escapes The officials said that over 1,000 litres of fermented wash, ID liquor stocks ready for transportation, and related material along with sachet machines were seized in the forest location. A known offender, Chandrasekhar, had escaped from the spot on seeing the police, while a search party was pressed into action to track him. They said after the arrest of several youth of the village, including booking of two notorious offenders under PD Act, the contraband activity had drastically come down in Rasanapalle since last year.  Regular raids “Regular raids would be conducted at all suspect areas in order to root out the menace of ID liquor making. Apart from booking cases under AP Excise and Prohibition Act, we will not hesitate to invoke Preventive Detention(PD) Act against repeat offenders,” officers said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-zero-in-on-id-liquor-dens-near-tn-border/article33546350.ece
11 January 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Bachelor’s Group’ heading towards Seshachalam hill||The three-member group of wild elephants from the Tamil Nadu forests, which had entered Chittoor district a fortnight ago, is heading towards the Seshachalam biosphere. The group has so far made a march of over one hundred km – from Vellore district (T.N.) to Vadamalapeta of Karveti Nagaram range in Chittoor district. An unusual phenomenon of the group, known as the Bachelor’s Group in the Forest Department parlance, is that its movement is unheard of in the present path of its march – from Chittoor Municipal Corporation limits to the extreme limits of the Karveti Nagaram range. Disciplined herd During its “jumbothon,” the group had rarely strayed into the agriculture fields, but confined its movement through forests and gorges, feeding on natural fodder and quenching thirst in water bodies inside the jungles. Since a fortnight, the forest personnel are on the trio’s trail, deploying drones and elephant-trackers. On Sunday evening, the group, an adult male followed by two juvenile tuskers, was spotted at Battikandriga beat of the Karveti Nagaram range. Forest Range Officer Sivanna told The Hindu that the group was not creating any problem to the farmers. “We expect that the elephants have an inclination to move into the Seshachalam hills, using the connectivity path towards the Panapakam,” he said. Once the group enters the Panapakam beat, it would be right into the Seshachalam hills, he said. It is further observed that the natural faculties of smell will help the pachyderms join their counterparts in the interiors. In the late 1970s, the Asiatic elephant species made its re-emergence at the Kuppam tri-State junction. In the later years, two or three herds had crossed into the Seshachalam ranges after a long march covering 200 km, or more, through the Palamaner and Piler ranges in the western side. Migratory corridor Again, the present herd from the T.N. forests moving towards the Seshachalam hill range is said to be a first of its kind, as it has taken an altogether new path through the eastern parts of the district. It is also a harbinger of several jaunts into the Seshachalam biosphere in the core area of Rayalaseema, besides “rejuvenating” the erstwhile migratory corridor, extending the link as far as the Mudumalai wildlife sanctuary and Bhannergatta forests of Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/elephant-herd-heading-towards-seshachalam-hill/article33546390.ece
11 January 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||SP warns of action against organisers of cockfights||Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar on Sunday warned that cases would be booked against those organizing and taking part in roosterfights, gambling and bull races under Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act and AP Gaming Act. He also warned that those who give their farmlands, residential and commercial premises for holding the events would be liable for legal action. The SP asked the personnel in Madanapalle, Palamaner, Chittoor and Puttur sub-divisions to conduct regular searches at the rural side to take on incidence of any violation. Speaking to mediapersons here, the SP said that special parties would be sent to the villages known for hosting the events. ‘Keep celebrations low’ Mr. Senthil Kumar also urged the public to confine the Sankranti festivities to their households and avoid forming into congregations in view of the ongoing threat of the pandemic. The public were sought to inform the police through Dial 100 in case they came across anyone indulging in banned activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/organisers-of-cockfights-warned-of-penal-action/article33546334.ece
11 January 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Homeless may be left out in the cold during COVID vaccination||The news about COVID-19 vaccination has brought relief to some people while a few others are cautious. But what about those who are technically invisible? Lack of photo identity cards is likely to deprive several homeless people of the all-important vaccine, pointed out members of voluntary organisations working for the welfare of those without homes. High-risk jobs Such people are at a higher risk of contracting the infection, owing to the nature of work they engage in, the members added. “Most of them rely on daily wages. So they take up any job that comes their way such as plumbing, catering food at functions, construction work or in hotels. Besides, symptoms of COVID-19 are not monitored in the unorganised sector. The vaccine will be of more help to them. But photo identity card stands in the way,” said a member of an NGO, requesting anonymity. Some homeless persons carry bodies from hospitals, including COVID-19 designated health centres. According to ‘COVID-19 Vaccines Operation Guidelines’, the general population can self-register on COVID Vaccine Intelligence Network (Co-WIN). A list of 11 photo identity cards such as Aadhaar card, MNREGA card and PAN card, are listed. One of those 11 ID cards should be provided for the registration. NGO workers said an exception should be made for the homeless without an ID card, or some other solution be found to include them in the vaccination drive. Another hurdle will be lack of phones. According to the procedure, before the vaccination begins, a message detailing place of vaccination, time, date and other details would be sent to a person’s registered phone number. However, many homeless persons do not have phones. Priority groups In the first phase of COVID-19 vaccination drive set to be rolled out from January 16, priority will be given to healthcare workers, followed by frontline workers. Thereafter, people above the age of 50 years and those who are below 50 years with co-morbidities will be given precedence. Based on feedback to the vaccination, and as registration of general population starts, NGO workers said they will approach governments with the request to include homeless persons in the vaccination drive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/homeless-may-be-left-out-in-the-cold-during-covid-vaccination/article33546652.ece
11 January 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Supermarket directed to refund Rs. 6 to customer||Star Bazaar-Trent Hypermarket was directed to refund Rs. 6 which it charged a customer for a plastic carry bag, and was also asked to pay punitive damages to the tune of Rs. 1.50 lakh. The directions were given by District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission-II, Hyderabad, president Vakkanti Narasimha Rao and members P.V.T.R. Jawahar Babu and R.S. Rajashree while dealing with a complaint filed by  Yerramalla Sanjay (43), a resident of Dilsukhnagar. The complainant stated that on May 31, 2019, the store had charged Rs. 6 for a plastic bag carrying its logo and trademark. He had objected to the charges and described them as unfair. For their part, the opposite parties Star Bazaar-Trent Hypermarket Private Limited and Trent Hypermarket Private Limited denied all allegations. They also stated that amount was charged to discourage customers from using plastic and for the protection of the environment. They sought to question as to who bought the items against the invoice which was furnished at the commission. Proof in man’s favour Taking the evidence and arguments placed on record, the commission found that the My Star Club Card number mentioned on the invoice belonged to the complainant and deemed the contention of the opposite parties as untenable. It also stated that the complainant could prove that Rs. 6 was charged for a carry bags which had the logo of the opposite parties on it. The commission noted that as per Rule 15 of Plastic Waste Management Rules of 2016, shopkeepers should register and pay a requisite amount of Rs. 48,000 every year to local bodies who in turn may prescribe plastic management fee. Also, shops should display prominently that plastic bags are chargeable. “In this case on hand the opposite parties did not filed any proof to show that they registered with the concerned local body by paying the requisite amount as above depending on the sale capacity. In the absence of any such proof we are under the considered view that the opposite parties have not paid requisite amount payable for registration and for selling of plastic carry bags to the consumers,” it stated. The Commission cited specific judgments of the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission and directed the opposite parties to deposit punitive damages of Rs. 1.50 lakh with the commission. From this sum, Rs. 1 lakh will be remitted for the Telangana government’s Haritha Haram project and Rs. 50,000 will be deposited with the Telangana Consumer Welfare Fund.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/supermarket-directed-to-refund-rs-6-to-customer/article33546657.ece
11 January 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pravasi Bharatiya Samman for TS man||It has been a journey of hope, desire and achievement, from a small Telangana village to a top university in Japan and to finally be selected for the Pravasi Bharatiya Samman, an award constituted by the Ministry of Overseas Indian Affairs, Government of India, to honour exceptional contribution in various fields. Muralidhar Muthyala, professor at Shibaura Institute of Technology in Tokyo, is perhaps one of the youngest to be felicitated with this prestigious award at the 16th Pravasi Bharatiya Divas held virtually this year. He is also perhaps the only awardee who is born and educated in India, but surely the lone recipient who studied in a Telugu medium government school. “I feel honoured by the award and that too, to be placed along with such eminent people across the world,” says Prof. Muralidhar, who hails from Karvena village near Bhootpur in Mahabubnagar district. He is the son of a retired government school teacher, Narayana Gupta. In his 24-plus years of service in Japan, he has been an innovative leader bridging India-Japan bilateral relations with significant managerial experience in higher education system, including pathbreaking research in high temperature superconductivity. Prof. Muralidhar, who did his M.Sc (Physics) and PhD from the Department of Physics, Osmania University, is also a passionate community leader and humanitarian promoting Indian tradition and culture in Japanese community. He tirelessly advocates for research and development and educational policies. Despite being away from his motherland for over two decades, Prof. Muralidhar’s love for India has not diminished and he has invested great efforts to establish collaborations between Indian-Japan Universities by initiating cutting-edge collaborative research, delivering lectures, consultations and serving as advisory member for national and international governmental agencies. His internationally recognised programmes ensured connectivity to more than 18 top higher education institutions in India, including the IITs. Due to his efforts, innovative PhD programmes have been introduced and are exposing more than 100 Indian students to global internship programmes and research opportunities. His innovations and subsequent R&D led to the development and commercialisation of cost-effective, flexible, high-performance High Temperature Superconductors cable wires used in high-speed rail transport system. He believes in the concept of “Learn from the world, contribute to global sustainability”. “I am currently investing great efforts to bridge top ranked Indian and Japanese universities based on the philosophy and strategy imposed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi that emphasises focus on bilateral relations between India and Japan in the areas of science and technology,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/prestigious-pravasi-bharatiya-samman-for-telangana-man/article33546655.ece
11 January 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telangana logs 351 new COVID cases||Telangana recorded 351 COVID-19 cases on Saturday after 37,451 persons were examined for the presence of novel coronavirus. With the new cases, the total number of infections in the State stands at 2,89,784. The death toll has reached 1,565 with two more patients succumbing. The new cases include 65 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation, 28 from Medchal Malkajgiri, 30 from Rangareddy and 18 from Warangal Urban. The lowest of two cases each were recorded from Narayanpet and Jogulamba Gadwal districts. Of the 37,451 people examined, 16,478 opted for government centres while 4,494 underwent testing at private laboratories. The results of 608 persons are awaited. From March 2 till January 9, a total of 72,53,236 samples have been tested. Of the total 2.89 lakh positive cases, 4,756 are active while 2,83,463 have recovered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telangana-logs-351-new-covid-cases/article33546650.ece
11 January 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minor biker dies in mishap||A 16-year-old boy riding a two-wheeler with his sister as a pillion rider died when he lost control and hit an electric pole at Shamirpet on Sunday morning. Chandu was not wearing a helmet. His elder sister Mounika escaped with injuries, police said. Shamirpet inspector S. Santosham said that the accident took place around 11.30 a.m. between Bommaraspet and Jaganguda villages. Residents of Shamirpet village, they were going towards Jaganguda to attend a marriage. “Chandu suffered a severe head injury and died on the spot, while his sister got injured,” Mr. Santosham said, adding that Mounika was taken to a private hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minor-biker-dies-in-mishap/article33546658.ece
11 January 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fight against privatisation of LIC will continue, say employees||The employees of the Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) of India have reiterated their commitment to strengthen the public sector unit and thwart all efforts being taken towards its privatisation. At the 28th annual convention of the Insurance Corporation Employees Union (ICEU) held in the Kadapa divisional headquarters on Sunday, zonal president K. Venugopal Rao said the employees would continue their nationwide campaign to safeguard the corporation and work towards strengthening the public sector unit. Mr. Rao, who heads the three States of Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Karnataka, recalled that the union leaders had met 350 MPs in person and prevailed upon them to drop the Initial Public Offer (IPO) plan, which, he said, would affect not only the interests of the policyholders and employees, but also the corporation. The union leader said the LIC achieved a growth rate of 26% and retained a market share of 76% last year. “The Kadapa division stood third in terms of settlement of claims in the three States, which is attributed to the committed and professional services of the employees,” he pointed out. New body elected The convention unanimously elected Avadhanam Srinivas, A. Raghunatha Reddy and S. Nazirullah Khan as the president, general secretary and treasurer respectively of the union’s Kadapa division. The meeting resolved to support to the ongoing agitation by the farmers at the national capital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fight-against-privatisation-of-lic-will-continue-say-employees/article33546836.ece
11 January 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tuni MLA to discuss Divi’s issue with CM||A day after JSP president Pawan Kalyan holding a public meeting against the setting up of a pharma unit by Divi’s Laboratories Limited in Thondangi mandal of East Godavari district, Tuni MLA Dadisetti Raja said on Sunday the project should not be encouraged as it would cause water and air pollution. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Raja said: “The policies (operational and environmental) of the Divi’s group can not be trusted, given their operational methods in their other two units located in Telangana and Visakhapatnam district. The project will cause air and water pollution.” The MLA said that he would meet Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on January 12 and apprise him of the consequences if the lab was allowed to set up unit in the district. “I am confident of convincing him and Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy himself promised to oppose the project during his election campaign,” he said. A few weeks ago, Mr. Raja persuaded the agitators not to resort to any violence during their protests. He even toured the affected villages after the protesters set fire to machinery on the project site on December 18. Locals’ protest Meanwhile, local people have launched non-cooperation for the construction activity on the site, preventing entry of workers from outside. According to sources, the workers who have been hired for the construction of protection walls have been warned against attending to work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tuni-mla-to-discuss-divis-issue-with-cm/article33546848.ece
11 January 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Eight held on charge of damaging temple||The Kurnool police on Sunday arrested eight persons and seized a JCB earth-moving machine and three motorcycles from a gang that was involved in a failed ‘treasure hunt’ in Maddamma Paadalu at Maddikera village and damage of the temple. Superintendent of Police Fakeerappa Kaginelli said at a press conference that one Dasari Venkatesh, believing the rumours that the temple has a large amount of hidden treasure underneath it, formed a gang with his brother-in-law, Chippagiri former MPTC, Burme Jaya Ramudu, Mangali Venkateshwarlu, Ojam Bhaskar Reddy, Golla Peddaiah, and Pillella Marappa of Nakkanadoddi village in Guntakal mandal and engaged a JCB of Syed Fakhruddin of Dhone for excavation work on December 16, and after digging 10 feet, they gave up the effort as no treasure was found. The police, based on a complaint lodged by the VRO , registered a case and during investigation they found evidence and arrested eight persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/eight-held-on-charge-of-damaging-temple/article33546831.ece
11 January 2021||Mattapally,ANDHRA PRADESH||Uttam Kumar to petition TS Speaker||“Look at the inauguration stone, who all have taken credit for my work. The bridge was my brainchild, and I had brought the sanctions, for the development of Huzurnagar, and yet I was not given a proper invite for its opening. I was insulted,” said Nalgonda MP N. Uttam Kumar Reddy, on the high-level bridge above river Krishna at Mattapally. The construction of the two-kilometre bridge, a link between Telangana and Andhra Pradesh at Mattapally that reduces about 50-km circuitous route, was built at a cost of Rs. 50 crore through a government order in 2013. While most of the work was completed years ago, Telangana Rashtra Samithi leaders had not inaugurated it till recently as credit would go to the Congress, the senior leader said. “The ruling TRS has been violating protocol of MPs. For roads built under PM Gram Sadak Yojana or the Central Road Fund also, local legislators are taking credit, even as MPs are ignored or not given due recognition. This will be taken to the Committee of Privileges, before the Speaker, for breach of privilege,” he said. He added it was an example of the ‘TRS way’, “to survive on fake promises and false claims, to repaint and rename irrigation or power projects by the Congress.” The Pradesh Congress Committee chief took media persons on a tour to Mattapally and adjacent villages on Sunday, “to expose TRS failures and its anti-people policies in Huzurnagar” He pulled over on the Pedaveedu road to show vast government lands encroached by private persons, “by removing boards erected by District Collector,” allegedly at the behest of leaders from ruling party and other officials. Later at Gurrambodu thanda and other tribal villages, Mr. Uttam Kumar Reddy sat with some hundred residents and farmers in the fields, which are allegedly encroached by persons from Andhra Pradesh, who have employed bouncers to keep farmers off the lands. Mr. Uttam Kumar Reddy expressed doubts over the integrity of the district administrative and police machinery in protecting tribals and their lands, and said he would approach the Chief Minister’s Office and the Director General of Police for intervention.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/uttam-to-petition-speaker/article33546669.ece
11 January 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pawan misleading people on Divi’s unit issue: Mekapati||Industries Minister Mekapati Goutham Reddy on Sunday slammed Jana Sena Party (JSP) president Pawan Kalyan for “falsely accusing” the government over the Divi’s Laboratories unit issue. The Minister said that Mr. Pawan Kalyan was speaking without any knowledge and misleading the people. Reacting to Mr. Pawan Kalyan’s observations during a public meeting he had addressed on Saturday in East Godavari district, Mr. Goutham Reddy accused the JSP chief of instigating the youth of the district. The State Government had made it clear to the Divi’s management not to proceed further without resolving the issues concerning the people, and had constituted a committee with experts from both the Industries and Fisheries departments for the purpose, the Minister told the media here along with his Cabinet colleagues A. Suresh and P. Anil Kumar on the eve of the launch of the second phase of the Amma Vodi scheme. It was the TDP government that had given the green signal for the unit in 2015. “What was Mr. Pawan Kalyan doing then?” the Minister asked. Jobs for local youth In 2019, the YSRCP government had made it mandatory to provide 75% jobs for local youth in new industrial units coming up in the State. First preference was being given to the families of the village concerned that had parted with their land for the industrial units. Second preference was being given to those in the mandal concerned and the third preference for those in the district concerned, the Minister explained. The State government had also designed courses to hone the skills of local youth to improve their employability, he added. If the JSP chief was sincere about the people’s health, he should ask the State Election Commissioner (SEC) to stop the local body elections, the dates of which clashed with the COVID-19 immunisation programme. Dig at SEC Mr. Suresh accused the SEC of causing hurdles in the implementation of welfare schemes, and made it clear that the government would go ahead with the launch of the Amma Vodi adhering to the Model Code of Conduct. “We are not afraid of facing the elections. We are only concerned about the health of the people,” Mr. Suresh said. Mr. Anil Kumar opined that the elections were timed to benefit the TDP, which was sure to lose deposit in the ensuing Tirupati byelection. TDP would find it difficult to select candidates for the local body elections if they were held after the byelection, Mr. Anil Kumar asserted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pawan-misleading-people-on-divis-unit-issue-mekapati/article33546852.ece
11 January 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Amaravati Parirakshana Samiti decides to broad-base agitation||The A.P. State Amaravati Parirakshana Samiti on Sunday resolved to step up its agitation for retaining Amaravati as one and only capital of the State by forming sub-committees up to the grassroots level. A resolution proposed by its State convener A. Siva Reddy at a meeting here on Sunday was unanimously adopted. “We have decided to broad-base the movement by forming joint action committees at the district and Assembly constituency levels,” he said along with its co-convener G. Tirupati Rao as the ‘Save Amaravati, Save Andhra Pradesh’ agitation inched closer to the 400-day mark. JAC leader P. Sudhakar said it was unfortunate that the ruling YSRCP was belittling the over year-long agitation even after the National Green Tribunal ruled that Amaravati was not flood-prone after studying the flow in the Krishna in the last 100 years. ‘Not casteist’ Denying that the movement was “'casteist,” he said members from all caste groups took part in the agitation. Members of the other Backward Classes (OBCS) accounted for 27% of the farmers, who had parted with their land for the world-class capital, followed by members of the Kamma community (21%), Scheduled Castes (15%), Reddys (14%) ,Kapus (13%), Muslims (6%) and Scheduled Tribes (3%). A JAC with leaders cutting across party lines in Prakasam district with N. Venkateswarulu as honorary president was constituted to intensify the struggle. Taking a cue from the farmers agitating against the farm Acts, the JAC activists from across the State should lay a siege to Amaravati to make the “insensitive” government listen to their just demand, suggested Mr. Venkateswarlu. Women Writers’ Association State president T. Aruna expressed solidarity with the JAC, especially women farmers, who had boldly come out of their homes to agitate for the State’s cause on a sustained basis. Castigating the YSRCP government for turning a deaf ear to the JAC’s “just demand,” All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee Prakasam district convener Ch. Ranga Rao suggested that the agitation should be intensified by organising picketing in front of the offices and residences of ruling party MPs and MLAs. Congress State vice-president Sripathi Prakasam, CPI Prakasam district secretary M.L. Narayana, CPI(M) district secretary P. Anjaneyulu, Poura Samajam Prakasam district president G. Narasimha Rao were among those who expressed their solidarity with the JAC members from Amaravati, who included K. Sirisha who narrated their tales of woe during the 390 days of struggle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/amaravati-parirakshana-samiti-decides-to-broad-base-agitation/article33546850.ece
11 January 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Yagnam held for peace||Sudarshana Lakshmi Narasimha Mahayagnam was performed to mark the auspicious Dhanurmasam here on Sunday. Vedic pandit from Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams(TTD) performed the elaborate rituals for universal peace and prosperity under the aegis of the Brahamana Seva Samiti in front of the Ananta Kodandarama Swamy temple near the Court Centre here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/yagnam-held-for-peace/article33546351.ece
11 January 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||NRI devotee’s ‘mystic experiences’||The COVID-19 has provided an opportunity to many to expand the horizons of their knowledge. Disappointed at his inability to visit Tirumala temple due to the closure of international borders, Venkata Vinod Parimi, a Singapore-based NRI and an ardent devotee of Lord Venkateswara, got down to writing his ‘mystic experiences’ with the Lord. Mr. Vinod, who works as as the Regional Director (Asia Pacific) for Miele Private Limited, Singapore, used to visit Tirumala every month in spite of his hectic schedule and presence in any corner of the world. However, his plans had gone astray after January 2020, in view of the global travel restrictions. “The development was too much to bear for me. I then got down to writing my mystic experiences with the Lord and brought out my compilation of stories in the form of a book titled Daivamtho na anubhavaalu ,” said Mr. Vinod. The stories are based on his real life experiences, meetings with sages, saints and common devotees during his visits to Tirumala. “I had new experiences of the divine every time I get an opportunity to interact with saints and devotees. Such people who I was destined to meet changed the course of my life, helped me discover myself and the purpose of my life,” said Mr. Vinod. The book is available in leading book stores across Andhra Pradesh as well as Telangana, apart from Amazon Kindle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nri-devotees-mystic-experiences/article33546355.ece
11 January 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘It’s the BJP that ensures women empowerment’||Speakers at the meeting of the BJP’s Mahila Morcha, organised here on Sunday, exuded confidence that it was the only party that ensures women’s empowerment and guarantees them development on all fronts. Kapu Nadu State secretary Somu Vedavati said it was the BJP that created an opportunity for many women to become Chief Ministers. She hailed the party for ensuring parity in terms of opportunities for women at every level. “The abolition of the ‘triple Talaq’ system not only restored self-respect of women, but also prevented ruin of many lives in future in a male-dominant society,” she said. Party’s State co-incharge Sunil Deodhar expressed surprise at the ‘stoic silence’ on the Ramateertham incident. “Why no voices are being raised over the unfortunate incident? No statements of condemnation, no protests, no candlelight rallies. What does all this mean?” he sought to know.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/its-the-bjp-that-ensures-women-empowerment/article33546352.ece
11 January 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Book offers peep into rural life||The facets of rural life: simple way of living, connection with Nature, folklores, the everyday affairs of people in villages form the basis of R.C. Krishnaswamy Raju’s book ‘Sallo...Salla’, written entirely in Chittoor dialect. The book was formally released by TTD’s Chief Audit Officer K.S.A. Sesha Sailendra here on Sunday in the presence of Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan’s Director N. Satyanarayana Raju, All India Radio Tirupati’s former station director A. Malleswara Rao and Ramky Foundation’s M.V. Rami Reddy. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Sailendra said: “The book exuded nativity and characters in the stories reflected the natural expressions of rural people.” Mr. Rami Reddy said the book highlighted the idioms, proverbs, bringing the rural conversations closer to one’s heart. The released copies were received by writers G. Yanadi Raju and Peruru Balasubramanyam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/book-offers-peep-into-rural-life/article33546353.ece
11 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nimmagadda for provision of PPE kits to poll staff||Andhra Pradesh State Election Commission (SEC), taking note of the apprehensions aired by the government employees with regard to conduct of elections to local bodies in view of the COVID pandemic, has stated that it is concerned about the well-being of the staff. In a statement on Sunday, State Election Commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar said that the commission on its own has always been concerned about the well-being of poll staff. Keeping this in mind, the SEC has suggested that the poll staff deployed be provided with quality PPE suits, face shields, gloves and disinfectants in accordance with COVID safety standards at par with other States by the State Health Department which may also impart safety-related training. Further, the commission suggested consideration of including the poll staff under priority immunisation programme as a special case. This would be a confidence building measure, he said. Mr. Ramesh Kumar said that the issue was also emphasised during the discussion with Chief Secretary Adityanath Das and Health Secretary Anil Singhal on January 8. The above measures highlighted would address the genuine apprehensions. Further suggestions can also be made in the training sessions, he said. The Commissioner said that the political parties, the important stakeholders holders, were in touch with the commission continuously. They have spoken in their wisdom in favour of gram panchayat elections. ‘Constitutional obligation’ “The gram panchayat elections are non-party based polls and will provide much-needed social leadership as well as facilitate the release of finance commission funds which is conditional to holding of timely elections. In addition to this, there is constitutional obligation for holding elections,” he said adding,"We are not alone in the discharge of the constitutional obligation. AP Civil Services have impressive track record in raising up to serious challenges time and again like natural calamities and time-bound processes like elections in the past. Andhra Pradesh is second to none."||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nimmagadda-for-provision-of-ppe-kits-to-poll-staff/article33546930.ece
11 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Local polls: Yanamala urges Governor to intervene||TDP Polit Bureau member Yanamala Ramakrishnudu has urged Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan to interfere and ensure peaceful conduct of the local body elections in the State. In a statement on Sunday, Mr. Ramakrishndudu said it was for the Governor to make sure that the Government employees were allotted for election duty. Article 243 K(3) provided for allotment of employees. The conduct of election was the sole responsibility of the State Election Commission (SEC) as per Articles 243A and 243 K(1), he said. Mr. Ramakrishnudu, who is also Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Council, said the existing political situation in the State deserved invocation of Article 356. The Ministers were openly expressing the government’s non-cooperative attitude towards the conduct of the local body elections, he alleged. Such statements from Ministers were unheard of earlier, he added. The government employees’ association leaders were also threatening to boycott the election process. This kind of a situation was not prevailing in any State in the country, he said. Referring to Article 243K(3), Mr. Ramakrishnudu said the Governor shall, when so requested by the SEC, make available to it such staff as may be necessary for the discharge of the functions conferred on the SEC. “As such, if the SEC makes a plea, the Governor has an obligation to allot the government employees to carry out the election duty,” the TDP leader said. “It seems the government will use COVID-19 as a pretext to postpone the polls till June 2022,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/local-polls-yanamala-urges-governor-to-intervene/article33546854.ece
11 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘AWARA’ run evokes good response||A Clean-Green Run, organised on Sunday by members of Amaravati Walkers and Runners Association (AWARA) in the ‘Greenfields’ trail adjoining the Krishna river, evoked good response. The 5K run saw participation of members of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) troops and students of schools and colleges like Aravinda and Delhi Public School and Westin College of Hotel Management. NDRF Officer Sateesh Kumar, who flagged off the event, appreciated the AWARA for instituting a successful 8-year-old running programme from a tender age, changing the lives of many orphan kids and children from the deprived sections. Another officer Robin congratulated a record 68-odd home-grown AWARA runners who got selected for several Central and State uniformed services. AWARA founder and avid environmentalist Ajay Katragadda, who conceived the programme almost a decade ago, said such small successes make huge changes in children's lives, in times when the society is barely coping to keep children and teenagers away from drugs and other diversions. He lauded the NDRF personnel for their selfless services at the times of natural disasters and proposed organising an annual NDRF Cup. Winners of the event Pankaj Kumar from AWARA, Prabin Niraula, a student from Westin college here , Janakiram from Aravinda School and Vaishnavi from Delhi Public School were given prizes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/awara-run-evokes-good-response/article33546928.ece
11 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Poll code: politicians told to stay off Amma Vodi in rural schools||In view of the Model Code of Conduct announced by the State Election Commission with effect from January 9 in rural areas, the Department of School Education has directed political leaders and public representatives not to participate in the launch of the second phase of Amma Vodi, scheduled on January 11 (Monday), in the schools located in rural areas. In an order issued on Sunday, Director of School Education Vadrevu Chinaveerabhadrudu said the second phase of the programme would be organised in all the selected schools at the constituency level. But in the schools located in rural areas, the programmes would be conducted by the headmasters and teaching and non-teaching staff with the active participation of parents and children. In the schools located in urban areas, everybody, including political leaders and public representatives could participate in the programme, he clarified.  Toilet-maintenance fund In rural areas, he said, the headmasters should explain the objective of Amma Vodi and the Rs. 1,000 toilet-maintenance fund being deducted from the Rs. 15,000, to the parents. They should also hold discussions with parents to get their inputs on stitching of uniforms and proper use of other school material supplied to children under the Jagananna Vidya Kanuka. The headmasters should also explain to the parents the academic activities taken up by the government during the COVID-19 pandemic period, the order said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/poll-code-politicians-told-to-stay-off-amma-vodi-in-rural-schools/article33546859.ece
11 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||People urged to oppose new tax system||Members of the Tax Payers’ Association have urged the people to oppose the steep hike in the property tax effected through a recent amendment made to the municipal laws, from every possible platform. In a meeting orgnised by the association on Sunday that was attended by representatives of many citizen rights groups, the leaders resolved to continue to build pressure on the authorities for withdrawal of the new system, seeking a rollback to the earlier tax regime. Ordinance In November 2019, the State government brought in the Andhra Pradesh Municipal Laws (Second Amendment) Ordinance, 2020, bringing in new changes in the levying of property tax, user fee for solid management and sewage systems. Following this, the government issued three G.O.s 196, 197 and 198 notifying the guidelines of the new system. According to the new system, tax is levied based on the market price of the property as against the earlier method of levying tax based on the rental value. The association members said people should show their resentments against the new system. “Copies of the G.O.s pertaining to the amendment should be burnt in the Bhogi fire. The home-makers could convey their unwillingness in Rangoli patterns that are essential part of the Sankranti festival. Apartments and other colonies should organise meetings and make people aware of the new system. Organising ‘Praja Ballot' and ‘Mock Council’ could be other effective ways to drive home the point loud and clear,” they said. Members of Bejawada Bar Association, Krishna District Lorry Owners’ Association and representatives of other apartments and colonies’ associations attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/people-urged-to-oppose-new-tax-system/article33546356.ece
11 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘First phase of villa project completed’||The first phase of the ‘KMV Vivaan’, a villa project undertaken on the Enikepadu-Tadigadapa road in the city, has been completed as per the schedule, announced KMV Spaces director K. Prudhviram. The project features Signature Club, a world-class clubhouse on the premises of the venture with amenities such as vertical organic farms, amphitheatre, function halls, commercial-grade gymnasium, sports areas and others, Mr. Prudhviram told the media here. “The first phase of the project consists of 61 villas, of which 80% have already been sold and some of them even occupied. The second phase consists of 24 villas besides a 20-floor apartment tower housing 235 flats,” he said. Mr. Prudhviram said that the project was designed by Singapore’s WOW Architects and has unique features and facilities. KMV Spaces, a division of the KMV Group, launched the project in 2016.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/first-phase-of-villa-project-completed/article33546348.ece
11 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Spell Bee contest for students of classes VIII-X||Dr. KLP School in Guntur will organise a district-level Spell Bee contest on January 24 (Sunday), said the school secretary and correspondent K. Krishna Prasad. The competition would be organised in online mode. Mr. Krishna Prasad said that it was open for participation for students of classes VIII to X. One student from each school/branch from CBSE/ICSE/State Board schools would be allowed to participate. The last date for registration is January 21 (5 p.m.) and the contest would be of three rounds: Power Spell where the students would be asked spellings for given words, Fit for Four where the participants have to find out the four missing words in a given word and Rapid Fire where each participant would be asked 10 words to give correct spelling in the given time. A preliminary screening test would be held on January 23 (4 p.m.) to select the six finalists for the district-level Spell Bee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/spell-bee-contest-for-students-of-classes-viii-x/article33546929.ece
11 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||FAPTO demands official’s dismissal||Expressing displeasure over what they called mishandling of the teacher transfers, leaders of the Federation of Andhra Pradesh Teachers’ Association (FAPTO) have demanded immediate dismissal of the Commissioner of School Education Vadrevu Chinaveerabhadrudu. In a latter addressed to Education Minister A. Suresh, the leaders pointed out that the G.O. on transfers was released in October last but the process had not yet concluded, and they attributed it to the failure of the Department of School Education. They alleged that the officials of the department had been showing scant interest in the issue and had been obstructing the process by including irrelevant components in the G.O. Initially, the district-level teachers were asked to exercise their options in the online mode. But they rescheduled the order asking teachers at the mandal level to register their options in the online mode. Though the process of freezing the options completed on December 31, teachers had not received their joining reports till date, they said, adding that FAPTO’s repeated appeals to display the vacant posts before effecting the transfers had fallen on deaf ears.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fapto-demands-officials-dismissal/article33546855.ece
11 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State’s lone COVID-19 death reported from Vizag district||The State reported one new COVID-19 death and 227 infections in the 24 hours ending Sunday morning. With 7,129 fatalities and 8,84,916 infections reported so far, the mortality and recovery rates remained at 0.81% and 98.91% respectively. The number of recoveries reached 8,75,243 with 289 patients recovering during the period. The positivity rate of the 50,027 samples tested in the last one day was 0.45% and the overall positivity rate of the 1.23 crore samples tested was 7.18%. The lone death was reported in Visakhapatnam district. Guntur reported highest single-day tally of 50 infections and it was followed by Krishna (38), Kurnool (23), Chittoor (22), Visakhapatnam (19), East Godavari (17), Anantapur (14) and West Godavari (10), Vizianagaram (8), Kadapa (7), Nellore (7), Srikakulam (7), and Prakasam (5).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/states-lone-covid-19-death-reported-from-vizag-district/article33546845.ece
11 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District-level committee formed to uphold religious harmony||A committee has been formed at the district-level to protect and uphold religious harmony and peace. The committee, to be headed by the District Collector as Chairman, has representatives of seven different religions. The committee will strive to initiate measures to prevent disruption of peace. The committee met for the first time at the Collectorate here on Sunday. Later, addressing the media, District Collector V. Vinay Chand explained that the committee would take steps to prevent misunderstanding among the people following different religions. Describing the formation of the committee as a ‘right step in the right direction’, he called upon youngsters not to fall prey to those fanning communal passions. The ideas and suggestions of the heads of various religious groups were taken, he said. Police Commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha said that the representatives of seven religions participated in the first committee meeting and agreed to promote communal harmony by interacting with the people and creating awareness among them on the need to maintain peaceful relations. Students, the future citizens of India, would be told about the importance of maintaining harmonious relations with people following different faiths, he said. Mr. Sinha said that committee would be a bridge between the people and the officials. There were around 1,600 religious places in the city. These include 1,223 temples, 263 churches, 95 mosques and a gurudwara. Of these, 631 places were covered by CC cameras. Wherever it was not possible to install CC cameras, the local committees would be asked to maintain ‘point books’. A police constable would visit all such places every night and write in the book after checking the place on a daily basis, he said.  85 police beats There were 85 police beats in the city to visit different places during the nights. The services of local volunteers and private security would also be taken, the Police Commissioner said. Describing Visakhapatnam as a peaceful place, he said no communal violence had occurred in the city during the last five years. Around 40% of the religious places were covered by CC camera security. Superintendent of Police (Visakhapatnam Rural) B. Krishna Rao said that there about 1,800 religious places in the district and about 350 of them have CC cameras. The night police beats were also providing additional security. Joint Collector M. Venugopal Reddy was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-level-committee-formed-to-uphold-religious-harmony/article33546937.ece
11 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||SEC working against the spirit of Constitution: Botcha||Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development (MA&UD) Botcha Satyanarayana has alleged that the State Election Commission (SEC) is working against the spirit of the Constitution. He wondered as to why the State Election Commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar is in a hurry to conduct the elections, when the public is still scared of COVID-19. Addressing a media conference here on Sunday, Mr. Satyanarayana said that at a time when the Union government has announced the commencement of the vaccination programme from January 16, Mr. Ramesh was trying to conduct polls, putting the lives of common people at risk. The Chief Secretary and senior officials have recently explained about the pandemic situation and clarified to the SEC that the State government was not in a position to conduct the elections. Ignoring the contention of the State, Mr. Ramesh Kumar has announced the schedule for conduct of gram panchayat polls, the Minister said. The Minister also said that many employees associations and even the public are opposing elections due to COVID-19, but Mr. Ramesh Kumar was not bothered. The Minister said that when the cases were not even close to 30, SEC had postponed the polls without even consulting the government, but now when new cases were still emerging and there was a warning of a second wave, the SEC was trying to conduct elections. ‘Local body elections should have been conducted in the year 2018. At that time, Telugu Desam Party (TDP) was in power and Mr. Ramesh Kumar was the SEC. Why did he not conduct polls then?’ the Minister questioned Mr. Satyanarayana dismissed the contention of the TDP that the YSR Congress Party government was afraid of facing the elections as baseless. He said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has taken welfare to the next level by implementing 90% of the poll promises, and there was no need for the YSRCP to be afraid of facing the electorate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sec-working-against-the-spirit-of-constitution-botcha/article33546932.ece
11 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Action will be taken against those disrupting communal peace’||District Collector V. Vinay Chand has warned that anyone resorting to disruption of communal harmony will be punished severely. A district-level Communal Harmony Committee was formed to protect peace and communal harmony in the district. The committee is headed by the Collector as chairman and the Police Commissioner and the Superintendent of Police as vice-chairmen, Assistant Director of Endowments and officials of the Minorities Welfare Department as members and Joint Collector as the member-convener. The heads of seven religions are also members of the committee. At the first meeting with officials and representatives of various religions, here on Sunday, the Collector said that the committee was empowered to to initiate necessary action against those indulging or inciting communal violence or causing disharmony among different religions. There were 15 Assembly constituencies in the district of which seven were in urban limits and the remaining in rural areas. The committee would hold meetings in all constituencies to create awareness among the people. He asked the constituency-level committees to meet on a regular basis. A security plan was being worked for the protection of all religious places. Those disrupting peace and communal harmony would be booked under various Sections of the IPC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/action-will-be-taken-against-those-disrupting-communal-peace/article33546938.ece
11 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Put off panchayat polls: NGOs||AP NGOs’ Association Visakhapatnam district president K. Eswara Rao has said it is not wise to hold elections to the gram panchayats at a time when the pandemic threat was still on. Addressing a media conference here on Sunday, Mr. Eswara Rao said that the employees were worried about participating in the election work and agitated over the decision taken by the State Election Commissioner, ignoring the impending COVID-19 threat. He demanded postponement of elections and warned that they would boycott election duties, if they were held. The association would not hesitate to move the court, if necessary, on the directions of the State association, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/put-off-panchayat-polls-ngos/article33546939.ece
11 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Avail LHMS, city police urge those going on vacation||Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crimes) V. Suresh Babu said that the Police Department is taking steps to curb crimes in the city. He briefed about the initiatives being taken by the crime wing this year and also appealed to citizens to make use of the Locked House Monitoring System (LHMS) by contacting the nearest police station. A close watch was also being kept on ex-offenders, he said. Addressing a press conference here on Sunday, Mr. Suresh Babu said that every year, many citizens leave to their native places to celebrate the festival. The city with a population of 25 lakh and with many of them possibly going out of the city, there was a possibility of miscreants from other places entering the city and committing thefts. Keeping this in view and to curb the crime rate, Police Commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha has come up with an initiative “Mana Illu - Mana Badhyatha”. In the view of the Sankranti festival, the day and night police beats have been increased by 30. He said that 33 D-Colts with two-wheelers would be patrolling throughout the city. The Police Commissioner has allotted 30 VHF sets and also 50 additional AR staff for crime prevention. He also said that awareness campaigns were being undertaken by going in auto-rickshaws and making announcements on the public address systems on the steps to be taken, when citizens going on vacation for Sankranti. Mr. Suresh Babu advised citizens, going out on vacation, to store their valuables in banks. He suggested deployment of private security during the nights to keep a watch on gold shops. In the wake of two-wheeler thefts, the DCP said that citizens should park their two-wheelers in their compounds, rather than parking beside the road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/avail-lhms-city-police-urge-those-going-on-vacation/article33546940.ece
11 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Hawala racket’ busted, 2 held||The city police busted a suspected hawala racket and arrested two persons near the Telugu Talli flyover on Saturday night. The police seized unaccounted cash of about Rs. 70 lakh, in the denomination of Rs. 500 and Rs. 2,000 notes from them. The arrested were identified as Roshan Kumar Jain (49) and O. Srinivas, both from the city. A few more suspected to be involved in the case are yet to be arrested. Addressing the media here on Sunday, Assistant Commissioner of Police (East) Harshitha Chandra said that Roshan Kumar has been running an electrical shop near Rama Talkies with his business partner Charitra Kumar. On the instructions of Charitra Kumar, Roshan and his friend Srinivas had gone to Gajuwaka to meet one Vikram, a businessman. Roshan Kumar allegedly showed a WhatsApp image of Rs. 10 note with its identification number, which he received from Charitra Kumar to Vikram. Vikram had allegedly given Rs. 70 lakh cash in two bags to Roshan and asked them to hand over it to Praveen Kumar Jain through a code. Acting on a tip-off, the III Town Police Inspector K. Eswara Rao and team intercepted the vehicle and seized the unaccounted cash from the duo.The ACP said that for doing this Roshan would receive Rs. 300 commission for every Rs. 1 lakh. “We have informed officials of the Revenue and the Income Tax Departments about the seizure,” said Ms. Harshitha.Further investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hawala-racket-busted-rs-70-lakh-seized/article33546838.ece
11 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Markets, shops abuzz with buyers||With Sankranti festival round the corner, garment stores, shopping malls and markets are doing brisk business in the city. Jagadamba Junction, Gopalapatnam, Dwaraka Nagar and Gajuwaka, which have a number of small and large-scale garment stores, have been abuzz with activity for the last two days. The entire stretch from from District Court centre till Poorna Market was full of shoppers, making a beeline for the stores. The cloth showrooms, including branded apparel stores, were seen offering special Sankranti discounts on all wear. The festive season seems to have brought smiles to the store owners, who were badly affected due to the COVID-19. “Sankranti is the festival where someone purchases more than one pair of garment keeping in view Bhogi, Makar Sankranti and Kanuma. I have got two children and bought six pairs of garments for them and two for me and my wife. The offers were good this year,” said K. Srikanth, who did shopping with his family at a mall near Maddilapalem. Meanwhile, tourist places, including Beach Road, were full of visitors during the weekend. Traffic snarls were reported at many places due to the festive rush. A few ongoing development works have also caused traffic disruptions at Waltair and a few other areas. A large number of police personnel were deployed to clear the traffic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/markets-shops-abuzz-with-buyers/article33546944.ece
11 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GVMC gets feedback from 1 lakh citizens in nine days||The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC), which is leading in the Citizen Feedback category for the ongoing Swachh Survekshan Survey-2021, received feedback from 1 lakh persons (10 lakh above population category) in just nine days, as on Saturday (January 9). According to GVMC officials, the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation has received feedback from 1,10,806 persons, followed by Surat with 75,893 in second place. GVMC’s Chief Medical Officer for Health K.S.L.G. Sastry said that Visakhapatnam is the first city to cross 1 lakh-mark in SS 2021. The Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs has congratulated the civic body on reaching the 1 lakh-mark through social media, he said. Citizen feedback is being received from January 1 to March 31, where citizens are asked questions about cleanliness in the city and also how well they are aware of the SS. Apart from the number of people giving feedback, the category also includes the number of active users of the Swachhata app.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gvmc-gets-feedback-from-1-lakh-citizens-in-nine-days/article33546933.ece
11 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gear up for COVID vaccination, officials told||District Collector V. Vinay Chand instructed the Municipal Commissioners, Sub-Collectors, Revenue Divisional Officers (RDOs) and the Health Department officials to get ready and make all arrangements for COVID-19 vaccination. He conducted a coordination meeting with the officials of various departments at the Collectorate here on Sunday. Mr. Vinay Chand said that in the first phase, healthcare workers like ASHA, community health workers, ANMs, health officials, paramedical staff, community health extension officers, pharmacists, nurses, health assistants, administration staff, sanitary staff, ambulance drivers and others working in hospitals, will be vaccinated. In the second phase, Revenue, Panchayat Raj, Police, Sachivalayam staff and volunteers will be administrated the vaccine, he added. He also directed the officials to enter data of all the staff who should be administered the vaccine in both the phases without any errors.  19 new cases, one death The district reported 19 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours, taking the tally to 59,938 according to the bulletin released on Sunday morning. The death toll rose to 527 as a person succumbed to the virus. This is the fourth COVID-19 death in the district this month. The number of active cases and recoveries is 212 and 59,199 respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gear-up-for-covid-vaccination-officials-told/article33546942.ece
11 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two die as van falls into valley||Two persons died when the van in which they were travelling reportedly fell into a valley at Balapam panchayat in Chintapalle mandal, in Visakhapatnam district on Sunday. The incident occurred when the duo were heading towards Balapam from Lothugedda, it was learnt. According to preliminary information from the police, one of the victims hails from Rallagedda and the other from Balapam. Annavaram police have registered a case. More details are yet to be ascertained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-die-as-van-falls-into-valley/article33546945.ece
11 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Govt. favouring corporate companies’||CPI(M) Central Committee member R. Arun Kumar has alleged that the Central and State governments were trying to privatise the service sector to benefit the corporate companies. At a seminar organised under the aegis of party Greater Visakha City Committee here on Sunday, Mr. Arun Kumar called upon the people belonging to the poor, middle class and working class to participate in the agitation against urban reforms and tax hike. He alleged that Central and State governments were implementing urban reforms on the directions of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF). He called upon the party workers to create awareness among common people on the steep hike in property tax and involve them in the struggles. Party leader G.S. Rajeswara Rao presided over the seminar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-favouring-corporate-companies/article33546837.ece
11 January 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two injured in accident||Two persons were injured in a road accident near the Vizianagaram Collector’s office junction on Sunday evening. According to police, a private bus hit a car while taking a ‘U turn’ at the junction. The persons on board the car sustained injuries. They were admitted to a private hospital. Their condition is said to be stable. Vizianagaram Superintendent of Police B. Rajakumari visited the spot and inquired about the incident. No traffic signal She asked the traffic police to deploy more personnel and study the traffic situation as there were no traffic signals at the junction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-people-injured-as-private-bus-hits-car/article33546842.ece
11 January 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Drone survey of land begins in Bobbili||Bobbili MLA Sambangi Venkata China Appala Naidu has said that the Jagananna Saswata Bhuhakku and Bhu Rakshaka Padhakam would resolve the land disputes and ensure proper documents for the property owners. The MLA launched the scheme in Marrivalasa village of Ramabhadrapuram mandal as part of which drone survey of the land began. Speaking on the occasion, Mr.Venkata Appala Naidu said that the survey with the support of drone cameras would be accurate and it would complete the process quickly. “Many farmers are unable to get government benefits in the absence of proper pattadar passbooks and other details. The scheme will put all such ordeals to an end,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/drone-survey-of-land-begins-in-bobbili/article33546844.ece
11 January 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cricket tourney gets under way||The cricket tournament, organised exclusively for youngsters of the Brahmin community, evoked good response on Sunday. Cricket teams from different parts of Andhra Pradesh participated in the tournament which will continue till January 12, according to association joint secretary Rakesh Sarma. YSRCP leader Botcha Lakshmana Rao, who launched the tournament, said such events would make the youth prove their talent and overcome stress caused by lockdown and COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cricket-tourney-gets-under-way/article33546834.ece
11 January 2021||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Payment of Amma Vodi benefits ahead of Sankranti opposed||Several opposition parties and the representatives private school managements have opposed the government’s move of launching the second phase of the ‘Amma Vodi’ scheme on January 11 (Monday), alleging that releasing the benefits ahead of the Sankranti would make the beneficiaries spend the amount on the purposes other than paying the school fee. The scheme has been launched as a part of the government’s flagship programme ‘Navartnalu’ to provide financial assistance to each mother belonging to the BPL category to help send her children to government, private, residential schools and junior colleges (from Class I to XII). As part of the scheme, a sum of Rs. 14,000 is scheduled to be disbursed to 44,00,891 beneficiaries each in the State on January 11 and another Rs. 1,000 will be deposited in the toilet maintenance fund. Unfortunately, those who took exception to the timing of the launch, said many beneficiaries might not spend the amount as intended in Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts. “As the benefits are all set to be disbursed ahead of the Sankranti, many mothers are likely to spend the amount on the festival instead of paying the school and college fees,” said a representative of a private school. Many parents had stopped paying school and college fees during the lockdown imposed in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic in March last year, and dues are yet to be cleared, said many private educational institutions. Direct fee payment “The government is insisting the school managements not to put pressure on the parents for payment of fees . How will we pay salaries to our staff? The government should link the Amma Vodi benefits with the direct payment of fees so that the parents would not have any financial burden and the school managements could also run the institutions smoothly,” opined the principal of a private school. CPI Vizianagaram district joint secretary Bugata Ashok and Aam Admi Party district convener K. Dayanand objected the disbursement of Amma Vodi benefits ahead of the Sankranti festival. “The government should disburse the amount in June or July, when the academic year begins. It will be beneficial for parents and the schools too. Otherwise, many private school managements will be forced to close their premises, rendering thousands of teachers and staff jobless,” pointed out Mr. Ashok. ‘Vote bank politics’ Mr. Dayanad objected the payment of Amma Vodi benefits to the parents whose children are studying in government schools. “The government provides education free of cost, besides many other benefits under the Jagananna Vidya Kanuka. What is the necessity for extending the Amma Vodi benefits to them? It is a move to consolidate vote bank under the guise of improvement of education system,” he opined.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/payment-of-amma-vodi-benefits-ahead-of-sankranti-opposed/article33546833.ece
11 January 2021||January 11 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chock-a-block||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chock-a-block/article33546840.ece
11 January 2021||January 11 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Festive cheer||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/festive-cheer/article33546361.ece
11 January 2021||January 11 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Joyous ride||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/joyous-ride/article33546857.ece
11 January 2021||January 11 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Spinning sensation||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/spinning-sensation/article33546935.ece
11 January 2021||January 11 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Colourful kites||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/colourful-kites/article33546862.ece
11 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Farm laws due to global pressure: Kisan Congress||A round table meeting on new farm laws and Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao taking a U-turn on them felt that there was international pressure behind the laws and KCR had bowed to the pressures of the Central government in supporting them. The meeting organised by the Telangana Kisan Congress felt that contract farming was increasing in the western countries with the active support of corporates and the same was being thrust on India without understanding the dynamics of Indian agriculture. It was attended by Congress Legislature Party leader Bhatti Vikramarka, All India Congress Committee Secretaries Bose Raju, Ch Vamshichand Reddy, Madhu Yaskhi and G. Chinna Reddy, MLA D Sreedhar Babu, former MP V Hanmantha Rao, former Minister Marri Shashidhar Reddy, All India Kisan Congress vice-president M. Kodanda Reddy, agriculture expert Donthi Narsimha Reddy, Kanneganti Ravi and Kisan Congress State president Anvesh Reddy, among others. Mr Kodanda Reddy said that the responsibility of opposing the laws was on every individual as not just the farmers but people as customers would also face immense problems with the new laws. Mr Narsimha Reddy said the new laws would result in the farmers becoming bonded labour in their own lands. He reminded how sugarcane farmers were now forced to depend on the whims and fancies of corporates. Farmers would be forced to cultivate the crops demanded by the corporates but not what the country needed. Unfortunately the Central government didn't even discuss the laws with the farmers before bringing them into force. Mr Chinna Reddy recalled how KCR had forced the farmers to cultivate fine variety paddy and retracted on his promise of buying them. The same scenario would repeat with the new farm laws. He said Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu was absent in the Rajya Sabha when the bills were passed as he understands how dangerous the laws were to farmers’ interests. Mr Sreedhar Babu said while the farmers and the Congress were talking about how detrimental the laws were the ruling BJP was misleading the farmers promising doubling the income. There was a need to educate the farmers across the country on the dangers of the new laws. Stating that the BJP was a party of businessmen, Mr Vikramarka said the BJP government was hurting the federal spirit intruding on the states rights through the new laws. He said KCR had trumpeted about his Federal Front against the BJP before his New Delhi visit but had come back to totally support the new laws and the BJP. Laws had not changed but KCR had totally changed in favour of the BJP, he charged. Mr Vikramarka also demanded that a special session of the Assembly be convened to negate the farm laws as was done by Congress-ruled states.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/farm-laws-due-to-global-pressure-kisan-congress/article33546665.ece
11 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Turmeric has great value: SEC||State Election Commissioner C. Parthasarathi said that the old undivided district of Nizamabad has been the grain bowl and farmers here produce good quality of turmeric which constitutes 8 per cent of the total crop production in the world. He said that turmeric being produced in the district had international demand and was being exported to various countries. If farmers were provided some more facilities it could fetch a good price making its production more profitable, he said while participating as the chief guest in the seminar titled Leadership Meet-Nizamabad Growth Agenda-2021 organised by Excel India news magazine, at Nizamabad on Sunday. “The ganj (market) here is the second largest one in the State and turmeric purchases and sales are done through e-NAM in this market. If our farmers adopt new methods in cultivation, go for farm mechanisation and maintain moisture levels within the permissible limits the crop would be much sought after internationally,” he said. Dwelling at length on the various problems besetting the district Mr. Parthasarathy who was the Principal Secretary, Agriculture, in one of his last assignments in government service before becoming the State Election Commissioner, said that the food processing industrial policy which is ready is once accepted by government many good industrial units would come up providing a lot of job opportunities to youth. Presiding over the meet senior Indian Administrative Service officer and Shatavahana University vice-chancellor (in-charge) T. Chiranjeevulu said that the district has been lagging behind in several aspects compared to state averages. Per capita income in the state was Rs. 2.24 lakh while the per capita income in the district was just Rs. 1.14 lakh. Similarly, though the gender ratio was 1,000 males for 1,058 females, the women literacy rate was 10 percentage points below the state average, he added. Ravi Reddy, Resident Editor, The Hindu , Hyderabad, said that there is a lot of scope for agri tourism development in the district. Apart from Ankapur there are three dozen other villages which have ample potentialities for agri-tourism development, he said. Telangana State Higher Education Council vice-chairman R. Limbadri, Telangana University Registrar Naseem, and Excel India Editor S. Ramakrishna spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/turmeric-has-great-value-sec/article33546668.ece
11 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Food processing policy can spur growth’||Given the natural resources, human potential and aspirations of people, Nizamabad can flourish as a model district only if it focuses on food processing, said State Election Commissioner C Parthasarathi. Speaking at Excel India seminar on Leadership Meet - Nizamabad Growth Agenda 2021, Mr. Parthasarathi said that a draft on Food Processing Policy has been prepared. "If this draft is approved by the State Cabinet, it would change the socio-economic and agricultural practices in a positive way," he said. Mr. Parathasarathi said focus of the draft policy was value-addition to agriculture produce and diversification from traditional crops. Fortunately, we have sufficient power supply and water resources,” he said. Excel India Editor S Rama Krishna said the district despite being in the hotbed of revolutionary events maintained peace in all times. "The seminar aims to play advocacy role in suggesting planners how best Nizamabad could regain its past glory," he said. Satavahana University Vice-Chancellor T Chiranjeevulu said Nizamabad people were highly skilled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/food-processing-policy-can-spur-growth-in-nizamabad/article33546667.ece
11 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Found dead||A beggar’s body was found in a wrecked autorickshaw at Udamguda of Mailardevpally here on Sunday morning. Police said that the victim, aged about 65 years, whose identity could not be established yet, died of sickness. He took shelter in the auto during nights. Around 8.30 a.m. on Sunday, passers-by found him dead and alerted the police, who went to the spot and shifted the body to Osmania General Hospital (OGH) for preservation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/found-dead/article33546659.ece
11 January 2021||khammam,TELANGANA||New skating rink at Khammam to be launched tomorrow||The fast-paced exciting game of roller skating is all set to get a boost in the district with a spacious roller skating rink getting ready for inauguration at the Sardar Patel stadium here.  Minister for Sports and Youth Services V Srinivas Goud is scheduled to open the new roller skating rink at the SP stadium on January 12.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/new-skating-rink-at-khammam-to-be-launched-tomorrow/article33546896.ece
11 January 2021||MEDAK,TELANGANA||Move to make Hyderabad to Narsapur road plastic-free||In order to make the Hyderabad-Narsapur road plastic-free, a special drive was organised at the Narsapur urban forest area on Sunday, during which about one tonne of plastic and other materials were collected by forest officials. “This is a plastic-free zone and we request visitors coming here not to bring plastic, which is harmful for the environment. Fines will be imposed against all those who break the rule,” said Sangareddy district forest officer V. Venkateswarlu. He added that plastic harms animals a lot. The forest officials collected plastic waste, industrial waste, and even chicken waste from the roadside between Mambapur and Narsapur, with the help of four tractors. Forest Range Officer A. Veerendra Babu, Forest Section Officer (Gummadidala) Srinivas, and local elected representatives of Mumbapur took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/move-to-make-hyderabad-to-narsapur-road-plastic-free/article33546661.ece
11 January 2021||R. AvadhaniSANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Sangareddy district gets another community radio||The erstwhile Medak district, now Sangareddy, had established the first community radio in the world — Sangam Radio at Machanoor near Zaheerabad in 2008 and it now caters to about 150 villages in the surrounding areas. This time, another community radio has come up, in the district headquarters. Radio Manjeera 90.8 FM is a Sangareddy-based Community Radio Station under an NGO called Sister Nivedita Society. It started broadcasting programmes more than a year ago. The radio used to broadcast only two hours’ recorded programme every day due to insufficient/improper infrastructure. Now the station is ready with studio and equipment, capable of handling more programmes. “Now we have started inviting the general public so as to encourage, empower different kind of communities. To cover various fields/communities/age groups we started conducting different programmes. This radio covers a radius of 20 km reaching 110 villages including Sangareddy,” says Jagdiswar Yadav, Station Coordinator, Radio Manjeera. Radio Manjeera has been established in Brahma Kumaris Building ground floor, provided by the Brahma Kumaris for free use. There are several programmes that are being broadcast:  Shubha Sankalpam — well begun is half done — considering this quote, the programme gives out positive thoughts in the morning show every day between 7 a.m. and 8 a.m.  Manalo Mata — This is a discussion programme covering different topics such as water harvesting, energy conservation, traffic rules and other issues. (Five days in a week from 8 a.m. to 8.30 a.m.  Manjeera Melodies is a completely entertainment programme of Telugu film songs everyday from 8.30 a.m. to 9 a.m. (Central government / ministry instructions are also played during this period.  News — 10 minutes of news is relayed directly from Akashvani Hyderabad.  Vijjakka Muchhatlu — A programme in Telangana dialect covering social activities, responsibilities and relationships (9 a.m. to 9.30 a.m. , four days in a week).  Jeevana Tarangalu — This is a programme for house wives, working professionals, businessmen and students.( Between 9.30 a.m. and 10 a.m. four days in a week).  Illu Harivillu — is a women centric programme covering health tips, cooking tips, recipes, healthy relationships, beauty tips and time management, between 9 a.m. and 10.30 a.m.  Children Point — It’s a children’s programme of poetry, moral stories, jokes, study tips, and encouraging good habits in children, hoisted by children themselves, once in a week on Sunday, between 12 noon and 1 p.m.  Aarogyam Mee Chetullo is a health programme featuring interviews with different doctors every week, covering health aspects/ suggestions from them. The programmes are for four hours every day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sangareddy-district-gets-another-community-radio/article33546891.ece
11 January 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Applications invited for film festival||The Community Media Trust of the Deccan Development Society (DDS) has invited applications for the third Jai Chandiram Memorial National Community Media Film Festival. The themes are biodiversity, agro-biodiversity, resilient food systems, climate change and sustainable governance. The video can be in any format up to 60 minutes with English subtitles. Fee for each submission is Rs. 500 and the last date is January 25. Community media organisations, preferably non-literate from rural background, can submit applications with no restriction on the number. However, the fee will be separate for each entry. Those interested can send an e-mail to communitymediatrust@gmail.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/applications-invited-for-film-festival/article33546892.ece
11 January 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Mallannasagar by next year: Harish Rao||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao said that Mallannasagar will be completed by next year summer and irrigation would be provided. After offering ‘Pattu Vastralu and Mutyala Talambralu’ at Komuravelli Mallanna temple as part of Kalyanam along with Minister Malla Reddy and MLA M. Yadagiri Reddy on Sunday, Mr Harish Rao said that they had prayed to Lord Mallanna to bless them to complete the projects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mallannasagar-by-next-year-harish-rao/article33546898.ece
11 January 2021||Special Correspondent,TELANGANA||Harness cooperative spirit: Minister||Minister for Agriculture Singireddy Niranjan Reddy has called upon sugarcane farmers in the State to harness the power of cooperative spirit to run sugar factories under the aegis of farmers’ cooperative societies and also enter into the arena of power generation. The successful operation of around 203 sugar factories by the cooperative societies led by farmers in Maharashtra is worthy of emulation, he remarked. He was speaking at the Madhucon sugar and power industry at Rajeswarapuram in Nelakondapalli mandal on Sunday. Earlier, the Minister participated in the centenary celebrations of the District Cooperative Central Bank (DCCB) in Khammam and inaugurated various development works including Rythu Vedikas in Khammam division. Transport Minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/harness-cooperative-spirit-minister/article33546670.ece
11 January 2021||January 11 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Suspense still on over ‘sealed cover’||The suspense over the contents of the “sealed cover” submitted by the Pay Revision Commission continues as there is no word from the government about the recommendations of the panel and the path ahead. Employees who were seen arguing on the quantum of pay hike that was likely to have been recommended by the PRC are now seen enquiring whether the commission has submitted any recommendations at all. Adding fuel to the fire, some dailies speculated fitment starting from 15 to 25%. Their concern is not out of place as the high-power committee constituted by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao is yet to call the employees unions for talks. High time that the recommendations for which employees are waiting for more than 30 months are examined and the staff communicated news about their pay revision.   Dates for administration of the COVID-19 vaccine have finally been communicated officially by the government with Health Minister Eatala Rajender volunteering to take the first dose to allay apprehensions whatsoever about the side effects. With less than a week left for the commencement of the process, there is, however, no clarity on how people should register their names in the application (CoWin) which is said to be in pre-product stage. Common people cannot register their names in the app as of now as only officials have access to it. Given the short time available, the government should take steps to ensure that the process is communicated to the people at the earliest so that they can register their names with ease and ensure that they get the vaccine without hassles.    Ever since the outbreak of coronavirus in the country, both during the 68-day lockdown and later during the ongoing phased unlock process, one common scene visible in residential localities of all urban areas has been the increased display of to-let boards. With the work-from-home facility given to several IT, ITES and other companies, a sizeable section of the working class has left for their native places vacating their rented homes. While this is on, a talk of to-let boards has led to a war of words between two political parties in Telangana recently. In response to the comments against BJP by national secretary of CPI K. Narayana on the desecration of idols in Andhra Pradesh, BJP’s national OBC Morcha president K. Laxman said CPI had no locus standi to speak on the issue as it “has shut shop in AP already and displayed to-let board in Telangana”. Outraged by the defamatory remark of the BJP leader, CPI secretary of Telangana Chada Venkat Reddy reminded BJP leaders of the party’s position till late ‘90s when it had no presence, whatsoever, in many States. “Communists would be in the mainstream as long as there were disparities and exploitation in society”, unlike some parties in power engaged in widening disparities and encouraging exploitation!  (M. Rajeev, B. Chandrashekhar)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/suspense-still-on-over-sealed-cover/article33546664.ece
11 January 2021||January 11 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Pawsome pair||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pawsome-pair/article33546894.ece
11 January 2021||Ahmedabad,||11 lakh frontline staff to get vaccine on priority: Rupani||Nearly 11 lakh people engaged in COVID-19 duties, including healthcare and frontline personnel, will be vaccinated for COVID-19 on priority in Gujarat, Chief Minister Vijay Rupani said on Sunday, adding that 16,000 personnel have been trained for administering the shots. Mr. Rupani said the State had created a database of 1.2 crore people under four priority groups who will be administered the vaccine as per the Centre’s guidelines. Gujarat on Sunday reported 671 fresh cases, taking the total case tally to 2,51,944. With four more patients succumbing to the virus, the toll has risen to 4,344. A total of 806 patients were discharged during the day, taking the tally of recoveries to 2,39,771. The State’s recovery rate stands at 95.17%, while the number of active cases is 7,829. The Central government on Saturday said India will launch its COVID-19 vaccination drive from January 16, with priority to be given to nearly three crore health care and frontline workers. Mr. Rupani said six regional depots as well as other infrastructure, including cold chains for the storage and supply of vaccine doses, have been established. “We have completed the work to create a database [of priority groups] across Gujarat. Around 11 lakh people engaged in COVID-19 duties, including over four lakh health care staff and six lakh frontline personnel like police and sanitation workers, will get the first benefit of the vaccine,” the CM said. As per a house-to-house survey for priority groups, more than 1.05 crore people over the age of 50, and 2.75 lakh people under 50 with comorbidities have been identified. He said, “Thus, around 1.2 crore people under four priority groups will be administered vaccines as per the Centre’s guidelines. Cold chains and other facilities for the storage and transportation of the vaccines have been put in place and their auditing is complete.” Gujarat has also received additional facilities from the Central government for the purpose, he added in his video message. Mr. Rupani asked people to not pay heed to rumours related to vaccination, and attacked the Opposition parties for questioning the efficacy of the vaccine. “Those who questioned our soldiers after the surgical strike, the EVMs after losing elections, and judiciary after the Ram Mandir judgment, are raising questions on scientists and doctors who created these Made in India vaccines. It shows the low-level political mentality of the opposition parties, and people will not forgive them for this. I promise you as Chief Minister that all will certainly get vaccination as per priority arrangement. We should keep patience and trust,” he said. ‘Recovery on the rise’ Mr. Rupani added that the COVID-19 case recovery rate in Gujarat was above 94% and a majority of beds earmarked for treatment of the viral infection were lying unoccupied. “We have fought well, but the fight continues, and it has now reached its last stage. We look at 2021 with new hope. Our long wait for the vaccine ends, now that the vaccine has arrived. Both the vaccines are made in India, and show the will power of our scientists to realise the dream of Atmanirbhar Bharat,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/11-lakh-frontline-staff-to-get-vaccine-on-priority-rupani/article33546754.ece
11 January 2021||Aurangabad,||180 birds die in two days in Latur||Amid the bird flu scare in several States, an “alert zone” was declared in a 10-km radius around Ahmedpur area in Latur district after 180 birds, including 128 hens, were found dead over the past few days, an official said on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/180-birds-die-in-two-days-in-latur/article33546755.ece
11 January 2021||Latur,||One killed, 11 hurt as truck hits MSRTC bus||One person was killed and 11 sustained serious injuries after a truck hit an MSRTC bus on Nilanga-Latur highway in Latur’s Ausa tehsil at 10 a.m. on Sunday. Additional Superintendent of Police Himmat Jadhav said the bus, with 14 passengers, was on its way to Akola. Efforts are on to nab the driver of the truck.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/one-killed-11-hurt-as-truck-hits-msrtc-bus/article33546756.ece
11 January 2021||MUMBAI,||‘Will look into demand for cement, steel regulator’||Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari has assured the Builders’ Association of India (BAI) that he would look into their demand for a regulatory authority for the cement and steel sectors. He said the Central government is serious about curbing instances of cartelisation. Expressing concern, Mr. Gadkari said he felt there is cartelisation in these industries. The minister made the comments while virtually interacting with the members and office-bearers of the BAI on Saturday. “We have taken serious note of it [cartelisation] and I have discussed this with the Prime Minister. Most steel companies own iron ore mines and with no increase in labour and power charges, why should there be an increase in steel prices? It is very difficult to understand,” the minister said. “Similarly, the cement industry is taking advantage and exploiting the situation for profit. This is not in the interest of the nation. We are aiming to implement infrastructure projects worth Rs. 111 lakh crore in the next five years and the Prime Minister has dreamt of a $5 trillion economy. With cartelisation in cement and steel industries, it will be very difficult to achieve,” he added. Mr. Gadkari said forming a regulatory authority was a good idea and the ultimate decision would be taken by the Finance Ministry and the Prime Minister’s Office. “But I can assure you that this has been taken very seriously and we will resolve it at the earliest,” he said. The minister also resolved to address many of BAI’s demands and issues raised by the infrastructure sector. During the meeting, BAI and its office-bearers had put forward the issues faced by contractors and industrialists from the infrastructure, construction and real estate sectors. “Baburao Shkkarwar, vice-president of BAI western region, and Mu Mohan, president, BAI, and other office-bearers, raised the issues effectively and the minister replied to them positively,” BAI said in a statement. The association requested for a mechanism for early settlement of bills against government contracts, and streamlining GST implementation. BAI has also demanded giving industry status to the infrastructure sector. Mr. Mohan said the industry status would help the sector solve major taxation and duty-related issues. BAI said, “Mr. Gadkari assured us that he will look into the demands. He sought cooperation and a proactive approach by the industry players in helping the government achieve its goals in the infrastructure sector.”  We are aiming to implement infrastructure projects worth Rs. 111 lakh crore in the next five years and the PM has dreamt of a $5 trillion economy Nitin Gadkari Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/will-look-into-demand-for-cement-steel-regulator/article33546748.ece
11 January 2021||Mumbai,||Navy sailor dies of bullet injury||A Navy sailor was found dead onboard a warship on Sunday with a bullet injury, an official said. Ramesh Choudhary (22) was posted onboardINS Betwa, a Navy spokesperson said. The sailor’s service issue rifle was found next to him, but did not specify if it was suicide.INS Betwais a Brahmaputra-class guided missile frigate currently in service with the Indian Navy. The ship is named after the Betwa river. The sailor, who recently returned to the warship after leave, hailed from Jodhpur in Rajasthan and is survived by his parents and a younger sister. The matter is under investigation by the police with the assistance of naval authorities, the Navy spokesperson said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/navy-sailor-dies-of-bullet-injury/article33546759.ece
11 January 2021||Nagpur,||Bhandara fire: neglect of safety norms worrying, says expert||A day after a blaze at a hospital in Bhandara killed 10 infants, National Fire Service College Director Ramesh Kumar said fire safety standards were being ignored in sensitive establishments, including hospitals, and the issue requires a lot of attention. There should also be periodic inspections, he said. Mr. Kumar added that advanced fire safety equipment are needed to be installed in all buildings and have to be properly maintained by trained staff. Three fire engineers from the National Fire Service College, a Nagpur-based autonomous body managed by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs, are part of the team conducting a probe into the fire in the district hospital at Bhandara, he said. “We would be emphasising on fire safety angles and how useful the safety equipment were and whether they were working or not, and whether the safety audit of the hospital took place or not,” he said.  The government has passed an Act that these norms should be followed, but they are being ignored, Mr. Kumar said. In most places, even if the fire safety equipment are installed, they are not functional. Even if they are functional, people are not trained to use it, he said. “These are two grey areas that need to be addressed,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bhandara-fire-neglect-of-safety-norms-worrying-says-expert/article33546757.ece
11 January 2021||New Delhi,||Section 69, 132 under CGST Act are constitutional, opines court||The Delhi High Court has upheld the controversial provisions in the Central Goods and Service Tax (CGST) Act that gives power to authorities to arrest any person if there is “reason to believe” that he has committed tax evasion. A Bench of Justice Manmohan and Justice Sanjeev Narula gave the decision on a petition challenging the Sections 69 (power to arrest) and 132 (punishment for certain offences) of the CGST Act. The petitioners here, a man and a firm facing action for allegedly availing fraudulent IGST refund and Input Tax Credits (ITC), had claimed that Section 69 being of criminal nature, it could not have been enacted under Article 246A of the Constitution. However, the High Court ruled “...the pith and substance of the CGST Act is on a topic, upon which Parliament has power to legislate as the power to arrest and prosecute are ancillary and/or incidental to the power to levy and collect Goods and Services Tax”. It opined that both Sections 69 and 132 of the CGST Act are “constitutional and fall within the legislative competence of Parliament”. The court remarked that the scope of Article 246A is “significantly wide” as it not only empowers both Parliament and State Legislatures to levy or enact GST Act, but also grants the power to make all laws ‘with respect to’ GST. Additional Solicitor General S.V. Raju also informed the court that a person under the CGST Act can only be arrested, if the amount of tax evasion is more than Rs. 2 crore. He further stated that all offences in which tax evasion is less than Rs. 5 crore are bailable and only grave offences involving tax evasion of Rs. 5 crore and above are non-bailable and cognisable. Mr. Raju emphasised that the government has been hit with numerous cases involving non-functional and bogus firms that had fraudulently availed IGST refunds and ITC credits and had caused substantial loss to the exchequer. Over Rs. 63 crore fraud The ASG stated that the man in the present case had allegedly availed more than Rs. 63 crore of fraudulent IGST refund and the firm had obtained more than Rs. 6.35 crore of fraudulent ITC credits. The petitioners, on the other hand, contended that the procedure prescribed under the CGST Act was not fair and reasonable. They claimed that there had been many cases where an assessee had been arrested at initial stage of investigation but the department had subsequently failed to establish its case in adjudication proceedings and in the process, the assessee had suffered irreparable loss on account of arrest. Here, the court highlighted that when any person is arrested under the CGST Act, the said person has to be informed of the grounds of arrest and must necessarily be produced before a Magistrate within a period of 24 hours. “This ensures judicial scrutiny over the acts of executive and it cannot be termed as unreasonable and/or excessive, as sought to be contended by the petitioners,” the court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hc-upholds-arrest-provision-in-cgst-act-for-tax-evasion/article33546552.ece
11 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Citizens wake up to a sunny Sunday||After a spell of rain and cloudy conditions, the Capital woke up to clear skies and bright sunshine on Sunday. However, the minimum and maximum temperatures saw a fall. The clear skies brought down the minimum temperature to 7.8 degrees Celsius, which was one notch warmer than normal. Cold winds from the Himalayas blew towards the city, causing a dip in the maximum temperature that settled four degrees below normal at 16.2 degrees Celsius. Temperatures are likely to fall further in the next couple of days. The forecast for January 11 reads: “mainly clear sky with mist, shallow fog in the morning. Strong surface winds during the day. Minimum and maximum temperatures will be around 17 and seven degrees Celsius respectively.” Air quality The air quality in the city also improved with an AQI of 245, which falls in the “poor” category, according to data from the CPCB. With strong surface winds, the air quality is likely to remain in the “poor” and “moderate” category on January 11 and 12.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/citizens-wake-up-to-a-sunny-sunday/article33546558.ece
11 January 2021||New Delhi,||Dhobi ghat demolition: HC gives three weeks to outfit seeking relief||The Delhi High Court has given three weeks to an organisation to approach an appropriate forum for relief against demolition of the Batla House ‘Dhobi Ghat’, which is used by washermen here to earn a living. Court to DDA The court, in the meanwhile, has ordered the Delhi Development Authority not to take any precipitate measure in connection with the ‘Dhobi Ghat’. The court’s direction came while hearing a petition by Muslim Kassar Vikas Sangathan, seeking direction to DDA not to demolish the Batla House Dhobi Ghat at Okhla here. The organisation sought to restrain DDA from demolishing the existing ‘Dhobi Ghat’ till land is allotted for a new one in the vicinity and it is constructed. The DDA informed the High Court that demolition work has already been carried out at the ‘Dhobi Ghat’ on December 24 last. It said the action was taken in pursuance to a National Green Tribunal (NGT) judgment, which ordered that encroachments at the Yamuna banks must be removed. The organisation, however, submitted that the NGT’s order in the Manoj Misra case deals with restoration of the river Yamuna and the floodplains, whereas the existing Dhobi Ghat is located 2.5 kilometres from the waters of the river. The DDA disputed this claim. The organisation had also urged status quo be maintained as the site is still being used by washermen to earn a living, who otherwise face economic difficulties on account of the prolonged coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/dhobi-ghat-demolition-hc-gives-three-weeks-to-outfit-to-seek-relief/article33546550.ece
11 January 2021||New Delhi,||Court pulls up police for illegally arresting man||A court here pulled up Delhi Police for allegedly arresting a man illegally in a theft case and demanding money from his sister for helping in bailing him out, saying the case appeared to have been solved “just to solve it”. Additional Sessions Judge Sonu Agnihotri directed the DCP (Dwarka) to inquire regarding the alleged demand of money from the sister of the accused on part of police officials and file a report on January 13. The court further directed the DCP to take action regarding the illegal detention of Ravi Nanda in the case and file an Action Taken Report (ATR) by January 13. It also granted bail to Nanda on furnishing a bail bond of Rs. 20,000 with one surety of like amount in the case. The court’s observations came after the investigating officer (IO) said the man was arrested merely on the basis that his sister had a yellow motorcycle with red rims which matched the description as given by the complainant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/court-pulls-up-police-for-illegally-arresting-man/article33546553.ece
11 January 2021||New Delhi,||Woman, auto driver held with heroin worth Rs. 50 lakh||A 35-year-old woman and an autorickshaw driver were arrested for allegedly supplying drugs here, the police said on Sunday. A total of 150g of heroin worth Rs. 50 lakh in the international market was recovered from them, they said. The drug was brought to the national capital from Bareilly in U.P. The accused have been identified as Neema Khatoon (name changed) from Brijpuri and Waseem (38) from Karawal Nagar, they said. After receiving tip-off, the police laid a trap and the auto was intercepted. A woman, carrying a small bag, was found sitting inside the vehicle. “The police checked the bag and found 800 small paper pouches containing 150g of heroin worth around Rs. 50 lakh in international market,” said DCP (North) Anto Alphonse. During interrogation, Khatoon disclosed that she bought the heroin from a man named Sakir from U.P.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/woman-auto-driver-held-with-heroin-worth-rs-50-lakh/article33546554.ece
11 January 2021||New Delhi,||RGSSH defends decision to send its MS on leave||The Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital (RGSSH) has defended in the High Court the decision to send its Medical Superintendent on compulsory leave over allegations of sexual harassment, saying it was done to ensure he does not influence the inquiry or the witnesses. The hospital also claimed that the MS had sought that he be allowed to go on leave as he felt threatened to come to work. The hospital stated this in its affidavit, filed through Delhi government additional standing counsel Sanjoy Ghose, in response to the doctor’s plea challenging its decision to send him on compulsory leave. “That pursuant to the requests for leave made by the petitioner (medical superintendent) and considering that he, being in a senior administrative position, could influence the enquiry and witnesses, therefore with a view that enquiry be conducted in an unprejudiced manner, order dated December 23, 2020 sending him on compulsory leave was issued,” the affidavit said. The hospital has alleged that the doctor has concealed in his plea that he used “foul and abusive language” in a conversation with a female staff member. He had made “scandalous and scurrilous allegations” against various other female staff members, the hospital has claimed. It said in the affidavit that it has received an email from the IMA “calling for strict action against the petitioner (MS) on account of the comments made against women employees by him”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/rgssh-defends-decision-to-send-its-ms-on-leave/article33546555.ece
11 January 2021||Panaji,||Goa reports spike of 61 cases, one death, 100 more recoveries||The number of COVID-19 cases in Goa reached 51,856 after 61 more people tested positive for the infection on Sunday. The day also saw one more death and 100 recoveries, an official said. The death toll in the State is now 747 and the recovery count is 50,277. The tally of active cases now stands at 832. With 1,523 samples being tested on Sunday, the overall number of tests in Goa has gone up to 4,16,392. The Goa government has identified eight hospitals for the first phase of COVID-19 vaccination, where around 18,000 healthcare workers will receive the doses, an official said on Sunday. “As many as 100 vaccinations would be done at each of these eight facilities in a day, which amounts to 800 inoculations per day,” State immunisation officer Dr. Rajendra Borkar said. “The State government has identified five government-run hospitals and three private facilities where vaccine would be administered to healthcare workers,” he said. The short-listed government hospitals are Goa Medical College (near Panaji), Hospicio Hospital (Margao), Asilo Hospital (Mapusa), Chicalim Health Centre (Vasco), and Sub District Hospital (Ponda). The private facilities identified for the task are Manipal Hospital (near Panaji), Healthway Hospital (Old Goa), and Victor Hospital (Margao), he said. The State task force for immunisation headed by health secretary Amit Satija has also identified 18,000-odd health workers who will receive doses during the first phase, the official said. The Central government on Saturday said India will launch its COVID-19 vaccination drive from January 16, with priority to be given to nearly three crore health care and frontline workers. Dr. Borkar said along with the rest of country, Goa will also roll out its vaccination programme on January 16. All the healthcare workers who will be given the vaccine would be monitored for side-effects, he said. The task force has called for a review meeting on Monday with nodal officers and representatives of the eight hospitals to discuss the immunisation process, he said. Goa has already conducted two dry runs.  100 vaccinations would be done at each of these eight facilities in a day, which amounts to 800 inoculations Dr. Rajendra Borkar State immunisation officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/goa-reports-spike-of-61-cases-one-death-100-more-recoveries/article33546752.ece
11 January 2021||Panaji,||Exams for Classes IX, XI in Goa schools by April 24||The Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education has called for exams for Classes IX and XI students to be conducted in all schools in the State. In a circular dated January 8, the board’s secretary, Geraldina L. Mendes, said the exams should be conducted by April 24, 2021, to enable schools to provide infrastructure and manpower for holding the board exams, which are scheduled to start on April 26. Schools for Classes X and XII in Goa reopened in November last year, after being shut for nearly eight months due to the COVID-19 pandemic, while classes for all other standards are currently being conducted online. “In view of the prevailing pandemic situation and availability of limited number of instructional and working days, the schools are hereby requested to conduct examinations, that is theory and pratical for Classes IX and XI for the academic year 2020-21 by calling students to the schools,” the circular reads. The board has given liberty to the schools to conduct the exams as per their convenience. It said, “Those schools which have already conducted the first mid-term and first term exams need not conduct it again.” The schools are also given liberty to set the papers of the first and second terms as per the portion covered, with full weightage or 50% weightage, and convert it into full weightage. The board has announced that 30% of the syllabus would be reduced this academic year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/exams-for-classes-ix-xi-in-goa-schools-by-april-24/article33546751.ece
11 January 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra yet again records over 3,500 new COVID-19 cases||COVID-19 cases continued to outpace recoveries as Maharashtra on Sunday reported 3,558 new cases as opposed to 2,302 recoveries as the active case tally rose to 54,179 . The total case tally has now reached 19,69,114, while 34 fatalities saw the total death toll climb to 50,061. The cumulative recoveries now stand at 18,63,702. The State’s recovery rate is 94.65%, while the case fatality rate stands at 2.54%. “Of 1,34,01,170 laboratory samples tested thus far, 19,69,114 (with the case positivity rate down to 14.69%) have returned positive, with over 63,000 samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate. Pune reported over 600 new cases to take its total case tally to 3,78,539. Seven deaths saw the total death toll rise to 7,828. As per district administration figures, the active case tally stands at 5,646, while the district’s recovery rate is 96.08%. 657 new cases in Mumbai Mumbai reported 657 new cases to take its total case tally to 2,98,892, of which just 7,927 are active. Five fatalities saw the city’s death toll reach 11,186. Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported over 450 new cases, taking the district’s total case tally to 1,29,675, of which 5,304 are currently active. Seven deaths saw the total death toll reach 3,263. In western Maharashtra, Satara reported a single death as its cumulative death toll stood at 1,786, while 60 fresh cases saw the total case tally rise to 55,227, of which just 847 are active. Neighbouring Sangli reported 25 cases and no deaths as the district’s case tally reached 50,420, of which just 425 are active. Its death toll stands at 1,770. Kolhapur reported just 21 cases and no fatalities as its total case tally reached 48,859m of which just 119 are active. The total death toll stands at 1,663. In north Maharashtra, Nashik district reported more than 200 cases and a single death as its total case tally reached 117,738, of which 1,918 are active. Its death toll stands at 1,942. Jalgaon reported 54 new cases and a single death as its total case tally reached 56,629, of which only 629 are active, while its death toll stands at 1,463. Dr. Awate informed that currently a total of 2,34,845 people across the State are in home quarantine and 2,453 are in institutional quarantine facilities.  Over 63,000 samples were tested in the last 24 hours Dr. Pradeep Awate State Surveillance Officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtra-yet-again-records-over-3500-new-covid-19-cases/article33546750.ece
11 January 2021||Thane,||3 injured as robbers fire 7 rounds, loot jewellery shop||Three people were injured 1.40 p.m. on Sunday after a group of four robbers opened fire and attacked them with choppers while looting a jewellery shop in Ambernath, police said. Around 250 gm of jewellery worth Rs. 12.77 lakh was looted, Ulhasnagar Deputy Commissioner of Police Prashant Mohite said. The four men, who came on two bikes, engaged the jewellery shop staffer in banter and then pointed a revolver at him. While they were escaping with the loot, the owner of the shop and one more person walked in, he said. “The accused then fired seven rounds, injuring one person, and stabbed the other two with choppers. The three have been hospitalised,” Mr. Mohite said. Teams have been formed to nab the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/3-injured-as-robbers-fire-7-rounds-loot-jewellery-shop/article33546758.ece
11 January 2021||January 11 2021 00:00 IST,||In flight mode||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/in-flight-mode/article33546761.ece
11 January 2021||Jakarta,||Indonesia locates black boxes of plane||Body parts, twisted wreckage and clothing were plucked from waters off the Indonesian capital on Sunday after a passenger jet with 62 people aboard crashed shortly after take-off a day earlier. Authorities have yet to say why the Sriwijaya Air Boeing 737-500 went into a steep dive about four minutes after it left Soekarno-Hatta international airport on Saturday afternoon. But, on Sunday, they said that they had pinpointed the location of its black boxes — cockpit voice and flight data recorders — that could be key to explaining why the plane slammed into the Java Sea off the sprawling city’s coast. A military vessel picked up the plane’s signal, and divers recovered wreckage from around 23 m below the water’s surface, the Transport Ministry said. Indonesia’s President Joko Widodo expressed his “deep condolences”, and called upon citizens to “pray together so that victims can be found”. But the frantic search involving helicopters and warships appeared to offer no hope of finding any survivors. The search and rescue agency said it had so far collected five body bags with human remains as well as debris from the crash site. Passengers Ihsan Adhlan Hakim and his new bride Putri were headed to Pontianak, the city on Indonesia’s section of Borneo island, about 90 minutes away. “He called me to say that the flight was delayed due to bad weather,” Mr. Hakim’s brother Arwin said from Pontianak, where a wedding celebration had been planned for the newly weds. Beben Sofian, 59, and her husband, Dan Razanah, 58, were also on the doomed flight. “They took a selfie and sent it to their kids before taking off,” the couple’s nephew, Hendra, told AFP. DNA from relatives will be compared with discovered remains for identification. All 62 passengers and crew aboard the half-full flight were Indonesian. The count included 10 children. Distraught relatives waited nervously for news at Pontianak airport. “I have four family members on the flight — my wife and three children,” said a sobbing Yaman Zai. “(My wife) sent me a picture of the baby... How could my heart not be torn into pieces?” Data from FlightRadar24 indicated that the airliner reached an altitude of 3,350 m before dropping suddenly to 250 feet. It then lost contact with air traffic control. Final moments Transport Minister Budi Karya Sumadi said on Saturday that the jet appeared to deviate from its intended course just before it disappeared from radar. “The aircraft’s final moments are... very concerning as the speed that (it) was flying at that altitude was much lower than expected,” said Stephen Wright, professor of aircraft systems at Finland’s Tampere University. “The last seconds saw the aircraft rapidly descend from 10,000 feet to the sea in a matter of 20 seconds, which implies a catastrophic event or something deliberate.” But Mr. Wright added that the crash can “only be fully explained once the black boxes and wreckage can be properly analysed”. Sriwijaya Air, which operates flights to destinations in Indonesia and Southeast Asia, has said little so far about the 26-year-old plane, which was previously flown by U.S.-based Continental Airlines and United Airlines. The Indonesian carrier has not recorded a fatal crash since it started operations in 2003, but this accident is the latest in a string of disasters for the country’s aviation sector. Indonesia’s aviation sector has long been marred by safety concerns, and its airlines were once banned from entering U.S. and European airspace. Safety concerns In October 2018, 189 people were killed when a Lion Air Boeing 737 MAX jet crashed near Jakarta. That accident — and another in Ethiopia — saw Boeing hit with $2.5 billion in fines over claims it defrauded regulators overseeing the 737 MAX model, grounded worldwide following the accidents. The 737 that went down on Saturday was not a MAX variant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/indonesia-locates-black-boxes-of-plane/article33546257.ece
11 January 2021||COLOMBO,||Ready to don former role: Gotabaya||Calling on an increasingly vocal political Opposition to engage in “civilised politics without misleading the public”, Sri Lankan President Gotabaya Rajapaksa said he was ready to don his former role as war-time Defence Secretary, a period that critics associate with repression and reprisals. According to a statement from the President’s office, Mr. Rajapaksa speaking in the eastern Ampara district on Saturday, said: “People and Maha Sangha [Buddhist clergy] expect from me the role played by me as the Defence Secretary before I assumed Presidency. LTTE terrorists carried out a suicide bomb attack… targeting me. People are aware of the fate of the terrorist leader who led this attack,” he said, referring to Velupillai Prabhakaran, who was killed by the Sri Lankan armed forces in 2009. Stating that he was ready to play “either role”, President Rajapaksa said he would not “entertain lumpen politics”. His remarks come amid growing criticism from the country’s political opposition, over his government’s policies, especially its management of COVID-19. The main Opposition party, the Samagi Jana Balawegaya (SJB or United People’s Front), has termed the President’s remarks “a threat” to its parliamentarian Harin Fernando, who recently made a scathing attack on the government in Parliament, blaming the President. Leader of Opposition Sajith Premadasa has said: “I will not let a strand of hair on Harin Fernando be harmed. From this day onwards, the President and the government should be responsible for his safety.” Parliamentarian Mr. Fernando on Sunday sought police protection for his life, following President Rajapaksa’s remarks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/ready-to-don-former-role-gotabaya/article33546259.ece
11 January 2021||kabul,||Bomb claims three in Kabul||An Afghan journalist-turned spokesman for the country’s public protection force was killed along with two colleagues on Sunday by a bomb targeting their vehicle, officials said. The murder of Zia Wadan, who previously worked for several media networks, appeared to be the latest in a series of targeted killings that have rocked Afghanistan, especially Kabul. Wadan and his colleagues were killed in morning rush-hour traffic in an eastern part of the capital, Interior Ministry spokesman Tariq Arian told reporters. “A vehicle carrying Zia Wadan was targeted with an IED... As a result, Wadan and two of his colleagues were killed,” Mr. Arian said, adding that another person was wounded. No group has claimed responsibility for the attack, but President Ashraf Ghani blamed it on the Taliban. “The spike in violence by the Taliban is against (the) spirit of commitment for peace and indicates the group still pursues their hawkish attitude to take innocent lives and damage public facilities,” the presidential palace said on Twitter, quoting Ghani. Wadan was spokesman for the National Public Protection Force, a security service under the Interior Ministry that deploys guards to international organisations across Afghanistan. High-profile figures including journalists, politicians and activists have increasingly been targeted despite peace talks between the government and Taliban.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/bomb-claims-three-in-kabul/article33546253.ece
11 January 2021||Salwa,||Qataris head to Saudi Arabia after reopening of border||Qataris celebrated crossing their border with Saudi Arabia on Sunday, calling the Kingdom “our second country”, as Doha readied its strict coronavirus measures for Saudis to enter following a Gulf diplomatic thaw. Drivers arrived at the Salwa border crossing in Saudi Arabia, 500 km east of the capital Riyadh, from the Qatari land crossing at Abu Samrah for the second day following its re-opening, AFP correspondents reported. Saudi Arabia shut its side of Qatar’s only land border in June 2017 as part of a package of sanctions it said was a response to Doha’s backing of radical Islamist groups and closeness to Iran. Qatar always denied the charges. Saudi Arabia, along with the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain and Egypt, all of which had also imposed embargoes on travel and trade, agreed to lift the restrictions at a Gulf Cooperation Council summit in the kingdom on Tuesday. ‘Our second country’ “Coming from Qatar is like coming to our second country, where there’s no difference between them and us in their traditions,” said Mohammed al-Marri, a Qatari who had travelled into Saudi Arabia. Since the re-opening of the border, 167 Qatari cars had entered Saudi Arabia, while 35 Qatari vehicles had crossed back into Qatar, said Ali Lablabi, general manager of Salwa’s customs department. “This happiness — no one can describe it,” said Ghaith al-Marri, a Qatari. “There are people who started crying” when the border re-opened”. Qatar Airways and Saudi Airlines said on Saturday on Twitter that they would begin resuming flights between their countries from Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/qataris-head-to-saudi-arabia-after-reopening-of-border/article33546255.ece
11 January 2021||WASHINGTON,||U.S. removes restrictions on diplomatic contact with Taiwan||Secretary of State Mike Pompeo announced on Saturday that the State Department is voiding longstanding restrictions on how U.S. diplomats and others have contact with their counterparts in Taiwan, another move that is expected to upset China as the Trump administration winds to an end. The Trump administration has sought to strengthen bilateral relations with Taiwan. It announced on Thursday that UN Ambassador Kelly Craft would go to Taiwan, a move that sparked sharp criticism from Beijing and a warning that the U.S. would pay a heavy price. In August, Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar became the first Cabinet member to visit Taiwan since 2014. Mr. Pompeo said that the State Department has created complex restrictions when it comes to contacts between the two parties. He said those actions were taken to appease the Communist regime in Beijing. “No more,” Mr. Pompeo declared in a statement. “Today I am announcing that I am lifting all of these self-imposed restrictions.” Mr. Pompeo said the U.S. maintains relationships with unofficial partners around the world, and Taiwan is no exception. “Our two democracies share common values of individual freedom, the rule of law, and a respect for human dignity,” Pompeo said. “Today’s statement recognizes that the U.S.-Taiwan relationship need not, and should not, be shackled by self-imposed restrictions of our permanent bureaucracy.” Taiwan Foreign Minister Joseph Wu welcomed the move. “I’m grateful to @SecPompeo & @StateDept for lifting restrictions unnecessarily limiting our engagements these past years,” Wu said in a retweet of a Pompeo tweet about the announcement. China hits back at U.S. China’s state media lashed out at Mr. Pompeo , accusing the Secretary of State of “seeking to maliciously inflict a long-lasting scar on China-U.S. ties.” The Chinese government maintains that mainland China and Taiwan are parts of “one China.” China has been stepping up its threats to bring the self-governing island under its control by military force with frequent war games and aerial patrols. It has been using its diplomatic clout to stop Taiwan from joining any organisations that require statehood for membership.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-removes-restrictions-on-diplomatic-contact-with-taiwan/article33546261.ece
11 January 2021||Islamabad,||Pakistan hit by nationwide power outage||Power was gradually being restored to major cities across Pakistan on Sunday after it was hit by a massive electricity blackout, officials said. The electricity distribution system in the nation of more than 210 million people is a complex and delicate web, and a problem in one section of the grid can lead to cascading breakdowns countrywide. The latest blackout was caused by “an engineering fault” in southern Pakistan at 11:41 p.m. local time on Saturday (1841 GMT), which tripped the system and caused power plants to shut down, Power Minister Omar Ayub Khan said. “Our experts are trying to determine the exact location of the fault.” Mr. Khan said that will take “another few hours as the area is still covered in dense fog”, but that power had been partially restored in most areas of Punjab, the most populous province, as well as the economic hub Karachi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pakistan-hit-by-nationwide-power-outage/article33546264.ece
11 January 2021||London,||Prince Harry and Meghan Markle quit social media: report||Prince Harry and Meghan Markle have quit social media after growing disillusioned by the “hate” they have found on sites like Facebook and Twitter, a U.K. newspaper reported on Sunday. The couple were rejecting social media in both a personal and professional capacity as part of their new “progressive role” in the U.S., a source close to the couple told the Sunday Times .AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/prince-harry-and-meghan-markle-quit-social-media-report/article33546263.ece
11 January 2021||January 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Central Vista, executive’s caprice, and rule of law||There is a pattern that emerges out of the contemporary Supreme Court of India’s most notable judgments. These rulings invariably begin with an homage to the ideas of the rule of law. But the opening tributes are left by the wayside when it comes time for the Court to apply those ideas to the case at hand. The invariable upshot: the executive government’s caprice trumps due process, and the rule of law survives only in name. The judgment delivered on January 5 in Rajeev Suri v. Delhi Development Authority , in which a 2:1 majority of the Court granted its imprimatur to the proposed redevelopment of the Central Vista in the national capital, fits the trend. Right to public participation The majority’s ruling begins in now-customary fashion. It holds that in a republic governed by the rule of law, the government’s actions, “howsoever laudable” they might be, must stand the test of the Constitution. But when you read on from there, a shudder of déjà vu soon sets in. The early paeans to the “high principles of democratic values” are enfeebled by the Court’s refusal to acknowledge the existence of a right to public participation, a right, which ought to be seen as fundamental in a democracy, properly understood. What is more, a repudiation of basic environmental norms is condoned, because, according to the Court, “the principle of sustainable development and precautionary principle need to be understood in a proper context”, one in which “competing public interests” must be harmonised and balanced. As we know only too well, every time the Court uses the language of harmony and balance, development eclipses every other concern. A state-people link Delhi’s Central Vista, originally conceived by Edwin Lutyens, stretches from India Gate to Rashtrapati Bhavan. Littered with sprawling parks and lawns, it houses not only an ensemble of landmark government buildings — from Parliament House to the Secretariats on the North and South Block — but also a number of other important public structures: among others, the National Archives of India, the National Museum and the National War Memorial. Its open spaces and the easy physical access that it affords to seats of power also mean that it has served in many ways as a link between the state and its people. In 2009, the Central Vista was considered important enough to be designated, after extensive public consultation, as a Grade-I heritage precinct. This meant that any development inside the area had to be “regulated and controlled” in a manner that would leave its grandeur unscathed. But the proposal today, which portends enormous costs, is not any simple act of development within the boundaries of the area. Instead, it seeks to remake the space. A new Parliament house will be erected next to the existing heritage building — it has been suggested, the central hall, where Nehru made his “Tryst with Destiny” speech, where the Constitution was adopted, would be converted into a “museum of democracy”. A new secretariat and a new residence for the Prime Minister will be built, and a number of post-Independence buildings, including the National Museum, will be taken down. Petitions and claims Petitions originally filed in the Delhi High Court, and transferred later to the Supreme Court, alleged that the government had failed to follow due process in approving the project. Two claims stand out: first, that the state had sanctioned an alteration to the existing land use permitted under law without sufficient public consultation; second, that the environmental clearance for the project is unreasoned, and was, in any event, obtained by illegitimately carving the project into two. In his judgment for the majority, Justice A.M. Khanwilkar, writing on behalf of himself and Justice Dinesh Maheshwari, holds that the project required no special judicial scrutiny. According to the Court, the petitioners’ case was not predicated on the violation of any fundamental right, but only on the rigours prescribed by statute, in this case, the Delhi Development Act, 1957. That law, though, as Justice Sanjiv Khanna’s dissenting opinion notes, does, in fact, mandate, among other things, the granting of an opportunity to the public to place on record its objections, and for those objections to be considered by hearing the objectors. Here, although objections were invited from the public, a mere three-days’ notice was given for the hearing on those complaints. The majority rules that the law does not make personal hearings mandatory, and, therefore, it was irrelevant whether sufficient time was granted or not. There are, at least, two problems with this finding: one, the Court has consistently held in the past that arbitrary state action violates fundamental rights, in particular the equality clause of Article 14. This would mean that in a project such as this, where a transformational change is brought about to the Master Plan framed under the 1957 Act, the public ought to have been accorded a sufficient chance to place on record all its objections, and a sufficient chance to be heard personally on those complaints. Two, any civic participation can be productive only if complete information is placed in the public domain. In this case, the Board of Enquiry and Hearing (BoEH) which was appointed to consider the objections raised on the change in the land use, recognised the merit in the objectors’ plea that the full details of the project were not made available. “Among the respondents, majority of whom are Planners/Architects, there appears to be a feeling that authentic technical information on this iconic project of Central Vista is not available in public domain, which is leading to avoidable misgivings....,” its report noted. Moreover, it also recommended that “impact assessment studies on traffic, environment and heritage” ought to be commissioned at the earliest. But despite these findings the Delhi Development Authority sanctioned the proposal. Need for adequate disclosures According to the majority, it was sufficient that the authority had the power to do so. The absence of a reasoned order overriding the BoEH’s specific concerns was found to be of no value. As a result, the Court had effectively determined that the Constitution guarantees no independent right to public participation. But, as the dissenting judgment shows us, the most basic principles of procedural fairness — doctrines that flow from an array of constitutional promises — require the state to make adequate and intelligible disclosures. This is especially so in this case, because, as Justice Khanna identifies, the project, when executed, will have permanent and irreversible consequences. Environmental scrutiny The nature of the project ought to have also led to a more careful scrutiny on the environmental clearance granted to it by the Expert Appraisal Committee. Clearance had been sought not for the redevelopment of the Central Vista but only for the construction of a new Parliament building. This meant that the application was considered simply as a “Building and Construction Project” rather than as a “Township and Area Development Project”, which would have enhanced the level of inspection. Again, as the dissent observes, the Expert Appraisal Committee’s order granting sanction does not so much as render a finding on why the project was sliced into two. These concerns over procedure, and over the denial of adequate public participation, might not strike us intuitively as matters of grave importance. But if the rule of law must mean something, we must regard the basic goals of our constitutional tradition with respect. That tradition, more than anything else, requires decisions made by the state to be just, fair and reasonable, both in its substance, and, however tedious it might be, in its adherence to procedure. Suhrith Parthasarathy is an advocate practising at the Madras High Court||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/central-vista-executives-caprice-and-rule-of-law/article33546241.ece
11 January 2021||January 11 2021 00:00 IST,||A tale of two speeches at AMU||Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the centenary celebrations of Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) on December 22, 2020, via video conferencing. AMU, given it’s chequered history, and being the site of a high density of modern, educated Muslims, has immense symbolic value for the Muslims of north India as well as for the rest of the country, for the narratives permeating the political atmosphere have emanated from the north. Mr. Modi’s address came as a surprise to many as his ideological vantage doesn’t countenance AMU’s historical significance and its symbolism. Therefore, this move must have been taken to signal the ruling dispensation’s desire for a recalibration of the relationship with the Muslim minority. Over the last five decades or so, no Prime Minister visited the AMU’s campus though it is a fully funded government institution, a Central university, situated not far from the national capital. The last Prime Minister to visit AMU was Lal Bahadur Shastri in 1964. Before him, Jawaharlal Nehru gave the convocation address on January 24, 1948. Nehru’s speech Aware of the university’s symbolic value, Nehru used AMU as a platform to address Indian Muslims. Nehru had been among the very few to sympathetically look at founder Sir Syed Ahmed Khan’s strategic antipathy towards the Congress and the national movement. Sir Syed feared that his qaum (community) was not ready for the political plunge which could invite British wrath and sabotage his mission of spreading modern education among Muslims. Nehru opened his speech bemoaning how he had not been not allowed in AMU for many years. The plaint had added poignancy as someone else had been visiting the campus in the years when he couldn’t: Muhammad Ali Jinnah. Despite the “convulsions and heartbreaks” of Partition, Nehru wanted to ascertain afresh “where we stand and what we stand for”. He had come for a frank conversation with a people who, in his view, needed to revise their understanding of India and redefine their cultural moorings and political orientation. In his earnestness to leave behind the “doubts and disillusionment” of the recent past, and in his hope that “ if we are wise and strong enough to think and act rightly even now, we might succeed in erasing that mark,” he wanted to meet everyone and “probe somewhat into your minds, and to let you have a glimpse of my own mind.” It was an imperative for Nehru to “build up a free India of high ideals and noble endeavour where there is equality of opportunity for all.” However, he was clear in his mind that equality, or any other right for that matter, flowed from the acceptance of duties and obligations. He situated the dyad of rights and duties in the context of belonging and ownership of the country’s history and culture. Therefore, he raised the question which was at the root of the recently experienced “catastrophe and disaster”. Having stated that “I am proud of our inheritance and our ancestors who gave an intellectual and cultural pre-eminence to India,” he posed a soul-searching query: “How do you feel about this past? Do you feel that you are also sharers in it and inheritors of it and, therefore, proud of something that belongs to you as as much as to me? Or do you feel alien to it and pass it by without understanding it or feeling that strange thrill which comes from the realisation that we are the trustees and inheritors of this vast treasure?” His emphasis on a shared past was for the sake of a common future. He considered that politics dangerous which attempts to “change the spirit of India” and “reverse the historic process through which we had been passing for long ages past”. Therefore, in the spirit of compassionate candour, he talked to his Muslim audience about the country which they had helped bring into existence and deeply cared for. Although he considered Pakistan to have come into being “rather unnaturally”, he reassured them that India didn’t want to undo Pakistan, wished it well, and wanted good neighbourly relations with it. Nehru wore his heart on his sleeve and spoke in a cathartic manner. He neither harangued his audience nor displayed the presumption to think on their behalf. Instead, he urged them to work all this out in their own heads. He concluded with the words, “Do not think that you are outsiders here, for you are as much flesh and blood of India as anyone else, and you have every right to share in what India has to offer. But those who seek rights must share in the obligations also... I invite you as free citizens of free India to play your role in the building up of this great country and to be sharers, in common with others, in the triumphs and setbacks alike that may come our way.” Modi’s speech Mr. Modi’s speech gave the impression that time has come a full circle. He discounted all of Nehru’s apprehensions and vindicated his optimism. Nehru had asked: “Do we believe in a national State which includes people of all religions and shades of opinions and is essentially a secular State?” Mr. Modi’s speech provided an affirmative answer to this question based on the presumption that his audience agreed with him and that they clearly understood what he wanted to convey. At first, Mr. Modi’s address seemed like a routine speech made to just any university. It was free from the urgency and predicament of an extraordinary situation which many perceive to foretell a fundamental shift in the contours of our polity. But his polite platitudes before a sceptical audience may have a profound impact, for such utterances signify a reaffirmation of shared normative principles. Nehru had flagged some basic ideological and political issues. Mr. Modi treated them as settled and, therefore, no longer relevant. Mr. Modi’s speech was an improvement on, and a departure from, Nehruvian concerns. Unlike Nehru, he credited AMU for playing a sterling role in the freedom struggle — sometimes rewriting of history and amnesia can be socially therapeutic too. There was a shift from Nehruvian candour to courteous commendation . The statements that “ jo desh ka hai wo har deshwasi ka hai (that which is the country’s belongs to every citizen)”, and that “no one should be left behind because of his religion” were made to reassure the audience that no one needed to worry about their constitutional rights. Coming as they did after the protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and the National Register of Citizens, they renewed Nehru’s assurance that “you are as much flesh and blood of India as anyone else...” Mr. Modi might have said, “ Society mein siyasat ke ilawa bhi doosre masle hain (society has many other concerns beside politics)”, to invoke rising above politics in matters of national importance. Muslims would do themselves a favour by focusing on social upliftment rather than the politics of identity which is divisive in spirit. For this they need to define their relationship with the country in cultural, not political, terms. All the right words that needed to be spoken have been spoken. Their loyal translation into action would depend on absolute congruence between the intent of the message and actual decoding of the same by the intended audience. Najmul Hoda is an IPS officer. Views are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-tale-of-two-speeches-at-amu/article33546250.ece
11 January 2021||January 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Planning an exit out of the easy money regime||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) embarked on an extraordinary expansionary policy to manage the financial pressures unleashed by COVID-19. It slashed policy interest rates aggressively, flooded the market with an unprecedented amount of liquidity and instituted a slew of measures for targeted assistance to especially distressed sectors. Must be a deliberative process As we sight springshoots in the economy, the RBI must be planning for a non-disruptive exit out of the easy money regime. Crisis management is a percentage game. When the house is on fire, central banks do what they think has the best chance of dousing the flames, shedding their characteristic deliberation. In contrast, reversing a crisis-driven expansionary policy has to be a deliberative process, with the timing and sequencing carefully planned. Indeed, one of the big lessons of the global financial crisis is that any missteps on the exit path by way of commission, omission, or importantly communication, can be costly in macroeconomic terms. So what are the challenges that the RBI will confront on the way out? By far the biggest challenge will be to manage the tension between restraining inflation and supporting the recovery. This is a policy dilemma even when the macroeconomic situation is benign; the pandemic, shrouded in unusual uncertainty, has made the dilemma much sharper. Consider the most recent Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) review in early December. Inflation remained above the RBI’s target band for the past several months, and according to the RBI’s own estimates, is expected to remain above the band for the next several months. Yet, the MPC decided against any rate action out of concerns for growth and financial stability. The MPC expects inflation to soften on its own in the weeks ahead as supply chains, disrupted by the lockdown, normalise, and the bumper winter crop comes into the market. Inflation and revival That outcome is not inevitable. Inflation could be pressured upwards by several factors even though there could be some apparent softening purely because of base effects. There is the risk that persistent high inflation expectations would result in food inflation getting more generalised. Core inflation could firm up because of rising input prices. ‘Excessive margins’, among the factors cited by the MPC as one of the causes of high inflation, may not disappear if firms, regaining pricing power amid demand recovery, raise prices to mend their balance sheets. Equally, there are concerns that the recovery, for all the positive signals, is still fragile. It has also been uneven and unequal, with large industries finding their foothold while small and medium enterprises and the entire informal sector continue to be in distress. And there is heightened concern about an aggravated unemployment problem caused by big firms retrenching labour to cut costs. Plight of savers Quite apart from the upside risks to inflation and downside risks to growth, the RBI should also be concerned about the plight of savers who are being shortchanged by low interest rates at a time of high inflation. All these concerns taken together make a complex cocktail of dilemmas for the RBI as it seeks to normalise the policy rates. A second and related challenge will be to withdraw the ‘excess’ liquidity in good time. Banks are routinely depositing trillions of rupees with the RBI every day, evidencing that all the money that the central bank unleashed into the system is not doing much good anymore. For sure, there was a clear purpose behind the RBI joining the global central bank bandwagon of ‘dash for cash’ — to inspire confidence in the economy when confidence was at very low ebb. Hopefully, we are out of that abyss now and it is time to think of an exit. Every financial crisis can be traced back to mispricing of risk, and mispricing of risk is what results when there is too much liquidity sloshing around the system for too long. It will drive investors into dodgy ventures and threaten financial stability. Market reactions As the RBI seeks to guard financial stability by normalising liquidity, it will have to contend with possible market tantrums. Remember the ‘taper tantrums’ that reverberated across global markets when Ben Bernanke, then chairman of the U.S. Federal Reserve, announced in a routine statement in May 2013 that they were considering gradually tapering ‘quantitative easing’. Any news like that, implying that the American economy, the epicentre of the global financial crisis, was showing signs of a robust recovery, should have been cheered by the financial markets; instead, the panic sell-off showed that investors, used to the ease of abundant liquidity, were unprepared for the ‘punchbowl’ being snatched away. The lesson from the taper tantrums clearly is that the RBI will have to manage its communication as carefully as it does the liquidity withdrawal. That allows me a segue into the third big challenge for the RBI going forward which will be to restrain the rupee from appreciating out of line with fundamentals. Here, the RBI is confronted with a classic case of ‘the impossible trinity’ — of keeping doors open for capital flows while simultaneously maintaining a stable exchange rate and restraining inflation. Maintaining a policy balance across all three conflicting objectives can be tricky. As a former Governor, I can vouch for it. Financial stability The current account surplus this year together with massive capital flows has meant a surfeit of dollars in the system putting upward pressure on the rupee which is already overvalued in real terms. The RBI has absorbed nearly $90 billion this fiscal year to prevent exchange rate appreciation and to maintain the competitiveness of the rupee. The RBI’s ability to continue to intervene in the forex market will be constrained by its anxiety about how the resultant liquidity might aggravate inflation and the risk to financial stability. Managing the impossible trinity will be a tricky challenge for RBI going forward. It is better to be rough right, as Keynes said, than be precisely wrong. That should be the guiding principle for RBI as it navigates its way out of the crisis driven easy money policy. Duvvuri Subbarao is a former Governor of the Reserve Bank of India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/planning-an-exit-out-of-the-easy-money-regime/article33546243.ece
11 January 2021||January 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Due process is not partisan politics||There are issues for which there is space for debate and there are issues on which we need to build an informed consensus. Vaccines is one area where the need for consensus is high as vaccine hesitancy is a culture that has been perpetuated by a few influential sections of our society. Vital facts In this context, on January 5, The Hindu carried two op-ed articles on the challenges in approving COVID-19 vaccines. The Science Editor, R. Prasad, in his article “Hasty approval, no transparency”, pointed out how India had squandered an opportunity to build trust in vaccines by rushing to vaccinate the population. Anup Agarwal, a physician from New Mexico, in his article “Care is the standard of a vaccine trial”, spoke about the importance of due process in clinical trials and emphasised how we cannot have vaccines at the cost of the safety of study participants. The editorial, “A hurried gamble” (Jan. 4), argued that lack of transparency in communication is not only undesirable but also dangerous. These opinion pieces are backed by exhaustive reports on vaccine research for COVID-19, India’s roll-out plans and the approval process. However, some readers saw these critical articles through a partisan lens or nationalistic lens. Public health and interventions to ensure larger public good should not be read through a reductionist lens. Partisan political debates on vaccines will harm vulnerable sections of our society, including front-line health workers. It is true that there are many sides to various sociopolitical developments, and journalism must strive to document and bring home all the diverse viewpoints on such issues. But there are certain issues on which there cannot be alternative opinions. It is important that journalism does not tie itself in knots in matters where it fails to make a crucial distinction between false balance and truth. We can trace the current crisis facing many of our democratic institutions to a decade-long normalisation of illogical and harmful tendencies in the name of balance. Media scholars have systematically documented the perils of this false equivalence. V. Kurup, a reader, wrote: “There is a compelling reason for squeezing the approval process as we cannot afford to have a second lockdown like Europe. Evaluation of any vaccine will take years if we want to satisfy the arguments of these experts. We have entrusted the task to an expert group and they are giving their approval after weighing the pros and cons of fast-tracking the evaluation process and the experience of other nations. It is not fair to cast aspersions on their decisions. Mr. Prasad’s statement that India has ‘squandered an opportunity to build trust in vaccines’ is not logical.” Questions in public interest The key question is not about quick roll-out of vaccines but finding an effective vaccine with proven efficacy to contain the pandemic. Everyone agrees that we cannot afford a second lockdown. There are many disturbing questions about the roll-out plan announced by the Government of India. The regulatory authority for medical products, the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO), on January 2, gave “restricted emergency approval” to two vaccines — Covishield, manufactured by Serum Institute of India with technology transfer from Oxford University-AstraZeneca, and Covaxin, developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research and the National Institute of Virology. Covishield has been approved without waiting for the results of the ongoing Phase-III trials that are taking place in India. Many health experts feel that the approval for this vaccine, based on the Phase-III trials in the U.K. and Brazil, without establishing bioequivalence in India, may be permitted for emergency use. But they are worried about the short-circuiting of the process for Covaxin. Experts point out that the CDSCO’s statement clearly indicates that approval was granted based on Phase-I and Phase-II data on safety and immune response, but without any efficacy data from Phase-III trials. Newspapers, which are mandated to articulate public good, should raise questions about due process and due diligence when it comes to providing vaccines to control a pandemic that has taken a massive toll on lives and livelihoods everywhere. Not doing so would amount to dereliction of duty. readerseditor@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/due-process-is-not-partisan-politics/article33546247.ece
11 January 2021||January 11 2021 00:00 IST,||The front seat in electric mobility||The progression to electric vehicles is important for India because such vehicles are sustainable and profitable in the long term. Reducing dependence on crude oil will save the government money, reduce carbon emissions, and build domestic energy independence. Besides being an economically and environmentally viable option, India’s transition to electric vehicles will allow us to fine-tune our infrastructure. This will also influence India’s foreign policy as our energy security dependence will shift from West Asia to Latin America. India imported 228.6 MT of crude oil worth $120 billion in 2018–19, which made it the third-largest oil importer in the world in terms of value. Shift to electric vehicles In order to reduce dependence on crude, the government has drafted policies that may act as catalysts in propelling the acceptance of electric vehicles. Under the ‘Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Hybrid and Electric Vehicles’ and its updated (Fame 2) version, the government has allocated $1.3 billion in incentives for electric buses, three-wheelers and four-wheelers to be used for commercial purposes till 2022, and earmarked another $135 million for charging stations. Besides these incentives, a proposal for a $4.6 billion subsidy for battery makers has also been proposed by the NITI Aayog. These policies are embedded with the vision to have 30% electric vehicles plying the roads by 2030. In September 2019, Japanese automobile major Suzuki Motor formed a consortium with Japanese automotive component manufacturer Denso and multinational conglomerate Toshiba to set up a manufacturing unit in Gujarat to venture into the production of lithium-ion batteries and electrodes. Developing domestic battery manufacturing capacity may fundamentally change India’s relationship with resource-rich Latin America as the government plans to buy overseas lithium reserves. Latin America’s famous lithium triangle that encompasses lithium deposits under the salt flats of northwest Argentina, northern Chile, and southwest Bolivia holds about 80% of the explored lithium of the world. In Latin America, most of the production comes from Argentina, Chile, and Bolivia.  Scouting for mineral assets In 2019, India’s National Aluminum Company (NALCO), Hindustan Copper Limited (HCL) and Mineral Exploration Corporation Ltd (MECL) formally signed a joint venture agreement to form Khanij Bidesh India Limited (KABIL) to scout for strategic mineral assets like lithium and cobalt abroad for commercial use and for supplying to meet the domestic requirement for battery manufacturers. At present, India’s lithium-ion battery demand is fulfilled by imports from China, Vietnam, and Hong Kong. In the last two years, India has had a growing appetite for lithium-ion batteries, and so, lithium imports have tripled from $384 mn to $1.2 bn. Notably, the government has intercepted this growing demand from its incipience. With its policy intervention to support battery manufacturers by supplying lithium and cobalt, this industry is more likely to grow domestically to support India’s goal to switch to electric mobility. Interestingly, lithium is also used as a drug to treat bipolar disorder and is soon becoming the metal to treat a world polluted by excessive carbon emissions. Currently, India’s biggest trading partners in Latin America are Brazil, Mexico, and Venezuela, and majority of trade is concentrated on crude oil which includes 14%-20% of India’s total crude oil imports. However, this may soon shift to lithium and cobalt. The Indian government’s initiation to take the front seat in electric mobility and preemptive action to send a high-level delegation to have a precise understanding of the availability of lithium and possibilities of joint ventures will supply domestic markets and drive international markets. Most importantly, this will be a long-term solution to clean our cities, build new markets, and skill people for new jobs towards an ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’. Syed Ali is an independent analyst on India-Latin America affairs. Twitter: @Alinyst||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-front-seat-in-electric-mobility/article33546251.ece
11 January 2021||January 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Felled by fire||The deadly fire that snuffed out the lives of 10 infants in the Bhandara District General Hospital in Maharashtra is a shocking reminder that safety norms in several medical facilities in India do not pass muster. The parents of the babies who perished in the sick new-born unit have been plunged into a lifetime of trauma. Some of the victims, a few just days old, had been brought to the hospital for better care from smaller health facilities; seven had a providential escape. There are reports of poorly trained staff failing to respond adequately. The terrible blaze joins the long list of such accidents recorded in government and private hospitals, underscoring a painful reality: safety protocols are yet to be institutionalised even in places where people legitimately expect a high degree of professionalism. Last year, there were devastating fires in COVID-19 facilities in Vijayawada and Ahmedabad, with several casualties, blamed on poor oversight by fire authorities or faulty electrical repairs. The Maharashtra government has ordered a probe into the Bhandara fire to be concluded in three days, and a fire audit of hospitals, but a perfunctory inquiry cannot effectively address the underlying causes. Hospital fires are a distinct entity, and research indicates that there are specific factors that trigger them off and aggravate their impact. Intensive Care Units, neonatal ICUs and operating rooms are often the site of fires, implicating the presence of a high concentration of oxygen in a confined space. A review of Indian hospital fires published in the Journal of Clinical Anesthesia identified higher oxygen availability in intensive care facilities as the likely primary cause, with motors and electrical units in the room providing the ignition, and plastics fuelling it. It is worth considering, therefore, whether hospitals have been audited with such factors in mind, and to evaluate national building safety codes against international practice. Oxygen monitors for hospital rooms, to ensure that the ambient level is within safe norms — set at a maximum of 23.5% by the U.S. National Fire Protection Association — could help avert an accident. Locating electrical equipment for air-conditioners with sparking potential away from oxygen saturated areas may also reduce the risk. As the health sector expands, it is essential that all new infrastructure conforms to rigorous safety standards, a small premium to stop disasters such as the Bhandara carnage. If the government sets the bar high enough, ensuring full adherence to safety in its buildings, regulatory authorities can compel commercial structures to fall in line. The Centre should also create a public platform for insights gained from inquiries into hospital fires to be shared. Hospitals should mandatorily hold regular safety and evacuation drills which are key to saving lives when disaster strikes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/felled-by-fire/article33546236.ece
11 January 2021||January 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Gearing up||India now has a firm date to roll out the biggest vaccination programme in its history. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said that from January 16, after the Makar Sankranti and Pongal festivities, doctors, nurses and sanitation workers, who are part of the priority group, would begin getting the vaccine. India has approved two vaccines in emergency-use mode — Covishield by the Serum Institute of India, Pune, and Covaxin by Bharat Biotech Ltd. While it still is unclear who gets which vaccine, there are more doses of Covishield available at present than Covaxin, almost five to one, and it could take a few months before the 30 million prioritised get one of their doses. Others, those in the 50-plus age group and those with comorbidities, will have to wait much longer, especially in a situation where vaccines such as those by Pfizer and Moderna are not made available for import by the private sector. However, the vaccination begins under a cloud. Covaxin belongs to a league of vaccines that has been approved without establishing its efficacy, namely, the extent to which vaccination protects from COVID-19. There have been differences among scientists such as on the best testing strategy, treatment, extent of infection, but none more divisive than on the approval of Covaxin. Several experts have made the case that the declining rate of infections and low relative mortality meant that India was not in as dire a state of emergency that required it to approve an untested vaccine when more clarity would likely have come by March. Covaxin is best kept as a backup in the event of a sudden surge of cases till its efficacy data are available and acceptable. Also, reports have emerged of trials in Bhopal where volunteers were seemingly under the impression that they were getting a protective shot when some were likely getting a placebo. They also complain of no medical follow-up when some developed symptoms such as fever, body pain and loss of appetite. The vaccine may eventually prove protective and the adverse symptoms reported, seen as part of the variety of the human body’s response — there are 28,500 volunteers after all. However, a vaccine that evokes distrust is self-defeating. With childhood immunisation, India has proven that it has the infrastructural backbone to inoculate millions. The dry runs to test the Co-WIN management software have reportedly given authorities valuable feedback on perfecting the prospective rollout. However, this could be undone if people do not turn up, and worse, if vaccine hesitancy rises. The pandemic gave India an opportunity to examine its dispensation of health care. Along with improving access, the government must seriously examine the conduct of vaccine trials and work hard to bolster public trust in it, and monitor the vaccination process for adverse reactions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/gearing-up/article33546237.ece
11 January 2021||January 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Jingo fury||From our Special Correspondent in Bristol, January 7: The opposition to Lord Reading’s appointment is practically dead. It emanates from anti-Jewish and military circles which fear Lord Reading with his legal and judicial experience would rule India constitutionally and not with an iron hand as they desire. Major-General Pilcher wrote in yesterday’s “Morning Post” that Lord Reading’s appointment would be disastrous to India. Quoting the “Times” suggestion that Lord Reading would temper justice with extreme clemency and forbearance even under provocation the “Morning Post” emphasised the British went to India as conquerors, remained as Sahibs and cannot abide as servants. That explains in a nutshell the militarist and Imperialist attitude towards Indians. As Lord Reading’s appointment will not displease the city I don’t believe the anti-Jew and militarist opposition will sway the Premier. Some doubt is expressed as to the ability of Lord Reading’s health to bear the Indian climate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/jingo-fury/article33546244.ece
11 January 2021||January 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Indo-UK ties must be on realistic basis||The Prime Ministers of India and the United Kingdom have emphasised the significant expansion of Indo-British co-operation since Independence. Speaking at a lunch given in honour of the British Prime Minister, Mr. Heath, here [New Delhi] to-day [January 10], Mrs. Indira Gandhi said that in some sectors of India’s economy the progress had been considerably helped by Britain’s enlightened and understanding assistance. The lunch, which was held in the gardens of Rashtrapati Bhavan was attended among others by Lord Hailsham, Lord Chancellor of U.K. She said it was a good time for Mr. Heath to visit India. “You will see how your country has influenced many aspects of our national life. You are here on the eve of our fifth general elections, when, apart from other hectic activities, there is the usual forecasting of results in the press, an exercise in which I believe you have little confidence.” Referring to the relations between the two countries, Mrs. Gandhi said, “Our relations with your country are extensive and involved and have been able to survive because they have constantly evolved and adjusted to changed circumstances. As you yourself said yesterday, our relations can be meaningful only so long as they are relevant to the contemporary situation and pass the test of public evaluation.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/indo-uk-ties-must-be-on-realistic-basis/article33546245.ece
11 January 2021||January 11 2021 00:00 IST,||W here there is a WIlL||“What is the right age according to you to make a will?” asked a member of an audience during an investor awareness programme. My standard answer is, “[The] day you opened your first bank account.” While this might be a little exaggerated because if a bank account was opened while an individual was minor, then the need to make a will may not arise. The thought process behind the answer is the moment there is a bank account, wealth creation begins. The moment there is wealth, there will be a need to pass on the wealth to near and dear ones upon death and hence a will should be made.  Stages of passing on wealth  Let us discuss two stages of passing on wealth. The first stage is to ensure that upon death, all forms of assets are in the custody of someone near and dear. This can happen with the help of a nomination. “For the last few months, I have been running from pillar to post. My father had a huge fixed deposit in the bank, but he did not update the nomination information. Initially, it was in the name of my mother but after she passed away, my father did not take any action. The bank is helping me with formalities, but it is taking time” — this was a conversation I overheard between two of my co-passengers on my journey from Mumbai to Ahmedabad. Nomination ensures the nominee gets control of the asset. However, keep in mind that the nominee is only a trustee of that asset and the eventual owner of the asset will be as per the will. If there is no will, then there are different Acts under the law which will prevail. The second stage is to make a will. A will is the document that will ensure who would eventually own the property. It is very easy to make a will. It can be made on a simple piece of paper. There is no need to type it. Even a hand-written one is accepted by the court. In fact, sometimes it carries more weight. It is called a hologram will. There is no need to make a will on a stamp paper. Making a list of assets that are owned and to whom an individual wishes to bequeath each one of those assets, written on a simple piece of paper, is sufficient.  Absence of will  In the absence of a will, there are several Acts of law that will prevail such as the Indian Succession Act, Hindu Law and Muslim Law. However, the process and time taken will be longer. Also, if there are assets that require court orders, then your near and dear ones would end up spending on lawyers and court fees to get control over the assets created by you and bequeathed to them. The easiest way to pass on your assets to your loved ones would be to have both a nomination and a will in place. This will ensure smooth transition of assets. A will is not a death warrant. In fact, dying without making a will would make the life of your near and dear ones difficult. Therefore, do not delay making a will. “Gaurav, today I was going through a will of one of my clients. He belongs to a royal family and has massive real estate and other jewels. His will is so complicated that I felt instead of making such a complicated will, it is better not to have any assets,” one of the financial planners said during a conference. Please do not make your will very complicated. That is a sign that an individual who, even after death, is not willing to pass on control. Let go your insecurities, before you die. There was another interesting incident. A leading doctor had a large amount of wealth. In his will, he had bequeathed a sum of Rs. 2 lakh to a caretaker. I urged him to give the sum to the caretaker right away. “No point waiting till your death.” In many instances, it is prudent to pass on the wealth while we are alive. There was another instance where an individual was insisting on the order of the bequeathal. Once again, the servant of the family was a part beneficiary. The woman wanted the bequeathal to be mentioned right on the top. When I questioned her for the need, she replied, “Let everyone know I have been fair and loving.” I asked her “do you want your executor to share a copy of your will with the whole world?” Please make a will, but keep it simple and straight. Going ahead, instead of discussing what is WPI (wholesale price index) in the economy, think of ‘My WPI – my wealth passing instruments’. Whether WPI moves up or down, our wealth will have to be passed on to the next generation in a smooth manner.  (The writer is a f inancial planner and author of Yogic Wealth)   The easiest way to pass on your assets to your loved ones would be to have both a nomination and a will in place. This will ensure smooth transition of assets||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/w-here-there-is-a-will/article33546229.ece
11 January 2021||January 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Gold regains sheen in Dec.||After losing sheen in November, precious metals regained their lustre in December. Comex gold has wrapped up 2020 in style, with the yellow metal gaining about 24% for the year. This marks the best performance of Comex gold in a decade. The expectation of a fresh stimulus package in the U.S. played a key role in bolstering sentiment for precious metals. The weakness in the U.S. dollar also helped. Comex gold closed 6.4% higher in December at $1,895.1 an ounce. Comex silver gained 17.2% to settle at $26.4 an ounce at the end of December. In the domestic market, MCX gold futures gained 4.7% to close at Rs. 50,151 per 10 gm. MCX silver futures closed 13.1% higher to settle at Rs. 68,051 per kg at the end of December. As observed earlier, Comex gold ruled firm and achieved the target of $1,865-1,870 mentioned last month. The short-term outlook for gold remains positive and a breakout past $1,965 would help Comex gold reach the next target of $2,025-2,040. The positive outlook would be under threat if the price falls below $1,760. With a close below this level, the price could then slide to $1,650-1,670. The gain in Comex silver was more pronounced in December. Silver price hit the earlier mentioned target of $25.6-25.9. The short-term outlook for Comex silver remains positive and a rise to $29.5-30 appears likely. A move above $28.2 would confirm the positive outlook. Below $22, the trend would turn negative and Comex silver could then slide to $19-19.5. Mirroring the global trend, MCX gold too ruled strong in December and sailed past the target of Rs. 49,500-50,900 mentioned earlier. The short-term trend is positive, and the price could rise to Rs. 53,000-53,500. A move past Rs. 51,700 would confirm the positive outlook. A fall below Rs. 47,500 would invalidate the positive outlook. A breach of Rs. 47,500 could push MCX gold to Rs. 45,250-45,000. MCX silver too ruled firm in December and also moved past the then mentioned target of Rs. 66,300-67,000. The short-term outlook is positive and a rise to Rs. 75,000-75,500 appears likely. A move past Rs. 71,700 would strengthen this positive outlook. A fall below Rs. 58,500 would be a sign of weakness and could push MCX silver to lower levels of Rs. 52,000-52,500.  (The writer is a Chennai-based analyst and trader)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/gold-regains-sheen-in-dec/article33546231.ece
11 January 2021||January 11 2021 00:00 IST,||loose change||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/loose-change/article33546235.ece
11 January 2021||KOLKATA,||Assam edges out Hyderabad||Riyan Parag’s all-round performance was the highlight of Assam’s thrilling two-run win over Hyderabad in its Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy contest at the Eden Gardens here on Sunday. Assam, asked to bat first, made 159 before stopping Hyderabad at 157. Parag led Assam’s revival after it made a disastrous start. Kartikeya Kak struck twice early, removing Rishav Das and Abhishek Thakuri. Assam was 40 for three in six overs when Parag (51 not out, 40b, 3x4, 2x6) and Denish Das (14) rotated the strike well to add 36 before the latter departed. Parag, who ran hard and produced some lusty blows, and Saahil Jain (31, 21b, 3x4, 2x6) strung together a 54-run partnership. Saahil freed his arms, taking a toll of C.V. Milind and Ravi Teja, to shift the momentum towards Assam. After Saahil skied a Kartikeya delivery to point in the 17th over, Parag continued the good work in the company of Rajjakuddin Ahmed.  The explosive Rajjakuddin (31 n.o., 15b, 3x4, 2x6) thrashed the Hyderabad pacers, especially Kartikeya who leaked 24 runs in the 19th over, as Assam finished with 159. In reply, Hyderabad found the going tough as Assam applied pressure with some tight bowling. Captain and opener Tanmay Agarwal (15) was dismissed by Amlanjyoti Das while K. Sumanth (17) was run out off a brilliant throw from Amlanjyoti. The other opener, Tilak Varma, was removed by Rahul Singh for 17. B. Sandeep’s reverse-sweep was spectacularly caught by Denish on the boundary, while top-scorer Himalay Agarwal (29, 22b, 2x4, 1x6) fell to Parag. Hyderabad was 99 for five in the 15th over when B. Rahul (21) and Ravi Teja (24) came up with spirited efforts. However, their knocks, along with that of Tanay Thyagarajan (21 not out), went in vain as the Assam bowlers, led by seamer Pritam Das, had the last laugh.  The scores:   Assam 159/5 in 20 overs (Riyan Parag 51 n.o., Rajjakuddin Ahmed 31 n.o., Saahil Jain 31, Kartikeya Kak 3/42) bt Hyderabad 157/8 in 20 overs (Himalay Agarwal 29, Pritam Das 3/30).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/assam-edges-out-hyderabad/article33546639.ece
11 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Delightful debut for Shrijith||K.L. Shrijith made it a debut to remember, starring in Karnataka’s 43-run victory over Jammu & Kashmir (J&K) on the opening day of the Syed Mushtaq Ali Twenty20 Trophy at Alur (1) ground here on Sunday. Shrijith hit three sixes and a four to score a crucial unbeaten 48 off 31 deliveries and take Karnataka to a respectable 150 for five. In reply, J&K stumbled to 107 all out. Useful stand Wicketkeeper-batsman Shrijith rescued Karnataka with a 65-run fifth-wicket stand alongside Aniruddha Joshi (29, 26b, 3x4). Royal Challengers Bangalore (RCB) star Devdutt Padikkal (18, 17b, 3x4) flattered to deceive, while skipper Karun Nair made a 21-ball 27. Karnataka picked left-arm spinner J. Suchith in the XI ahead of leg-spinner Shreyas Gopal. The J&K batting line-up could not get going, leading the visitor to fall well short of the target. Karnataka pacer Prasidh Krishna (3/34) finished as the most successful bowler. He was supported well by A. Mithun, Suchith and K. Gowtham — all of whom finished with two wickets each. Low-scoring affair At Alur (2), Punjab edged out Uttar Pradesh by 11 runs in a low-scoring affair. Suresh Raina, playing his first match since the 2019 IPL, made a steady unbeaten 50-ball 56, but it was not enough to help Uttar Pradesh overhaul a modest 135-run target. Punjab was well served by cousins Prabhsimran Singh (43, 41b, 4x4, 1x6) and Anmolpreet Singh (35, 27b, 2x4, 2x6). Bhuvneshwar shines Uttar Pradesh seamer Bhuvneshwar Kumar, making a comeback from a thigh injury, scalped three wickets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/delightful-debut-for-shrijith/article33546376.ece
11 January 2021||KOZHIKODE,||All eyes will be on Sreesanth||When Kerala takes on Puducherry in the Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 tournament at the Wankhade Stadium in Mumbai on Monday night, the focus would very much be on S. Sreesanth. If he makes the Kerala eleven — indications are that he would — he would be returning to competitive cricket after serving a seven-year ban for alleged spot-fixing in the 2012 IPL. The 37-year-old seamer had looked quite fit and bowled well during the training sessions, according to coach Tinu Yohannan, himself a former India pacer. “He is in good shape,” Tinu told The Hindu over phone from Mumbai. “He bowled well in the practice matches we had during our camp.” Right time Sreesanth’s return has perhaps come at the right time for Kerala, whose bowling has been weakened by the absence of Sandeep Warrier. The swing bowler, who had been spearheading the Kerala attack after making his debut in 2012-13, has moved to Tamil Nadu and took two wickets, including that of Ishan Kishan, for his new team against Jharkhand at Kolkata on Saturday. Tinu, however, believes that Kerala has the resources to overcome the loss of Warrier. “Besides Sreesanth, we have Basil Thampi, K.M. Asif and M.D. Nidheesh,” Tinu said. “I think this would be a particularly good opportunity for Asif, who hadn't got that many matches in the previous seasons. Kerala’s other rivals in Elite Group E are Mumbai, Haryana, Delhi and Andhra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/all-eyes-will-be-on-sreesanth/article33546764.ece
11 January 2021||KOLKATA,||Nishaanth delights in TN’s win||Tamil Nadu rode on C. Hari Nishaanth’s unbeaten 92 to post a crushing 66-run win over Jharkhand in its opening match of the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy T20 tournament at the Eden Gardens on Sunday. Asked to bat, Tamil Nadu scored a formidable 189 for five before restricting Jharkhand to 123 for seven. Southpaw Nishaanth (92 n.o., 63b, 8x4, 3x6), who batted confidently and executed some clean hits, forged a 72-run stand with fellow opener N. Jagadeesan to give Tamil Nadu a strong start against an attack that lacked discipline. Jagadeesan (27, 28b, 2x4, 1x6) gave good support to Nishaanth before being caught brilliantly by Rahul Shukla at long on off Anukul Roy. Nishaanth, let off twice off the bowling of left-arm spinner Anukul, put on 98 with captain Dinesh Karthik (46, 17b, 3x4, 4x6). Karthik, who hammered Monu Kumar for 6, 4, 6, 6 in a row in the 18th over, was run out in the last over bowled by Shukla, who dismissed two other batsmen. Jharkhand struggled in its reply as its batsmen played some poor shots in the PowerPlay overs. Ishan Kishan edged Sandeep Warrier to Karthik, Utkash Singh chipped Sonu Yadav to square-leg and Kumar Deobrat was caught at deep point off Warrier as Jharkhand was reduced to 47 for three in six overs. Vijay Shankar injured Virat Singh (23, 24b, 2x4) tried to consolidate for six overs but could not achieve the desired result due to Tamil Nadu’s well-planned attack despite the retirement of Vijay Shankar owing to a hamstring niggle. Tamil Nadu is hoping that he will play atleast as a batsman from the next match. Anand Singh’s unbeaten 24-ball 28 also was also in vain. Sonu also scalped Virat and Shahbaz Nadeem to finish with three for 31 on debut.  The scores: Tamil Nadu 189/5 in 20 overs (C. Hari Nishaanth 92 n.o., Dinesh Karthik 46) bt Jharkhand 123/7 in 20 overs (Sonu Yadav 3/31).   Odisha 113 in 20 overs (Rajesh Dhuper 37, Ankit Yadav 32, Ishan Porel 4/26) lost to Bengal 114/1 in 12.2 overs (Vivek Singh 54 n.o., Suvankar Bal 34 n.o.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nishaanth-delights-in-tns-win/article33546427.ece
11 January 2021||Sydney,||Dominant Australia leaves India with a mountain to climb||India will go into the final day with a battle on its hands after having lost two wickets by close of play on Sunday in the third Test, marred by allegations of racist abuse from the Sydney crowd. Australia declared its second innings at tea on day four at 312 for six, leaving India needing a mammoth 407 to win. India reached 98 for two at stumps, needing a further 309 runs. Previous best No team has bettered 288 to clinch victory in the fourth innings at the Sydney Cricket Ground, with Australia achieving that mark against South Africa in 2006. India's chase started steadily before losing openers Shubman Gill for 31 and Rohit Sharma for 52. Rohit and Gill lived dangerously against some torrid bowling by Josh Hazlewood and Pat Cummins. But they settled in during a 71-run stand to begin playing their shots, with the graceful Rohit bringing up an 11th Test 50 before being caught at deep backward square-leg hooking a Cummins short ball. Gill again looked at home until he nicked a Hazlewood delivery to Tim Paine behind the stumps. Australia's declaration came after Cameron Green fell on the stroke of tea for an entertaining 84, his maiden Test half-century, with captain Tim Paine unbeaten on 39. Steve Smith made 81 and Marnus Labuschagne 73, with Ashwin and Navdeep Saini grabbing two wickets each. Just before the break there was a near 10-minute interruption of play that saw six fans removed after Mohammed Siraj, fielding on the boundary, complained to the umpire of disturbance from the crowd. Paine fined Meanwhile, Paine was fined 15% of his match fee for breaching Article 2.8 of the ICC Code of Conduct for Players and Player Support Personnel, which relates to “showing dissent at an umpire’s decision during an International Match.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dominant-australia-leaves-india-with-a-mountain-to-climb/article33546326.ece
11 January 2021||Chennai,||Chennai Super Kings needs to make some tough calls||The edition gone by was a forgettable one for Chennai Super Kings. Yet, by the time the competition in the UAE ended, the popular franchise could see a silverlining. The youngsters showed promise; cricketers such as Ruturaj Gaikwad, a top-order batsman with fluency. The 14th edition of the IPL could prove crucial for CSK, a franchise with past conquests that would be seeking to rediscover its feet. First, CSK has to submit to the IPL governing body, the list of players it wants to retain by January 20. The franchise is looking at some tough calls. Looking back, CSK did wonderfully well with a bunch of ageing players in IPL-11 and -12, winning in its comeback year and going down in a pulsating final the next. Dad’s Army “Dad’s Army,” it was affectionately called by many. These cricketers were seen to be bucking the odds. Yet, the issue of advancing years did reveal itself in IPL-13, when CSK surely was not the fittest side in the park. And to complicate matters, CSK’s most prolific batsman, Suresh Raina, left the tournament before it got underway for personal reasons. At first the indications were that the franchise was not happy with Raina’s act. However, now, it has been reliably learnt that the dynamic southpaw has been “forgiven.”  If there was one cricketer whom the franchise sorely missed in the UAE, it was Raina and his influential batting at No. 3. Smaller auction The upcoming auction will be a smaller one with a limited number of players in the pool; the auction next year will be a full-fledged affair with two new franchises coming in. This time the auction will include the players released by the franchises and the new cricketers coming in. CSK, seeking to rebuild, could “off-load” several ageing players, like Imran Tahir, a worthy competitor but not becoming any younger. Shane Watson has already quit all forms of the game. CSK’s picks will also reflect where the IPL will be held, in India or the UAE which has emerged the favourite for logistical reasons. Different conditions demand different players. This much is certain. CSK will wear a much younger look in IPL-14. The final call will rest with M.S. Dhoni.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chennai-super-kings-needs-to-make-some-tough-calls/article33546425.ece
11 January 2021||January 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Ashwin calls for iron-fisted action||Not one for mincing words, India star R. Ashwin decried the unsavoury incidents at the Sydney Cricket Ground as nasty. “This is my fourth tour of Australia and, in Sydney especially, we have had a few experiences even in the past. They have been quite nasty, they have been hurling abuses. But, this is the time they have gone one step ahead and used racial abuse,” he said. When the official complaint had been lodged on Saturday, the umpires insisted on being informed “as soon as it happens” on the field,” Ashwin said. “This must be definitely dealt with an iron fist. And we must make sure that it doesn’t happen again.” He harked back to his first tour in 2011-12, when he had no clue what racial abuse was. “You can be made to feel small in front of so many people. And, people actually laugh at you when you get abused. There is another set of people just enjoying it. I had no idea what this was at all,” he said. Better awareness Now the players are aware and find such incidents absolutely unacceptable, he stated. “Even yesterday when Siraj brought it up, Ajinkya, myself and Rohit got together and went to the umpire and did report it. “Nowadays the boys are better equipped and aware. Even Siraj, who is new, does know that this is a line you cannot cross,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ashwin-calls-for-iron-fisted-action/article33546321.ece
11 January 2021||MUMBAI,||Ishant raring to clear final fitness hurdle||While a host of Indian Premier League franchises’ talent scouts will be preparing for February’s Player Auction by watching the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy, the national selectors will be keeping a close eye on Delhi’s matches in the league stage, to be held over the next nine days, starting with a face-off against Mumbai on Monday. After all, the league stage is going to be a sort of final fitness test for Ishant Sharma ahead of India’s forthcoming series against England. The veteran pacer from Delhi has been out of action for a long time, returning midway through the IPL owing to a side strain. Despite Ishant being declared fit by the National Cricket Academy, along with Rohit Sharma last month, it was decided against including him in the squad for Australia due to lack of match-practice. As a result the re-jigged selection panel, with the recent inclusion of three former India pacers, will be keeping tabs on the action in Mumbai. Delhi chief coach Rajkumar Sharma was confident of Ishant coming good, beginning with the game against Mumbai at the Wankhede Stadium. “He is raring to go. He has been bowling at his best right through the preparatory camp. I am sure he will be a big boost to the team, with his bowling and experience,” said Rajkumar to The Hindu on Sunday. The key With India’s pace unit suffering a spate of injuries in Australia, Ishant’s presence may well be the key in the series against England, scheduled to start on February 5. Add to that the fact that the lanky bowler is just three Tests away from becoming only the second India pacer to earn 100 caps, it is understandable Ishant hasn’t been rushed back into action. Come Monday afternoon, he will hope to rush Suryakumar Yadav and Co. into shots with his pace.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ishant-raring-to-clear-final-fitness-hurdle/article33546372.ece
11 January 2021||January 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Chennaiyin, Odisha play out a drab draw||Chennaiyin FC and Odisha FC played out a goalless draw in an Indian Super League match at the GMC Stadium in Bambolim on Sunday. For CFC, though, it would go down as yet another game of “what if” as it was the only team that had a few genuine opportunities but failed to get the finishing touch right. Best chance The best chance of the day came in the first minute when CFC’s Rahim Ali was given a through ball and the striker produced a good run. However, the Indian made a mess of it with only the Odisha FC goalkeeper Arshdeep Singh to beat. Towards the end of the first half, CFC’s Jakub Sylvestr sent in a pass to Rahim whose shot from near the edge of the box was saved by a diving Arshdeep. The Odisha FC custodian was the standout player for his side as he made another save in the dying moments of the first half. This time it was Sylvestr who nearly put CFC ahead with a deft touch off a pass from Rahim only for the ball to be deflected away by the goalkeeper with his outstretched legs. CFC had a golden opportunity in the 70th minute. Odisha’s Steven Taylor produced a poor defensive effort against a long ball that allowed Rahim to steal it. The latter took a shot at the near post but could only hit the woodwork. In the other match at Vasco, it was all about excellence during set-pieces and goalkeeper errors as 10-man Kerala Blasters defeated Jamshedpur FC 3-2. With teammate Lalruatthara sent off after receiving a second yellow in the 67th minute, Kerala forward Jordan Murray completed a brace within three minutes, scoring in the 79th and 82nd to swing the contest in his side’s favour.  The results: Chennaiyin FC 0 drew with Odisha FC 0; Jamshedpur FC 2 (Nerijus Valskis 36, 84) lost to Kerala Blasters 3 (Costa Nhamoinesu 22, Jordan Murray 79, 82).   Monday’s match: ATK Mohun Bagan vs Mumbai City.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chennaiyin-fc-and-odisha-play-out-a-drab-draw/article33546423.ece
11 January 2021||January 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Langer decries events as shameful||Australia coach Justin Langer has termed the racist abuses hurled at India pacer Mohammed Siraj from the crowd a 'shame'. “It is upsetting, it is disappointing. I have hated it as a player, I have hated it as a coach. We have seen in different parts of the world, it is really sad to see this happen in Australia,” said Langer. Right spirit “Our series so far has been played in such great spirit, it has been incredible cricket on the field. “It is a shame that it has been marred by incidents like we are hearing, today and last night. “It is one of my greatest pet hates in life, that people think they can come to a sporting event, whether it is cricket or any kind, pay their money and think that they can abuse or say whatever they like,” said Langer.  Commenting on the state of the match, Langer said Rohit Sharma’s wicket towards the end of the day had come at the right moment. “He is a world-class player. It was a huge wicket for us. If he was out there, he was going to keep scoring quickly. “There is very little in this wicket, so we have to squeeze hard and keep the pressure. Hopefully, it spins a bit more for (Nathan) Lyon. There is a little bit of invariable bounce and, hopefully, that plays a part for us as well,” he added.  It was nice to have Tim [Paine] out there when that incident happened. He's a class act||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/langer-decries-events-as-shameful/article33546327.ece
11 January 2021||Washington,||Nuggets beat short-handed Sixers||Philadelphia 76ers, badly depleted by COVID-19 protocols and injuries, was routed 115-103 by the visiting Denver Nuggets on Saturday. The short-handed Sixers were down to just seven healthy players, pushing coach Doc Rivers to activate Mike Scott, who had a left knee injury, just so they could meet the league requirement of having a minimum of eight players. Scott sat on the team bench but didn’t play. The Sixers were missing a number of starters, including Seth Curry, who tested positive for the coronavirus on Thursday. Because of contact tracing, health protocols and injuries several other stars were also missing including Ben Simmons, Joel Embiid and Tobias Harris. Elsewhere, LaMelo Ball became the youngest player in NBA history to record a triple-double with 22 points, 12 rebounds and 11 assists, and Charlotte Hornets beat Atlanta Hawks 113-105. The 19-year-old Ball is 177 days younger than Markelle Fultz when he set the triple double record. Tim Hardaway also scored 36 points and Trey Burke added a season-high 29 to lead Dallas Mavericks to a 112-98 victory over the visiting Orlando Magic.   The results: Denver bt Philadelphia 115-103; Charlotte bt Atlanta 113-105; Dallas bt Orlando 112-98; Phoenix bt Indiana 125-117; Miami bt Washington 128-124; Milwaukee bt Cleveland 100-90; San Antonio bt Minnesota 125-122; Portland bt Sacramento 125-99 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nuggets-beat-short-handed-sixers/article33546377.ece
11 January 2021||Pune:,||Lagarde speeds to glory in Indian 2000 Guineas||Bangalore-based trainer S.S. Attaollahi’s ward Lagarde, piloted by Suraj Narredu, won the Indian 2000 Guineas (Gr. 1), the stellar attraction of Mumbai races held here on Sunday (Jan. 10). The winner is owned by M/s. Rama Seshu Eyunni, P. Prabhakar Reddy & Mr. K.N. Dhunjibhoy and Mr. Z.K. Dhunjibhoy rep. Five Stars Shipping Co. Pvt. Ltd. Lagarde, who was confidently kept in second position by Suraj till the last 400m, produced a sparkling gallop into the straight to peg back the challenge of Golden Oaks who had streaked into a long lead soon after the start. This son of Kingda Ka–La Terrasse helped his trainer complete an Indian Guineas double as Attaollahi had saddled the Indian 1000 Guineas winner Forest Flame last Sunday. Jockey N. S. Parmar rode three winners on the day.  1. GULAMHUSEIN ESSAJI TROPHY (1,600m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46: MAGIC IN THE WIND (Parmar) 1, La Teste (Zervan) 2, Multistarrer (Sandesh) 3 and Maplewood (T.S. Jodha) 4. Not run: Minx. 1-3/4, 5-1/2 and 1-1/4. 1m, 38. 66s. Rs. 49 (w), 46, 11 and 10 (p). SHP: 46, Q: 122. Favourite: Maplewood. Owners: Mr. Darius Rafaat & Miss Niti Merchant rep. Smart Equines Pvt. Ltd. & Mr. Mehli A. Nazir. Trainer: M.K. Jadhav.  2. M.D. MEHTA TROPHY (1,400m), (Terms), Maiden, 4-y-o & over: WINTER (T.S. Jodha) 1, Ciplad (Sandesh) 2, Evangeline (Zervan) 3 and Blue Blood (Nirmal) 4. 1-3/4, Lnk and 3. 1m, 26.43s. Rs. 570 (w), 47 and 10 (p). SHP: 19, Q: 1,693. Favourite: Ciplad. Owners: Mrs. Bakhtawar B. Chenoy, Ms. Nazzak B. Chenoy & Mr. Neville H. Biplodiwala. Trainer: Nazzak B. Chenoy.  3. MATHRADAS GOCULDAS TROPHY (1,400m), Cl. I, rated 80 and upward: KILDARE (Parmar) 1, Flying Visit (Srinath) 2, Lorraine (Chouhan) 3 and Grand Accord (Bhawani) 4. 8, 1-1/2 and 6-3/4. 1m, 23.50s. Rs. 12 (w), 10 and 10 (p). SHP: 655, FP: 19, Q: 31, Tanala: 40 and 19. Favourite: Kildare. Owners: Mrs. M.B. Dubash & Ms. Farida B. Dubash. Trainer: S.K. Sunderji.  4. MACHIAVELLIANISM PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), Cl. V, rated 4 to 30: GOLD MEMBER (Dashrath) 1, Divija (Trevor) 2, War Of Attrition (Merchant) 3 and Supreme Being (Peter) 4. 5, 1-3/4 and 1. 1m, 10.23s. Rs. 21 (w), 13, 12 and 340 (p). SHP: 43, FP: 228, Q: 129. Favourite: Gold Member. Owners: M/s. Kunal N. Sharma, Chirag Sharma, Mrs. Magansingh P. Jodha & Mr. Sanjay R. Thakker. Trainer: Adhirajsingh Jodha.  5. N M IRANI TROPHY (1,200m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only: QUEEN O’ WAR (Parmar) 1, Visionary (Neeraj) 2, Heidmar (Dashrath) 3 and Supreme Angel (Nirmal) 4. 8-3/4, Lnk and 3-1/2. 1m, 9. 81s. Rs. 28 (w), 15, 97 and 55 (p). SHP: 181, FP: 381, Q: 966. Favourite: Agostino Carracci. Owners: Mr. Prashant Nagar and Mr. Aditya M. Jadhav rep. SKJ Racing and Breeding Pvt. Ltd. Trainer: A.M. Jadhav.  6. INDIAN 2000 GUINEAS (Gr. 1) (1,600m) Terms, Indian Horses, 4-y-o only: LAGARDE (Kingda Ka–La Terrasse) (Suraj Narredu) 1 , GOLDEN OAKS (Letir Mor–Messalina) (Sandesh) 2, STORM TRIGGER (Ivory Touch–Skipperess) (Neeraj) 3 and NISUS (Gusto–Daffodils) (S. John) 4. 1-1/2, 1-1/4 and Nk. 1m, 37.58s. Rs. 45 (w), 12, 16 and 26 (p). SHP: 115, FP: 73, Q: 129. Favourite: Alluring Silver. Owners: M/s. Rama Seshu Ryunni, P. Prabhakar Reddy & Mr. K.N. Dhunjibhoy and Mr. Z.K. Dhunjibhoy rep. Five Stars Shipping Co. Pvt. Ltd. Trainer: S.S. Attaollahi.  7. VENUS ARISING PLATE (1,800m), Cl. III, rated 40 to 66: NOBLE HEIR (Zervan) 1, Makhtoob (Chouhan) 2, Galloping Goldmine (Neeraj) 3 and Fleur De Lys (Trevor) 4. 2-3/4, 4-3/4 and 4-1/4. 1m, 51.90s. Rs. 29 (w), 28 and 10 (p). SHP: 16, FP: 165, Q: 10, Tanala: 67 and Rs. 28. Favourite: Makhtoob. Owner: Mr. Chirag V. Shah. Trainer: Vishal Gaikwad.  8. MACHIAVELLIANISM PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), Cl. V, rated 4 to 30: DECAPRIO (Chouhan) 1, Streek (Zervan) 2, Highland Woods (Ayyar) 3 and Titanium (S. J. Sunil) 4. Not run: Suarez and Flower Power. 4-3/4, 3 and 3-1/2. 1m, 10.17s. Rs. 15 (w), 10, 10 and 46 (p). SHP: 15, FP: 56, Q: 38, Tanala: 268 and 115. Favourite: Decaprio. Owner: Mr. Jaydev M. Mody rep. J.M. Livestock Pvt. Ltd. Trainer: M. Narredu.  9. HOMI MODY TROPHY (2,000m), Cl. I, rated 80 and upward: ROBERTA (Chouhan) 1, Wizard Of Stocks (Neeraj) 2, Trouvaille (Sandesh) 3 and In It To Win It (Nazil) 4. 1-1/4, 1-1/2 and 1-3/4. 2m, 5.61s. Rs. 22 (w), 12 and 13 (p). SHP: 29, FP: 413, Q: 48, Tanala: 234. Favourite: Roberta. Owners: Mr. & Mrs. Vijay B. Shirke, Mr. Keki D. Mehta & Mr. Dara K. Mehta rep. Darashaw Bloodstock Pvt. Ltd. & Mr. K. N. Dhunjibhoy and Mr. Z.K. Dhunjibhoy rep. Five Stars Shipping Co. Pvt. Ltd. Trainer: P. Shroff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lagarde-speeds-to-glory-in-indian-2000-guineas/article33546811.ece
11 January 2021||Hyderabad:,||Lombardy for HRC Golconda 1000 Guineas||The four-year-old filly Lombardy, who is in good shape, should win the HRC Golconda 1000 Guineas (Gr. 2), the main attraction of Monday’s (Jan. 11) races.  THE ROYAL PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), 5-y-o and upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 12.55 pm: 1. Explosive (1) Mukesh Kumar 61.5, 2. Soul Empress (3) Ashad Asbar 61.5, 3. Mind Reader (7) Nakhat Singh 61, 4. Hurricane (8) Abhay Singh 59, 5. N R I Magic (9) Suraj Narredu 58, 6. Sublime (12) Santosh Raj N R 56.5, 7. Blazing Speed (11) A.A. Vikrant 55.5, 8. Royal Green (4) Ajit Singh 55, 9. Stormy (2) B.R. Kumar 54, 10. Minnelli (6) Surya Prakash 53, 11. Tough And Go (5) Jodha R S 52 and 12. Bedazzled (10) Afroz Khan 50.  1. N R I MAGIC, 2. EXPLOSIVE,   3. MINNELLI   BAKRANANGAL PLATE (1,100m), Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II), 1.25: 1. Bruno (2) Ashad Asbar 56, 2. Charmer (5) Kuldeep Singh 56, 3. Allah Rakhi (1) Koushik 54.5, 4. Catalina (10) Suraj Narredu 54.5, 5. Golden Amaris (6) A.A. Vikrant 54.5, 6. Golden Lady (8) Kiran Naidu 54.5, 7. Inside Story (3) Nakhat Singh 54.5, 8. Mehrnoosh (4) Gaurav Singh 54.5, 9. Muaser (9) Afroz Khan 54.5, 10. Siri (11) B. R. Kumar 54.5 and 11. Total Darc (7) Akshay Kumar 54.5.  1. TOTAL DARC, 2. CATALINA,   3. MUASER   MALVADO PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), 5-y-o and upward, rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II), 1.55: 1. Rapid Fire (11) Srinath 60.5, 2. Guiding Force (6) Kiran Naidu 60, 3. City Of Blossom (5) Gaurav Singh 59, 4. N R I Elegance (4) Koushik 58, 5. Asteria (7) Ajit Singh 57, 6. Loch Stella (10) C. P. Bopanna 57, 7. Incredulous (2) Jodha R S 56, 8. Blazer (8) Akshay Kumar 55, 9. Lockhart (3) Ashad Asbar 55, 10. Dunkirk (9) B.R. Kumar 54, 11. Linewiler (12) Afroz Khan 53 and 12. Best In Show (1) Neeraj 52.5.  1. BLAZER, 2. RAPID FIRE,   3. DUNKIRK   MALVADO PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), 5-y-o and upward, rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II), 2.30: 1. Sitara (10) Rohit Kumar 62.5, 2. Her Legacy (8) Suraj Narredu 60.5, 3. Palace On Wheels (11) Gopal Singh 59, 4. Marina Del Rey (7) Ajit Singh 57.5, 5. King Maker (1) Surya Prakash 57, 6. Max (2) Afroz Khan 57, 7. Rhythm Selection (6) B.R. Kumar 55.5, 8. Celeritas (9) Akshay Kumar 55, 9. La Mer (3) A.A. Vikrant 54.5, 10. Ashwa Arjun (4) Gaurav Singh 53.5 and 11. Mr. Shanghai (5) Ashad Asbar 53.5.  1. HER LEGACY, 2. MAX,   3. CELERITAS   PALAMPET PLATE (Div. I) (1,800m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 3.05: 1. Buttonwood (3) Rohit Kumar 60.5, 2. Francis Bacon (7) Trevor 60, 3. Alta Vita (4) Gaurav Singh 59.5, 4. Queen Daenerys (9) Mukesh Kumar 58.5, 5. Cheltenham (1) Afroz Khan 56.5, 6. Advance Guard (6) Srinath 55.5, 7. Lightning Power (5) Kuldeep Singh 55.5, 8. Fashion Universe (8) Akshay Kumar 54.5, 9. Honourable Guest (11) Jodha R S 53, 10. Prime Gardenia (10) B.R. Kumar 52.5 and Ice Berry (2) Nakhat Singh 50.5.  1. FASHION UNIVERSE,   2. FRANCIS BACON, 3. ALTA VITA   HRC GOLCONDA 1000 GUINEAS (Gr. 2) (1,600m), Fillies, 4-y-o only, 3.40: 1. Downtown Gal (4) Neeraj 57, 2. Good Connection (3) Chouhan 57, 3. Lacrosse (5) Suraj Narredu 57, 4. Lombardy (6) Trevor 57, 5. Mirana (2) Akshay Kumar 57 and 6. Night Secret (1) Srinath 57.  1. LOMBARDY, 2. LACROSSE   PALAMPET PLATE (Div. II) (1,800m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 4.15: 1. Peaky Blinders (9) Akshay Kumar 60.5, 2. Golden Hope (3) Mukesh Kumar 60, 3. Stud Poker (7) Trevor 59, 4. Platinum Claasz (8) Santosh Raj N R 57, 5. Sweet Melody (1) B.R. Kumar 56.5, 6. Eagle Bluff (11) Abhay Singh 55.5, 7. Forever Bond (4) Chouhan 54, 8. Grand Finale (6) Suraj Narredu 54, 9. Sun Dancer (2) Afroz Khan 52, 10. Dillon (10) Ajit Singh 51 and 11. Halo’s Princess (5) Jodha R S 50.5.  1. STUD POKER, 2. SWEET MELODY, 3. PEAKY BLINDERS   ROYAL PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), 5-y-o and upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 4.50: 1. Gazebo (9) Santosh Raj N R 61.5, 2. Mehrzad (6) Gaurav Singh 59.5, 3. New State (5) Ashad Asbar 59.5, 4. Solo Winner (10) Abhay Singh 59, 5. Star Racer (7) Mukesh Kumar 56.5, 6. Wood Bridge (8) Surya Prakash 56, 7. Kimberley Cruise (3) A.A. Vikrant 55, 8. Brush The Sky (2) Afroz Khan 53.5, 9. Blazing Jupiter (1) Akshay Kumar 53, 10. Flying Queen (4) Kuldeep Singh 52 and 11. Machismo (11) Ajit Singh 51.5.  1. BLAZING JUPITER, 2. MEHRZAD, 3. KIMBERLEY CRUISE  Day’s best: LOMBARDY  Double: N R I MAGIC — HER LEGACY  Jackpot: 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8. Mini jackpot: (i) 2, 3, 4 & 5; (ii) 5, 6, 7 & 8. Treble: (i) 1, 2 & 3; (ii) 3, 4 & 5; (iii) 6, 7 & 8. Tanala: All races.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lombardy-for-hrc-golconda-1000-guineas/article33546362.ece
11 January 2021||January 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Kerala Blasters cashes in on Jamshedpur’s errors||It was all about excellence during set-pieces and goalkeeper errors on Sunday as 10-man Kerala Blasters defeated Jamshedpur FC 3-2 in a Indian Super League match at the Tilak Maidan in Vasco. With teammate Lalruatthara sent off after receiving a second yellow in the 67th minute, Kerala forward Jordan Murray completed a brace within three minutes, scoring in the 79th and 82nd, after Jamshedpur custodian T.P. Rehenesh made some costly mistakes. The Australian’s first goal came off a Jessel Carneiro throw-in which was headed away by JFC defender Stephen Eze. The ball eventually fell to KBFC’s Facundo Pereyra, whose shot was diverted by Rehenesh towards Murray, who found the back of the net. The 25-year-old attacker then extended the lead through another move involving Pereyra, who sent in a through-ball into the box. Rehenesh once again messed up a straightforward save as he failed to collect the ball and Murray slotted it past him. Nerijus Valskis pulled a goal back in the 84th as he headed home a Mohammad Mobashir cross from the right flank past Blasters shot-stopper Albino Gomes. But it wasn’t enough for The Men of Steel as they ended up on the losing side.Earlier, KBFC took the lead in the 22nd minute when Pereyra was assigned free-kick duty. He crossed the ball into the box and his team’s defender Costa Nhamoinesu connected with a header to beat Rehenesh, who should have come off his line a bit early. A few moments after the first half cooling break, Valskis ended a three-game goalless run and became the first player to directly score from a free-kick in ISL season seven with his curler from the edge of the box. Throughout the rest of the encounter, Jamshedpur had several other chances to take the lead as Jackichand Singh, Aniket Jadhav and Mobashir hit the crossbar. However, The Tuskers bagged the full three points on the night.  The result: Jamshedpur FC 2 (Nerijus Valskis 36, 84) lost to Kerala Blasters 3 (Costa Nhamoinesu 22, Jordan Murray 79, 82).   Monday’s match: ATK Mohun Baga vs Mumbai City, 7.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kerala-blasters-cashes-in-on-jamshedpurs-errors/article33546374.ece
11 January 2021||New Delhi,||Divyansh pips Rudrankksh for top spot||World No. 1 in men’s air rifle, Divyansh Singh Panwar asserted his class by rising to the top position in the second competition of the National shooting selection trials on Sunday. Qualifiying in the eighth place with 628.7 points, a mere 0.1 point ahead of Srinjoy Datta, Divyansh shot 250.9 in the final, to beat Rudrankksh Patil by 0.8 point for the top spot. Hazarika third World junior champion Hriday Hazarika, who had won the first trial, was pushed to the third spot. Youth Olympics silver medallist Shahu Tushar Mane placed fourth while qualification topper Arjun Babuta (632.1) finished seventh. In the women’s section, Kavi Rakshna of Tamil Nadu emerged on top with 251.4, as she beat qualification topper Nisha Kanwar (630.7) by 0.7 point. Remarkably, Kavi had risen to the top spot after having placed seventh in qualification. World No. 1 and winner of first trial, Elavenil Valarivan placed third. Olympic quota winners in the event, Apurvi Chandela (624.5) and Anjum Moudgil (624.2) were not at their best, and placed 15th and 16th respectively. In the second skeet trials, Amrinder Singh Cheema pipped Fatehbir Singh Shergill in the shootoff after the two tied with 54 in the final. Qualification topper Anantjeet Singh Naruka (121) was overtaken to the third spot by Gurjoat Singh. Raiza Dhillon won the women’s event.  The results:   Air rifle: Men: 1. Divyansh Singh Panwar 250.9 (628.7); 2. Rudrankksh Patil 249.7 (629.7); 3. Hriday Hazarika 229.5 (630.8). Women: 1. C. Kavi Rakshna 251.4 (627.7); 2. Nisha Kanwar 250.7 (630.7); 3. Elavenil Valarivan 229.1 (629.0).   Skeet: Men: 1. Amrinder Singh Cheema 54(2) 119; 2. Fatehbir Singh Shergill 54(1) 119; 3. Gurjoat Singh 43 (116). Women: 1. Raiza Dhillon 50 (114); 2. Darshna Rathore 47 (115); 3. Areeba Khan 39 (110).   Junior men: 1. Abhay Singh Sekhon 54 (111); 2. Rajveer Singh Gill 52 (116); 3. Ayush Rudraraju 41 (118). Junior women: 1. Darshna Rathore 53 (115); 2. Areeba Khan 50 (110); 3. Raiza Dhillon 39 (114) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/divyansh-pips-rudrankksh-for-top-spot/article33546380.ece
11 January 2021||New Delhi,||The peak of rowdy behaviour: Kohli||“The absolute peak of rowdy behaviour” was Virat Kohli’s reaction to the Indian team having to face racial slurs in Sydney. Kohli himself was at the receiving end of abuse during the 2011-12 Test series. “Racial abuse is absolutely unacceptable. Having gone through many incidents of really pathetic things said on the boundary line, this is the absolute peak of rowdy behaviour. It’s sad to see this happen on the field,” Kohli tweeted. “The incident needs to be looked at with absolute urgency and seriousness and strict action against the offenders should set things straight for once,” Kohli said. Veteran spinner Harbhajan Singh also shared a similar experience. “I personally have heard many things on the field while playing in Australia about me, my religion, my colour and much more... this isn’t the first time the crowd is doing this nonsense. How do you stop them?” he tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/the-peak-of-rowdy-behaviour-kohli/article33546323.ece
11 January 2021||Granada (Spain),||Messi, Griezmann star in Barcelona masterclass||Lionel Messi and Antoine Griezmann each scored twice as Barcelona thrashed Granada 4-0 away on Saturday to win a third consecutive LaLiga game for the first time this season. Griezmann opened the scoring in the 12th minute while Messi struck twice before the break to make it four goals in his last two matches and go top of the league’s scoring charts with 11 goals. French forward Griezmann scored a classy second goal after half-time. The victory took Barca back into third place in the standings. Atletico Madrid’s game with Athletic Bilbao was postponed due to heavy snow in the Spanish capital. AC Milan went four points clear at the top of Serie A with a comfortable 2-0 home win over Torino on Saturday as Swedish striker Zlatan Ibrahimovic made his comeback from injury. Borussia Dortmund scored three times in the second half to beat hosts RB Leipzig 3-1 on Saturday and close the gap to the top spots in the Bundesliga.   The results: Serie A: Roma 2 (Pellegrini 17, Mancini 86) drew with Inter Milan 2 (Skriniar 56, Hakimi 63).   LaLiga: Levante 2 (Melero Manzanares 65, Morales 76) bt Eibar 1 (Inui 51).   Saturday: LaLiga: Granada 0 lost to Barcelona 4 (Griezmann 12, 63, Messi 35, 42); Osasuna 0 drew with Real Madrid 0; Atletico Madrid v Athletic Bilbao postponed.   Bundesliga: Schalke04 4 (Hoppe 42, 57, 63, Harit 80) bt Hoffenheim 0; Mainz 0 lost to Eintracht Frankfurt 2 (Silva 24-pen, 72-pen); RB Leipzig 1 (Sorloth 89) lost to Borussia Dortmund 3 (Sancho 55, Haaland 71, 84).   Serie A: Benevento 1 (Sau 50) lost to Atalanta 4 (Ilicic 30, Toloi 69, Zapata 71, Muriel 86); Genoa 2 (Zajc 44, Destro 55) bt Bologna 0; AC Milan 2 (Leao 25, Kessie 36-pen) bt Torino 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/messi-griezmann-star-in-barcelona-masterclass/article33546330.ece
11 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Srinivas in blazing form||World online challenge champion K. Srinivas was in outstanding form as he completed eight boards with 10 misses in the third champions league, and closed the gap with the leader Mohd. Ghufran to three points, in the Indian online carrom challenge. Ghufran himself was in fine form as he swept the third round with 15 points. Second round leader Mohammed Arif was breathing down the neck of the leader, four points away. Riyaz Akbar Ali was in the fourth place as he bristled in the third round with 12 points. Both Srinivas and Akbar Ali scored one ultimate slam and white slam in the third round. In the women’s section, Rashmi Kumari surged to the lead following the best show in the champions league with 31 points. She was eight points better than Nagajothi Kathavarayan, while Kajal Kumari, S. Apporwa, Shainy, Aisha Khokhawala, Deepa Naik and Kavya Shree followed in the top eight.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/srinivas-in-blazing-form/article33546363.ece
11 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA:,||Seven-wkt. win for Andhra Blues||Andhra Blues recorded a seven-wicket in over Royal Cricket Club in the Katragadda Madhusudhana Rao Memorial Trophy for KDCA A-Division league championship here.  The scores: Everest 131 in 35.1 overs (Mohammed Zubhir 29, Ch. Nithik 3/19, A. Brahmateja 3/17) lost to VVKRM 133/2 in 21.5 overs (M. Chiru Deep 43).   Friends 300/6 in 50 overs (Nikhil Naidu 64, Jyothi 64, M. Dinesh 49, Datta 33, Manohar 35) bt Shining Stars 184 in 46 overs (P. Vevaken 41, T. Siva Kumar 5/50, MS. Susanth Naidu 3/33).   Royal 132 in 45 overs (D. Swaroop 37, T. Bhagya Raju 33, K. Sarath 4/18, Rajashekar 3/ 26) lost to Andhra Blues 133/3 in 21 overs ( Sk Rashid 73 n.o., M. Sai Prateek 34 n.o.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/seven-wkt-win-for-andhra-blues/article33546830.ece
11 January 2021||KOLKATA,||Tursunov nets fastest goal of I-League||Tajikistan forward Komron Tursunov scored the fastest goal of the Hero I-League when he found the target in the ninth second for TRAU FC against Real Kashmir at the Mohun Bagan ground on Sunday. Tursunov’s strike eclipsed the record of Japanese midfielder Katsumi Yusa, who scored in the 13th second for Neroca FC against Churchill Brothers in the 2018-19 season. Equaliser The Tajik’s goal was cancelled out by Mason Robertson’s 70th-minute header as Real Kashmir shared points with TRAU.  The results:   TRAU FC 1 (Komron Tursunov 1) drew with Real Kashmir FC 1 (Mason Robertson 70); Churchill 5 (Luka Majcen 2, 75, Clayvin Zuniga Bernadez 35, 59, 70) bt Indian Arrows 2 (Vanlalruatfela Thlacheu 9, Gurkirat Singh 22).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tursunov-nets-fastest-goal-of-i-league/article33546366.ece
11 January 2021||CHENNAI,||Brisbane Test to go ahead||The fourth Test between India and Australia, scheduled to be held in Brisbane from January 15 to 19, is set to go ahead as planned. After almost a week of confusion, an agreement was reached between BCCI and CA on Sunday. “We are good to go. It is a victory for cricket,” said a CA insider. On Thursday morning, Queensland premier Annastacia Palaszczuk had announced a 72-hour restriction in Brisbane following a positive COVID-19 case that was confirmed as the UK variant of the coronavirus. Queensland’s chief health officer has approved CA’s COVID safety and quarantine management plans to conduct the fourth Test. The Indian contingent underwent two weeks of strict quarantine upon their arrival Down Under.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/brisbane-test-to-go-ahead/article33546324.ece
11 January 2021||Sydney,||ICC probes racist abuse charges||The International Cricket Council (ICC) has launched an investigation into the Indian team’s allegations of racist abuse from sections of the crowd in the third Test. The probe comes in the wake of Mohammed Siraj and Jasprit Bumrah “being targeted” while fielding near the boundary on Saturday and a second incident when play was halted just before tea on Sunday when Siraj made a similar complaint to the umpires. CA issued an apology to India and said anyone found guilty of abuse would face consequences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/icc-probes-racist-abuse-charges/article33546325.ece
11 January 2021||New Delhi,||Discrimination will not be tolerated: BCCI||BCCI secretary Jay Shah, on Sunday, reacted strongly to the racist slurs hurled at Indian cricketers during the third Test in Australia. “Racism has no place in our great sport or in any walk of society. I’ve spoken to @CricketAus and they have ensured strict action against the offenders. @BCCI and Cricket Australia stand together. These acts of discrimination will not be tolerated,” he tweeted. Meanwhile, it was announced that Shah will attend the ICC Board meeting later this month in place of BCCI president Sourav Ganguly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/discrimination-will-not-be-tolerated-bcci/article33546328.ece
11 January 2021||January 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Pranati bags four titles||Pranati P. Nair hogged the limelight by winning four titles in the Thiruvananthapuram district table tennis championships at the YMCA Hall on Saturday. Pranati, the reigning State champion in four categories, justified her top seeding to win the titles in women, youth, junior and sub-junior categories. Bharath Krishnan won the men’s title while A.S. Amal claimed the youth and junior titles to complete a double in the boys section.  The results (all finals):   Men: B.S. Bharath Krishnan bt Ranjith Benny 11-6, 7-11, 6-11, 11-6, 11-5; Veterans: R. Rajesh bt Hareesh 11-5, 6-11, 11-9, 11-8. Boys, youth: A.S. Amal bt Anokh G. Nair 11-8, 7-11, 11-7, 3-11, 12-10; Juniors: Anokh bt Amal 11-9, 15-13, 11-7; Sub-juniors: Anokh bt R. Anandhan 11-5, 11-1, 11-7; Cadet: Devaprayag bt R. Sathyanath 11-3, 11-7, 12-10.   Women: Pranati P. Nair bt Smrithi Krishna 11-4, 4-11, 11-6, 11-7.   Girls, youth: Pranati bt B.S. Aswathy Krishna 1-11, 2-11, 11-9, 11-8, 11-6; Juniors: Pranati bt Gouri S. Nair 12-10, 11-9, 14-12; Sub-juniors: Pranati bt Smrithi Krishna 11-4, 11-4, 8-11, 11-4 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pranati-bags-four-titles/article33546762.ece
11 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||TNM, RPL share honours in tied game||The match between TN Memorial and RPL Academy ended in a tied in the S.N. Dubey memorial u-16 cricket tournament. Batting first, TN Memorial scored 155 for seven in 35 overs and in reply, RPL Academy matched not only the score but also the number of wickets lost.  The scores:   TN Memorial 155/7 in 35 overs (Aaradhya Yadav 61, Devansh Chauhan 5/25) tied with RPL 155/7 in 35 overs (Shubham Chaudhary 44).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tnm-rpl-share-honours-in-tied-game/article33546513.ece
11 January 2021||Sakaka (Saudi Arabia),||Saudi Al-Rajhi denies 'Mr Dakar' on marathon stage||Toyota’s Saudi driver Yazeed Al-Rajhi took the Dakar Rally marathon seventh stage honours on Sunday, the home hope denying Stephane Peterhansel, who nevertheless stretched his lead in pursuit of his record-extending 14th title. “We did our best, although we suffered two punctures. We still managed to push hard,” said Al-Rajhi.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/saudi-al-rajhi-denies-mr-dakar-on-marathon-stage/article33546367.ece
11 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Zeel loses in final||Fourth seed Zeel Desai was beaten 6-4, 3-6, 6-2 by fifth seed Salma Djoubri of France in the final of the $15,000 ITF women’s tennis in Monastir, Tunisia, on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/zeel-loses-in-final/article33546370.ece
11 January 2021||January 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Likes and dislikes||Life is constituted of various pairs of opposites such as joy and sorrow, birth and death, growth and decay, heat and cold and so on. Krishna points out that these are mere matter of fact occurrences that the wise learn to deal with in a dispassionate manner, pointed out Swami Omkarananda in a discourse. Being endowed with the senses, mind and intellect, all have necessarily to interact with the world and people around them. This inevitable state is an inheritance common to all beings and it chases them through every birth. From the very moment the jiva is born and grows through the various stages until the time of death, he is constantly influenced and affected by the play of the senses. But the saving grace is that during the same stages of life, the jiva also has the chance to develop immunity to the effects of the senses and the pressures of likes and dislikes. The senses are worse than thieves and they rob the jiva of good sense and behaviour. Desire, anger and greed are the real enemies living within the jiva and controlling his life. If one leads life according to the dictates of his desires and senses, he seeks his own downfall. The advice is to have faith and devotion in the Paramatma and in the sastras which are His command. The sastras are the storehouse of unlimited knowledge and therefore by following the way of life spelt out in them, one is sure to avoid going astray. To get rid of raga and dvesha, one has to continue doing good karma. Good conduct and deeds can counter the tendency to commit sins and help to eliminate bad karma. The wisdom to abide by good conduct and virtue is gained by renouncing one’s tendency to yield to likes and dislikes is the profound observation of Tiruvalluvar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/likes-and-dislikes/article33546317.ece
11 January 2021||January 11 2021 10:29 IST,||Sudoku - January 11, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-january-11-2021/article33547509.ece
11 January 2021||Patna,||Umesh Kushwaha to head JD(U)’s Bihar unit||On the second day of a two-day State executive committee meeting of the ruling Janata Dal-United (JD-U) in Bihar, on Sunday, former MLA Umesh Kushwaha was appointed new State party president. Earlier, Basistha Narayan Singh, the incumbent State chief of the party, had expressed his inability to continue on health grounds. Umesh Kushwaha was JD(U) MLA from Mahnar in Vaisahli district from 2015 to 2020. He lost the last election, held in October-November 2020, to the Rashtriya Janata Dal’s Veena Singh. Mr. Kushwaha comes from Kairi-Bujurg village of Vaishali. The JD(U) had called a two-day State party executive committee meeting to mull over the party’s dismal performance in the last Assembly elections and also to chalk out ways to strengthen the party in the coming days. The JD(U) won 43 seats in the 243-seat State Assembly. On Saturday, party president and Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, while addressing the meeting, had said, “We failed to anticipate who our friends were and on whom we should have placed our trust in the elections.” “The seat distribution within the NDA (National Democratic Alliance) should have been done five months before the elections. It was not done and as a result, the JD(U) had to pay a heavy price. People voted for us wherever we asked them and there was no confusion from our side, but false propaganda was spread against me and my party,” said Mr. Kumar, adding, “however, forget the election result and get back to work. Rest assured, we will emerge stronger.” Mr. Kumar asserted that his government would last the full five year term, adding, “there has been no problem in the NDA alliance.”  BJP supports claim Alliance partner Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in-charge for Bihar, Bhupendra Yadav, too, said on Sunday that the NDA government under Mr. Kumar would run for five years and “those who have been talking about a break in the NDA and the fall of the government should look into their own party’s affairs”.  We failed to anticipate who our friends were and on whom we should have placed our trust in the elections Nitish KumarChief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/umesh-kushwaha-to-head-jdus-bihar-unit/article33546522.ece
11 January 2021||Chandigarh,||Farmers try to disrupt BJP event in Jalandhar||A group of farmers protesting against the Centre’s farm laws on Sunday tried to disrupt a BJP programme in Punjab’s Jalandhar district. They shouted slogans against the Centre and the Punjab BJP leadership over the farm laws. Heavy police security arrangements were made by the Punjab Police to maintain law and order, said officials. Barricades were put up, a water cannon and an earthmoving machine were deployed to prevent protesters from disrupting the BJP’s programme at Company Bagh in Jalandhar. The farmers, carrying black flags, tried to break the barricade to reach the venue where the State BJP leaders were holding their agitation against the State government. Some of the farmers managed to reach near the venue but police nabbed them and took them away. Punjab BJP chief Ashwani Sharma was in Jalandhar to participate in the protest against the Congress government, organised by the State party unit. Talking to reporters later, Mr. Sharma said those who were protesting were not farmers. “I fully trust farmers as they cannot indulge in such things,” he said. He said the Constitution which allows everybody to hold agitation and protest also allowed the BJP to hold its programmes. Earlier addressing the gathering, Mr. Sharma attacked the ruling Congress in the State, accusing it of trying to divert attention from its “failures” under the garb of farmers’ protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/farmers-try-to-disrupt-bjp-event-in-jalandhar/article33546744.ece
11 January 2021||New Delhi,||After trial run, real drive to kick off||In the wake of the Central government announcing roll out of the COVID-19 vaccine from January 16, Delhi government officials said that they are fully prepared for the vaccination drive. The city has seen three dry runs, without anyone actually being vaccinated, to check the system and fix flaws. On January 2, it was conducted at three locations, while January 6 saw dry runs at 66 centres. January 8 clocked the highest, in 150 centres. The vaccination booths have three rooms: waiting room, vaccination room, and observation room. A beneficiary’s documents will be first checked and then allowed to wait in the waiting room. The person’s details will be then entered in the CoWIN (COVID-19 Vaccine Intelligence Network) platform and then he will be taken to the vaccination room to be inoculated. After getting the shot, he will have to wait in the observation room for about 30 minutes to see if there is any allergic reaction. All vaccination booths are also attached to a healthcare facility and have an area to deal with emergency. CoWIN is a digital platform to provide real time information of vaccine stocks, their storage temperature and individualised tracking of beneficiaries of the vaccine. This platform will assist the programme managers across all levels through automated session allocation for pre-registered beneficiaries, their verification and for generating a digital certificate upon successful completion of the vaccine schedule. Priority list The vaccine will be provided first to healthcare and frontline workers, followed by those above 50 years of age and under 50 with co-morbidities. In December, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had said there are about 51 lakh people in Delhi who fall into these categories. “Healthcare workers will be the first to be vaccinated, of whom there are around 3 lakh in the city. Then there are around 6 lakh frontline workers such as policemen and sanitation staff and 42 lakh people, either above 50 years of age and below 50 years of age, but with co-morbidities,” the Chief Minister had said. Two floors of a building in the Delhi government-run Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital (RGSSH) and an existing vaccine store in Battery Lane in Civil Lines will be used as the main storage facilities, as per the Delhi government spokesperson. “All work has been completed at the utility block and the vaccine store has been handed over to the government,” said Chhavi Gupta, spokesperson of RGSSH. From the airport, the vaccine will go to the main storage facility. From there it heads to 11 district vaccine stores, one in each district. The vaccines will then go to cold-chain points, including hospitals and mohalla clinics, where the inoculation will take place.   Stage by stage In the first phase, vaccination will be done only in 89 centres and then eventually scaled up, the spokesperson said. “Though we have done all preparations and dry runs, there could be some challenges and adverse reactions. So we are starting the vaccination drive in 89 vaccination points and gradually we will scale it up. These points are primarily hospitals,” said Suneela Garg, public health expert and professor of excellence at Maulana Azad Medical College. Dr. Garg said that the government has identified 621 cold chain points in the city and about 1,000 vaccination booths can be established at these points in a phased manner. All eligible beneficiaries will be informed about the healthcare facility where they will be vaccinated and when they have to reach there to get vaccinated through their registered mobile number by the government. But there are doubts about the vaccine among healthcare workers. The government will spread awareness about the vaccine at the ground level through anganwadi and ASHA workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/after-trial-run-real-drive-set-to-kick-off/article33546540.ece
11 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi Prisons Dept. tells 3,600 staffers to enrol for COVID-19 vaccination||The Delhi Prisons Department has asked around 3,600 staffers, including security personnel, to enrol themselves for COVID-19 vaccine shots as the authorities gear up for the inoculation drive, officials said on Sunday. According to a senior jail official, around 1,600 jail staffers, 1,000 Tamil Nadu Special Police personnel who carry out security duty at Tihar jail and 1,000 paramilitary personnel are being enrolled. The date, time and place of vaccination will be sent to the staffers on their mobile number, they said, adding, that no inmate will get the shot in the first phase as it has been reserved for front-line workers. “We appreciate the dedication and hardwork done by jail officials and security forces who were at a high risk of catching COVID-19 due to the nature of their job. The vaccination will help boost their morale and help them work fearlessly in this tough situation,” Director General (Prisons) Sandeep Goel said. A total of 292 prison staffers have contracted the infection till Saturday and 289 of them have recovered, while three are still under treatment, officials said. As for the inmates, 115 have tested positive for the virus so far, out of whom 113 have recovered and two died, the officials said. No inmate has tested positive for COVID-19 since December 10 last year. The last case was detected on December 3 and the patient recovered on December 10, officials said. Among the prisons, the first case of COVID-19 was reported in Rohini jail on May 13 last. Two COVID-19-positive inmates of Mandoli jail died on June 15 and July 4. Both were senior citizens.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-prisons-dept-tells-3600-staffers-to-enrol-for-covid-19-vaccination/article33546548.ece
11 January 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Odisha Chief Minister has properties worth Rs. 64.98 cr.||Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik possesses properties worth close to Rs. 64.98 crore while his Cabinet colleague Health and Family Welfare Minister Naba Kishore Das has bought 80 vehicles since 2018. Mr. Patnaik and his Ministers have made their property public as per the announcement made earlier. Of the moveable and immoveable properties, the Chief Minister’s biggest asset is 50% share in the house built by his father and former Chief Minister Biju Patnaik at Dr. APJ Abdul Kalam Road. The 50% share comes to around Rs. 43.36 crore. The worth of the house is likely to be much more than the value shown as the valuation was done in 2014. Mr. Patnaik owns 22.7 acres of farmland in the village Tikkrikhera along Sohna Road in Faridabad district in Haryana worth Rs. 10.75 crore as per the valuation made in 2017. The Odisha Chief Minister has been given two-thirds share of ‘Naveen Niwas’ situated near the Biju Patnaik International Airport, Bhubaneswar. The share has been valued at Rs. 9.52 crore. Mr. Das, who joined the BJD before 2019 election, is a transporter. He has purchased 80 high-value vehicles since October 2018. One Mercedes Benz he owns was purchased for Rs. 1.96 crore in 2018. In public domain Last month, Mr. Patnaik had announced that all people’s representatives, starting from sarpanch, would have to disclose their property details. It would be made available in the public domain every year. In property details of many Ministers, spouses have substantial moveable and immoveable properties in their names.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/odisha-chief-minister-has-properties-worth-rs-6498-cr/article33546531.ece
11 January 2021||Nabarangpur,||One killed, 3 critically injured in Odisha bridge collapse||One labourer was killed and three others critically injured when an under-construction bridge collapsed in Odisha’s Nabarangpur district on Sunday, police said. Locals said that the under-construction bridge located at Talpadar in Umarkote block suddenly caved in when some workers were levelling the upper surface of the structure in the evening. The labourers were buried under a heap of concrete and iron rods, they said. The deceased was identified as Mahendra Mali. The three critically injured persons were admitted to the district hospital, a police officer said.  Negi river bridge The bridge over Negi river was being built by a Bhubaneswar-based contractor under the Biju Setu Scheme of the Rural Development department. The bridge was scheduled to have been built at a cost of Rs. 2.41 crore by March 2019 but the contractor missed the deadline, an official said. Meanwhile, Development Commissioner P.K. Jena, who is also the in-charge of the Rural Development Department, directed the Nabarangpur collector to file criminal cases against the contractor and the officials inspecting the work. He also asked the superintendent engineer based in Sunabeda and the engineer-in-chief to visit the site and take stock of the situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/one-killed-3-injured-in-bridge-collapse/article33546532.ece
11 January 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Virus negative report not required to enter Puri temple from Jan. 21||The Shree Jagannath Temple Administration (SJTA) on Sunday announced that the devotees will not be required to produce COVID-19 negative report for getting entry into the 12th century shrine in Puri from January 21. The decision in this regard was taken at a meeting attended by SJTA chief Krishan Kumar, Puri District Magistrate-cum Collector Samarth Verma and Superintendent of Police K.B. Singh. At present devotees entering the temple have to show COVID-19 negative report. “The devotees can enter into the temple without having COVID-19 negative report from January 21. The decision will remain in force till February 21,” SJTA chief told reporters. But, all the other COVID-19 protocols like wearing of mask, social distancing will continue to be mandatory in the temple, officials said. After February 21, the temple management committee will review the situation and take future course of action, they said. The temple opened for public from January 3 after remaining closed for nine months in the wake of the pandemic. The decisions to relax the restrictions (no COVID-19 report) will facilitate more devotees to get a darshan of the deities, officials said. Puri DM Samarth Verma said that special arrangements and queue system will soon be introduced for elderly/senior citizens coming to the Temple. The SJTA and district administration is making arrangements to allow 30,000 devotees to visit the temple on a daily basis from January 21 adhering to COVID-19 protocol. Mr. Verma said the temple will remain closed on Sundays to carry out sanitisation and disinfection measures. The temple was opened in a phased manner from December 23, 2020. While the servitors and their family members were allowed to enter the temple from December 23 to December 25 evening, the local residents of Puri got the opportunity to have darshan of the deities between December 26 and 31. The temple was finally opened to the public for darshan of the sibling deities — Lord Balabhadra, Devi Subhadra and Lord Jagannath- from January 3, 2021 adhering to the COVID-19 guidelines. Puri is one of the four Dhams or most sacred places of pilgrimages for the Hindus in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/virus-negative-report-not-required-to-enter-puri-temple-from-jan-21/article33546534.ece
11 January 2021||Jaipur,||Withdraw new farm laws, Pilot tells Centre||Former Rajasthan Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot on Sunday demanded from the Union government to withdraw the new farm laws, saying neither farmers nor State governments were consulted over it. Addressing farmers in Tonk, Mr. Pilot said there is not even a single representative of farmers in the Union government and no one is bothered about their plight.  ‘Economy collapsing’ “The economy is collapsing, petrol-diesel prices are skyrocketing, cylinder prices are rising, inflation is rising, unemployment is increasing and in such a situation, the government is hitting the farmers with such a move,” he said, demanding the withdrawal of the laws. “This is the first time that different opposition parties are unitedly demanding that the government should withdraw the laws. The government did not discuss the laws with farmers or any State government before enacting these,” he said. Under the party’s “Kisan Bachao, Desh Bachao” campaign, Mr. Pilot also interacted with farmers in Bamor, Sonva, Harchandeda and Arniyamal gram panchayats. He reached Kabra village riding a bullock cart.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/withdraw-new-farm-laws-pilot-tells-centre/article33546746.ece
11 January 2021||Guwahati,||BJP to kick off election campaign from Silchar||A “tradition of gratitude” will make BJP national president Jagat Prasad Nadda kick off the party’s campaign for the 2021 Assam Assembly election from Silchar on Monday. Mr. Nadda is scheduled to address a public rally in the southern Assam town, the largest urban centre in the Bengali-dominated Barak Valley that gave the BJP its first electoral win in 1991. The BJP had won 10 Assembly seats that year, nine of them in Barak Valley, which has a total of 15 constituencies across three districts. The Valley was the main reason why the saffron party had garnered 16.68% of votes across the 48 seats it contested, a jump from the 3.56% of the votes across 37 seats contested in the 1985 polls. “Starting an election campaign from Barak Valley, specifically Silchar, has been a party tradition to express gratitude to the people there for giving us a toehold,” Assam BJP spokesperson Rupam Goswami said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had started the party’s campaign in Assam for the 2019 Lok Sabha election from Silchar, he said. The BJP had won seven of the State’s 14 parliamentary seats that year, including Silchar. The tradition was maintained for the 2016 Assam Assembly election, in which the BJP won 60 of the 89 seats contested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-to-kick-off-election-campaign-from-silchar/article33546524.ece
11 January 2021||Kolkata,||Bengal’s active cases dip but deaths near 10,000||West Bengal on Sunday reported 823 new COVID-19 cases, taking the total case tally 5,60,709. The State has been recording less than 1,000 daily infections for the last several days. The number of active infections stands at 7,881. As many as 19 deaths were reported, pushing the fatality tally to 9,941. The discharge rate has improved to 96.82%. The State tested 35,123 samples in the last 24 hours and the percentage of positive cases out of the samples tested has dropped to 7.53. Of the 823 fresh infections, Kolkata recorded 231 and North 24 Parganas 226. About 83.9% (8,343) of the deceased in the State had co-morbidities and 16.1%(1598) had no co-morbidities.  Gangasagar festival There is still no clarity on holding Gangasagar festival in West Bengal. The annual festival draws lakhs of pilgrims. The Calcutta High Court has intervened in the matter and sought a report from the State government. Meanwhile, the process of vaccination for COVID-19 will start on January 16. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a meeting with Chief Ministers on vaccine distribution on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bengals-active-cases-dip-but-deaths-near-10000/article33546525.ece
11 January 2021||New Delhi,||Bird flu: Sanjay Lake declared ‘alert zone’||Amid a bird flu scare in different parts of the country, 17 more ducks were found dead at Sanjay Lake here on Sunday, prompting authorities to declare it an “alert zone”, officials said. This comes a day after the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) closed the famous waterbody-cum-park following the death of 10 ducks on the premises. The samples from the dead ducks have been sent for testing to ascertain whether bird flu was the cause of death. Besides, the officials said, 91 crows have been found dead in 14 DDA parks in the last few days. “Deaths of 17 more ducks were reported today [Sunday] at Sanjay Lake. A total of 27 ducks have died now. The park has been declared an alert zone by the rapid response team as per the directions of the animal husbandry department of the Delhi government,” a senior DDA official said. “The rapid response team had visited the lake site on January 9 and 10, and samples were collected for suitable action. Meanwhile, requisite preventive measures are being taken,” he said. Three other recreational parks in Delhi — Hauz Khas Park, Dwarka Sector 9 Park, Hastsal Park —were also closed on Saturday. At least 24 crows have been found dead at a district park in south Delhi’s Jasola over the past few days, according to officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bird-flu-sanjay-lake-declared-alert-zone/article33546535.ece
11 January 2021||New Delhi,||OPD at Rajiv Gandhi hospital to resume today||Doctors at the Delhi government-run Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital (RGSSH) are slated to conduct a heart bypass surgery on Monday, which will be the first operation to be done there since it was declared a dedicated COVID-19 facility nearly 10 months ago, officials said. The national capital had reported its first COVID-19 case on March 1, when a businessman from east Delhi had tested positive. Lok Nayak Hospital and RGSSH were among the hospitals to be converted into dedicated COVID-19 facilities soon after the cases began to rise. “Our OPD is scheduled to resume from tomorrow [Monday], however, it will be only available on three days – Monday, Wednesday and Friday,” said RGSSH spokesperson Chhavi Gupta. The 650-bed RGSSH was a dedicated COVID-19 facility till recently when it was converted into a partially COVID-19 hospital, along with six other Delhi government-run hospitals, including Lok Nayak Hospital.  Services at Lok Nayak The OPD services resumed at the 2000-bed Lok Nayak Hospital located in central Delhi, the largest facility under the city government, from January 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/opd-at-rajiv-gandhi-hospital-to-resume-today/article33546536.ece
11 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi records 399 new COVID-19 cases, 12 deaths||The Capital on Sunday recorded 399 new COVID-19 cases with a positivity rate of 0.51%, a government health bulletin stated. The number of deaths during the last 24 hours was 12 and 602 people recovered from the virus. The health bulletin said that 77,600 tests were conducted during the same period, out of which 45,116 were RT-PCR tests and 32,484 were rapid antigen tests. The cumulative number of cases in Delhi now stands at 6,30,200, with a positivity rate of 6.71% and the total number of deaths at 10,678. There are currently 3,468 active cases in the city. At the Delhi airport, where all passengers arriving from the United Kingdom are being screened before they begin a seven-day institutional quarantine and seven-day home quarantine even if they test negative on arrival, 166 passengers were screened. Gauri Agarwal of Genestrings Labs, which is conducting the tests at the airport, said that 161 passengers, two infants and six crew arrived at 6.30 a.m. on Sunday and all tested negative. There is one more flight scheduled to land from the U.K. late on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-records-399-new-covid-19-cases-12-deaths/article33546542.ece
11 January 2021||New Delhi,||House help found dead in employer’s house||A 19-year-old house help was found dead inside a house in Dwarka’s Sector-19 area, the police said on Sunday. The deceased was a resident of Goyla Dairy, the police said. According to the police, they received an information on Friday that a house help had ended life at Pocket 3, Akshardham Apartment, Dwarka Sector-19. After reaching the spot, it was found that the caller, identified as Ashish Thakur, has been living in the said flat along with his wife and two children on rent since the last four to five years. During inspection of the flat, the police team found the body. There was no external injury found on her body, the police also said. She was working in the flat for the last four to five months and used to stay there. She occasionally used to visit her home and her parents would also come to visit her at times. A post-mortem was conducted at DDU Hospital after which the body has handed over to the family of the deceased, the police said, adding that further investigation is under way.  Suicide prevention helpline: Sanjivini, Society for Mental Health, 011-4076 9002, Monday-Saturday (10 a.m.-7.30 p.m.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/domestic-help-found-dead-at-employers-house/article33546546.ece
11 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Clips of scuffle at Dwarka goes viral on social media||Videos of scuffle between late Delhi Police Inspector Mohanchand Sharma’s son Divyanshu and a mobile phone accessories shopkeeper in Dwarka have gone viral on the social media. Mohanchand Sharma was martyred in Batla House encounter in Delhi on September 19, 2008. The scuffle took place on January 9 around 3.30 p.m. According to the police, Mr. Divyanshu alleged that he, along with his cousin, had come to instal temper glass on his mobile phone, but it got delayed. Following this, some argument ensued and the shopkeeper misbehaved with him. However, it was observed in the footage that both the shopkeeper, Sanchit, and Mr. Divyanshu misbehaved with each other, a senior police officer said. “After a while, Mr. Divyanshu came again with two personal security officers [PSOs]. Mr. Divyanshu had a stick and the PSOs had weapons with them. Mr. Divyanshu again had an altercation with the shopkeeper and the PSOs also indulged. Mr. Divyanshu also tried to slap the shopkeeper,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena said. Suddenly, some unidentified persons started threatening Mr. Divyanshu and thrashed him. They ran away towards Karoor Society, around 300 metres from the spot, followed by the mob. Mr. Divyanshu also alleged that during the scuffle, his mobile phone and gold chain were snatched or lost. The crowd also manhandled the two PSOs. ‘Simple’ injuries Both the victims – Divyanshu and his cousin – underwent a medical test and the injuries were found “simple”, the police said. A written complaint was filed by Mr. Divanyshu, following which a case under Sections 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint), 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation), 356 (assault or criminal force in attempt to commit theft of property carried by a person), 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) and 34 (common intention) of the IPC was registered against unknown persons at Dwarka South police station and an investigation was taken up, the DCP said. The shopkeeper, meanwhile, alleged that the complainant and the two policemen, who were in civil dress, misbehaved with him and slapped him. A Not Criminally Responsible (NCR) plaint under Sections 323 and 506 of the IPC has been lodged, the police said. To verify the version of both the parties, the CCTV footage of nearby shops and Karoor Society are being analysed. Further investigation is under progress, the police added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/clips-of-scuffle-at-dwarka-goes-viral-on-social-media/article33546549.ece
11 January 2021||Patna,||We will boycott session if it is truncated: Tejashwi||The Opposition grand alliance in Bihar on Sunday declared it would boycott the upcoming budget session of the State Assembly and lay siege to residences of the Chief Minister and his deputies if proceedings of the House were curtailed in the name of facilitating COVID-19 vaccination. The announcement was made by RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav after a meeting with delegates of Congress, CPI(ML), CPI and CPI(M) which together constitute the opposition coalition helmed by his party. “We met the Speaker yesterday. He had suggested that the budget session, normally held in March, be advanced and the proceedings which often last for a month or so, be wrapped up in a few days. The reason stated by him was possible vaccination drive for COVID-19 in March,” Mr. Yadav told reporters. The former Deputy Chief Minister alleged that proposed shortening of the session was “a ploy by the Nitish Kumar government to avoid facing elected representatives and getting cornered over the issue of high-handedness of the bureaucracy”. He pointed out that Assembly elections in the State were held last year while the pandemic was at its peak but large public gatherings in the form of rallies were allowed.  Underscoring that legislative business had suffered in the State over the past one year because of the pandemic, Mr. Yadav said if the upcoming session was shortened “we will boycott it and gherao the residences of the Chief Minister and the deputy CMs”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/we-will-boycott-session-if-it-is-truncated-tejashwi/article33546529.ece
11 January 2021||January 11 2021 00:00 IST,||For the birds||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/for-the-birds/article33546545.ece
11 January 2021||January 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Kullu polls||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/kullu-polls/article33546527.ece
