14 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||No clarity on tomorrow’s talks, a day after SC stay on farm laws||As thousands of protesting farmers burned copies of the three contentious farm reform laws on the occasion of Lohri festival, the Central government was yet to decide whether to hold its next round of negotiations with farm unions on January 15. Farmers completed 50 days of continuous protest on the borders of Delhi on Wednesday. They have been demanding a repeal of the three laws, as well as a legal guarantee that all farm produce would be sold at minimum support prices. So far, eight rounds of talks have failed to resolve the crisis. However, given the Supreme Court’s order to suspend the implementation of the laws and form a committee on the same issues, the Centre held internal consultations on the way ahead. An Agriculture Ministry official said no firm decision had yet been taken. The farm unions say they have not received any notice of cancellation, and expect to turn up at Vigyan Bhavan at noon on Friday. “There was nothing in the Supreme Court order that says that this process needs to be stopped for two months until the committee submits its report. That would be a perverse interpretation of the order,” Swaraj India president Yogendra Yadav said. The unions have refused to participate in the proceedings of the committee set up by the Supreme Court, noting that all the members of the committee have advocated for the reform laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-clarity-on-tomorrows-talks-a-day-after-sc-stay-on-farm-laws/article33572569.ece
14 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||First batch of Covishield arrives||The first consignment of 4,33,500 doses of Covishield, the vaccine developed by the Serum Institute of India against COVID-19, arrived in the State on Wednesday. It was received at airports with much fanfare and under high security. One batch of 1,80,000 doses for the Ernakulam region (Ernakulam, Thrissur, Idukki, Kottayam and Palakkad districts) and 1,19,500 doses for the Kozhikode region (Kozhikode, Malappuram, Wayanad, Kannur and Kasaragod) arrived in the morning at the Cochin international airport, while another batch of 1,34,000 doses for the Thiruvananthapuram region (Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Alappuzha and Pathanamthitta) arrived in the evening at the Thiruvananthapuram international airport. The consignments were received at the airport by the district administration and senior health officials and despatched to the regional vaccine stores at Ernakulam, Kozhikode and Thiruvananthapuram in special vehicles maintaining the cold chain. The vaccine will be distributed to the district vaccine stores on Thursday according to the allocation for each district. One batch of 1,100 doses from the vaccine allocation for the Kozhikode region will be distributed at Mahe. From the district vaccine stores, vaccines will be transported to the vaccination sites in respective districts in time for the official launch on Saturday. Vaccine allocation The vaccine allocation for districts are as follows: Thiruvananthapuram 64,020 doses, Kollam 25,960, Pathanamthitta 21,030, Alappuzha 22,460, Kottayam 29,170, Idukki 9,240, Ernakulam 73,000, Thrissur 37,640, Palakkad 30,870, Malappuram 28,890, Kozhikode 40,970, Wayanad 9,590, Kannur 32,650 and Kasaragod 6,860 doses. In every district, registered health-care workers in the State Health Services, Central Health Services and Armed Forces Health Service will be administered the vaccine on January 16, following the nationwide launch of the COVID-19 vaccination programme. Covishield vaccination will be a two dose regimen, administered 28 days apart. A second dose would be reserved for every beneficiary receiving the vaccine from the first consignment On January 16, launch day, 133 vaccination sites have been arranged across the State, with 12 sites in Ernakulam district, 11 sites each in Thiruvananthapuram and Kozhikode districts and nine sites each in the remaining districts. The number of sites will be increased in districts after the launch day. Thiruvananthapuram district will have 138 vaccination sites, with 111 sites in the public sector and another 27 in the private sector. All health-care workers who have registered their names would be allocated vaccination sites from where they can receive the vaccine dose. The entire end-to-end vaccination and reporting process is digitised and managed on the CoWIN (Covid-19 Vaccine Intelligent Network) platform. First beneficiaries A total of 3,68,866 health-care workers, including 1,73,253 in the public sector and 1, 95,613 in the private sector, are the beneficiaries of the vaccines in the first phase.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/first-batch-of-covishield-arrives/article33572908.ece
14 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Colleges may face shortage of rooms, faculty when classes resume tomorrow||While students in intermediate semesters are preparing to return to campuses for the first time in months on Friday, many colleges across the State are likely to face a shortage of classrooms, and also teachers. The number of students in a class is limited to 50% of the total strength to ensure social distancing as a precaution against COVID-19. One of the solutions is to conduct classes in batches, with the room sanitised between sessions, while another is an alternate day model. T.M. Manjunath, president of the Karnataka Government College Teachers’ Association, said college managements would evaluate how many students would attend classes and then decide whether to conduct lectures in batches. On alternate days The principal of a government first-grade college in west Bengaluru said they would definitely have a shortage of classrooms if they have to conduct classes for students of intermediate semesters as they have a high student enrolment. “We have to conduct classes on alternate days for students of different semesters. If we do not do this, we will not be able to ensure that they maintain physical distance within the campus,” he said. C.B. Annapurnamma, principal of the National College, Basavanagudi, said they would reopen for intermediate semesters from January 18, and not on Friday as scheduled. “By then, a majority of the classes for final-year students will have been completed. We will conduct the remaining classes for them online and hold physical classes for students of intermediate semesters,” she said. In addition to this, she said they would also have a shortage of faculty members if multiple classes are to be held for students from the same semester. “We will have a meeting with faculty members to decide how to conduct classes,” he said. T.D. Kemparaju, Vice-Chancellor, Bangalore North University, said they recently conducted a meeting with principals of affiliated colleges and told them they would have to manage keeping in mind space constraints. “Colleges may have to make additional arrangements if the attendance of intermediate semesters is good. We will conduct a review on Friday once the classes commence,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/colleges-may-face-shortage-of-rooms-faculty-when-classes-resume-tomorrow/article33572598.ece
14 January 2021||HYDERABAD,||No hint of compensation for flood-affected||Hundreds of people from several pockets of the city who had suffered partial or complete destruction of their homes during the devastating October floods last year are still awaiting the promised relief by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. The floods following heavy rains between October 14 and 18 resulted in the submergence of several localities, and left thousands homeless. Quite a few of them returned after the water receded, only to find their homes damaged and in utter disarray. While the well-heeled could carry out repairs, the calamity hit the poor the worst. “I would not have bought this home had I known what was in store,” rues Rubina Begum looking in deep despair at the collapsed walls of her home in Shankar Nagar slum of Chaderghat. She purchased the house built within the Musi river bed for Rs. 4.5 lakh about six years ago, spending all her savings and borrowings. On October 18, when the river was in full flow with water released from Himayatsagar, an electricity pole fell on her home, resulting in wall collapse on one side, and cracks on the other. “By the time I returned, all the household items including the beds and other articles given to me on my wedding day were gone. We survived on donated rations, and clothes and articles given by philanthropists,” Rubina recalled. On the fourth day after the floods, GHMC and Revenue officials had reportedly conducted a joint survey, and assessed the damage. “They had taken our account numbers, phone numbers, pictures of the homes, and Aadhaar numbers, but till now, no help has come forth,” said Sara Khatoon, a single mother of five children, whose tin sheet dwelling completely collapsed in the floods. Both Rubina and Sara had to shift to rented accommodation, which is proving to be a tremendous burden on their fragile economy. “I lost my husband last year, and live by sewing cloths. I am unable to meet the monthly rental expenses from my meagre earnings,” Sara said. Rubina has started to work as domestic help to meet the expenses. “There are about 25 homes in Shankar Nagar, all belonging to the poor, which had been completely washed away in floods. The residents have become destitute and desperately need government’s help,” Syed Bilal, a social worker in the locality informed. On October 19, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao had announced Rs. 10,000 immediate cash relief to the flood affected, besides an assistance of Rs. 1 lakh each for totally damaged houses and Rs. 50,000 for the partially damaged. While distribution of the cash relief began right away, thanks to the GHMC elections, there is no hint of the compensation for damaged homes so far. Survey has been reportedly completed, but no guidelines have been issued. Both Rubina and Sara regularly make rounds of the MRO’s office. “The officials shoo us away asking us not to come to the office till the government releases funds,” says Rubina.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-hint-of-compensation-for-flood-affected/article33572852.ece
14 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||No conspiracy in desecration of idols: DGP||Director-General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang has said that no conspiracy has been traced in desecration of idols in the State so far. Police have taken 1,635 temple offenders and 2,979 suspects into custody as part of investigation. However, some people conspired to create communal disharmony and trigger violence by indulging in false propaganda on previous and accidental cases in temples, and action would be taken against them, the DGP said. “Police have mapped 58,871 religious places in the State, and 43,824 CCTVs have been installed. Efforts are on to step up security by arranging surveillance cameras at the remaining shrines,” Mr. Sawang told a press conference on Wednesday. Stating that political involvement in vandalising of idols in temples was under investigation, the DGP said that property offenders, treasure trove and attention diversion gangs, unsound and insane persons allegedly resorted to desecration of idols, thefts and attacks on temples. In some cases, the idols were damaged accidentally, some due to wear and tear, some with superstitions in villages, some by wild animals and over local domination and disputes, but they are not politically motivated, Mr. Sawang said. “After the burning of the Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple chariot at Antarvedi in East Godavari district on September 5, last year, 44 cases were registered of which 29 were solved,” the DGP said. The 16-member Special Investigation Team (SIT) headed by ACB Additional Director G.V.G. Ashok Kumar would investigate the pending 15 cases on attack on temples, the DGP said. Persons who want to share information to SIT on temple attacks or alert the police could pass on the information through WhatsApp number 9392903400, said DIG (Technical) G. Pala Raju. “As investigation in Antarvedi case is pending with the CBI, the SIT will also probe the chariot burning case under the supervision of Additional DG (L&O) Ravi Shankar Ayyanar. As part of investigation, the SIT has already visited a few temples,” Mr. Sawang added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-conspiracy-in-desecration-of-idols/article33572487.ece
14 January 2021||CHENNAI,||Chennai city saw less smoke, breathed cleaner air this Bhogi||Despite smoke in the ambient air, it was less compared to the previous years as Bhogi and Lohri were celebrated in the city. Bonfires were lit in several residential areas, with children playing drums and singing songs, early in the morning, when a spike was noticed in the levels of particulate matter across the city. According to the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board, particulate matter (PM2.5) levels were in the range of 52-102 microgram/cubic metre, as against the prescribed standard of 60 microgram/cubic metre, and PM10 was in the range of 103-256 microgram/cubic metre as against the prescribed standard of 100 microgram/cubic metre. The TNPCB monitored pollution levels in the ambient air, both before and during Bhogi, at 15 locations, including Tiruvottiyur, Sholinganallur, Besant Nagar, Anna Nagar and Ambattur. Stations in Tondiarpet recorded 256 microgram/cubic metre of PM10, Ambattur recorded 183 microgram/cubic metre and Thiru Vi Ka Nagar 173 microgram/cubic metre. Chintadripet resident Murugan said people burnt garbage, but did not use discarded tyres or plastics to light bonfires. “They burnt leaves, garden waste, old mats and clothes. Our street was full of bonfires and the community came together to celebrate,” he said. Amandeep, a resident of Royapettah, said his family lit a simple bonfire, in the evening, since they did not want to discontinue the age-old practice of burning old things on Lohri. “Families would burn so many old clothes earlier. But now we have brought that down to just one small piece of cloth and a few twigs,” he said. TNPCB chairman A.V. Venkatachalam said during joint night patrol by officials of the board, along with staff from the Greater Chennai Corporation and the police, over 2.6 tonnes of waste tyres, kept for burning, were seized and sent to the common hazardous waste management facility in Gummidipoondi. He added that the airport authorities had informed them that some flights were delayed due to the smog. Asked why some places had more smog than some densely-populated residential localities, S.M. Shiva Nagendra, professor, Department of Civil Engineering, IIT-Madras, cited air circulation. “It varies from place to place. A dense building arrangement will be warmer and an open space cooler, which is why hot air is filling up open spaces,” he said. On whether the number of monitoring stations was enough for such a large State, Sarath Guttikunda, founder-director, Urban Emissions, said: “Increasing the number of monitoring stations does not counter the pollution problem. For all practical purposes, 15 stations are still not enough for Tamil Nadu.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/city-breathed-cleaner-air-this-bhogi/article33572670.ece
14 January 2021||Kolkata,||Protest over farm laws stalls vaccine convoy||West Bengal on Wednesday recorded 18 deaths due to COVID-19 in the past 24 hours taking the total fatalities in the State to 9,993. The State recorded 723 new infections in the past 24 hours taking the total infections to 5,62,795. The active cases dropped to 7,303 and the discharge rate dropped to 96.93%. Meanwhile, a day after COVID-19 vaccines arrived in the city, a truck carrying the emergency medical supply was forced to take a detour in Purba Bardhaman district and remained stuck in traffic as protesters demanding an immediate withdrawal of the farm laws laid siege of the Burdwan-Durgapur highway. The protests were organised by Minister Siddiqullah Chowdhury, who is also head of West Bengal’s Jamiat Ulama-E-Hind. Videos aired by local television channel showed that Mr Siddiqullah was trying to disperse his supporters. The Minister also took a stick in his hand and tried to clear the National Highway personally. “Our stage was not on the highway; it was near the Eidgah next to the road but some protesters were sitting on the road. When I heard about the vehicle carrying vaccines, I told the police to give it passage. Accordingly, the police escorted the vehicle through an alternative route. There was no problem,” Mr. Chowdhury claimed. Purba Bardhaman’s Superintendent of Police Bhaskar Mukhopadhyay said that the vaccine-carrying insulated van was diverted over a distance of five km through a village owing to the blockade of the national highway, connecting Kolkata and New Delhi, at the Galsi area. The delay in the movement of the vehicle was for the time taken to cover the five km distance through the village, he said. Unofficial sources, however, claimed that the vehicle had to traverse village roads for a distance of 20 km before it could be brought back to the national highway. The BJP leadership dubbed the Minister’s action as “political double standards”. Party leader Kailash Vijayvargiya tweeted videos of the protest and asked who would have taken responsibility if the truck had suffered any damage. Another BJP leader Shishir Bajoria said it was unfortunate that a State Minister was blocking the vaccine delivery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/protest-over-farm-laws-stalls-vaccine-convoy/article33572963.ece
14 January 2021||Pune,||More vials required than those received: Tope||Maharashtra has so far received 9.83 lakh doses of COVID-19 vaccines — 9.63 lakh vials of Serum Institute of India’s (SII) Covishield and 20,000 vials of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin — as against the requirement of 17.50 lakh doses in the first phase of inoculation, State Health Minister Rajesh Tope said on Wednesday. He further said that the Centre had asked the State to reduce the number of inoculation centres from 511 to 350. “Maharashtra’s vaccine requirement is 17.50 lakh vials in the first phase. We need more vials taking into account the 10% wastage that is expected,” Mr. Tope said in Mumbai. As the doses have to be administered twice to a person within a four-week gap, Mr. Tope said that around 55% of the nearly eight lakh health workers registered would be undergoing vaccination as of now. He said that going by the Centre’s directive to reduce the number of inoculation centres to 350, the State would be able to vaccinate around 35,000 health workers on the first day of the vaccination on January 16 if 100 persons were administered doses in every centre. Meanwhile, Maharashtra’s cases marginally outpaced the recoveries on Wednesday, with 3,556 new COVID-19 cases reported as opposed to 3,009 patients being discharged. The active case tally again rose incrementally to 52,365. The total case tally has now reached 19,78,044. As many as 70 fatalities saw the death toll climb to 50,221. The cumulative recoveries stand at 18,74,279 while the State’s recovery rate is 94.75%. Mumbai city recorded 675 fresh cases to take its total tally to 3,00,474 of whom just 7,527 are active. As many as 12 fatalities pushed the city’s death count to 11,212.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/more-vials-required-than-those-received-tope/article33573014.ece
14 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Agitation is more important than celebrations’||Farmers protesting at the Singhu border marked Lohri celebrations on Wednesday evening by lighting bonfires, staging plays and raising slogans against the three agriculture sector laws brought in by the Centre. Farmers from neighbouring States, who have been camping at the border for nearly 50 days now, said their agitation was more important than celebrating the harvest festival at their homes. Reiterating that they were prepared for the long haul, the agitating farmers said they would not retreat unless their demand that the three laws be repealed is met by the government. Rajender Singh from Punjab’s Tarn Taran district said, “Soon it will be two months of our agitation. When there has been no progress on the laws being repealed, how can we celebrate anything? No matter what the occasion is, we will stay put till the black laws are repealed.” While many of the farmers spent Lohri away from their families, relatives of a few others visited them at the border with supplies. Darshan Singh, a farmer from Punjab’s Rupnagar district, said, “I have been here at the protest since the first day with 15 others from our village. Last night my son and a few others reached the border with a truck full of puffed rice and jaggery that we used to celebrate in whatever small manner we could. We also distributed it among others who are here.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/agitation-is-more-important-than-celebrations/article33572725.ece
14 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Afghanistan raises ‘delay’ in India’s acceptance of envoy||More than three months after Afghanistan announced its next Ambassador to India, New Delhi has yet to grant its agrément, or acceptance of the Afghan government’s nominee, officials in both capitals confirmed. The delay, which follows the government’s decision not to accept two other names profferred earlier in the year, was raised by senior officials in Kabul who met National Security Adviser Ajit Doval during a two-day visit to Afghanistan this week. Sources confirmed that Afghan Foreign Minister Hanif Atmar also discussed the issue with Mr. Doval during their meeting and with External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar during a phone call last week, and the Indian side has assured the Afghan government that the issue would be resolved shortly. “The agreement is almost done,” an official told The Hindu , shortly after the meeting with Mr. Doval in Kabul. “It is under process and a matter of days.” According to the sources, the name of Farid Mamundzay, who was a senior political adviser to the Afghan National Security Council, and was the Deputy Minister of Policy and Technical Affairs at the Independent Directorate of Local Governance, was proposed as the next Afghan Ambassador in New Delhi in September 2020. MEA rejects contention Afghanistan has not had a full-rank Ambassador in Delhi since September 2018, when Ambassador Shaida Abdali resigned unexpectedly in order to stand for elections. Since then, diplomat Tahir Qadiry assumed charge as Charge d’Affaires, but is ending his tenure this month for another foreign assignment. The Ministry of External Affairs declined to reply to questions on the issue officially, and dismissed the contention that there had been any “delay”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/afghanistan-raises-delay-in-indias-acceptance-of-envoy/article33572563.ece
14 January 2021||New Delhi,||AAP govt. to provide free COVID vaccination if Centre doesn’t: CM||The Delhi government will provide free COVID-19 vaccination to residents of the Capital if the Centre fails to do so, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Wednesday. His comment came following a visit to the family of Dr. Hitesh Gupta, employed with the Delhi government, who lost his life after contracting the virus in the line of duty. The government announced financial assistance of Rs. 1 crore to the family. “The vaccine will start getting administered on January 16. It will first be given to corona warriors such as healthcare workers, front-line workers,” the Chief Minister said. “There are a lot of people who would not be able to afford the vaccine. I had appealed to the Centre to provide free vaccine to all the people of the country. If required and if the Centre doesn’t do it, the Delhi government will provide free vaccine to all residents.” The Delhi government has sent a list of 600 sites, including schools and government offices, to the Centre for the first phase of the vaccination drive which aims to cover 51 lakh citizens. An official said these vaccination centres will be opened gradually as more vaccine stocks arrive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/aap-govt-to-provide-free-covid-vaccination-if-centre-doesnt-cm/article33572721.ece
14 January 2021||Kolkata,||Neglected tram depot in Kolkata turns into cultural centre||The concept of converting waste into art has assumed a new meaning in Kolkata with the almost-overnight transformation of a neglected tram depot into a cultural centre that is being planned as a counterpart of Kala Ghoda in Mumbai and the India Habitat Centre in New Delhi. Until just two months ago, a large portion of the still-in-use Gariahat Tram Depot, right in the heart of the city, served as a dump yard, where as many as 24 trams stood junked and wild growth concealed empty liquor bottles and people urinated. On December 22, after 41 days of cleaning up, the depot opened to the public as Tram World Kolkata, where, as of now, 12 of the 24 trams are open for display, their interiors exhibiting items and pictures from a bygone era, and which will soon develop into a full-fledged cultural centre. The interiors of the trams have been kept as original as possible, giving visitors the feel of a time machine. “Kolkata does not have a Kala Ghoda or an India Habitat Centre; it has Nandan, but that’s film-centric. This place will be the Kala Ghoda of Kolkata. It will have a food court; it will have craft shops — there will be stalls selling patachitra , dokra art and Darjeeling tea; and there will be space for literature festivals and art exhibitions,” West Bengal Transport Corporation managing director Rajanvir Singh Kapur, the brain behind the transformation, told The Hindu . According to Mr. Kapur, Tram World Kolkata will become fully functional as a cultural centre by mid-March. Irrespective of what the depot eventually transforms into, this WBTC project has already achieved two important purposes: prevent prime land from eventually turning into real estate and save 24 out-of-use trams from landing in the hands of scrap dealers and preserve them for posterity. Growing awareness Kolkata, the capital of British India until 1911, has been notorious for its neglect of heritage and it is only in recent years that awareness has been growing about preserving the past. The tram — which has regained importance as a mode of transport in the developed world, considering it is economical and non-polluting — has seen a steady decline in Kolkata, the only city in India where it still runs. However, the last few months have seen some public-friendly projects come up around trams. After an experimental run in the early 1870s, the tram was formally introduced in Kolkata in 1880 with the setting up of Calcutta Tramways Company. During the peak of its popularity as a mode of transport, in the 1960s, there were as many as 52 tram routes in Kolkata. By 2016, the number had declined to 12, and since 2019, only six routes have been functional. Mr. Kapur, who took charge in January 2020, said the WBTC had concrete plans to renew interest of the public, particularly the youth, in this gentle and non-polluting mode of transport. In the absence of a strong political will, however, the iconic Kolkata tram is certain to trundle its way into history. Tram World Kolkata, considering it is a State government initiative, shows that a bit of imagination can slow down — if not halt — that journey.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/neglected-tram-depot-in-kolkata-turns-into-cultural-centre/article33572966.ece
14 January 2021||HYDERABAD,||Leopard falls into well in Sircilla||A leopard which had strayed into an agricultural field fell into a well and got trapped there, at Malkapur village of Boinpalle mandal, in Rajanna Sircilla district on Wednesday. Forest officials who got the information around p.m., had no success in rescue attempts till reports last came in. Attempts by the district forest officials to help the big cat climb back by dropping a ladder into the well did not yield any result, as the feline refrained from using the ladder. A team of veterinarians from the Nehru Zoological Park of Hyderabad was rushed to the spot to chemically immobilise the animal, using the tranquilliser dart. “They could not carry it out, as the well had water. Once unconscious, the leopard could slip into the water and drown. We did not take that risk, and are trying to retrieve the cat with least harm,” said S. J. Asha, District Forest Officer. The animal was safely ensconced in a cave-like recess inside the well at the time, she said. Another attempt with ladder would be made in the night, in the hope that the leopard would try to climb up in the cover of darkness. “If that too fails, we will bring in a trap cage on Thursday, and down it using crane,” said Ms. Asha.  Once unconscious, the leopard can slip into the water and drown. We are trying to retrieve the cat with least harm.S. J. Asha,District Forest Officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/leopard-falls-into-well-in-sircilla/article33572853.ece
14 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Govt. to develop start-up area in Krishnapatnam node||As part of its efforts to develop the Krishnapatnam node in the Chennai-Bangalore Industrial Corridor (CBIC), the State government has identified a start-up area of nearly 2,140 acres meant to serve as a catalyst for investments. While the Andhra Pradesh government is transforming Krishnapatnam into an industrial hub backed by the seaport there, priority has been accorded by the Tamil Nadu and Karnataka governments to Ponneri and Tumkur nodes. These three projects have recently been sanctioned by the Department for Promotion of Industry & Internal Trade. According to official sources, Krishnapatnam in Nellore district is being developed through a node-level Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) formed in partnership with the National Industrial Corridor Development & Implementation Trust. The Central and the State governments are together contributing a maximum of 50% equity of up to Rs. 3,000 crore in the SPV. Focus areas The total area of Krishnapatnam node is 13,480 acres. The Central Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs has approved the creation of trunk infrastructure in it at an estimated cost of nearly Rs. 2,200 crore. The State government’s focus is on attracting computer and electronics, optical products, automobile, engineering and machinery, pharmaceutical, food processing and textile and apparel units. An assessment has been made that the Krishnapatnam node has the potential to attract investments amounting to approximately Rs. 18,600 crore. The employment projection on completion of the first phase is around 98,000 persons. The government also contemplates to rope in lithium ion battery manufacturing units in tune with its plan to embrace electric mobility on a large scale. The objective of creating various infrastructure components in the above three nodes is to provide an enabling environment in developing greenfield industrial cities that are home for resource-driven manufacturing and service units.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-to-develop-start-up-area-in-krishnapatnam-node/article33572500.ece
14 January 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Thane will have 29 vaccination centres||As per the instructions of the Central government, the vaccination exercise will be carried out at 29 centres in Thane district. The district has received 74,000 doses of Serum Institute of India’s Covishield and it has been distributed to six municipal corporations and rural areas. So far, 60,842 health workers in the district have registered themselves on CoWIN portal. “At least 100 people will be vaccinated in one centre and each vaccination team will consist of five members. The district will have 846 vaccinators and 340 supervisors,” Thane district Collector Rajesh Narvekar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/thane-will-have-29-vaccination-centres/article33573013.ece
14 January 2021||AHMEDABAD,||2.65 lakh vaccine doses arrive in Gujarat||Ahead of the first phase of the vaccination scheduled to kick-start on January 16, consignments of 2.65 lakh doses of the COVID-19 vaccine arrived in Rajkot, Vadodara and Surat on Wednesday. Dispatched from Pune, the consignments reached Vadodara and Surat by road while Rajkot-bound consignments came by air. On Tuesday, 2.76 lakh doses, developed by the Oxford University and the British-Swedish company AstraZeneca and manufactured by the Pune-based SII, had landed at the Ahmedabad airport, the first consignment for Gujarat. For the first phase, 5.41 lakh doses would be delivered in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot. The vials reached in temperature-controlled trucks in Surat and Vadodara.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/265-lakh-vaccine-doses-arrive-in-gujarat/article33573017.ece
14 January 2021||Special CorrespondentKolkata,||Several houses gutted in Baghbazar slum blaze||A major fire broke out in Baghbazar slum on Wednesday evening which left several shanties gutted. More than 20 fire tenders were rushed to the congested area in north Kolkata. There were several explosions, most likely caused due to bursting of gas cylinders. Residents came out on the streets and some irate locals vandalised public property including police vehicles. There was a huge deployment of police and personnel of Rapid Action Force ( RAF). The fire that raged for over two hours destroyed several slums but there was no report of any casualties. A few residents and fire fighters suffered injuries. “The entire slum has turned into ashes. We are yet to reach the source of the blaze. We have shifted all residents of the locality. Even those from the nearby highrises have been shifted to a safer place as there were blasts. We cannot take any chance,” an officer of the Kolkata Police said. The fire also destroyed parts of the residence Ma Sarada, consort of Ramakrishna Paramhamsa. Along with local people, and fire fighters, monks of Ramakrishna Mission also took part in bringing the fire under control. Traffic along the major arterial roads of north Kolkata was also disrupted. “The fire is under control. There is no casualty. Fire tenders are on the spot and the process of cooling is on,” State’s Fire Minister Sujit Bose said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/several-houses-gutted-in-baghbazar-slum-blaze/article33572964.ece
14 January 2021||CHENNAI,||11 cases against Chennai theatres for violations||The city police registered 11 cases against 10 theatres until Wednesday evening for violating the 50% seating capacity rule and COVID-19 safety guidelines during the screening of the Vijay-starrer Master . The police said the theatres at Jafferkhanpet, Ayanavaram, Koyambedu and other places in the south and east zones were found violating the norms, and cases were registered against the owners. The cases were registered under Section 188 (disobedience to an order promulgated by public servant) and Section 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code. Some theatres were slapped with a fine of Rs. 5,000. “We had taken a written undertaking from the theatre owners that they would function only with 50% seating capacity and follow all the COVID-19 safety guidelines. Based on the instruction of city police commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal, the Deputy Commissioners conducted surprise checks. We registered cases wherever violations were found,” a senior police officer said. Despite the government ordering that cinema halls function only with 50% seating capacity and follow the guidelines, some well-known single-screen theatres in the city screened the film to a full house and sold tickets at exorbitant prices. The film also stars Vijay Sethupathi, and has been directed by Lokesh Kanagaraj. Some of these theatres have been accused of overcharging fans of big stars for the early morning shows, which have become part of the State’s popular culture in the last decade. Meeran, 30, who saw the film at a single-screen theatre near Ashok Pillar, said he went to the first show of the first day at 4 a.m. “The fans were celebrating without masks and physical distancing norms. All the seats were filled and a ticket was priced at Rs. 1,000. This was the case at a few other single-screen theatres where morning shows were held,” he said. In the morning, a few actors of the film and celebrities who had attended one of these shows posted pictures from the theatre. They showed that masking and physical distancing norms and the 50% seating limit were flouted. While these ‘special shows’ were overwhelmingly screened at single-screen theatres, the multiplexes and other theatres followed the norms strictly. Tiruppur Subramanian, president, Tamil Nadu Theatre and Multiplex Owners Association, said, “We are adhering to the guidelines strictly. These are ‘special shows’ for the fans. And not more than one or two such shows would have been held. The multiplexes and other theatres in the city have strictly followed the guidelines.” Cinema halls were allowed to function with 100% seating capacity after actor Vijay reportedly met Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami. But the government reversed its decision after the Centre insisted that the Disaster Management Act not be diluted. This dealt a blow to the makers of Master and theatre owners as it was believed that the big-budget film would have to suffer a financial loss with a reduced seating capacity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/11-cases-against-chennai-theatres-for-violations/article33572645.ece
14 January 2021||Washington,||Donald Trump on verge of second impeachment||A week after President Donald Trump’s supporters stormed the U.S. Capitol, the U.S. House of Representatives gathered on Wednesday to impeach the President for his role in an assault on American democracy that stunned the nation and left five dead. At least five Republicans have said they would join Democrats to impeach Mr. Trump for the second time, just seven days before he is due to leave office and President-elect Joe Biden is sworn in on January 20. A vote of the House majority to impeach would trigger a trial in the still Republican-controlled Senate, although it was unclear whether such a trial would take place in time to expel Mr. Trump from the White House. Washington is on high alert after the riot. Thousands of National Guard troops were planned to be on hand and some members could be seen sleeping inside the Capitol building ahead of the session. The House convened just after 9 a.m. (1400 GMT) in the same chamber where lawmakers hid under chairs last Wednesday as angry rioters clashed with police in the halls of the Capitol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/donald-trump-on-verge-of-second-impeachment/article33572570.ece
14 January 2021||Mumbai,||BJP demands minister’s resignation, writes to EC||Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday demanded resignation of Social Justice Minister Dhananjay Munde who has been accused of rape by a woman singer. While Mr. Munde’s Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) said that the police inquiry would bring out truth and there was no question of resignation as of now, the minister held talks with NCP chief Sharad Pawar to inform him his side of the story. Mr. Munde was on Tuesday accused of rape by a woman singer. The minister, while denying the charge, accepted that he was having an extramarital affair with the complainant’s sister and they had two children. He said that the duo along with their brother was blackmailing him. State BJP president Chandrakant Patil said that Mr. Munde should immediately resign. “He has been accused of sexual harassment and he has no right to be a minister. A minister should have immediately tendered his resignation following such allegations but this thick-skinned government is unlikely to do so. We will forcefully place our demand,” he said. Former BJP MP Kirit Somaiya wrote to the Election Commission of India saying that Mr. Munde in his statement accepted that he had married twice and given his name to children from second wife. “He had not mentioned these details in his election affidavit for the 2019 Maharashtra Assembly polls and had not disclosed properties in their names,” he stated, demanding an inquiry and action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-demands-ministers-resignation-writes-to-ec/article33573015.ece
14 January 2021||Mumbai,||NCB arrests Nawab Malik’s son-in-law in drugs case||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Wednesday arrested Sameer Khan, son-in-law of Maharashtra Minority Affairs and Skill Development Minister Nawab Malik, after questioning him for 10 hours in connection with a drugs case. In a statement, the NCB said the role of Mr. Khan, a resident of Bandra, came to light while investigating the seizure of ganja in a raid in Bandra (West) and the subsequent recovery of imported strains of ganja from the residence of British national Karan Sajnani at Khar. The NCB statement said Rahila Furniturewala, Shaista Furniturewala and Ram Kumar Tiwari were also arrested in the case under the provisions of the NDPS Act and produced in court. Sameer Wankhede, zonal director, NCB, Mumbai, said Mr. Khan was arrested after a detailed interrogation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ncb-arrests-nawab-maliks-son-in-law-in-drugs-case/article33573011.ece
14 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Naidu burns copies of ‘anti-farmer’ G.O.s||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu on Wednesday burnt the “anti-farmer G.O.s” in the bonfire lit during the Bhogi and Sankranti celebrations at Paritala in Krishna district. On the occasion, Mr. Chandrababu Naidu said no farmer in the State was happy under the “indifferent rule” of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. People, who were in the “grip of mass hysteria,” believed the lies of Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy and voted him to power, Mr. Chandrababu Naidu said, and alleged that the government was “spreading lies and half truths” to betray the people. It was unfortunate that the government was gearing up to fix meters to the farm pump-sets, he said, and quipped that “meters are required for the YSR Congress Party offices to know how much that party leaders are looting through the sand, liquor, and mining mafia and house sites distribution.” Turning emotional, Mr. Naidu said, “I do not know what mistake I had committed. I had strived for the development of all. Forgive me if what I had done was a mistake.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/naidu-burns-copies-of-anti-farmer-gos/article33572567.ece
14 January 2021||Bengaluru,||‘Blackmailers, bribers have got into Cabinet’||Hours after Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa announced the names of those to be inducted into the Cabinet, he and his party were in for a major embarrassment as two party legislators — Basanagouda Patil Yatnal and A.H. Vishwanath — alleged that some had “blackmailed and bribed” him to find a place in the Ministry. “Three people had come to me with a CD four months ago, at a guest house at Nelamangala, with a plan to make Mr. Yediyurappa step down. I was surprised that the Chief Minister’s grandnephew was also conspiring against him. Two of them have succeeded in joining the Cabinet,” alleged Mr. Yatnal. He, however, refused to disclose the contents of the purported CD. Vishwanath’s charge Mr. Vishwanathalso alleged that C.P. Yogeshwar, inducted on Wednesday, had “blackmailed” the Chief Minister to become a Minister. “I challenge Mr. Yediyurappa to reveal what it is that Mr. Yogeshwar was blackmailing him with,” he said. Another MLA, Sunil Kumar, expressing his displeasure over not being made a Minister, tweeted, “I am not someone who blackmails for a post.” Speculations were rife about what the content of the purported CD was and if it contains scandalous material that may implicate the Chief Minister and his son. Senior Minister K.S. Eshwarappa, however, dismissed the speculations. “There is no such CD. If Mr. Yatnal had become a Minister, he would not have said these things. He is speaking out of spite,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/blackmailers-bribers-have-got-into-cabinet/article33572592.ece
14 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Panel submits report on Walayar case||The government on Wednesday tabled in the Assembly the report of the P.K. Haneefa Commission that probed the suspected suicide of two minor Dalit girls, both sisters, at Walayar in Palakkad in 2017. After a trial court acquitted the three persons alleged to be responsible for their deaths, the government and the State police had come under criticism. The commission had faulted the police and prosecution for the acquittal. Recently, the High Court had set aside the acquittal by a special court for the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO). It slammed the botched investigation and ordered further inquiry and retrial. The case had become a political hot potato for the government. The Congress and the BJP pointed out that the suspects, all men in the neighbourhood of the victims, were CPI(M) supporters. They alleged that the police had consequently developed cold feet and scuttled the probe bowing to political influence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/panel-submits-report-on-walayar-case/article33572904.ece
14 January 2021||HYDERABAD,||State sees 331 more COVID cases||Telangana recorded 331 COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the total to 2,90,640. While 38,192 people were examined, results of 571 were awaited. Three more patients died of the infection. No case was recorded in Jogulamba Gadwal. In the March 2 to January 12 period, a total of 73,50,644 samples have been tested and 2,90,640 have tested positive for the novel coronavirus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-sees-331-more-covid-cases/article33572849.ece
14 January 2021||Lucknow,||‘Publication of notice of marriage not mandatory’||The Allahabad High Court has ruled that the provision of publication of notice of intended marriage under the Special Marriage Act, 1954, is not mandatory. The court, in a significant judgment delivered on January 12, said making such publication mandatory “would invade the fundamental rights of liberty and privacy, including within its sphere the freedom to choose for marriage without interference from state and non-state actors, of the persons concerned”. A Bench of Justice Vivek Chaudhary mandated that while giving notice under Section 5 of the Act, it shall be optional for the parties to the intended marriage to make a request in writing to the marriage officer to publish or not to publish a notice under Section 6 and follow the procedure of objections as prescribed under the Act. Couple’s choice In case the parties do not make such a request, the officer “shall not publish any such notice or entertain objections to the intended marriage and proceed with the solemnisation of the marriage”. The Bench directed the Senior Registrar of the court to send a copy of the order to the Chief Secretary of Uttar Pradesh to forthwith communicate the same to all the marriage officers in the State and other authorities concerned as soon as possible. The requirement of publication of notice under Section 6 and inviting or entertaining objections under Section 7 can only be read as directory in nature, to be given effect only on request of parties to the intended marriage and not otherwise, the court observed in the 47 page judgment. The interpretation of Sections 6 and 7 read with Section 46 containing the procedure of publication of notice and inviting objections to the intended marriage in the Act of 1954 has to be such that would uphold the fundamental rights and not violate them, the court said. The court was disposing off a habeas corpus writ filed by a Muslim woman who married a Hindu man after converting as per Hindu rituals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/publication-of-notice-of-marriage-not-mandatory/article33572561.ece
14 January 2021||January 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Doval, Ghani hold talks||National Security Adviser Ajit Doval on Wednesday held talks with Afghan President Ashraf Ghani and top Afghan peace nego- tiator Abdullah Abdullah in Kabul, covering a range of key issues.page 14||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/doval-ghani-hold-talks/article33572590.ece
14 January 2021||January 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Blazing bonfires||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/blazing-bonfires/article33572565.ece
14 January 2021||Washington,||Trump on verge of second impeachment||A week after President Donald Trump’s supporters stormed the U.S. Capitol, the U.S. House of Representatives gathered on Wednesday to impeach the President for his role in an assault on American democracy that stunned the nation and left five dead. At least five Republicans have said they would join Democrats to impeach Mr. Trump for the second time, just seven days before he is due to leave office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/trump-on-verge-of-second-impeachment/article33573156.ece
14 January 2021||CHENNAI,||CM announces compensation for farmers||In view of the unusually high rainfall this season in certain districts in the State, which was about 10 times higher than the usual rainfall in January, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Wednesday announced that affected farmers will be compensated at the earliest. “Instead of the usual 10.2 mm rainfall in January, there has been 108.7 mm rainfall so far. Due to this, the general public and farmers in Cuddalore, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam, Pudukkottai, Sivaganga, Ramanathapuram, Thoothukudi, Tirunelveli, Tenkasi, Villupuram, Kallakurichi and Tiruvallur districts have been affected,” Mr. Palaniswami said in a statement. The Chief Minister instructed officials to ascertain the losses incurred by the farmers on a war footing. “This government will take steps to grant compensation to all farmers affected by the rains,” Mr. Palaniswami said. The Chief Minister directed Revenue Minister R.B. Udhayakumar, Information Minister Kadambur C. Raju and Minister for Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare V.M. Rajalakshmi to coordinate and speed up relief operations in Thoothukudi, Tirunelveli and Tenkasi districts. Mr. Palaniswami also instructed the District Collectors to ensure that the people likely to be affected are moved to safety and to ensure food and other necessities for them in the camps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-announces-relief-for-farmers-affected-by-rain/article33572666.ece
14 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi schools to reopen for senior students||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday said that the Delhi government has allowed the reopening of schools for students of Classes 10 and 12 so that they may complete their studies ahead of the CBSE board examinations, the dates of which have already been announced. The government said that physical attendance is not compulsory and students will attend schools only with the consent of parents and issued a standard operating procedure for all schools to follow. Schools in the Capital have been closed since March 19 last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-schools-to-reopen-for-classes-10-12/article33572724.ece
14 January 2021||Bengaluru,||‘Small-scale’ safari to be offered at BNP||The Bannerghatta National Park (BNP) will soon have safaris. Forest Department officials, however,maintained that the safaris will be run on a “small scale” and the exercise is not aimed at being a commercial activity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/small-scale-safari-to-be-offered-at-bnp/article33572597.ece
14 January 2021||COIMBATORE,||Will create Pollachi district: Kamal||Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan has promised to make Pollachi a new district if his party is voted to power. “Pollachi, which has so much potential for development, needs to be a district,” he said on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/will-create-pollachi-district-kamal/article33572811.ece
14 January 2021||Mumbai,||Mumbai nearby||The special National Investigation Agency court has allowed Sudha Bharadwaj, an accused in the Bhima-Koregaon violence case, access to five books a month from outside the Byculla district prison. The court said, “The superintendent shall carefully examine the books and if they contain objectionable material, which preaches violence, vulgar, obscene, pornographic or the material propagating the banned organisation namely Revolutionary Democratic Front or CPI (Maoist), in that case he shall not allow the applicant [Ms. Bharadwaj] to accept such books.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mumbai-nearby/article33573012.ece
14 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi civic bodies ban sale, storage of poultry||The North, South and East municipal corporations of Delhi on Wednesday imposed a ban on the sale and storage of poultry and processed chicken meat by shops and restaurants with immediate effect. The steps were taken after cases of bird flu were confirmed in the Capital. Owners of meat shops and restaurants termed the order “needless” and said it would cause a huge loss to them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-civic-bodies-ban-sale-storage-of-poultry/article33572723.ece
14 January 2021||HUBBALLI,||11,000 doses of vaccine arrive in Dharwad||While preparations are in place for the first phase of vaccine administration for COVID-19, a vaccine consignment of 11,000 doses reached Dharwad on Wednesday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/11000-doses-of-vaccine-arrive-in-dharwad/article33572827.ece
14 January 2021||Guwahati,||ULFA(I) demands ‘due share’ from oil firm||The outlawed United Liberation Front of Asom (Independent) ULFA (I) has said a man from Bihar, one of the two employees of a private oil firm its cadres had abducted from an oil drilling site in Arunachal Pradesh almost a month ago, “will be a victim” if “anything goes wrong”. It said the other employee, an Assamese, would not be harmed. On Tuesday, ULFA (I) chief Paresh Baruah warned the New Delhi-based Quippo Oil and Gas Infrastructure Limited that Ram Kumar, one of two abducted, could be harmed if it did not pay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ulfai-demands-due-share-from-oil-firm/article33572967.ece
14 January 2021||Chennai,||19 districts report less than 10 cases each||As many as 19 districts recorded fewer than 10 cases of COVID-19, even as 673 persons tested positive for the infection in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday. While Perambalur continued to report nil fresh cases, Chennai, for the second consecutive day, recorded less than 200 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/19-districts-report-less-than-10-cases-each/article33572643.ece
14 January 2021||Chennai,||Excavations set to begin in seven sites||Encouraged by the archaeological findings in Keeladi that testified the existence of an ancient urban Tamil civilisation, the Department of Archaeology in the State has decided to launch excavations in seven more sites and field studies in two places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/excavations-set-to-begin-in-seven-sites/article33572644.ece
14 January 2021||HYDERABAD,||11 cities get Covaxin shipments||Vaccine maker Bharat Biotech has started supplies of Covaxin, the indigenous COVID-19 vaccine candidate developed in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research-National Institute of Virology (ICMR-NIV). The first batch of vaccines was despatched by air from Hyderabad to 11 cities across the country in the early hours of Wednesday. This follows receipt of the government purchase order for 55 lakh doses, the company said. Without sharing details of how many doses were part of the batch that was shipped, a company spokesperson said the entire purchase order would be executed within a few days. The government has placed the order at Rs. 295 a dose. Donations too The company would be donating 16.5 lakh doses to the government over and above the 55 lakh ordered, the spokesperson said. Delhi, Bengaluru, Chennai, Lucknow, Pune, Bhubaneswar, Jaipur, Ganavaram, Guwahati, Patna and Kurukshetra are the cities to which the first batch of vaccines (each vial containing 20 doses) were shipped. While some shipments have reached the respective cities, others will be delivered later in the evening, a release from the company said. The company expressed deepest gratitude to the country, clinical trial volunteers and its partners for making this a “successful and milestone public-private partnership for the development of India's first COVID19- vaccine.” Covaxin is an inactivated two-dose SARS-CoV-2 vaccine, developed and manufactured in the company’s BSL-3 (Bio-Safety Level 3) biocontainment facility, one of its kind in the world, the release said. Phase III clinical trials involving 26,000 volunteers have been on since November.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/11-cities-get-covaxin-shipments/article33572524.ece
14 January 2021||CHENNAI,||‘Focus is on providing vaccination free of cost to all’||After successfully controlling the spread of COVID-19 by deploying a comprehensive healthcare strategy, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Wednesday said he was now focusing on the task of providing vaccination free of cost to all in the State. The Chief Minister said that the frontline workforce, including healthcare workers, police personnel, senior citizens and people with co-morbidities, would be covered in the first phase. His remarks on the issue came during a conversation with Dr. Malini Parthasarathy, Chairperson, The Hindu Group of Publications, who called on him at his residence here. Asked whether it would not be better to involve private hospitals in the distribution of vaccines, especially as the need was to scale up the production and distribution of the vaccines, he affirmed that private hospitals would be involved at a later stage. The Chief Minister elaborated on how bolstering health infrastructure helped in dealing with the pandemic effectively. Besides establishing 11 new medical colleges and upgrading over 2,400 primary health centres, 6.17 lakh “fever camps” had been held across the State, where 3.26 crore people were examined. RT-PCR tests were conducted on 1.35 crore people and the testing process was on, with an average of 70,000 samples each day. He said 15,000 health workers had been appointed exclusively to provide treatment to COVID-19 cases, and 2,000 mini-clinics with a doctor and two paramedical staff were also coming up. Aggressive testing “Though the number of new cases and deaths have come down drastically, the aggressive testing process is continuing in all districts. The strategy to establish facilities like adequate beds; ICU facilities equipped with sufficient number of ventilators, oxygen cylinders, antiviral drugs, etc.; and Covid care centres yielded the desired results,” the Chief Minister said. With over 7.93 lakh people recovering from the infection and the death rate kept at 1.48%, the State’s performance received words of appreciation from Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who had urged other States to emulate Tamil Nadu’s model of pandemic management, Mr. Palaniswami said. Mr. Palaniswami said that his government was keen on preserving the legacy of the former Chief Minister the late Jayalalithaa in respect of the outreach to women, focusing on their security and empowerment. He said Chennai and Coimbatore were assessed to be the safest cities for women. The Chennai City Police had installed about 3 lakh CCTV cameras, the highest in the country, which were serving as deterrence to criminals, and also aiding in early detection of cases. People were being encouraged to install CCTV cameras on their premises as a safety measure, he added. The ‘Kavalan’ app was another SOS mechanism for people in distress to seek police assistance. Explaining his plan to open the State economy and inspire confidence that the health security of the State was in order, he said he was making efforts in this regard. On the industrial front, a single window system had simplified the process of sanctioning approvals for business proposals. Absolute transparency “I am convening a meeting every month to dispose of applications that are pending for various approvals. Absolute transparency has been brought about in the system to boost industrial activity … any industrialist can seek an appointment and walk in to meet me for grievance redressal,” he said. Asked if it was possible to allow private investments in the power sector, the Chief Minister ruled out the possibility of privatising the power sector saying that “it would lead to a lot of issues”. He said the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) government would go by the views of the people, who wanted the power sector to be owned and operated by the State. Despite the COVID-19 lockdown, the State machinery had ensured implementation of public welfare schemes uninterruptedly, the CM said. Agricultural activity was not affected during the pandemic and paddy cultivation in the Cauvery delta region had recorded an all-time high yield. The lockdown and prohibitory orders that followed had no impact on the prices of essential commodities, he added. Asked if he was confident that he could carry forward the legacy of the charismatic former leader Jayalalithaa and deliver a decisive mandate for the AIADMK, Mr. Palaniswamy said he was touring the State in the run-up to the Assembly election and he was clear that “ Makkal thaan Ammavin vaarisu ” (the people are Jayalalithaa’s heirs). He expressed certainty that the administrative work done by his government in the last four years would stand it in good stead.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/focus-is-on-providing-vaccination-free-of-cost-to-all/article33572513.ece
14 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Don’t create another Belagavi in Ballari: Congress||More than half-a-dozen Congress leaders on Wednesday opposed the State government’s decision to bifurcate Ballari district claiming that the division will lead to conflict between Telugu- and Kannada-speaking people in the district. “We don’t want Ballari district becoming another Belagavi,” Congress Rajya Sabha member Syed Naseer Hussain said. Formation of the new Vijayanagara district from Ballari district would lead to conflict in the latter, he said. Noting frequent conflicts between Marathi- and Kannada-speaking people in the border town of Belagavi, Mr. Hussain said in the event of division of Ballari, Telugu-speaking people would likely dominate in all aspects of the district’s affairs and administration. On November 18, 2020, the State Cabinet approved formation of Vijayanagara district from Ballari district following pressure from Forest and Environment Minister B.S. Anand Singh. Mr. Singh, who quit the Congress in 2019, demanded the division of the district. However, the government has not yet issued a notification on bifurcation. Speaking at a press conference here, Mr. Husain, V.S. Ugrappa, former MP, L. Hanumanthaiah, MP, E. Tukaram, former Minister and MLA, and Santosh Lad, former Minister (all Congress) said the district was divided without any data, criteria and consultation. More than one lakh people have been opposing the split. “Why has the government not divided bigger districts such as Bengaluru Rural, Belagavi and Tumakuru?” they asked. Ballari district was the second largest revenue generator to the State. The creation of Vijayanagara district would lead to division of revenue and contribution from Vijayanagara would be less than that of Ballari. This would lead to disparities in the region. “Disunity weakens and deprives development,” they argued. “Let politics of development precede and power politics recede,” said the leaders united under the banner of Akhanda Ballari Zilla Horata Samiti and urged the government to repeal its decision. Smaller districts such as Bagalkot and Koppal have not developed after division and division of the district was not the criteria for development. Historically, there were close relations between people of Ballari and Hosapete and the government should not play with the sentiments of the people, Mr. Ugrappa said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dont-create-another-belagavi-in-ballari-congress/article33572602.ece
14 January 2021||Bengaluru,||7 new faces inducted into Karnataka Cabinet||After months of speculation and postponement, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa inducted seven new faces into the Karnataka Cabinet on Wednesday, amid discontent among a section of party legislators. Three MLCs — N. Nagaraju (MTB) and R. Shankar, both defectors, and C.P. Yogeshwar, who played a key role in toppling the coalition government — and four senior MLAs — Umesh Katti, Arvind Limbavali, S. Angara, and Murugesh Nirani — were sworn in as Ministers at the Raj Bhavan on Wednesday afternoon. Minister H. Nagesh, Independent MLA, was dropped to keep one slot vacant, for political exigencies. An upset Mr. Nagesh, who resigned from the Cabinet, was pacified and appointed as chairperson of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar Development Corporation, as per his request with a Cabinet Minister rank, later in the day. Munirathna left out Notable exclusion from those inducted into the Cabinet is Munirathna, a defector who recently won the bypoll. Mr. Yediyurappa had announced during the bypoll campaign that Mr. Munirathna would be made a Minister. A case against him alleging voter fraud and over-representation of Bengaluru in the Cabinet forced his exclusion, sources said. The Cabinet expansion has led to discontent among a long list of ministerial aspirants. A group of those unhappy with the outcome are expected to meet and air their grievances with Union Home Minister Amit Shah, when he visits the State on January 16-17. In terms of caste equation, of those inducted on Wednesday, two each are from Veerashaiva-Lingayat, Kuruba, and Scheduled Caste communities and one is from Vokkaliga community. With these inductions, the Cabinet now has 11 Lingayats, seven Vokkaligas, four Kurubas, three from Scheduled Castes, and two from Scheduled Tribes, a composition that has drawn flak over domination of Lingayats and Vokkaligas. With seven Ministers from Bengaluru and five from Belagavi district and nearly 15 districts finding no representation in the Cabinet, there is also criticism of regional imbalance. Controversial inclusion Though the induction of Mr. Yogeshwar, who got defeated in the 2018 polls and was later made an MLC, has turned controversial, he is seen as a key leader to counter Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar and JD(S) leader H.D. Kumaraswamy in Ramanagaram district. Mr. Nirani was reportedly inducted to co-opt the growing assertion of Panchamasali Lingayat sect, sources said. Mr. Angara, a six-time MLA, being made a Minister was a long-pending demand from the party old-timers. Mr. Katti and Mr. Limbavali were all set to be made Ministers in February 2020 and dropped in the last minute, providing them with a strong case now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/7-new-faces-inducted-into-karnataka-cabinet/article33572490.ece
14 January 2021||Jammu,||BSF unearths tunnel in Jammu||The Border Security Force on Wednesday unearthed a 30-foot-deep and 150-metre-long cross-border tunnel in Samba district in Jammu, the third such tunnel since last November. “On a specific intelligence input, the BSF troops detected a tunnel in the Bobiya area in Samba sector. The tunnel has an opening of about 2-3 feet and is about 20 to 30 feet deep. The direction of the tunnel is towards the International Border, which is about 150 metres long from the point of incident,” a BSF spokesman said in a statement. The origin of the tunnel is towards Pakistan territory, the BSF said. “Sandbags recovered had Karachi-made markings. The tunnel seems to be a bit old. This finding was the direct result of BSF’s anti-tunnel drive. Whether this tunnel was used by militants to infiltrate into this side is subject to investigation,” Inspector General of BSF, Jammu frontier, N.S. Jamwal said. The IG said this was the third tunnel unearthed by the BSF since November 2020. The BSF had unearthed 10 such tunnels since 2011 in the Jammu region. R-Day vigil The BSF spokesman said it was in the wake of the upcoming Republic Day that the BSF was keeping an extra vigil all along the International Border. “The BSF has continuously been getting inputs regarding tunnel digging activities by Pakistan elements. To thwart any such nefarious activities, a vigorous exercise has been carried out by the BSF troops all along the border,” the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bsf-unearths-tunnel-in-jammu/article33572534.ece
14 January 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,||Sabarimala all set for Makaravilakku festival||With just hours left for the Makaravilakku festival to begin at the Sabarimala Ayyappa temple, all arrangements have been completed for the smooth conduct of the event amidst the COVID-19 restrictions. Purification rituals, including Bimbasudhi, were performed at the temple under the leadership of Tantri Kandararu Rajeevaru. Thiruvabharanam, the sacred ornaments of the presiding deity, will be brought to the temple in a procession by Thursday evening, which will be followed by Deeparadhana, sighting of the Makarajyothi and the Makarasamkrama puja. As against the annual average of three lakh devotees, only 5,000 devotees will be permitted to the temple for the festival this time, said N. Vasu, Travancore Devaswom Board president. A strict ban has been imposed on the stay of pilgrims and open cooking of food across the region. The temple and its premises have been brought under a thick blanket of security. Devaswom Minister Kadakampally Surendran will be present at the Sannidhanam during the day. Barricades have been erected at various points to regulate the devotees and ambulances have been arranged to face any emergency situations. According to Mr. Vasu, the TDB has ensured adequate stock of temple offerings, including Appam and Aravana, for the devotees. The facility for offering Neyyabhishekom will close on January 18. Traffic plan The Pathanamthitta police have rolled out a traffic plan for the devotees’ vehicles by dividing the district into 13 different zones. Vehicles returning from Nilackal will have to take the Elavunkal-Kanamala-Palappalli-Laha-Perunad-Vadasserikkara route. Those proceeding from Erumely to Nilackal will have to take the Mandirampadi-Vadasserikkara route. Further, policemen have been deployed in six divisions across the region, including at various vantage points, where people are expected to converge to witness the Makarajyothi. The State government has declared a local holiday for Pathanamthitta district on January 14. As many as 1.32 lakh devotees visited the Sabarimala temple in the first 54 days of the ongoing annual pilgrimage season, generating a revenue of Rs. 16.30 crore. The income during the Makaravilakku season till January 12 was Rs. 6.33 crore while the revenue during the entire Makaravilakku season last year was Rs. 60.26 crore. The income during the previous Mandalam season was Rs. 166 crore. The income during the same period this year was just 6% of it. In view of the severe financial crunch, the board will be seeking an assistance of Rs. 100 crore from the State government, over and above the current allotment of Rs. 70 crore, Mr. Vasu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sabarimala-all-set-for-makaravilakku-festival/article33572497.ece
14 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||CCS approves 83 Tejas fighters for Air Force||In the biggest indigenous defence deal, the Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) on Wednesday approved the manufacture of 83 Tejas light combat aircraft (LCA) by Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd. (HAL) for the Indian Air Force (IAF) at a cost of around Rs. 47,000 crore. “The Cabinet met under the Chairmanship of Prime Minister in New Delhi on January 13 and has approved procurement of 73 LCA Tejas Mk-1A fighter aircraft and 10 LCA Tejas Mk-1 trainer aircraft at the cost of Rs. 45,696 crore along with design and development of infrastructure sanctions worth Rs. 1,202 crore,” the Defence Ministry said in a statement. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Twitter, “This deal would be a game changer for self reliance in the Indian defence manufacturing.” The indigenous content of the LCA-Tejas was 50% in the MK-1A variant and it would be enhanced to 60% by the end of the programme, he said. 40 modifications The MK-1A would have over 40 modifications over the MK-1 variant, including some major ones like an electronic warfare system, advanced electronically scanned array (AESA) radar, beyond visual range (BVR) missiles and a network warfare system comprising software defined radio (SDR), a defence official said. The modifications would be incorporated on the LCA concurrently along with the production once the deal is signed. The Cabinet also approved infrastructure development by the IAF under the project to enable them to handle repairs or servicing at their base depot so that the turnaround time is reduced for mission critical systems, which would lead to increased availability of aircraft for operational exploitation, the statement said. “This would enable the IAF to sustain the fleet more efficiently and effectively due to availability of repair infrastructure at respective bases,” it added. The first LCA MK-1A is expected to roll out 2023-24 onwards, after which HAL plans to ramp up the production rate to 16 aircraft a year. While a second line had been set up, production on both lines has been kept at eight aircraft a year to keep the assembly running due to limited orders. “A third assembly line will also be ready by 2023-24 to further ramp up production,” the official said. For the MK-1A, HAL is outsourcing significant work share to the private industry while it will act as a ‘system of systems integrator’. HAL has has over 550 vendors for the LCA, which includes five companies manufacturing the structures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ccs-approves-83-tejas-fighters-for-air-force/article33572554.ece
14 January 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Farmers head to Delhi for R-Day ‘tractor parade’||Farmers in Punjab and Haryana on Wednesday burnt copies of the Centre’s contentious farm laws in “Lohri bonfire” as a mark of protest and shouted slogans against the Union government. Several batches of farmers in tractor-trolleys continued to head for Delhi to participate in a proposed Republic Day ‘tractor parade’ against the laws. Farmers under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangarsh Committee (KMSC) burnt copies of the laws in as many as 11 districts of Punjab, primarily in Majha and Doaba region, while the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan) members consigned copies of the laws to flames in close to 1,600 villages in 16 districts of the State, according to Sukhdev Singh, general secretary, BKU(U). Sarvan Singh Pandher, general secretary of the KMSC, said that another batch of thousands of farmers and farm labourers from Punjab on their tractor-trolleys have started a journey for Delhi to join the proposed Republic day ‘tractor parade’. “Thousands of farmers and farm labourers are on their way and they will reach Singhu-Kundli border by January 14 morning. The farmers are marching on tractor-trolleys, two-wheelers, cars, vans etc.,” he said. ‘Not acceptable’ Members of radical Sikh outfit, Dal Khalsa, burnt copies of the farm laws in Amritsar. Its activists shouted slogans terming the BJP government authoritarian and alleging that it promotes crony-capitalism. Its leader Kanwar Pal Singh said the staying of the laws by the Supreme Court was neither acceptable nor a solution to the impasse. “The government is hell bent to scuttle the farmers’ agitation. Punjab is up against the BJP government’s anti-minority politics and fascist agenda,” he added. The main Opposition party in Punjab, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), also burnt copies of the laws. Its State president and Lok Sabha member Bhagwant Mann said party workers saluted the spirit and courage of the farmers by burning more than 8 lakh copies of the laws. “In this moment of farmers’ crisis, all the workers of the AAP have decided that we will dedicate this year’s Lohri to our farmer brothers who were martyred in the movement,” added Mr. Mann.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farmers-head-to-delhi-for-r-day-tractor-parade/article33572515.ece
14 January 2021||Kozhikode,||CPI(M) to continue with its experiment for Assembly polls||Despite the merger of the Indian National League (INL) and National Secular Conference (NSC) failing to take off successfully, the Communists Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] leadership is holding its cards close to its chest on sharing seats to its minor partner in the coming Assembly polls. What is worrying the CPI(M) , however, is that the INL, which has been inducted into the Left Democratic Front (LDF) fold, would claim two more winnable seats in north Kerala. Ahead of the seat-sharing arrangement, the INL State committee is also holding a meeting to discuss the electoral strategy of the party. In the 2016 Assembly election, the INL had contested in three seats, one each in Kozhikode, Malappuram, and Kasaragod districts, and lost all of them. The party was disappointed after it was denied a seat in the Lok Sabha polls in 2019 and its performance in the recent local body polls was unimpressive, tallying only around 30 seats. Incidentally the CPI(M) strategy of wooing disgruntled elements of the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) or the Congress, especially those belonging to the Muslim community, had rewarded the Left coalition in the previously held Assembly polls. LDF-supported nominees — P.T.A. Rahim, Karat Razak, P.V. Anwar, V. Abdurahiman, and K.T. Jaleel — won from the Kunnamangalam, Koduvally, Nilambur, and Thavanur segments respectively. The CPI(M) will continue with this experiment this time also, though its electoral arithmetic failed to make an impact on the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. INL grouse  The INL leadership rues that though initially the CPI(M) encouraged its merger with the NSC, the Left leaders did not want LDF-backed Independent legislators coming together as a new entity upping their bargaining power. Besides, the Koduvally-Kunnamangalam segments have their own politics with an anti-IUML factor always in the reckoning in elections. Mr. Rahim, a former district secretary of the IUML, who left the party a decade ago, holds an appreciable sway among the Muslim community in the region. He had won in the 2006 and 2011 polls as an Independent with LDF support. In the case of Mr. Razak, he was the general secretary of the IUML in Koduvally mandalam and was also president of erstwhile the Koduvally grama panchayat for 10 years. And he is now a Left-Independent legislator. In the local body polls, controversial businessman Karat Faisal, who stood as an Independent candidate after he was denied a seat, won the Chundappuram ward in Koduvally. Here, INL nominee Abdul Rasheed polled no votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cpim-to-continue-with-its-experiment-for-assembly-polls/article33572910.ece
14 January 2021||New Delhi,||Mughal history whitewashed in texts, say two educationists||At its meeting on textbook reforms on Wednesday, the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Education heard presentations from right-wing organisations and educationists, one of whom was at the centre of a debate on the “saffronisation” of textbooks under the Vajpayee government. They argued that Mughal history is being whitewashed in Indian textbooks, and crowding out space for history from the Vedic era. The panel’s agenda for the meeting was to remove “references to un-historical facts and distortions about our national heroes”, to ensure “equal or proportionate references to all periods of Indian history” and to highlight the role of great women in Indian history. New syllabus “It has been over two decades since textbook reforms have been discussed at the platform of a parliamentary committee. We thought it fit to apply our mind considering the new National Education Policy is in place and new syllabus is being written,” committee chairman and senior BJP leader Vinay Sahasrabuddhe told The Hindu . On Wednesday, the panel heard depositions from educationists J.S. Rajput and Shankar Sharan, as well as two right-wing leaning organisations, the Bharatiya Shikshan Mandal and the Shiksha Sanskriti Nyas. From 1999 to 2004, Dr. Rajput was director of the body responsible for drafting school textbooks and setting the national curricular framework, the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT). During his tenure, he spearheaded a process of controversial textbook revision, which critics have slammed as a communalisation of Indian history. According to sources, both Mr. Rajput and Mr. Saran argued that the amount of space given to the Mughal era versus the reign of Hindu kings needed to be balanced. They argued that Indian history was falsely written as though foreign rule existed only for 200 years of the British Raj, without taking into account the 1,000 years before that. The Mughal era had been whitewashed, and their role as invaders had been muted, they claimed. The two right-leaning organisations also spoke on similar lines, asserting that there was a need for children to be taught “Indian culture” from the Vedic era onwards. The influence of Marxist historians on the Indian textbooks needed to be corrected, the witnesses told the committee. “In today’s meeting, no member raised any objection, because these were merely depositions and there is no need for us to rectify their positions,” one of the members said. NCERT revision The NCERT is currently in the process of revising textbooks, and is likely to complete the process by 2024. Some members of the committee suggested that it be speeded up to 2022 instead. One member recommended that the Education Ministry consider how to change higher education syllabi as well, to ensure that it aligns with the changes in school textbooks. The Director of NCERT, the CBSE Chairman and the Secretary of School Education were present at the meeting. Sources said that it was decided that they would depose at a later date.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mughal-history-whitewashed-in-texts-say-two-educationists/article33572535.ece
14 January 2021||Mysuru,||Production at Asian Paints facility affected||Production has been hit at the Asian Paints factory near Nanjangud which has been shut down from the last two days owing to an agitation by local farmers demanding that they be employed at the unit in lieu of the land sold for establishing the plant. A spokesperson for the company said permanent staff and engineers at the automated plant were being prevented from entering the unit as a result of which it was shut from two days and production had been hit. Asian Paints released a statement on Wednesday which said the company had offered jobs to all the eligible land-losers within the Mysuru region in a facility specifically set up to offer on-roll jobs to such persons as per the terms and conditions agreed upon by the company with farmers and the Karnataka Industrial Areas Development Board (KIADB). The statement said additional facility had been created at a cost of Rs. 14 crore to accommodate the land-losers as the existing paint facility was highly automated. “Given the qualification of the land-losers, they cannot work in the plant where there are automated systems which require qualified engineers,” the statement added. The farmers were trained and paid stipend during their training period from June 2019 to August 2020 but the situation changed suddenly in the last four to six weeks wherein the farmers are not ready to take the on-roll permanent jobs, according to Asian Paints. Badagalpura Nagendra of the Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha alleged that the company had defaulted on its promise of providing jobs locally and instead want the farmers to go a unit at Hebbal (on the outskirts of Mysuru). He claimed that as per the Labour Department report, the unit can create additional jobs that is non-technical in nature but the company was reluctant to do so and averred that the agitation would continue. Asian Paints established two mega paint manufacturing facilities in Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh with a total investment of Rs. 2,400 crore. Both the plants have an installed capacity of 3,00,000 kl/year and together employ about 1,200 people. The company said shutdown of the plant and the current situation were not conducive for industries to invest in the region as it creates uncertainty on continuity and ease of doing business.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/production-at-asian-paints-facility-hit/article33572638.ece
14 January 2021||Hyderabad,||Loan apps: Chinese among 2 arrested||Continuing their probe into the alleged financial irregularities by instant loan app companies, the Rachakonda police on Wednesday announced the arrest of one more Chinese national and his Indian associate. The accused, HE. Jian, 26, alias Mark from Jiangxi in China, along with his Indian associates, operated over 30 instant loan mobile apps, through which money was disbursed. They further tied up with Jia Liang Infotech Private Limited, Pune, for recovery of the loan amounts. With this, the number of Chinese nationals arrested by the Telangana police has increased to four. On December 27, the police arrested Liang Tian Tian, a Chinese national, her husband Parshuram Lahu Takwe and Aquib Shaik. Based on their confession, the police arrested HE. Jian and Vivek Kumar, 26, accountant with Ajaya Solutions Private Limited, the firm which was represented by the former. Commissioner of Police Mahesh M. Bhagwat said HE. Jian came to India in July 2019 on a business visa and joined as a representative on behalf of Chinese nationals Xu Nan, Xu Xinchang and Zhao Qiao, who are the directors of four microfinance loan app companies. They also appointed Ankur Singh as one of the directors. “In the initial stage they ran call centres at Thane to recover the loan amounts from the borrowers and after that they tied up with Jia Liang,” he said. If any borrower does not respond or repay the amount, the firms instructs Jia Liang to start abusing the borrowers and threaten them to repay the due amounts.  Abnormal interest “As per their instructions, the call centre staff were making calls to the borrowers and their relatives, friends and insisting that they repay the loan amounts with abnormal interest added by the companies,” the officer said. So far the police have frozen Rs. 30 crore in various bank accounts of the companies in question and more accounts are being verified.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/loan-apps-chinese-among-2-arrested/article33572494.ece
14 January 2021||New Delhi,||Kerala files appeal in SC in LIFE Mission project case||The Kerala government on Wednesday appealed to the Supreme Court against the State High Court’s rejection of its plea to quash the First Information Report (FIR) registered by the Central Bureau of Investigation into the irregularities in the implementation of the LIFE Mission housing project at Wadakancherry in Thrissur. The special leave petition was filed late Wednesday. The High Court, in its order, had observed that the facts reveal “a high-profile intellectual fraud played” to avoid audit by the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) and get kickbacks and gratification. In its petition, the State, through the LIFE Mission, said the project is exempted under the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act. Advocate G. Prakash, counsel for Kerala, said the State government had not received any funds directly from abroad. Mr. Prakash said the State has contended that the charges in the FIR were “wholly malicious, baseless” and fuelled by “ulterior political motives”. ‘Nothing suspicious’ It argued there was nothing suspicious in the project. The Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) was conducting a probe into alleged corruption in the LIFE Mission. The registration of cases by the CBI, transgressing into States’ power, was a challenge to the very federal structure envisaged by the Constitution. Special Correspondent adds from Thiruvananthapuram: The State government’s stance was that the case was politically motivated. The UAE Red Crescent had agreed with the LIFE Mission to construct and hand over 140 apartments to the LIFE Mission for distribution to needy families in Thrissur. The foreign charity had contracted the builder through the UAE consulate here. The LIFE Mission had at no point received any direct foreign funding from UAE Red Crescent. Moreover, it had no say in the choice of the builder. Its role was merely that of a recipient of ready-to-occupy flats. The government felt the Constitutional issues, including the right of States, were at stake in the case. FCRA violation In April, it withdrew the general consent accorded to the CBI to operate in Kerala voluntarily. The CBI decision to book LIFE Mission officials on violating the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act (FCRA) had prompted the move. The government had found a common political cause with other non-BJP-ruled States, which felt that the CBI overstepped its authority in their respective jurisdictions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-files-appeal-in-sc-in-life-mission-project-case/article33572552.ece
14 January 2021||KOCHI,||Cinemas reopen to good crowds in Kerala||About 90% of the cinemas in the State reopened on Wednesday as Tamil superstar Vijay’s Master brought hundreds of moviegoers back to the theatres that had remained shut for over nearly nine months owing to the COVID-19 pandemic crisis. The diehard fans of the actor whistled and cheered as the opening credits of the much-awaited film started rolling. Long queues of film buffs wearing masks were seen outside the cinemas even though the government had permitted only 50% occupancy for a show. K. Vijayakumar, president, Kerala Film Chamber of Commerce, termed the reopening as a great start for the industry that was reeling under a financial crisis induced by the pandemic.  “The response was huge as it once again proved that the people love to watch a movie on the big screen. We hope that this would be an exciting return towards the normal times,” he said. M.C. Bobby, general secretary, Film Exhibitors’ United Organisation of Kerala, said Master was screened in majority of the 670 screens across the State. “About 10% of the theatres could not be reopened as the owners required more time to complete the maintenance and preparatory works. Some of them are facing a financial crisis and their theatres would reopen after a few days,” he said. Theatre employees were requesting the audience to use the sanitiser and wear masks as per the safety guidelines prescribed by the Health Department. A group of youngsters who watched the opening show of Master at the Padma theatre here said they were equally thrilled about returning to the cinemas and watching their favourite films on the big screen. Malayalam releases Jayasoorya’s Vellam , directed by Prajesh Sen, will be the first Malayalam movie to reach theatres after the reopening. It is being released on January 22. The exhibitors remain hopeful that there will be a steady release of films in the coming weeks. Big budget movies are expected to be released by the end of March. Mohanlal’s Marakkar: Arabikadalinte Simham is set for release on March 26.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cinemas-reopen-to-good-crowds-in-kerala/article33572502.ece
14 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||New Parliament work may start today||Construction work on the new Parliament building is likely to begin on Thursday, after the Supreme Court gave the go-ahead on January 5 and the Heritage Conservation Committee (HCC) approved the proposal on Monday, Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry officials said on Wednesday. A top official said the work would start on Thursday, which happens to be the auspicious day of Makar Sakranti. The project was scheduled to start in December, but construction and demolition at the site was put on hold while legal challenges to the project were pending in the court. On December 7, the court allowed the ground-breaking ceremony to take place after the government submitted an affidavit that it would not start construction, demolition and tree transplantation until the court gave its judgment. With the court clearing the project on January 5, the Central Public Works Department moved the HCC for approval, which was granted on Monday, according to HUA Secretary Durga Shanker Mishra. Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone for the project on December 10, 2020. The project, the contract for which was given by the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) to Tata Projects Ltd. for Rs. 971 crore, is expected to take 22 months to complete. Work on the redevelopment of Rajpath, another part of the larger Central Vista revamp, is expected to start after the Republic Day celebrations. Mr. Mishra had said at a press conference on Monday that the work would start by February 1. According to a CPWD official, the contract was awarded to Shapoorji Pallonji and Company Ltd. on January 8 after its bid of Rs. 477.08 crore emerged as the lowest. The work would start after the requisite approvals are obtained, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/new-parliament-work-may-start-today/article33572559.ece
14 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Ministry denies RTI query on farm law consultations||The Agriculture Ministry has denied a Right to Information (RTI) request for details on pre-legislative consultations on the farm reform laws, saying the matter is sub judice. In its response, the Ministry cited the clause from the RTI Act that exempts information that has been forbidden to be published by a court of law or whose disclosure would amount to contempt of court. This comes after an earlier reply claiming that the Ministry did not have any record of such consultations. RTI activist Anjali Bhardwaj had filed her request on December 11, asking for details regarding the stakeholder consultations held before the Centre promulgated the three ordinances in June. Within the 30-day period given to respond, two Central Public Information Officers (CPIOs) in the Ministry disposed of her request, saying that they did not have any record of such consultations. The Hindu reported this on January 12, a day after the Ministry told the Supreme Court that farm unions were “peddling an erroneous notion” that no consultations were held. On January 13, Ms. Bhardwaj received a fresh response: “It is informed that the information being sought for has been challenged in various Hon’ble High Courts as well as Hon’ble Supreme Court of India. As such being a sub judice matter it may not be feasible at this moment to provide information under Section 8(1)(b) of RTI Act, 2005.” The CPIO said the delay in providing a reply was due to the COVID-19 situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ministry-denies-rti-query-on-farm-law-consultations/article33572509.ece
14 January 2021||New Delhi,||Many Kerala farmers to join Delhi agitation||A delegation of 1,000-odd Kerala farmers aligned with the All India Kisan Sabha’s (AIKS) State unit will be joining the agitation at Delhi border on Thursday. This is the first delegation from Kerala to participate in the sit-in. The delegation is led by former Rajya Sabha MP and senior CPI(M) leader K.N. Balagopal. “It is the government’s propaganda that only Punjab farmers are impacted by the three laws. The truth is these laws will affect each and every farmer of the country,” Mr. Balagopal said. Rubber market The fact that there is no written assurance on continuing the minimum support price (MSP) is of huge importance to Kerala farmers, he said. Market control is essential for every farmer. Quoting the example of liberalising the rubber market by opening the doors for easier imports from South Asian countries, Mr. Balagopal said the prices of the Indian rubber had fallen by more than half. More than 10 lakh farmers are affected due to this sharp fall. “These laws also affect every person who is dependent on the public distribution system (PDS). Only 25% of foodgrains that our State consumes is produced here. A huge population depends on the PDS. Having an open market would mean that the prices can escalate and if the corporates are allowed a free run then we could also soon have food scarcity because they will export for better prices,” he said. The delegation will stay put till the agitation is called off.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/many-kerala-farmers-to-join-delhi-agitation/article33572510.ece
14 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Polio immunisation drive postponed||The Union Health Ministry has postponed the polio immunisation drive scheduled from January 17 till further notice, citing unforeseen activities. While the COVID-19 vaccination starts on January 16, the National Immunisation Day (NID), commonly known as Pulse Polio Immunisation programme, was scheduled for January 17 across India. The January 9 notice issued by the immunisation division says: “This is to inform that due to unforeseen activities, it is decided to postpone the scheduled Polio NID (National Immunisation Day) round from January 17, 2021 till further notice.” The letter has been issued to the Principal Secretary in the Health department of all States among other top officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/polio-immunisation-drive-postponed/article33572517.ece
14 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Adultery law must stay for military: govt.||The Supreme Court on Wednesday admitted a petition filed by the Ministry of Defence (MoD) seeking to exempt armed forces personnel from the ambit of a Constitution Bench judgment of 2018 that decriminalised adultery. One of the chief reasons given by the government for seeking exemption is, incidentally, that “there will always be a concern in the minds of the Army personnel who are operating far away from their families under challenging conditions about the family indulging in untoward activity.” A three-judge Bench led by Justice Rohinton Fali Nariman said the plea had to be considered by a Constitution Bench because the original verdict, striking down Section 497 (adultery) of the IPC, was pronounced by a five-judge Bench in September 2018. The court referred the case to the Chief Justice to pass appropriate orders to form a five-judge Bench to clarify the impact of the 2018 judgment on the armed forces. The government said in the petition that personnel of the Army, Navy and the Air Force were a “distinct class”. They were governed by special legislation, the Army Act, the Navy Act and the Air Force Act. Adultery amounted to an unbecoming conduct and a violation of discipline under the three Acts. The special laws imposed restrictions on the fundamental rights of the personnel, who function in peculiar situation requiring utmost discipline. The three laws were protected by Article 33 of the Constitution, which allowed the government to modify the fundamental rights of the armed forces personnel. The judgment of 2018 created ‘instability’. It allowed a personnel charged with carrying on an adulterous or illicit relationship to take cover under the judgment. “In cases of adultery, even if there is a charge against the accused, an argument can be raised that we are circumventing the law and what could not be done directly is being done directly through these Acts,” the Ministry said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/adultery-law-must-stay-for-military-govt/article33572519.ece
14 January 2021||January 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Anganwadis to reopen by Jan. 31: Supreme Court||The court directed the States and UTs that a decision to not open anganwadi centres located outside containment zones should be taken only on the direction of the State Disaster Management Authority concerned. It, however, said centres situated in containment zones would remain shut during the prescribed period of isolation. The court directed States/Union Territories to ensure nutritional standards in these centres as provided under the National Food Security Act, 2013. “All the States/UTs shall issue orders regarding monitoring and supervision of anganwadi centres to ensure that the benefit reaches the beneficiaries and a complaint redressal mechanism be put in place in each district,” the judgment directed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/anganwadis-to-reopen-by-jan-31-supreme-court/article33572726.ece
14 January 2021||New Delhi,||New Parliament building work likely to start today||Construction work on the new Parliament building would likely to begin on Thursday, after the Supreme Court gave the go-ahead on January 5 and the Heritage Conservation Committee (HCC) approved the proposal on Monday, according to Housing and Urban Affairs (HUA) Ministry officials on Wednesday. The project was scheduled to start in December last, but construction and demolition at the site was put on hold while legal challenges to the project were pending with the apex court. On December 7, the Supreme Court allowed the ground-breaking ceremony to take place after the government submitted an affidavit that it would not start construction, demolition and tree transplantation until the court gave its judgment. With the judgment clearing the project on January 5, the Central Public Works Department moved the HCC for approval, which was granted on Monday, according to HUA Secretary Durga Shanker Mishra. A top official said the work would start on Thursday, which happens to be the auspicious day of Makar Sakranti. Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone for the project on December 10, 2020. The project, the contract for which was given by the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) to Tata Projects Limited for Rs. 971 crore, is expected to take 22 months to complete. The site of the construction is adjacent to the existing Parliament, which was completed in 1927. Designed by Ahmedabad-based HCP Design, Planning and Management Private Limited, the new Parliament would accommodate a larger number of MPs than the current heritage building to make room for potential increase in seats after future delimitation exercises. A total of 1,224 MPs could be accommodated in the new Lok Sabha chamber during joint sessions.  Rajpath redevelopment Meanwhile, work on the redevelopment of Rajpath, another part of the larger Central Vista revamp, was expected to start after the Republic Day celebrations. Mr. Mishra had said at a press conference on Monday that the work would start by February 1. According to a CPWD official, the contract was awarded to Shapoorji Pallonji and Company Limited on January 8 after its bid of Rs. 477.08 crore emerged as the lowest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/new-parliament-building-work-likely-to-start-today/article33573035.ece
14 January 2021||KOCHI,||HC upholds life term for ‘Aadu’ Antony||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Wednesday upheld the verdict of the Kollam sessions court awarding life term to ‘Aadu’ Antony, a convict in the case relating to the murder of police officer Maniyan Pillai and attempting to murder K. Joy, an assistant sub-inspector . The murder took place on June 26, 2012 in Kollam. The deceased policeman and Mr. Joy, both attached to the Paripally police station, were on night patrol duty at Kulamada when they were attacked by the convict. Th Bench comprising Justice A. Hariparasad and Justice M.R. Anitha passed the judgment while dismissing an appeal filed by Antony against the the sessions court order. The Bench observed that the sessions judge had come to the right conclusion regarding the guilt of the accused. There was no reason to interfere with the sessions court order.  Division Bench observes that the sessions judge had come to the right conclusion regarding the guilt of the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-upholds-life-term-for-aadu-antony/article33572911.ece
14 January 2021||Colombo,||Adani Group to invest in port terminal: Gotabaya||In his government’s first admission yet of Indian involvement in developing a container terminal at the strategically coveted Colombo Port, President Gotabaya Rajapaksa on Wednesday said 49% of the investment will come from the “Adani Group and other stakeholders”. President Rajapaksa was addressing representatives of the Port’s worker unions, amid their persisting resistance to any foreign involvement in the proposed project to develop the East Container Terminal (ECT). “The ECT will not be sold or leased,” he assured them, adding that the foreign investments would cause no harm to Sri Lanka’s sovereignty or independence, according to a statement issued by the President’s office. The development comes a week after External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar’s visit to Colombo, during which he reportedly urged the Sri Lankan side to expedite finalising the deal. While 66% of the transhipment business at the terminal is linked to India, New Delhi’s strategic interest in having a presence at the Port, located along one of the world’s shipping lanes, is no secret. In May 2019, the predecessor government — led by Maithripala Sirisena and Ranil Wickremesinghe — signed a Memorandum of Cooperation (MoC) with India and Japan for the project. Asked how the new deal would be different from the 2019 MoC — which envisaged neither sale nor a leasing arrangement – SLPA chairman (retired) General M. Daya Ratnayake told The Hindu : “We will not be resorting to any loans. It will all be investment.” . However, Opposition legislator Vijitha Herath of the leftist-nationalist Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna (JVP) — which held a rally on Tuesday protesting Indian involvement in the ECT — said he was not convinced. “Investment is a just a way of covering up the Indian company’s actual role and control here. It does not rule out sale or a lease in future,” he told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/adani-group-to-invest-in-port-terminal-gotabaya/article33572532.ece
14 January 2021||New Delhi,||Countdown begins for vaccination drive||The scheduled vaccination drive from January 16, a massive country-wide exercise, will use the principles of people’s participation (Jan Bhagidari) and utilise the experience of election (booth strategy) and the Universal Immunisation Programme (UIP), the Union Health Ministry said on Wednesday. “There will be no compromise on the existing healthcare services, especially national programmes and primary health care, and no compromise on scientific and regulatory norms,” it said. The Ministry tweeted that the initial procurement of 1.65 crore doses had been allocated to the States and Union Territories in proportion to the healthcare worker database. The supply would be continuously replenished, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/countdown-begins-for-vaccination-drive/article33572537.ece
14 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Karnataka HC gives govt. one week to disburse crop insurance to farmers||Observing that prima facie the State government’s officials appear to be insensitive towards implementing Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bhima Yojana, the Karnataka High Court on Wednesday directed the government to pay within one week the crop insurance amount for the year 2016-17 due to 189 eligible farmers of Shahapur taluk of Yadgir district. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum issued the direction during the hearing of a PIL petition filed by Akhanda Karnataka Raitha Sangha, Yadgir district. Expressing shock over the contention of the government that crop insurance amount could not be transferred to 189 farmers as their bank accounts were non-functional, the Bench questioned why the authorities did not contact the farmers despite having all their details. The Bench also expressed displeasure over the claim of the government that it had not received any complaint on non-receipt of insurance amount even though the petitioner had given several representation to the higher authorities besides a communication sent to the government by the member-secretary of the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority on this aspect. As the non-paid crop insurance amount is for 2016-17, the Bench said it is intended to direct the government to pay some interest on the crop insurance amount due for to 189 farmers, while directing the government to ensure that these farmers are paid the amount within a week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-gives-state-govt-one-week-to-disburse-crop-insurance-to-farmers/article33572637.ece
14 January 2021||New Delhi,||Centre’s affidavit an attempt to mislead SC, nation: Congress||The Narendra Modi government’s affidavit filed in the Supreme Court on Monday claiming that due consultations were made before bringing in the three farm laws is an attempt to “prevaricate, distort, misrepresent and mislead”, the Congress said on Wednesday. At an online press conference, party spokesperson and senior Supreme Court lawyer Abhishek Singhvi said the government’s affidavit is at variance with an RTI reply given by them. In reply to two RTI applications filed by activist Anjali Bhardwaj, who sought details of pre-legislative consultations, the information officer had said “this CPIO does not hold any record in this matter”. The government in its affidavit said it is being filed “for the purpose of dispelling the erroneous notion that the protesters have peddled that the Central government and Parliament never had any consultative process or examination of issues by any Committee before passing of the laws in question”. And as examples of pre-legislative consultations, the government quotes circulating Draft Model Acts in 2003 and 2017 to the States, among other things. The government said the “legislations are not hurriedly made but are a result of two decades of deliberations”. “Can you call this elaborate consultative process? For a law that you bring in 2020, you circulate Model Act in 2017,” Mr. Singhvi said. He said not even perfunctory consultations were done. “It is clear that there are serious attempts at prevarication, distortion, misrepresentation and misleading of the nation, the hon’ble apex court and all relevant stakeholders, apart from indulging in blatantly contumacious conduct.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centres-affidavit-an-attempt-to-mislead-sc-nation-says-cong/article33572508.ece
14 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC allows time to Jamiat to make changes in plea||The Supreme Court allowed time to Jamiat Ulama-i-Hind to make amendments in its petition challenging Assam NRC coordinator Hitesh Dev Sarma’s order to delete the names of “ineligible” persons in the final list. A Bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde listed the case again next week. The Bench had questioned why the organisation, represented by senior advocate Kapil Sibal, wanted contempt action against Mr. Sarma.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-allows-time-to-jamiat-to-make-changes-in-plea/article33572555.ece
14 January 2021||January 14 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Publication of notice of marriage not mandatory’||The Bench directed the Senior Registrar of the court to send a copy of the order to the Chief Secretary of Uttar Pradesh to forthwith communicate the same to all the marriage officers in the State and other authorities concerned as soon as possible. The requirement of publication of notice under Section 6 and inviting or entertaining objections under Section 7 can only be read as directory in nature, to be given effect only on request of parties to the intended marriage and not otherwise, the court observed in the 47 page judgment. The interpretation of Sections 6 and 7 read with Section 46 containing the procedure of publication of notice and inviting objections to the intended marriage in the Act of 1954 has to be such that would uphold the fundamental rights and not violate them, the court said. The court was disposing off a habeas corpus writ filed by a Muslim woman who married a Hindu man after converting as per Hindu rituals. However, her father was not permitting her to live with her husband even though the couple desired to live together. The woman and her father appeared in court in person where she expressed her desire to live with her husband and the father too “fairly accepted” her decision since she was an adult, had married of her own volition and wanted to live with her husband. At this juncture, the court took note of the personal experience narrated by the couple who expressed that they could have solemnised their marriage under the Act but said it required a 30 days’ notice to be published and objections to be invited from the public at large. They said that any such notice would have been an invasion of their privacy and would have caused unnecessary social pressure and interference in their free choice with regard to their marriage. The personal laws did not impose any such condition of publication of notice, inviting and deciding objections before solemnising marriage, the couple submitted. The counsel for the petitioners also stated that the situation may become more critical with the notification of the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020, as it says conversion of religion for marriage is unlawful. The counsel further submitted that interfaith couples were not in a position to raise these issues before solemnising their marriages as litigation further attracted unnecessary attention and put social pressure on them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/publication-of-notice-of-marriage-not-mandatory/article33572488.ece
14 January 2021||HYDERABAD,||Income Tax raids unearth fraud of Rs. 160 cr.||A search and seizure operation of the Income Tax department on 19 premises of a prominent civil contractor in Hyderabad resulted in recovery of documents evidencing accommodation entries of more than Rs. 160 crore. The search was made on the basis of investigation into IT evasion using bogus names of sub-contractors/shell entities. The department also made inquiries relating to entities flagged for providing fake Input Tax credit last week. A release said several shell entities/firms were used by entry operators for layering of unaccounted money and cash withdrawals against fake bills. The search has led to seizure of evidences of bogus sub-contracts being given through intermediaries operating shell entities. Evidence of the use of this modus operandi to generate huge unaccounted cash was found with details of the entire network of the entry operators, intermediaries, cash handlers, beneficiaries and the firms and companies involved. Forensic analysis of digital data, including pen drive and retrieved mails, has given clinching evidences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/i-t-raids-unearth-fraud-of-rs-160-crore/article33572872.ece
14 January 2021||January 14 2021 00:00 IST,||No clarity on tomorrow’s talks with farmers||The farm unions say they have not received any notice of cancellation, and expect to turn up at Vigyan Bhavan at noon on Friday. “There was nothing in the Supreme Court order that says that this process needs to be stopped for two months until the committee submits its report. That would be a perverse interpretation of the order,” Swaraj India president Yogendra Yadav said. The unions have refused to participate in the proceedings of the committee set up by the Supreme Court, noting that all the members of the committee have advocated for the reform laws. One of the committee members, Pramod Kumar Joshi, said he would be able to set aside his personal views while serving on the panel. “You have to be very unbiased, keep your own views in the locker and remain open-minded. There is nothing wrong in [the fact that all members of the panel are in favour of reforms]. Judges have their own views, and they are still able to give unbiased judgments,” he said. At its internal meeting, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha warned its union leaders to tone down their rhetoric regarding plans for January 26. Republic Day protests are expected to take place across the country, including in Mumbai, where plans were finalised for a three-day sit-in by 50,000 farmers starting on January 23 followed by a march to the Raj Bhavan on January 26. “We will definitely hold a parade in Delhi on Republic Day, but there is no question of any disruption of the official parade. We have strictly said there will not be any violence,” said Krantikari Kisan Union president Darshan Pal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-clarity-on-tomorrows-talks-with-farmers/article33572503.ece
14 January 2021||January 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Afghanistan raises ‘delay’ in India’s acceptance of envoy||Since then, diplomat Tahir Qadiry assumed charge as Charge d’Affaires, but is ending his tenure this month for another foreign assignment. The Ministry of External Affairs declined to reply to questions on the issue officially, and dismissed the contention that there had been any “delay”. When contacted, MEA officials aware of the protocol concerns pointed to a number of reasons, beginning with the initial delay from the Ghani government’s side in naming a replacement for Mr. Abdali, and subsequently its preoccupation with elections, the coronavirus pandemic and the Doha peace process. However, they confirmed that since 2019, the Afghan Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA) had sent at least three names, beginning with senior government official Walid Tamim in July 2019, and subsequently floated the name of Kawoon Kakar, a former adviser to President Ghani. Mr. Tamim was appointed a Deputy Minister in the Finance Ministry pending his credentials from New Delhi, the government had announced, but when New Delhi did not respond to either name, the MFA proposed Mr. Mamundzay. On September 3 last, Mr. Mamundzay even tweeted that he was “honoured & humbled to have been designated as the new Afghan ambassador to India”, calling India a “generous neighbour” and a “strategic partner with strong historical, political & cultural links” to Afghanistan. However, The Hindu confirmed that New Delhi’s letter of agreement has not so far been conveyed to the Afghan side, leading to the queries put to Mr. Doval and Mr. Jaishankar. ‘Senior’ envoys sent Sources who didn’t wish to be identified said India had always sent “senior” envoys to Afghanistan and, therefore, expected that Kabul would reciprocate. New Delhi had also requested that the Ambassador-designate have ties with all political parties in Afghanistan and took into account India’s security sensitivities in the region, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/afghanistan-raises-delay-in-indias-acceptance-of-envoy/article33572504.ece
14 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Property tax set to go up in Bengaluru and elsewhere||Property tax is set to go up in all municipal areas coming under Karnataka Municipal Corporation Act, 1976, as the Cabinet has approved an amendment to the Act based on the Centre’s direction. Tax is set to be revised in Bengaluru too and government has traded increase in property tax for user fee which now stands dropped. The Cabinet on Wednesday decided to bring an amendment to sections 108, 109 and 109 A of Karnataka Municipal Corporation Act to revise property tax on residential houses and vacant sites in municipal areas based the guidance of the Union government. “We are keeping user fee pending and increasing property tax. Till now vacant sites had been kept out of the purview of property tax. This is, however, being changed now,” said Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy, who briefed presspersons. “The amendment had been mandated by the Union government and we had to do it before January 25. This will help the State to increase borrowings from institutions,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/property-tax-set-to-increase-in-bengaluru-and-elsewhere/article33572591.ece
14 January 2021||Hassan,||First case registered under anti-cow slaughter Ordinance||The Sringeri police have registered a case against the driver-cum-owner of a canter truck on charges of transporting cattle with no safety measures under the new Ordinance promulgated by the State government banning cow slaughter. This is said to be the first case in the State after the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Ordinance, 2020, was promulgated. Abid Ali was allegedly transporting 12 to 15 head of cattle in his truck from Ranebennur to Mangaluru. He was beaten up by a group of unknown people near Tanikodu in Sringeri taluk in the early hours of January 8. The attackers beat him up severely and took away his cash. As the incident came to the notice of the Sringeri police, they reached the spot and registered a suo motu case against Abid Ali. Chikkamagaluru SP Akshay M. Hakay confirmed that the case had been registered under the new Ordinance.  Speaking to The Hindu over phone, Abid Ali said he was carrying cattle from Ranebennur in Haveri district to Mangaluru. “A person from Mangaluru had purchased the cattle in Ranebennur and he hired my truck to transport them. I followed his car along the route,” he said. As he had parked his vehicle in Tanikodu on January 8 morning, a group of people beat him up with sticks and rods, before fleeing with Rs. 22,000 cash and two mobile phones. “I contacted the police with the help of local people. The police came to the spot and took me to Sringeri hospital and later shifted me to McGann Hospital in Shivamogga,” he said. He has also filed a complaint against the attackers. Abid Ali is now undergoing treatment for multiple fractures at his hometown Davangere. He is expected to undergo surgery on Thursday. “I cannot go to work for at least seven to eight months,” said a distraught Abid Ali, who is the only bread earner of his family with three children. Documents Abid Ali claimed that he had all necessary documents to show that he was transporting cattle with permits issued by the RMC yard officials and a certificate issued by a veterinarian in Ranebennur. “I was told the cattle were being taken for agriculture purposes, not to a slaughterhouse. I had the documents to show that nothing was illegal in transporting them,” Abid Ali said. When The Hindu contacted Siddaramappa, Police Inspector of Sringeri, he said the case had been registered and investigation was on. Concerning the assault case, the officer said the police had identified the attackers and one of them had been arrested. “I cannot disclose the names of the attackers. We have identified them and arrested one,” he said.  Abid Ali was allegedly transporting 12 to 15 head of cattle in his truck from Ranebennur to Mangaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/first-case-registered-under-anti-cow-slaughter-ordinance/article33572635.ece
14 January 2021||Hyderabad,||Chenna Reddy’s services recalled on his birth anniversary||The 102nd birth anniversary of late Marri Chenna Reddy was held at his memorial in Indira Park in Hyderabad on Wednesday where tributes were paid to him by Congress leaders and his followers. TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy paid floral tributes along with Himachal Pradesh Governor Bandaru Dattatreya, Manthani MLA D. Sridhar Babu, former PCC presidents Ponnala Lakshmaiah and V. Hanmanth Rao, AICC secretaries G. Chinna Reddy and Rudra Raju, and former Minister Samarasimha Reddy. Former Minister and Dr. Chenna Reddy’s son Marri Shashidhar was present. Mr. Uttam Reddy described Dr Chenna Reddy as a great visionary, administrator and statesman. He also recalled his contributions to the development of combined Andhra Pradesh as the Chief Minister and how he first brought Telangana statehood to the national attention. Other speakers recalled their association with the late leader and explained his influence on their political life. The statesmanship of Chenna Reddy is worth emulating by the present day politicians and particularly those who are taking their first steps in politics, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chenna-reddys-services-recalled-on-his-birth-anniversary/article33572855.ece
14 January 2021||Lucknow,||SP fields two candidates in U.P. MLC polls||The Samajwadi Party (SP) has fielded two veteran leaders as its candidates for the Uttar Pradesh Legislative Council election, turning it into a hot contest for the 12th seat. Twelve seats need to be filled in the Council, but the SP on its own strength — it has 48 MLAs, including Shivpal Yadav, the estranged uncle of party chief Akhilesh Yadav — can secure only one. By nominating a second candidate, it has made it an open game and would need the support of MLAs from other smaller parties and even its rival BSP. SP nominated candidates Ahmad Hasan and Rajendra Chaudhary were ministers when Mr. Yadav was the Chief Minister from 2012-2017. Mr. Hasan is an outgoing MLC. Mr. Chaudhary, a Jat with a socialist background, is a party spokesperson. Both are often seen shadowing Mr. Yadav and have been close to him as well as his father Mulayam Singh Yadav. The BJP has 309 MLAs, and combined with the figure of its ally, the Apna Dal (Sonelal), its tally goes up to 319. It can secure 10 out of the 12 MLC positions, while the SP is set to win one.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sp-fields-two-candidates-in-up-mlc-polls/article33572727.ece
14 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||NSA Doval holds talks in Afghanistan||National Security Adviser Ajit Doval held talks on Wednesday with the Afghan leadership in Kabul on the security scenario in Afghanistan, ahead of the arrival of the Biden-Harris administration in Washington DC. The Office of the National Security Council of Afghanistan said in a public announcement that the two sides held “extensive conversations on issues of strategic mutual interest, including on synchronising efforts to combat terrorism and build peace”. Mr. Doval is heading a high-level delegation. He also met with President Ashraf Ghani and Chairman of the High Council for National Reconciliation Abdullah Abdullah. “We exchanged views on the Peace Process, the beginning of 2nd round of [Intra-Afghan] talks, and the role of India in establishing peace in Afghanistan,” Dr. Abdullah Abdullah said on social media. Following Mr. Doval’s meeting with President Ghani, Afghan envoy Tahir Qadiry said the two sides “discussed cooperation in countering terrorism and strengthening a regional consensus on the Afghan peace process”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nsa-doval-holds-talks-in-afghanistan/article33572528.ece
14 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Anganwadis to reopen by January 31: SC||The Supreme Court on Wednesday ordered the States and Union Territories that had not opened anganwadi centres due to the pandemic to decide on opening those located outside containment zones on or before January 31. “As per guidance note dated November 11, 2020 issued by Government of India, Ministry of Women and Child Development, all States/Union Territories which have not yet opened anganwadi centres shall take a decision to open anganwadi centres on or before January 31, 2021 situated outside the containment zone,” a three-judge Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan directed in a judgment. Anganwadis operate under the Integrated Child Development Services Scheme, which started in 1975. The scheme was designed as an early childhood development programme to address health, nutrition and development needs of young children and pregnant and nursing mothers. It got statutory recognition under the National Food Security Act of 2013. The centres were closed during the lockdown. While some States have since reopened them, others have not, despite the lifting of the lockdown. The judgment came on a petition filed by activist Dipika Jagatram Sahani, calling for their immediate reopening. Primary duty “It is the statutory obligation of the Centre and the States to provide for nutritional support to the pregnant women and lactating mothers, nutritional support to children... Government has a constitutional obligation to preserve human life. Good health of its citizens is its primary duty,” the court observed. The court directed the States and UTs that a decision to not open anganwadi centres located outside containment zones should be taken only on the direction of the State Disaster Management Authority concerned. It, however, said centres situated in containment zones would remain shut during the prescribed period of isolation. The court directed States/Union Territories to ensure nutritional standards in these centres as provided under the National Food Security Act, 2013. “All the States/UTs shall issue orders regarding monitoring and supervision of anganwadi centres to ensure that the benefit reaches the beneficiaries and a complaint redressal mechanism be put in place in each district,” the judgment directed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/states-told-to-decide-soon-on-reopening-anganwadis/article33572530.ece
14 January 2021||Kolkata,||Sarada house damaged in Kolkata fire||A major fire broke out in Kolkata Baghbazar slum on Wednesday evening which gutted several shanties. More than 20 fire tenders were rushed to the congested area in north Kolkata to bring the fire under control. The fire also destroyed parts of the residence of Ma Sarada, consort of Ramakrishna Paramhamsa. The monks of the Ramakrishna Mission also took part in putting out the fire. The fire destroyed a part of the slum but no deaths were reported. The enraged residents of the slum vandalised public property, including police vehicles. A few residents and firefighters suffered injuries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sarada-house-damaged-in-kolkata-fire/article33572557.ece
14 January 2021||January 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Festive cheer||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/festive-cheer/article33572506.ece
14 January 2021||New Delhi,||CBFC chief for regulating OTT platforms||OTT (Over-The-Top) platforms such as Netflix, Amazon Prime and others need to be regulated, Chairman of the Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC), Prasoon Joshi, said at a meeting of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information and Technology. The committee, headed by senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor, met on Wednesday on the agenda of holding a review of functioning of the CBFC. Mr. Joshi gave a presentation on the recent reforms made by the CBFC, including cutting down the average time it takes in the certification process. He also said while films which were made available for public viewing in cinema halls were regulated, similar checks and balances were missing for the OTT platforms. The same content in cinema hall had to go through the CBFC, while it did not need any clearance if it was aired on the OTT platforms, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbfc-chief-for-regulating-ott-platforms/article33572511.ece
14 January 2021||Mumbai,||Teltumbde files bail plea in NIA court||Anand Teltumbde, accused in the Bhima Koregaon violence case and lodged at the Taloja Central Jail, filed a bail application on Wednesday before a Special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court, stating that the theory of NIA that he was “waging war or attempting to wage war or abetting others to wage war or incite the public is all humbug.” He has worked with state-owned companies and is a noted Dalit scholar, the plea said. It added, “The investigation agency has not produced any material before the NIA court to show that he is a member of the Communist Party of India (Maoist).”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/teltumbde-files-bail-plea-in-nia-court/article33572521.ece
14 January 2021||KOCHI,||Kerala HC reserves order on teachers’ political activity||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Wednesday reserved its verdict on a batch of public interest writ petitions seeking a ban on aided school teachers participating in political activities. The Bench led by Chief Justice S. Manikumar reserved its verdict after the conclusion of the arguments on the petitions filed by Jibu P. Thomas and others. The petitioners contended that though government school teachers were barred from participating in political activities, including contesting elections, there was no such prohibition on aided school teachers. As per the Kerala Government Servants Conduct Rules, the government school teachers were prohibited from taking part in political activities. The aided school teachers were given political rights as per the Kerala Education Act (KEA) 1951, they said.  The government, however, contended that as per a government order issued in 1967, the teachers of aided schools had been conferred political rights.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-hc-reserves-order-on-teachers-political-activity/article33572912.ece
14 January 2021||Mumbai,||Dhananjay Munde denies rape charge, says he is in relationship with complainant’s sister||Maharashtra Social Justice Minister Dhananjay Munde, who was on Tuesday accused of rape by a woman singer, denied the charge, but admitted that he was having an extramarital affair with the complainant’s sister and they had two children. He said that the duo along with their brother was blackmailing him. In her complaint filed with the Mumbai Police, the singer accused Mr. Munde of sexually harassing her since 2006. She said the leader promised to introduce her in Bollywood claiming to being close to film directors and producers. She said that Mr. Munde “sexually harassed her and had physical relationship with her against her will”. Mr. Munde said in a statement that he had been in a relationship with a woman outside his marriage since 2003. “My family, wife and friends knew. The woman and I have two children to whom I have given my name as a parent in all their documents. Both of them are part of my family,” he said, adding that he has been taking care of the said woman, as well as her brother by helping him in his business. Alleging that the woman, her brother and her sister started blackmailing him in 2019, threatening to make private material public, he said that he had already filed a police complaint and a case was at present being heard at the Bombay High Court. “The present complaint is to blackmail me and pressure me to settle the court case in her sister’s favour of which I have evidence. This is nothing but an attempt to defame, pressure and blackmail me,” he said. The Nationalist Congress Party, to which Mr. Munde belongs, said that it would wait for the outcome of the police probe. According to reports, a woman assistant commissioner of police will be probing the rape  complaint in which an FIR has not yet been filed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dhananjay-munde-denies-rape-charge-says-he-is-in-relationship-with-complainants-sister/article33572526.ece
14 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||ED arrests ex-MP of TMC in Ponzi scam case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has arrested former Trinamool Congress Rajya Sabha member and industrialist K.D. Singh in connection with a Ponzi scam case allegedly involving Alchemist Infra Realty Ltd. The company was accused of collecting over Rs. 1,900 crore from investors through unauthorised means. “Mr. Singh has been arrested in the Alchemist case,” said a senior ED official. The money laundering probe was initiated on the basis of a prosecution complaint filed by the SEBI against the company in March 2016.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-arrests-ex-mp-of-tmc-in-ponzi-scam-case/article33572527.ece
14 January 2021||New Delhi,||SC asks Meghalaya to respond to journalist’s appeal||The Supreme Court on Wednesday sought a response from the Meghalaya government on an appeal by senior journalist and Padma Shri awardee Patricia Mukhim to quash hate crime proceedings against her for a Facebook post.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-asks-meghalaya-to-respond-to-journalists-appeal/article33572556.ece
14 January 2021||LONDON,||Mallya denied permission to appeal in bankruptcy case||Liquor tycoon Vijay Mallya was denied permission on Wednesday to appeal against a U.K. High Court order refusing to dismiss bankruptcy proceedings brought by a consortium of Indian banks in its pursuit of debts related to his now-defunct Kingfisher Airlines. His counsel argued that the bankruptcy petition should be dismissed, as the debt in question was disputed and being deliberated upon in Indian courts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mallya-denied-permission-to-appeal-in-bankruptcy-case/article33572536.ece
14 January 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,||Sabarimala all set for Makaravilakku festival||With only hours left for the Makaravilakku festival to begin at Sabarimala, all arrangements have been completed for its smooth conduct amid COVID-19 restrictions. Purification rituals, including the Bimbasudhi, were performed at the temple under the leadership of Tantri Kandararu Rajeevaru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sabarimala-all-set-for-makaravilakku-festival/article33572828.ece
14 January 2021||Mumbai,||Bombay HC reserves order on Sonu Sood’s plea||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday reserved its order in a plea filed by actor Sonu Sood seeking protection from action by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) against the alleged illegal construction at his residence. A single Bench of Justice Prithviraj Chavan was hearing a plea filed by the actor seeking extension of stay on a notice granted by the City Civil Court and Sessions Court. Mr. Sood challenged the notice issued by the BMC on October 24, 2020 for alleged illegal conversion of residential premises to commercial premises. Advocate Amogh Singh, appearing for Mr. Sood, argued that the schedule of the notice sent by the BMC did not specify which portion was the alleged unauthorised construction. He said the exterior structure had not been changed since 1992 and the BMC could not take any action without passing the order. He added that the trial court could not hold that a speaking order was not necessary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bombay-hc-reserves-order-on-sonu-soods-plea/article33572520.ece
14 January 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||‘74 MoUs envisaging Rs. 61,514-crore investment signed in State’||In the concluding part of an interview with The Hindu ,   Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami highlights various achievements of his government that, he hopes, would help the AIADMK secure a majority in the Assembly election. Edited excerpts:  What do you consider to be your major achievements as Chief Minister, and why? It is the Amma government that has, through a series of steps and legal battles, established Tamil Nadu’s right to Cauvery water, which is the mainstay of the State, and got the Cauvery Water Management Authority and the Cauvery Water Regulation Committee constituted. The Amma government has safeguarded farmers by declaring the Cauvery delta districts a protected agricultural zone in order to allay apprehensions that their land would turn into a desert in the event of the establishment of industries in the Cauvery basin. To help government school students realise their ambition of joining medical courses through the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET), the Amma government has issued an historic order providing them with 7.5% horizontal reservation. As a result, over 400 students joined medical colleges this year. The government is paying fees for their education. Tamil Nadu is the only State to come up with such a measure. Through the ‘kudimaramathu’ scheme, tanks, ponds, and ‘ooranies’ [waterbodies meant for drinking water], where silt had not been cleared for years, were cleaned so that not a drop of rainwater goes waste. The establishment of the Water Resources Conservation and Augmentation Mission, 11 government medical colleges in a year, creation of six districts, a research centre on livestock spread over 1,600 acres at Thalaviasal in Salem district, six new law colleges, 2,000 Amma mini-clinics..., one can go on, mentioning innumerable achievements. It has been nine months since the outbreak of COIVD-19. What key lessons have been learnt by your government from the crisis? Lockdown was enforced to prevent community transmission of COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu. People of the State responded to my appeal — “Be Vigilant, Stay Safe, Stay Home”. To insulate people from the disease, the Amma government, by following proper guidelines truthfully and honestly, took several steps on a war footing. The State government has been conducting RT-PCR tests on 70,000 people every day and accounted for the highest number of persons tested. I have held discussions with Collectors and medical experts on 13 occasions. The Chief Secretary [K. Shanmugam] has conducted 14 meetings with the Collectors. As a result of the monthly consultation meetings and implementation of the measures by the district administrations at the government’s advice, the spread of the disease is much less in Tamil Nadu than in other States. One can notice that the daily tally of fresh cases is now less than 1,000. Besides, after I have gone around Tamil Nadu and held consultations with the Collectors, the spread of the disease has been brought under control. This has also been possible due to the selfless service of doctors, nurses and conservancy workers.   What follow-up action has been taken by your government on the Rangarajan committee report? The committee was constituted to suggest ways to minimise the adverse impact of the pandemic on the State’s economy and livelihood of the people. The committee opined that steps could be taken to improve the livelihood of the people. It is on this basis that I ordered the provision of Rs. 2,500 in cash, along with the usual gift hamper, to help the people celebrate the Pongal festival with gaiety. I would like to mention here that Nobel laureate Abhijit Banerjee, too, advocated cash transfer as the best way of reviving the economy. The government is paying attention to the committee’s recommendations, and follow-up action is being taken by the departments concerned. The finances of the State governments are under severe stress. This year, your government has been forced to borrow heavily, thanks to the pandemic. What kind of support do you expect from the Central government and the RBI to ensure that the States do not face any huge fiscal crisis? The State government has, till now, spent Rs. 7,544 crore on the containment of the spread of COVID-19, treatment and relief. Despite several financial constraints in the last few years, the government has been ensuring that the fiscal deficit is within 3% of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP). The outstanding debt, as a percentage of the GSDP, is expected to be 21.94% in 2021-22 and 21.98% in 2022-23, which will be within the norms of the Tamil Nadu Fiscal Responsibility Act, 2003. The government has been functioning in accordance with its debt-bearing capacity, which is part of fiscal management, and keeping people’s interests in mind. We have made the following requests to the Government of India. Besides permitting the additional borrowings by the States, [the Central government] should provide an aggregate amount of Rs. 1 lakh crore as a special grant to the State governments to combat COVID-19 and its aftermath. This needs to be in addition to the other forms of financial transfers to the States envisaged in the Union Budget, and can be financed by the Government of India borrowings from the Reserve Bank of India. The funds can be distributed in proportion to the size of each State’s GSDP to the national GDP since the expenditure out of this grant will also boost the economy and lead to the revival. I have requested that Tamil Nadu be given a grant of Rs. 9,000 crore under this special dispensation. How many more projects are expected to take off in the next couple of months? Will your government present a White Paper on the investments as demanded by the DMK? This year [2020-21] alone, 74 memoranda of understanding were signed, envisaging an investment of Rs. 61,514 crore and generation of one lakh jobs. Besides, foundation stones were laid for a Rs. 5,000-crore IT park of DLF, a Rs. 1,500-crore Ascendas Radial IT park, a Rs. 250-crore Tidel Park at Pattabiram and a Rs. 250-crore project for an aerohub at Sriperumbudur’s Aerospace Park. The guidelines are being provided by a high-level panel, with myself as the head, which has been continuously reviewing every industrial project. As a result of my direct review of 62 major projects costing Rs. 39,941 crore, clearances have been issued immediately.  Tamil Nadu is the only State to come up with an initiative like the 7.5% horizontal reservation for government school students||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/74-mous-envisaging-rs-61514-crore-investment-signed-in-state/article33572658.ece
14 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Long weekend helps boost Metro ridership and air traffic||Air traffic and ridership of the Chennai Metro has been soaring the last two days, with thousands returning home for the long weekend and to celebrate Pongal with their families. Chennai Metro Rail, which was recording nearly 45,000-46,000 passengers this last month, suddenly saw a spike, with nearly 50,000 passengers using it in the last two days. Two stations in particular — Chennai Central and Chennai Airport — have had more passengers. According to officials of Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL), with nearly 4,700 passengers, Chennai Central saw the highest footfall, followed by Chennai Airport with about 3,600. “The traffic will drastically drop during the long weekend, and on Monday, we will again see a surge in traffic when people return home. After that, there will be the usual average passenger traffic of 45,000-46,000, with regular office-goers and those travelling to transport hubs like the airport and the Central station taking the Metro,” an official said. Stations like Alandur, Thirumangalam, Washermenpet and High Court too saw a marginal increase in ridership, and each had nearly 2,500 passengers taking the Metro these last few days. Similarly, a higher number of flyers arrived and departed from the Chennai airport in the last few days. From a passenger traffic of 18,000-19,000 people, the airport’s footfall rose to 24,000-25,000 in the last two days. Officials of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) said that apart from major cities like Delhi, Mumbai and Hyderabad, whose flights usually get a good number of passengers, flights to destinations like Madurai, Coimbatore, Bhubaneswar and Jodhpur too were running almost full. “As we are permitting more flights, the traffic has been going up slowly. Since we have a long weekend, we have been seeing a sudden surge in passenger traffic,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/long-weekend-helps-boost-metro-ridership-and-air-traffic/article33572654.ece
14 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||19 districts report fewer than 10 cases each||As many as 19 districts recorded fewer than 10 cases of COVID-19, even as 673 persons tested positive for the infection in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday. While Perambalur continued to report nil fresh cases, Chennai, for the second consecutive day, recorded less than 200 cases. The number of samples tested crossed 1.50 crore. As many as 62,683 samples were tested in 24 hours, taking the total figure to 1,50,08,259. The new cases took the State’s overall tally to 8,28,287. As many as 821 persons were discharged after treatment, taking the total number of recoveries to 8,09,392. Six more persons succumbed to the infection, taking the toll to 12,242. A total of 6,653 persons are currently undergoing treatment. In Chennai, 192 persons (including an imported case) tested positive for the infection and two persons died. Coimbatore reported 71 cases, while Chengalpattu had 55 cases. There were 32 cases in Tiruvallur and 30 in Salem. Districts including Cuddalore, Nagapattinam, Ranipet, Theni, Thoothukudi and Virudhunagar reported fewer than 10 cases each. All six persons who died had co-morbidities. Till date, 26 U.K. returnees and 20 of their contacts have tested positive for the infection. Sixteen primary and an equal number of contact cases tested negative on follow-up RT-PCR sample testing. They were discharged and kept under home quarantine. Covaxin arrives The State has received 20,000 doses of Covaxin, a COVID-19 vaccine developed by Bharat Biotech. The vaccines were stored at the State Vaccine Store in Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/19-districts-report-fewer-than-10-cases-each/article33572665.ece
14 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin promises to waive farm and jewel loans, if voted to power||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Wednesday promised waiving of farm and jewel loans if his party was elected to power after the Assembly elections. “When the DMK was elected to power in 2006, our leader Kalaignar (M.Karunanidhi) signed the files for waiving Rs. 7,000 crore co-operative loans on the day of swearing-in. We will come to power in four months and I promise cancellation of farm loans,” he said while participating in Pongal celebrations in Natham panchayat in Tiruvallur district. Recalling his party’s promise in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls that jewel loans up to five sovereigns would be waived [if Congres-led government was formed at the Centre], Mr Stalin said that promise also would be fulfilled. Land ceiling Act He said the DMK government had always safeguarded the interests of farmers and one of its major contributions was enacting the land ceiling Act that benefited lakhs of farmers in the State. “Communist leader Manali Kandasamy organised a meeting to felicitate Kalaignar for the order. He said Kalaignar had achieved through the means of ink when we (communists) could not do through blood-drenched struggles,” he said. Mr. Stalin said his party was not satisfied with the order of the Supreme Court staying the farm legislations and constituting a committee.  “Farmers are firm that they would protest till the legislations are withdrawn. We stand by the farmers. Now a committee has been formed. But farmers felt that it will not get them justice. We also agree with their sentiments,” he said. Mr. Stalin said while all political parties were against the farm laws, only Tamil Nadu Chief Minister was claiming that they would benefit the farmers. “He is betraying the interests of farmers even though he claims that he is also a farmer,” he charged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-promises-farm-and-jewel-loan-waiver/article33572686.ece
14 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||District panels to monitor reopening of schools||The Tamil Nadu government issued an order for the reopening of schools for Classes 10 and 12 from January 19, with the maximum strength of 25 students a class and in strict adherence to the Standard Operating Procedure. Hostels have also been permitted to function. The Standard Operating Procedure, issued after Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami made the announcement recently, specifies that students who wish to attend online classes and not in-person classes may be permitted to do so wherever online classes are conducted. Students can attend in-person classes only with the written consent of their parents, and attendance must not be enforced. Students who wish to study at home with the consent of their parents will be allowed to do so. Schools shall work for six days a week to cover the syllabus. Masks must be worn by the students and the staff members on and outside the campus. In a letter to the Collectors, School Education Secretary Dheeraj Kumar said Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam had ordered the formation of district coordination committees, with officers drawn from related departments, to monitor the activities ahead of the reopening. The Collectors have also been asked to ensure that health camps are conducted at all schools and that vitamin and zinc tablets are provided to studenys by the Health Department. The staff members of primary health centres and government hospitals have been asked to be on alert in case of students or teachers needing treatment. The Collectors have also been asked to ensure that schools are cleaned and disinfected daily. Maintaining cleanliness and hygiene in the distribution of noon meals needs to be monitored in compliance with the protocol issued by the Social Welfare Department. Sufficient public transport facilities for students to travel to school and the functioning of government and private hospitals in compliance with the rules must be ensured. On Wednesday, officials of the School Education Department held virtual meetings with the school heads to brief them of the measures to be implemented on their campuses. Director of School Education S. Kannappan said officials briefed the principals of the guidelines laid down in the Standard Operating Procedure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/district-panels-to-monitor-reopening-of-schools/article33572660.ece
14 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Cancel public hearing on port expansion’||MDMK general secretary Vaiko on Wednesday demanded that the public hearing on January 22 for the proposal to expand the Kattupalli Port be cancelled as enough time had not been given to the public to learn about the project. Besides, thousands of people assembling in one place during the COVID-19 pandemic was not advisable. Mr. Vaiko said if the meeting was not cancelled, he and other environmental activists would take part in the hearing. In a statement, Mr. Vaiko said Adani Ports had planned to expand the port from 330 acres to 6,110 acres and had applied for a no-objection certificate and submitted an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) report as well. “This project will cause harm to the environment and also to the livelihood of the fisherfolk in the region. Of the 6,110 acres, 2,291 acres belong to the people, 1,515 belong to TIDCO [Tamil Nadu Industrial Development Corporation] and 1,967 acres will be the coastal area. Due to this, mounds of earth will be dumped on 2,000 acres of wetland spread over 6 km. This will cause irreversible damage to the environment,” he said. According to him, if the expansion project was implemented, the quantity of fish would dwindle, the livelihoods of more than 1 lakh Tamil-Andhra fishermen living in Abrahamapuram, Kalanji, Karungali, Kaatoor, Vayalur, Kaatupallikuppam and 82 other villages would be affected. “Already, the distance between the sea and the shore in Ennore, which was earlier a few kilometres away, has shrunk to just a few hundred metres due to the construction of the Kamarajar Port. There is only an 8 km distance between Kaatupalli Port and Pazhaverkadu now. If the expansion project is allowed, whatever is left of the sea will erode,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cancel-public-hearing-on-port-expansion/article33572682.ece
14 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Invasive fungal disease a symptom of COVID-19, say doctors||Although the loss of smell and taste are among the most common symptoms of COVID-19, doctors are now seeing a number of patients coming in with an invasive fungal infection. While doctors have been reporting a number of post-COVID manifestations in patients, ENT specialists are seeing a surge of COVID-19 patients — especially diabetic patients, the elderly and those with immuno-suppressed conditions — with an invasive fungal infection of the sinuses, which gradually enters the eyes and the brain. “We are seeing an invasive fungal disease. Mucor is a very aggressive fungus. Patients with diabetes or immuno-compromised conditions are coming in with this complication. The fungus invades the sinuses and goes into the orbit and the brain. This could be lethal,” said Mohan Kameswaran, managing director of the Madras ENT Research Foundation. The disease had been seen from March, but doctors were now treating patients with these symptoms at least five to six times more, he added. “The problem is that it spreads like wildfire to the skull base and then impacts the brain. This is seen not only in patients with uncontrolled diabetes, but also in patients with moderate and mild diabetes. In other cases, COVID-19 may have interfered with the immunity, or the ability to fight against lethal diseases,” Mr. Kameswaran said. Venkatakarthikeyan C., consultant ENT head and neck, skull base surgery, Apollo Hospitals, said they had also treated such patients recently. “This is the worst category that we have seen among patients who test positive for COVID-19. They come in with complains of double vision, decreased vision, complete loss of vision, altered sensorium, facial swelling and palatal erosion. If a patient has facial swelling or symptoms that impact the eyes, it is important to consult an ENT doctor as soon as possible,” he said. These symptoms usually present themselves a few weeks after a patient tests positive for COVID-19. He said a reason for this could be either due to diabetes or because the COVID-19 infection itself has altered a patient’s immunity, possibly due to a high dosage of steroids. Patients with other conditions, including renal failure or those undergoing chemotherapy, could also be affected.  Three-fold approach The symptoms included a decrease or a blurring of the vision, the bleeding of the nose and a persistent nasal obstruction. “We take a three-fold approach to treat such patients. We try to reverse the immuno-compromised condition, including trying to control blood sugar levels in case of diabetes or stopping the intake of high-dose steroids. We need to reverse the immuno-compromised status, confirm if it is a fungal infection and then do an aggressive operation in which we debride as much unhealthy tissues as possible. Simultaneously, we start the patients on anti-fungal medications. The prognosis is good if a patient comes in as soon as the sinuses are involved,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/invasive-fungal-disease-a-symptom-of-covid-19-say-doctors/article33572661.ece
14 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Strong north easterlies helped in better visibility, says IMD||A layer of smog hovered over the city in the early hours of Wednesday due to Bhogi celebrations. However, cloudy skies and strong north easterlies helped improve visibility, early, in many areas, according to the Meteorological Department. While shallow fog was observed for a short period between 7.10 a.m. and 8 a.m., the horizontal visibility, reported over the Chennai airport, Meenambakkam, was up to 1,000 m, on Wednesday, unlike the previous years, when visibility in the early morning of Bhogi would drop to even 50 m. Officials of the Department said normally, clear skies during the night, in January, helped in the formation of radiation fog. However, this time, cloudy skies prevented dense fog. B. Amudha, scientist-E and in-charge of the Aerodrome Meteorological Office, Meenambakkam, said the horizontal visibility, observed through polar diagrams for the Chennai airport, between 7 a.m. and 8 a.m., was 1,000 m. Visibility improved after 8 a.m. “This year, calm winds prevailed only for a short duration, between 2 a.m. and 6 a.m. on Wednesday, and strong north easterlies, due to the Northeast monsoon spillover, kept night temperatures on the warmer side, at 25 degrees Celsius in Meenambakkam. Winds also helped dissipate mist quicker,” she said. On January 14 (Bhogi) last year, visibility reduced to the lowest, at 150 m, at 7.15 a.m., she recalled. The Department has also forecast that wet weather, over south coastal areas and places along the Western Ghats, is likely to prevail till January 16. However, intense rain may ease out, and dry weather may return from Sunday. N. Puviarasan, director, Area Cyclone Warning Centre, Chennai, said light to moderate rain was likely to occur over south coastal and delta districts and areas along the Western Ghats, till Friday. This month will be one of the wettest January for the State. Tamil Nadu, so far, has received an average of 11 cm of rain, which is 966% more than its monthly share.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/strong-north-easterlies-helped-in-better-visibility-says-imd/article33572673.ece
14 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Acquisition of Jaya’s residence is in public interest: govt. to HC||The State government has stoutly denied the charge of absence of any public interest in acquiring former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s residence Veda Nilayam at Poes Garden, Chennai, for the purpose of converting it into a memorial. In a counter affidavit to a case filed by her legal heir and niece J. Deepa, Acquisition Officer N. Lakshmi said conversion of residences of popular leaders into government memorials was a worldwide practice and not a new phenomenon. “Apart from being a beacon of inspiration to residents of Tamil Nadu, the proposed memorial... will also serve as a tourist attraction. Therefore, the acquisition should be considered as falling within the meaning of public purpose,” she said. The officer also relied upon a couple of Supreme Court verdicts to claim that the definition of the term ‘public purpose’ was extensive in nature. Accusing Ms. Deepa of trying to espouse her private interest in the property over public interest, the Acquisition Officer urged the court to dismiss her writ petition challenging the award of Rs. 67.90 crore deposited with the City Civil Court in Chennai. The officer said the guideline value of Rs. 12,060 per sq.ft was adopted to determine the compensation. Though the acquisition proceedings had commenced in October 2017 much before the petitioner and her brother J. Deepak were declared legal heirs by the High Court in May 2020, the officer said there was no necessity to redo the entire exercise from scratch. Pointing out that public notices were issued at every stage of the proceedings and that a public hearing was also conducted on January 2, 2019, the officer said Mr. Deepak too had submitted his objections but they were rejected by the Collector on January 22, 2020. After the siblings were declared legal heirs, notices were issued to them under Section 21(1) of the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act of 2013 to make claims for compensation. Ms. Deepa’s husband K. Madhavan, Mr. Deepak’s counsel S.L. Sudarsanam and Deputy Commissioner of Income Tax Ajay Robin Singh appeared for inquiry before the Acquisition Officer on July 3, 2020 and it was claimed by the latter that Jayalalithaa had IT dues. The siblings had only insisted on conducting the acquisition proceedings afresh, and the issue was referred to the City Civil Court and the compensation was also deposited over there on July 22. Since then, “the property vests with the Government free from all encumbrances,” the Acquisition Officer claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/acquisition-of-jayas-residence-is-in-public-interest-govt-tells-hc/article33572684.ece
14 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Archaeological excavations set to begin in seven more sites||Encouraged by the archaeological findings in Keeladi that testified the existence of an ancient urban Tamil civilisation, the Department of Archaeology in the State has decided to launch excavations in seven more sites and field studies in two places. “The Central Advisory Board for Archaeology [CABA] granted permission for the projects on January 5. This is the first time that the State will have more than 10 excavation projects by different agencies, including the State Archaeology Department and various universities,” said T. Udayachandran, Principal Secretary and Commissioner of the Department. The Tamil Nadu government has allocated Rs. 3 crore this year to carry out excavations in the State. Excavations would be carried out in Keeladi and its surrounding areas in Sivaganga district; Adichanallur and its surrounding areas; Sivakalai and its surrounding areas; Korkai and its surrounding areas in Thoothukudi district; Kodumanal in Erode district; Mayiladumparai in Krishnagiri district; and Gangaikondacholapuram and Maligaimedu in Ariyalur district, Mr. Udayachandran said. Field studies would also be conducted to find new stone age sites in Krishnagiri, Vellore, Dharmapuri, Tiruvannamalai and Salem districts. Another field study would be done in Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi districts to find out more about the Thamiraparani river civilisation. A milestone “The excavations and field studies are a milestone in the efforts to restore the ancient cultural greatness of Tamil through scientific methods,” Mr. Udayachandran said. Besides the excavations and studies, proposals for excavations by universities, other departments and agencies, had also been sent to CABA, he added. The Sharma Centre for Heritage Education had sought permission for an excavation project at Chenrayanpalayam in Tiruvallur district, while the Alagappa University had proposed a project at Ilanthakarai in Sivaganga district. The Tamil University had also submitted a proposal for Moolapalayam in Coimbatore district, the University of Madras at Vasalai in Vellore district and the Tamil Nadu Open University at Porpanaikottai in Pudukkottai. Mr. Udayachandran said there was a renewed interest in archaeology and culture in the State, and the new excavations would help showcase the pluralist culture of Tamil Nadu to the world.  This is the first time that the State will have more than 10 excavation projects by different agencies||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/excavations-set-to-begin-in-seven-more-sites/article33572677.ece
14 January 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Those uploading obscene content warned||City Police Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal on Wednesday warned of stringent action against those uploading and circulating obscene content, pertaining to women, on social media. The warning by the Commissioner follows the arrest of three YouTubers, who ran a channel on the network, harassing women in public.  Azem Badshah, 23, the anchor of a city-based YouTube channel, its cameraman K. Ajai Babu, 23, and the owner, M. Dinesh, 31, were arrested by the police. When Babu and Badshah were shooting a video, asking uncomfortable questions to women at the Elliot’s Beach, a fisherwoman opposed this. The duo then threatened and verbally abused her. An interrogation revealed that the men asked malicious questions to women, at beaches, and uploaded their reactions on YouTube. Mr. Aggarwal said, “We will not allow obscene content on women on YouTube. Those running such channels on social media should delete them.” “If such content continues to be circulated, we will take action against those uploading them,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/those-uploading-obscene-content-warned/article33572671.ece
14 January 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Three held for possessing drugs||Police attached to the Royapettah station arrested three persons for possessing methamphetamine, a narcotic drug, for the purpose of sale. The accused were identified as A. Azharuddin, 36, of Chepauk; Siddiq Ahamed, 33, of Triplicane, and Abdul Jalani, 19, from Sivagangai district. Following a tip-off, a special team of the police rounded them, after they were seen roaming around, suspiciously, on Lloyds Road. The police have seized 55 g of methamphetamine and three mobile phones from the suspects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-held-for-possessing-drugs/article33572672.ece
14 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Old world charm wafts out from letters||The Chettinadu region has always patronised classical music and musicians. Weddings, temple festivals and other functions featured the concerts of the best musicians of the time. A treasure trove of letters written by musicians themselves reveals interesting details of the remuneration for their performance. “I collect old magazines, stamps and books and found these letters among them. The Chettiar families normally keep these letters tagged with their response as records,” said an antiques dealer who wishes to be anonymous. The oldest letter in the collection was written by nagaswaram player P.S. Rathinam, who had arranged a performance of a ‘chinna melam’ (Bharatanatyam troupe) in 1931. He had informed the organisers that the troupe would perform only if it was paid Rs. 300 and not Rs. 250. Nagaswaram maestro Rajarathinam Pillai had requested Rs. 350 for a concert in 1935. “I will play for both the wedding and procession of the deity from the temple. In fact, the amount is very less,” he had said in a letter. Andankoil A.V. Karuppaiah Pillai, another nagaswaram player of great repute, had informed an organiser in 1945 that his minimum rate was Rs. 200. Organisers of concerts by Karukurichi P. Arunachalam would have to pay a princely sum of Rs. 1,000 in 1955. “If you are ready to pay the amount, I will perform,” Arunachalam had written to K.A. Angamuthu Mudaliar, secretary of the Hindu Traders’ Association at Karaikudi. M.M. Dhandapani Desikar had written to Angamuthu Mudaliar in 1961. He wanted Rs. 1,001 for himself and his troupe, including a violinist, a mridangam player and a kanjira player. Vocalist and playback singer Sirkazhi Govindarajan had also written to Angamuthu Mudaliar, expressing his willingness to perform at an event to mark the Tamil New Year in 1961. In his letter to Natarajan Chettiyar in 1964, Madurai Mani Iyer had said he would reach Karaikudi with violinist M.S. Gopalakrishnan and mridangam player Umayalpuram Sivaraman. “Book rooms in the municipality rest-house. For me, book a big room with an attached bathroom,” he had said in the letter, written by T.S. Vembu Iyer on his behalf. In 1960, clarinet maestro A.K.C. Natarajan had written to Rajamanickam Chettiyar at Karaikudi, recommending Kumbakonam K.A. Thangavel Pillai for the thavil accompaniment. Nagaswaram player Thiruvidaimarudur P.S. Veerusami Pillai had told the organisers to book Nachiyarkoil Raghava Pillai or someone else as special thavil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/old-world-charm-wafts-out-from-letters/article33572688.ece
14 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Amusement park near historic monument cause for concern||A temporary amusement park that has come up near Arjuna’s Penance, a historic monument at Mamallapuram in Chengalpattu district, has become a cause of concern among archaeology and heritage enthusiasts. Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) officials said they have informed local authorities to remove the makeshift amusement park. Though the temporary set-up was located on the other side of the road adjacent to the monument, the amusement park, with multiple rides aimed at attracting tourists, was situated only a few metres away from Arjuna’s Penance in the historic coastal town.  “This is our heritage. We are lucky to have it in this part of the country where the whole world can see and realise our heritage. It is disappointing to see such recreational activities so close to the monument and at the cost of its safety,” said a frequent visitor to Mamallapuram and an archaeology enthusiast, on condition of anonymity. He also said Section 20(A) of the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 1958, prohibits the carrying out of public works or other activities in prohibited areas, which extends to a distance of 100 m from such monuments. “The motors used there are not the ones we see in places like Marina beach, but the ones we see used at trade fairs for heavy equipment. Authorities should not allow this,” he added. However, the Superintending Archaeologist at ASI, P.S. Sriraman, said there was no threat to the monument. “The monument has been carved from one of the hardest materials on earth. The vibrations will not do anything to the monument, which is far away.” But he said those running the temporary amusement park had not taken permission from the authorities and had not undertaken any safety measures. “They [the operators] have not taken any permission... We have already informed the local body authorities that it should be removed from there. They cannot make it permanent.” “Although it is private land and they have every right to do whatever they want, it is not good for the area,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/amusement-park-near-monument-a-cause-of-concern/article33572675.ece
14 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Gold, iPhones, cigarettes worth Rs. 85 lakh seized||Two persons were arrested at the Chennai airport and 1.42 kg of gold, iPhones, cigarettes and liquor worth Rs. 85 lakh seized from them by the Chennai Air Customs. Syed Ibrahim Gani and Shahul Hameed, who came from Sharjah, were arrested for hiding 1.29 kg of gold, in the form of paste, and carrying gold chain weighing 60 g, three gold-cut bits, 44 cartons of Gudang Garam cigarettes, eleven iPhone 12 Pro, eight laptops and eight liquor bottles, said a release.  Syed Ibrahim Gani and Shahul Hameed, who came from Sharjah, were arrested||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gold-iphones-cigarettes-worth-rs-85-lakh-seized/article33572650.ece
14 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two BJP functionaries arrested for creating ruckus at eatery||Personnel attached to the Ice House police station on Wednesday arrested two BJP functionaries for creating a ruckus at an eatery and threatening its owner when money was demanded from them. Police sources said three persons came on motorcycles to the eatery, run by Sayad Abubucker, 50, on Muthiya Street, under Ice House police station limits. It was closing time by the time they reached on Monday night. The three, who were inebriated, asked staff at the eatery to serve them food. When they refused, since the shop was closed, the men started a quarrel. Following this, the staff served them food. However, after having finished eating, they refused to pay the bill and threatened Mr. Abubukcer. They also threatened to call the personal assistant of Union Home Minister Amit Shah and trigger a communal riot. A video of them creating ruckus went viral on social media, and on a complaint from Mr. Abubucker, police attached to the Ice House station registered a case and arrested Baskaran, 30, and Purushothaman, 32. The police have launched a manhunt to nab Surya, who is absconding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-bjp-functionaries-arrested-for-creating-ruckus-at-eatery/article33572647.ece
14 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CRS to hold inspection of MRTS extension project by Feb. end||The Commissioner of Railway Safety (CRS), Southern Circle, Bengaluru, is expected to inspect the MRTS extension project by the end of February. The extension project, from Velachery to St. Thomas Mount, has been delayed for several years due to an issue pertaining to the acquisition of land, for 500 m, between St. Thomas Mount and Adambakkam railway stations. Track inspection The Chennai division, having almost completed all railway infrastructure works at the Puzhuthivakkam and Adambakkam railway stations, will also be approaching CRS, Southern Circle, Bengaluru, for conducting a track inspection, by the end of February, for issuance of a completion certificate. Southern Railway officials said track inspection by the CRS had been planned for the end of February, to make the two railway stations operational. Railway infrastructure works, including signalling, tracks and station construction works, had been completed at the Puzhuthivakkam railway station, while works are in progress in Adambakkam, the officials added. Regarding plans of the Railways to operate shuttle or direct services from the Adambakkam railway station, the officials said any decision on the same would be made only after receiving a completion certificate. The Southern Railway is also hopeful that land acquisition for 500 m, which has been hanging fire for several years, will be completed by the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA), for linking the Velachery station with the St. Thomas Mount station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/crs-to-inspect-mrts-extension-project-by-end-of-next-month/article33572652.ece
14 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Gokula Indira clarifies on reference to Sasikala||Former Minister and the AIADMK organisation secretary Gokula Indira on Wednesday said her allusion to V.K. Sasikala, former interim general secretary of the party, during an agitation in Chennai, had “no political motive.” She was responding to a query from The Hindu whether her reference could be construed as an attempt to work for the coming together of the AIADMK, Sasikala and the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK). She replied in the negative. Explaining that she held a stir in Anna Nagar against reported observations of Udhayanidhi Stalin, DMK’s youth wing leader, about the conduct of Chief Minister Edappadi K.Palaniswami at the time of his election as legislature party leader four years ago, the former Minister pointed out that she did not mention Sasikala by her name. “What I said was that she remained an aide of Amma [Jayalalithaa] who led a life of austerity.” The protest was meant to decry the “attitude” of the DMK functionary as his remarks sought to “denigrate” women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gokula-indira-clarifies-on-reference-to-sasikala/article33572703.ece
14 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vasan calls on CM||Tamil Manila Congress founder and former Union Minister G.K. Vasan called on Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami at the latter’s camp office. Mr. Vasan’s party is part of the AIADMK-led alliance in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vasan-calls-on-cm/article33573151.ece
14 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||13 arrested for selling fake food products||The city police have arrested 13 persons for selling fake products, in the name of a food products’ supplier brand. They were operating from various parts of the city, including Tambaram, Chromepet, MGR Nagar, Kannagi Nagar and Sankar Nagar. The management of Laljee Godhoo (LG) and Co. received information that a few shopkeepers were stocking fake asafoetida products, in the firm’s name, and selling them to customers. A representative of the firm complained to the city police. Police attached to the MGR Nagar station arrested B. Kannan, 48, and seized 113 kg of asafoetida, in containers with fake labels, from him. Similarly, S. Rajendran, 53, was arrested by police from the Chromepet station, and 100 kg of fake goods was seized from him. Eleven others were arrested separately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/13-arrested-for-selling-fake-food-products/article33572646.ece
14 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IIIT Sri City offers grants to start ups||The Indian Institute of Information Technology, Sri City, has called for applications from students and graduates to develop their ideas into products, at its incubator. The institute is providing two options — entrepreneur-in-residence (EiR) and a grants programme. The EiR programme is open to those who can develop and validate their ideas into a proof of concept. It will allow entrepreneurs to work from the ‘Gyan circle venture (GCV)’ incubator. Each entrepreneur will get Rs. 4 lakh as EiR support, based on a review of their work. The grants programme offers support to nascent start ups with definite proof of concept. The start ups will each receive a maximum of Rs. 7 lakh grant, based on a review to create a minimum viable product to enable them to enter into the market stage. GCV will also provide mentorship and guidance. Applications received before January 19 will be considered for the next round of selection. For details, visitiiits.ac.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iiit-sri-city-offers-grants-to-start-ups/article33572648.ece
14 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Meetings to mark MGR’s birth anniversary||The All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) will hold a series of public meetings across the State to mark the birth anniversary of its founder and former Chief Minister M.G. Ramachandran from January 17 to 19. On Sunday, Deputy Chief Minister and party coordinator O. Panneerselvam will address a meeting to be organised by party’s unit looking after the suburban areas of Chennai and on Tuesday (January 19), Chief Minister and the party co-coordinator, Edappadi K. Palaniswami will speak at an event to be held by the south Chennai-northwest unit of the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/meetings-to-mark-mgrs-birth-anniversary/article33572782.ece
14 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Film trailer attacks party, claims NTK||The Naam Tamilar Katchi (NTK) has taken exception to the trailer of actor Vijay Sethupathi’s Thuglak Darbar , contending that a political character played by actor Parthiban had been modelled after party chief coordinator Seeman. NTK functionaries said posters of the film featuring the character, Rasiman, played by actor Parthiban, were identical to the party’s posters. Party spokesperson Idumbavanam Karthik said, “The name [Rasiman] is phonetically similar and the party flag and colours are also similar to ours. Though we respect the freedom of speech and expression of the filmmakers, we feel that this attack on us is needless,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/film-trailer-attacks-party-claims-ntk/article33572767.ece
14 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vasan calls on Chief Minister||Tamil Manila Congress founder and former Union Minister G.K. Vasan called on Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami at the latter’s camp office. The Rajya Sabha member is part of the alliance led by the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vasan-calls-on-chief-minister/article33572681.ece
14 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 vaccine vials for districts reach Coimbatore||A consignment of 73,200 vials of Covishield vaccine allotted for four districts reached Coimbatore on Wednesday. The consignment contained 40,600 vials for Coimbatore, 13,800 for Erode, 13,500 for Tiruppur and 5,300 for the Nilgiris districts. Deputy Director of Health Services G. Ramesh Kumar and other senior officials received the vaccine consignment which came from Chennai by road. Special vehicles According to Mr. Kumar, vials allotted for other districts were sent in special vehicles. The 40,600 vials received for Coimbatore district will be stored in 107 cold chain points. There are 10 vaccination centres in the district namely the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital, PSG Hospitals, Karpagam Medical College Hospital, Kovai Medical Center and Hospita; government hospitals at Mettupalayam, Pollachi, and Sulur,and the primary health centres at Nallatipalayam and Karamadai. On the inaugural day on January 16, a total of 500 health workers will be administered the vaccine in five centres, with each centre vaccinating 100 workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-vaccine-vials-for-districts-reach-coimbatore/article33572697.ece
14 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Union Budget: industries submit demands||With just a few more days for the Union budget, industries in Coimbatore and Tiruppur districts have submitted their demands to the government. The Southern India Mills' Association has sought allocation of Rs. 9,000 crore for the Technology Upgradation Fund Scheme. Of this, nearly Rs. 6000 crore is needed to meet the committed liabilities under earlier versions of the scheme. "Since the industry is on path to recovery, necessary fund allocation and speedy disbursal of the subsidy will not only support the industry but will also help the Indian economy to grow at a faster rate," it said. It also sought working capital for the mills to buy cotton and creation of a National Textiles Fund. This will help meet the financial needs of textile units for infrastructure creation and technology adoption. The association pointed out that bamboo fibres can be basically compared with viscose fibres as the source of raw material is nearly the same. Bamboo fibre is made of bamboo pulp and viscose is made of wood or eucalyptus pulp. Based on this factual criteria, the imported bamboo fibre has been classified by the Customs Department under Tariff Headings 5504 9090 or 5504 1000. Due to the absence of a specific entry for the Bamboo Fibre in the Customs Tariff Act, 1975, the importers were directed to clear the product as artificial staple fibre. Hence, a specific code is needed for bamboo fibre, it said. The Tiruppur Exporters Association has appealed to the government to support development of housing facilities for workers. If the industries invest in developing housing for the workers, it should be treated as allowable business expenditure similar to Section 37 of the Income Tax Act. Since research and development is essential for Tiruppur to develop further, the government should set up a research and development centre and incentivise such efforts of individual units. All units should benefit under the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee scheme, irrespective of the size of the unit. The Coimbatore District Small Industries Association (CODISSIA) has asked the government to come out with an MSME policy, treating the units as priority sector. The main challenge for the MSMEs is prices of raw materials and hence the government should take steps to bring the prices to pre-COVID levels. The NSIC warehouses should be open to MSMEs to store the finished products. The Southern India Engineering Manufacturers Association (SIEMA) said pumpsets should be classified as essential agricultural machinery as these are used on agricultural lands for irrigation. The deductions permitted on scientific expenditure has been reduced to 100% from 200%. It should be restored to 200 % and the process simplified so that the units get the DSIR approval easily. The Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme should be revised to provide loans upto 40 % of the sanctioned limit and the interest rate should be 7.5%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/union-budget-industries-submit-demands/article33572808.ece
14 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||MNM releases agenda for industry||Makkal Needhi Maiam president Kamal Hasaan on Wednesday unveiled his party’s agenda for the industrial sector. At a press meet in Coimbatore, he said the MNM would set up a ‘Ministry of Possibilities’ if voted to power. “A Ministry of Possibilities will be established to cater to science and technology, start-ups and innovation to give a fillip to the industrial revolution 4.0,” the agenda read. The other promises in the agenda were an industry-integrated approach, encouragement to MSMEs, development of less-developed regions in the State, strengthening of unorganised labourers, skill development parks in every district and a new business facilitation model. The integrated approach aimed at organising a quarterly summit of government, industry, academia and civil society representatives to act as a think tank for the Chief minister. The encouragement to MSMEs would ensure enough liquidity, development of lesser developed regions would work towards incentivising big industries to set up offices in those regions. For the labour in the unorganised sector, he promised pensions, insurance cover and job safety. Mr. Haasan promised to elaborate on his agenda in the run-up the 2021 Assembly election.  ‘Will contest the poll’ Later, responding to questions, Mr. Haasan said he would definitely contest the election but was yet to decide on his constituency. Welcoming the Supreme Court stay on the Centre’s farm laws, he said though the farmers’ associations had refused to talk to the court-constituted committee, at least a beginning had been made for dialogue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mnm-releases-agenda-for-industry/article33572824.ece
14 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Five HMK cadre held||City Police on Wednesday arrested five Hindu Makkal Katchi cadre (HMK) after they attempted to burn books on Periyar and his atheistic ideology. According to sources, the police arrested Prasanna Swamiji, State vice-president, Sulur Karthik, Ganapathy Ravi, ‘Lunch’ Ravi and another person as they attempted to burn a few books at Prasanna Swamiji’s residence. The burning of books was in response to a call given by the Hindu outfit to burn Periyar and Dravidar Kazhagm books on Boghi as a symbolic gesture to get rid of “old, regressive thoughts that had hampered the State’s growth,” said its leader Arjun Sampath. Condemning the arrest, he said the police arresting the five for an act that happened in a private place was unwarranted and exposed the Tamil Nadu Police’s duplicitous stand. When anti-Hindu activities took place in Dravidar Kazhgam headquarters, the Chennai City Police had failed to act saying it took place in a private building.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-hmk-cadre-held/article33572690.ece
14 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Palakkad Division of Southern Railway creates record in ballast cleaning||Palakkad Division of Southern Railway on Monday completed ballast cleaning of 1.06 km railway track in the 'A' line between Podanur and Mudukkarai in the Coimbatore - Palakkad section by blocking traffic in a single block of six-and-a-half hours. This is considered the best-ever performance of the division in ballast cleaning in recent years. Trilok Kothari, Divisional Railway Manager, Palakkad congratulated the engineering team for the performance at the Divisional Safety Meeting held on Tuesday. Ballast cleaning is one of the planned track maintenance work taken up by the Railways to ensure a safe and comfortable journey to the passengers. This also improves the elasticity of the track. Three advanced track maintenance machines were engaged for the work. To facilitate the work, 15 railway staff and 10 contract staff were deployed, a release said. Re-laying complete track, re-laying of rails/ sleepers and replacing of track fittings are the other major maintenance works taken up by the Railways, in addition to the daily track inspection and repair work. In this financial year, the division completed 28.682 km of Complete Track Renewal, 68.271 km of Through Rail Renewal and 70.729 km ballast cleaning apart from other maintenance works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/palakkad-division-of-southern-railway-creates-record-in-ballast-cleaning/article33572693.ece
14 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||BJP farmers’ wing to organise Pongal fest||The farmers’ wing of Bharatiya Janata Party will organise Pongal festival on a 10-acre land at Arasur on Avanashi Road on Saturday. A release said exhibition of cows, bulls, rekhla vehicles and agricultural products, besides mangala isai, pongal worship, pujas for cows and presentation of folk arts form part of the event. Apart from these, competitions and felicitation of organic farmers will be held. BJP State president L. Murugan will be the chief guest, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-farmers-wing-to-organise-pongal-fest/article33572694.ece
14 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Case against Kalaignar TV, DMK leader||The Kottoor police have registered a case against Kalaignar TV, its news anchor Saravanan, DMK's Coimbatore south district president 'Thendral' Selvaraj and his son 'Thendral' Manimaran on charges of exposing the name of a survivor in the Pollachi sexual assault case and her brother. According to the police, Kalaignar TV aired a debate about the Pollachi sexual assault on January 6 following the arrest of three more accused in the case. A statement issued by the police said that Mr. Selvaraj exposed the name of a survivor and her brother. The Kottoor police registered a case against Mr. Selvaraj, his son Manimaran, who shared the TV show on social media, news anchor Saravanan and Kalaignar TV based on the complaint lodged by the survivor's brother.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/case-against-kalaignar-tv-dmk-leader/article33572678.ece
14 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||TV channel, DMK leader booked for exposing name of sexual assault victim||The Kottoor police in Coimbatore rural have registered a case against Kalaignar TV, its news anchor Saravanan, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam's Coimbatore south district president ‘Thendral’ Selvaraj and his son ‘Thendral’ Manimaran on charges of exposing the name of a survivor in the Pollachi sexual assault case and that of her brother. According to police, Kalaignar TV aired on January 6 a debate on the assault after the arrest of three more accused in the case. A statement issued by the rural police said that Mr. Selvaraj exposed the name of a survivor and her brother. The Kottoor police near Pollachi registered a case against Mr. Selvaraj, his son Manimaran who shared the TV show in social media, news anchor Saravanan and Kalaignar TV based on the complaint lodged by the survivor's brother.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/case-registered-against-kalaignar-tv-dmk-leader/article33572689.ece
14 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Pollachi case accused back in judicial remand||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Tuesday completed a two-day interrogation of Haron Paul (29), who was arrested for alleged involvement in the Pollachi sexual assault case. He was produced before the Mahila Court judge on Tuesday evening. He will remain in judicial remand till January 20. The court on Monday had allowed the agency to interrogate Paul for two days.   Paul was arrested along with the expelled AIADMK Pollachi town students’ wing secretary K. Arulanantham (34) and P. Babu alias ‘Bike’ Babu ( 27), all belonging to Pollachi, on January 5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pollachi-case-accused-remanded/article33572780.ece
14 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Two killed in accident||Two youths, both relatives, were killed after the car they travelled rammed a tree on the side of Coimbatore - Siruvani Road, near Perur, late on Tuesday. The police said that M. Sanjeevikumar (20) and his relative V. Anantharaman (17), both residents of Kamatchi Amman Kovil Street near Alandurai, were killed in the accident. According to the police, the accident took place near Sivasakthi Marriage Hall around 11 p.m. Sanjeevikumar, a third year degree student, and Anantharaman, a class XII student, were returning to their homes after dropping a relative at her house. They suffered severe injuries and were admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital where they died without responding to treatment around 6 a.m. on Wednesday. The Perur police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-killed-in-accident/article33572695.ece
14 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Pollachi will be new district: Kamal||Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan has promised to make Pollachi a new district if his party is voted to power. “Pollachi, which has so much potential for development, needs to be a district and, MNM, if voted to power, will make it a reality,” he told the residents of the town on Tuesday. The town and the neighbouring region were so prosperous but had not seen the desired development. If the rulers had the region’s interest in mind, industries would have come up giving job opportunities to the youth. “The region has seen no major development after the Parambikulam project. This is not an accident but the type of politics that does not think of people’s welfare,” he said.  MNM formation If farmers in Pollachi, a prosperous region, were not earning profits imagine the plight of those in Paramakudi, he asked. This was a thought that had occurred to him while scouting for a location for the movie, Thevar Magan , and it transformed into anger leading to the formation of MNM, Mr. Haasan said and clarified that it was not the anger against the attempt to ban his film that pushed him to politics. In fact, the MNM was a party of people who, like him, were angry at the state of affairs and desired to see a prosperous Tamil Nadu. “Politics for the MNM is a business where people would profit. It is not a business where votes could be bought for Rs. 2,500 or so; nor is it a business where the rulers make profit,” he said. Defending the MNM’s promise to give computers to every home, Mr. Haasan said it was an investment in human resource development and for the betterment of the State. The Pollachi sexual assault case had brought bad publicity to the town so much so that it had become a market for crime. The media had established the ruling party’s connection to a few accused in the crime. This had angered the public who desired for a change, which he had sensed during his campaign in the region, he added.  If the rulers had the region’s interest in mind, industries would have come up giving job opportunities to the youth Kamal Haasan Founder, Makkal Needhi Maiam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/will-create-pollachi-district-if-voted-to-power-kamal/article33572683.ece
14 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Surveillance cameras installed||City Police on Wednesday added 100 new cameras installed within the limits of Race Course police station to its surveillance network. City Police Commissioner Sumit Sharan inaugurated two mini control rooms in the presence of Deputy Commissioners G. Stalin (law and order) and E.S. Uma (Crime). The cameras were installed with the support of traders and owners of establishments. The police have created new networks of 450 surveillance cameras, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/surveillance-cameras-installed/article33572698.ece
14 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||CRI bags energy conservation award||CRI has won the National Energy Conservation Award given away by the Bureau of Energy Efficiency. A press release from the company said it has won the award for the sixth time. With installation of over 1.65 million pumpsets, the company has achieved cumulative power saving of 17,000 million units for the country and has also reduced the carbon footprint. It has so far supplied more than 43,000 solar pumpsets. It is working towards Internet of Things enabled smart and energy efficient pumps.      Members of Communist Party of India in Tiruppur and Coimbatore on Wednesday burnt copies of the three farm laws brought by the Central government. In Tiruppur, MP K. Subbarayan led the protest against the laws. On Bhogi day (Wednesday), when it is customary to burn "unwanted things", the members burnt copies of the laws as a protest against the farm laws, said a press release from the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cri-bags-energy-conservation-award/article33572691.ece
14 January 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Unseasonal rain damages standing paddy crops||The unseasonal rain that lashed various parts of Chidambaram and Kattumannarkovil blocks in the last two days has turned out to be a bane for farmers damaging standing paddy crops on thousands of acres. Under the influence of a weather system, unseasonal rain occurred in the blocks of Chidambaram, Kattumannarkovil, Keerapalayam and Bhuvanagiri, causing damage to standing crops in the region. According to K.V. Elangeeran, president of Cauvery Delta Farmers Federation, “Farmers in the district have already been pushed to penury because of the back-to-back Cyclones Nivar and Burevi. Standing crops that were in the harvesting stage have been submerged due to the rain now.” “We were hoping to raise 15 bags of paddy per acre as against 35 bags due to the damage caused by the two cyclones. Now all our hopes have been dashed and the rejuvenation of the crops has been ruled out”, he said. Farmers in Kattumannarkovil block are among the worst hit. “The incessant rain has now flooded my field. The crops were in the harvesting stage. But with crops flattened and submerged, there is little hope left”, said S. Muthuramalingam, a farmer of Aranthangi village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/unseasonal-rain-damages-standing-crops/article33572702.ece
14 January 2021||Dharmapuri,TAMIL NADU||MP calls for execution of railway line project||Dharmapuri MP S.Senthil Kumar has called for implementation of the 36 km. Morappur-Dharmapuri railway line project that was yet to commence after the formal foundation laying ceremony held on March 4, 2019. According to the DMK MP, in a representation to the Chairman and CEO, Railway Board Suneet Sharma, Railway Minister Piyush.Goyal had in his reply letter stated that the 36 km line was pending with the office of the District Collector, Dharmapuri, for survey and demarcation of land and identifying patta in the railway alignment. The MP, in his letter, has underlined that the project has been pending for more than a year and it needed to be expedited for local development.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mp-calls-for-execution-of-railway-line-project/article33572823.ece
14 January 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Give people Rs. 5,000 relief, not just Rs. 2,500, says CPI (M) leader||The Opposition parties in Tamil Nadu have, on several occasions, urged the State government to give Rs. 5,000 per month to the economically weaker sections during the Covid-19 pandemic, said CPI (M) State secretary K Balakrishnan here on Wednesday. Speaking to reporters, he said the AIADMK remained silent since April last on this issue. Since the elections were approaching, the government had announced Rs. 2,500 to cardholders under the guise of Pongal gift. “This is nothing but a clear case of cheating people. Even now, Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami has not come forward to give Rs. 5,000 but giving only 50% of what the Opposition parties suggested,” he said, urging the government to give another Rs. 2,500. The people are clever and cannot be taken for granted by the AIADMK, he said and added that just by giving Rs. 2,500, the AIADMK cannot set right its wrongs.  ‘Beginning of end’ The corrupt government will last just for another 100 days. The beginning of the end for the AIADMK has started, he noted. The continuous rain across Tamil Nadu’s various districts including Cuddalore, Tirunelveli, Ramanathapuram and in the delta region had resulted in three lakh hectares under water, he said. Though the Central team had visited, there had not been any tangible relief received yet. The State government too had not raised it with the Centre. Only the government claimed Pongal as celebrations, but the farmers were reeling under severe loss. The State government should give Rs. 30,000 per acre as compensation immediately, he demanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/give-people-rs-5000-not-just-rs-2500/article33572797.ece
14 January 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Increase the Pongal gift amount: CPI(M) leader||CPI(M) State secretary K. Balakrishnan on Wednesday urged Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami to increase the Pongal gift amount to Rs. 5,000. The opposition parties had urged the government to provide Rs. 5,000 per month to the economically weaker sections during the pandemic, but the AIADMK remained silent, he told presspersons here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/increase-the-pongal-gift-amount-cpim-leader/article33573081.ece
14 January 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Pongal spirit picks up in Erode||People in large numbers thronged markets to purchase sugarcane, turmeric bunches, jaggery and other items for Pongal festival here on Wednesday. Also, temporary shops selling colour powders had come up on roads at many places where brisk sale was witnessed throughout the day. A pair of sugarcane was sold between Rs. 60 and Rs. 120 as many traders said that sales were dull when compared to previous years. Incessant rain and cloudy weather dampened the festival spirit as the sales were low, said a trader at Kollampalayam, who expected sales volume to go up on Thursday. Earlier in the day, shops at Uzhavar Sandhai and the vegetable markets witnessed brisk sales selling turmeric bunches, coconuts and vegetables. Many visitors to the shandy pointed out that the price of vegetables had gone up in the past two days due to pongal. “This is a major festival after the lockdown were completely relaxed and hence we plan to celebrate it in a grand manner”, said V. Pushpa from Chinnamuthu Street. At the Corporation’s Central Bus Terminal, special buses were operated, but with the usual crowd.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pongal-spirit-picks-up-in-erode/article33572816.ece
14 January 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||‘Decision on school reopening for classes other than 10 and 12 at right time’||A decision on the phased reopening of schools for Classes 1 to 9 and Class 11 will be taken, depending on the situation, School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan said on Wednesday. Addressing journalists at Gobichettipalayam, he said Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had announced the reopening of schools for students of Classes 10 and 12 from January 19. The precautionary measures against COVID-19, laid down by the Health Department, were taken, and the protocol would be followed after the schools were opened. Asked whether it was mandatory for students to attend schools, Mr. Sengottaiyan said 97% of the parents wanted the schools reopened; hence, the Chief Minister had taken the decision. To a question when schools for students up to Class 9 would be reopened, he said a decision would be taken at the appropriate time after consultations. The details of the reduced syllabus for the State-board students were sent to the Chief Educational Officers on Wednesday, and they would be communicated to all the schools. Asked whether the academic year for the students who would appear for the board examinations would be extended, the Minister said that only after the election schedule was released would all the issues be discussed and a timetable for the exams released. On the charge that no online classes were conducted for government school students, Mr. Sengottaiyan said lessons for these students were being telecast through 12 channels. “It is difficult for the parents to monitor the mobile phones, but they can monitor whether students watch the lessons on television,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/decision-on-school-reopening-for-classes-other-than-10-and-12-at-right-time/article33572656.ece
14 January 2021||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||Rooster fight starts at Poolamvalasu||The three-day annual rooster fight started at Poolamvalasu near Aravakurichi on Wednesday as part of the Pongal festivities, in compliance with COVID-19 safety norms. Though the continuous rain dampened the spirit of the event, a large number of trained roosters from different parts of the State, including Erode, Coimbatore, Dindigul, Tirunelveli, Madurai and Tiruppur, were let into the arena. Roosters were also brought from Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Telangana. Special arrangements were made for the roosters to fight in the barricaded open-top boxes. A total of 25 boxes were placed for conducting the fights simultaneously. The owners of the roosters were let into the arena only after a thorough check. A team of veterinarians from the Department of Animal Husbandry were also deployed. According to a rough estimate, more than 2,000 roosters participated on the first day. While most fights ended in five to ten minutes, the birds that had high stamina and endurance fought beyond 15 minutes. As per the rules, knives should not be tied to the legs of the roosters. However, a section of the participants flouted the rules at will. Several roosters were let into the arena with knives tied to their legs. Rooster jockeys, who were facilitating the fight, had to prevent the birds from flying out of the arena. Some roosters fought outside the arena too. “We strictly enforce all rules. Violators were sent out. The participants were allowed only after a thorough check,” said R. Natarajan, one of the organisers. He said safety precautions had been in force to prevent the birds from flying out of the boxes. Ambulances and medical teams had been stationed at the venue. Since the rooster owners had come from far-off places, physical distancing norms were strictly enforced, he said. At least 5,000 roosters would be brought on Thursday. The rooster owners, who entered into fights elsewhere without permission, would be handed over to the police, Mr. Natarajan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/annual-rooster-fight-starts-at-poolamvalasu/article33572680.ece
14 January 2021||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||Achievers award for farmers proposed||Achievers award for farmers with innovative farming techniques horticulture crops has been proposed district-wise across the State. Horticultural crops play a vital role in raising farm income of the farmers, according to an administration release. In its wake, in an attempt to recognise such farmers engaged in horticultural farming, and to promote innovation in horticultural farming, achievers award has been proposed. Ten farmers are proposed to be felicitated across the State for innovative farming methods in order to inspire farmers engaged in horticultural cropping Achievers award is proposed for farmers engaged in cultivation of fruits, herbal and aromatic crops, vegetables, flowers, crops in hilly areas among others. The parameters for cropping achievement would include adoption of sustainable techniques of cropping that include drip irrigation, organic farming, integrated farming, cropping intervals, crop maintenance, water management, pest management without ecological damage, special marketing techniques among others. The achievers award will also recognise farmers with innovation in farming, organic and sustaining horticulture among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/achievers-award-for-farmers-proposed/article33572822.ece
14 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC Bench sets aside disciplinary order||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has set aside a disciplinary order passed against an employee of Tamil Nadu Khadi and Village Industries Board. The court was hearing a writ petition filed by K. Ramesh from Kumbakonam in 2012, challenging stoppage of increment for a year without cumulative effect passed against him by the disciplinary authority. The disciplinary authority and the appellate body imposed the punishment over misappropriation of 1.2 kg of white silk after the charge that he made corrections in the stock register through the khadi inspector. Justice J. Nisha Banu observed that the charge against the petitioner had not been proved. If the petitioner had an intention to misappropriate, he would have corrected the stock register instead of the khadi inspector. While it was not in dispute that the khadi inspector corrected the register after stock verification without the knowledge of the assistant director, the inspector should also have been issued a charge memo, but it was not done so, the judge said. The petitioner had been made a scapegoat, the court observed. It set aside the order passed against the petitioner and directed the authorities to give all consequential service and monetary benefits to him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-bench-sets-aside-disciplinary-order/article33572785.ece
14 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Railway exhibition inaugurated||Madurai Railway Division has opened an exhibition hall, displaying components and spare parts for locomotives and coaches, to encourage opportunities to local vendors. Divisional Railway Manager V.R. Lenin inaugurated the exhibition at the Divisional Railway Office in the presence of Additional Divisional Railway Manager Lalit Kumar Mansukhani, a statement said. “The exhibition is aimed at weeding out monopoly in supply of spare parts, procure materials of good quality and extend opportunity to more local vendors,” he said. Interested manufacturers and vendors can visit the exhibition to know the requirement of railways and promote their business by supplying the spare parts. The exhibition will be open on all working days between 10 a.m. and 6 p.m. Divisional Materials Manager Avvaru Kiran Kumar was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/railway-expo-inaugurated/article33572791.ece
14 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Two killed in accident at Kottampatti||A man and his son from Surya Nagar were killed when the SUV in which they were travelling hit a truck on Madurai-Tiruchi highway at Kottampatti on Thursday. Police said Pandian lost control of of the SUV and and the vehicle jumped over the median and hit the opposite lane. It collided with a truck coming towards Madurai. While Diwakar, 12, was killed on the spot at Manapatti, Pandian died of injuries on the way to Government Hospital in Melur. The accident took place around 5.30 p.m. Kottampatti police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-killed-in-accident-at-kottampatti/article33572992.ece
14 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||High Court Bench quashes FIR against advocate||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has quashed an FIR registered in 2020 against advocate S. Vanchinathan. He had staged a protest against the amendments made to the Citizenship Act in January last in Madurai. The FIR registered by S.S. Colony police said that six persons, including Mr. Vanchinathan, were protesting against the amendments made to the Citizenship Act. They had not only committed public nuisance but also caused hindrance to free flow of vehicular traffic. Justice R. Hemalatha observed that no untoward incident had taken place. The petitioner had organised the protest and the FIR had not disclosed any act of violence. Under the circumstances, the FIR was quashed. Earlier, the High Court Bench had quashed the FIRs registered against advocates T. Lajapathi Roy and Henri Tiphagne. The court observed that no untoward incidents had taken place and that there were protests across the country against the amendments to the Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-bench-quashes-fir/article33572788.ece
14 January 2021||Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||Namakkal youth designs milk vending machine||A milk vending machine designed by a youth at Kalappanaickenpatti village in Senthamangalam Taluk is helping people to purchase farm-fresh cow milk even for Rs. 5. While pursuing his final year mechanical engineering at a college in Chennai, the 24-year-old C. Balamurugan had an idea to design a milk vending machine that would benefit both the farmers and the people. He designed the machine that initially accepts only cash and dispatches the milk in containers. He took one year to redesign and added more features to the machine by which card system and recharging the cards in the machine was introduced. “The machine, placed at my relatives store on Kollimalai Road, has received good response as people are getting fresh milk,” he said. Milk from his cows and from his neighbours are stored in the 40-litre container and are available from 5.30 a.m. to 8 a.m. and from 4.30 p.m. to 6.30 p.m. everyday. Mr. Balamurugan said that by using a card, customers can avail milk even for Rs. 5 or Rs. 10. The system helps people who do not have refrigerators as they purchase milk for Rs. 5 twice a day. Mr. Balamurugan said that the cost of the cooling model in which milk can be stored for a day is Rs. 1.75 lakh while a basic model without cooling system comes around Rs. 60,000. He has started receiving inquiries from farms and traders for making customised vending machines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-designs-milk-vending-machine/article33572805.ece
14 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||First consignment of 1,750 vials of Covishield arrives in U.T.||The first consignment of COVID-19 vaccines arrived at the Health Directorate on Wednesday ahead of the roll out of the nation-wide immunisation drive on Saturday. The first consignment of 1,750 vials consisting of 17,500 doses of Covishield was received and was being stored in a cold chain facility at the Directorate of Health. These vaccines would be administered in Puducherry and Karaikal while Mahe would be supplied from Kozhikode in Kerala and Yanam from Kakinada. M. Murugan, Medical Officer in-charge of immunisation, said as per Government of India guidelines, the COVID-19 vaccines would be given to healthcare beneficiaries at seven designated launch session sites. These centres are Indira Gandhi Government General Hospital and Post Graduate Institute, Rajiv Gandhi Government Women and Children’s Hospital, IGMCRI and CHC in Karikalampakkam in Puducherry and the General Hospitals in Karaikal and Mahe. Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy will launch the vaccination effort at 9 a.m. on Saturday at the Rajiv Gandhi Women and Children’s Hospital. Post launch, vaccination will be conducted on Monday, Tuesday, Friday and Saturday next week. S. Mohan Kumar, Director of Health, said the department would begin administering the first dose to all healthcare personnel in the first phase. “We are expecting the arrival of the next consignment well before the 28th day of administering the first shot when the second dose has to be given to the participants”. As part of preparation for the vaccination exercise to be implemented in Puducherry, Karaikal, Mahe and Yanam, the Union Territory had completed two dry runs of mock trials to test the logistics, including the cold chain infrastructure. 145 facilities An estimated 145 vaccination facilities were being established across the Union Territory with personnel trained to handle immunisation at these centres. Each facility would have a registration booth, waiting area, a vaccination and an observation room post-vaccination to monitor volunteers for any adverse effect. Each volunteer taking the vaccine would have to get another shot after 28 days of the first dose. Puducherry will be vaccinating about 14,000 healthcare personnel in the first phase of immunisation. In subsequent phases, vaccine would be administered to frontline workers and those above 50 years of age and persons with underlying morbidity conditions such as diabetes or hypertension.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/first-consignment-of-1750-vials-of-covishield-arrives-in-ut/article33573078.ece
14 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Anna Thidal to become a mini stadium||Anna Thidal would soon become a mini sports stadium. Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy, in the presence of Minister for Public Works A. Namassivayam, laid the foundation for the work on Wednesday. Under the Smart City Programme, the government plans to construct a gallery to accommodate around 1,500 persons and facilities for sporting activities on 14,945 sq.m. of open space. The existing shops facing Anna Salai would be demolished and new buildings would be constructed to accommodate the same occupants. A basement parking area, a dormitory for 280 personnel, a football ground, 200 m running track, volleyball ground, tennis court, petanque court, gymnasium, and children’s play area will form the stadium. Around 3,000 students studying in five schools in town without a playground would benefit from the stadium. Project cost The project would cost around Rs. 12 crore. Chairman of PIPDIC and Orleanpet legislator R Siva, Development Commissioner-cum-Secretary A. Anbarasu and Secretary (Revenue)-cum-Chief Executive Officer of PSCDL T. Arun also attended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/anna-thidal-to-become-a-mini-stadium/article33573075.ece
14 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Minister’s day-night agitation at Assembly enters fourth day||Social Welfare Minister M. Kandasamy’s day-night agitation seeking an audience with Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi to resolve around 15 issues concerning his ministry entered the fourth day on Wednesday. In a statement, the Minister said he would continue with the agitation on the portico of the Assembly till the issues are resolved. The Minister said he has decided not to celebrate Pongal as a mark of solidarity with employees of societies working for several months without salary. The salary could not be provided to around 10,000 people because of reluctance on the part of the Lt. Governor to clear the files, he told reporters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ministers-day-night-agitation-at-assembly-enters-fourth-day/article33572807.ece
14 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Electricity dept. staff suspend stir following talks with CM||Electricity workers on an indefinite strike from Monday to oppose the Centre’s move to privatise the power distribution sector in the Union Territory have temporarily postponed their agitation following talks convened by Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Tuesday night. At the meeting, the Chief Minister reiterated his assurance to the representatives of the joint action committee of engineers and other staff cadre of the Puducherry Electricity Department that he would secure for the union leaders an audience with the Union Power Minister in Delhi. P. Velmurugan, general secretary of the Electricity Engineers and Employees Privatisation Protest Committee said on the basis of the assurance it was decided to postpone the strike until the talks in Delhi. However, the JAC has warned that the indefinite strike would be resumed from February 1 if talks failed to materialise by the end of this month. All employees and engineers, including those at sub stations, would join the action, the JointAction Committee said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/electricity-dept-staff-suspend-stir-following-talks-with-cm/article33572809.ece
14 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Test positivity remains under 1%||Puducherry reported 29 new cases on Wednesday while no deaths were recorded in the last 24 hours. Of the new cases, which were confirmed from 3,002 tests, 17 were reported in Puducherry, six in Karaikal, four in Mahe and two in Yanam. With 44 patients discharged on recovery, the active cases in the Union Territory stood at 278. Of this, 115 were in hospitals and 163 in home isolation. The test positivity rate was 0.96%, case fatality rate 1.66% and recovery rate 97.62%. The tally in the Union Territory is 639 deaths, a total of 38,524 cases and 37,607 recoveries. The Health Department has to date tested an estimated 5.24 lakh samples with over 4.81 lakh of the tested samples returning negative. Eight cases in Cuddalore Cuddalore district reported eight fresh cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday, taking the district’s tally to 24,819. While 24,445 persons have been discharged, the active cases stand at 61. In Villupuram district, two persons tested positive, taking the total number of cases in the district to 15,087. Kallakurichi district reported three positive cases, taking the overall count in the district to 10,843.  The Health Department has to date tested 5.24 lakh samples with over 4.81 lakh of them returning negative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/test-positivity-remains-under-1/article33573073.ece
14 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Half-day schedule to continue||The half-day schedule for all schools in the Union Territory will continue until further orders, P. T. Rudra Goud, Director of School, said on Wednesday. An order from the Director said it has been decided to retain the schedule that has been in place since schools reopened instead of opting for a full-day session from January 18. The working hours of all government and private schools will be from 9.30 a.m. to 12.30 p.m. from Monday to Saturday until further notice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/half-day-schedule-for-all-schools-to-continue/article33573079.ece
14 January 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Minister inspects fields||Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar on Wednesday inspected agricultural fields in the district. In a press release, he said various crops including paddy, corn, groundnut and blackgram were affected due to continuous rain. The extent of crop damage and hardship caused to farmers have been conveyed to the Chief Minister. However, Collector and Agriculture Department officials would visit the affected fields and a report on crop damage would be prepared. The district had received 457 mm of rainfall so far during the north-east monsoon, which was 90.47 mm more than the average rainfall. Necessary steps have been taken to assist farmers affected by rain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-inspects-fields/article33572775.ece
14 January 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||25,318 frontline, health workers register for vaccination in Salem||A total of 59,800 doses of Covishield vaccine that arrived in the district on Wednesday were stored at the facility located at the Office of the Deputy Director of Health Services here. Collector S.A. Raman inspected the arrangements and said that doses had arrived from Chennai and were stored at the facility. A total of 25,318 frontline workers and health workers have registered for the vaccination that will begin on January 16. Vaccination will be done at 14 places at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital, Mettur Government Headquarters Hospital, government hospitals at Edappadi, Attur, Valapadi and Omalur, Upgraded Government Primary Health Centres at Thammampatti, Panamarathupatti, Konganapuram, Thalaivasal, and Karipatti Government PHC and at Kumarasamipatti Urban PHC. Mr. Raman said that steps were taken to ensure uninterrupted power supply with backup of generators and proper maintenance of cold chain points with proper training to workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/25318-frontline-health-workers-register-for-vaccination-in-salem/article33572821.ece
14 January 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Salem reports 30 new cases||Salem district reported 30 cases taking the district’s tally to 32,065. While 35 persons were discharged, 322 persons continue to be under treatment. Erode district reported 22 cases taking the district’s tally to 14,030. While 34 persons were discharged, one person died, raising the toll in the district to 147. Namakkal district reported 12 cases taking the district’s tally to 11,421. Krishnagiri recorded 13 new cases and five discharged cases. In Dharmapuri, four new cases were reported and two persons were discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-reports-30-new-cases/article33572812.ece
14 January 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Functioning of reservation centres||In view of Pongal onThursday, the Computerised Passenger Reservation System Centres in Salem Division will function for only one shift from 8 a.m. to 2 p.m., a press release from the division said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/functioning-of-reservation-centres/article33572814.ece
14 January 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Two detained under Goondas Act||Provisions of Goondas Act were invoked against two persons who were recently arrested in burglary and robbery cases respectively. They were J. Pandian of Cinema Nagar, who was detained under the Act for the eighth, time while B. Afsal alias ‘Kacha’ of Ponammapet was detained for the fourth time. Pandian was involved in house breakings at Railway Colony and at Thillai Nagar and was arrested on November 21, 2020 after he robbed a man at knife point. Afsal was arrested on December 14, 2020 after he threatened a tea shop owner with a knife and took away Rs. 4,000 from the cash drawer. Detention orders were served to them at the Salem Central Prison.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-detained-under-goondas-act/article33572817.ece
14 January 2021||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||Collector celebrates Pongal at Keeladi||Celebrating Pongal with family is as important as the festival since the younger generation should be taught culture and tradition on the occasion, said Collector P Madhusudan Reddy here on Wednesday. Joining the villagers at Keeladi in celebrating the Pongal, the IAS officer, attired in the traditional dhoti (veshti), participated in the events with his family. Appreciating the significance of Keeladi, which had, through the recent excavations, brought laurels to the district and Tamil Nadu, he said that the richness about the Tamils should be showcased on such festivals. District Revenue Officer K Latha, Project Director (DRDA) Vadivel, Tourism Officer Venkatachalapathi and others participated in the celebration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-celebrates-pongal/article33572801.ece
14 January 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Round-the-clock service at goods shed from Jan. 18||Round-the-clock service will be offered at the goods shed here from January 18. The parcel booking and handling service at goods shed has been functioning from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m. On an average, over 500 wagons were handled at the shed every month. Harvest season The number of wagons handled per month during the harvest season might cross 800 wagons as outward traffic and an average of around 350 wagons carrying fertilizers would be handled preceding the nursery raising and transplantation seasons as inward traffic. While the movement of paddy constitutes a major portion of outward goods traffic, sometimes, cement bags were handled as outward goods consignment. Similarly, rice bags were handled as inward goods consignment apart from the fertilizers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/round-the-clock-service-at-goods-shed-from-jan-18/article33572787.ece
14 January 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Three electrocuted||Special Correspondent   Two teenaged brothers were electrocuted when they accidentally stepped on a live wire while entering Maravarkadu near Pattukottai on Wednesday. Dinesh (12) and Gowtham (10) were rearing goats when the incident took place, police sources said. The bodies were recovered from the canal after disconnection of power supply. In another incident, a senior citizen, Pakkiriammal of Kalathur who was tending to goats near Pattavarswamy temple was found dead with her foot touching a snapped power cable on Tuesday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-electrocuted/article33572778.ece
14 January 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Copies burnt||Members of district unit of the All India Farmers Protests Coordination Committee staged demonstration at five places in the district on Wednesday by burning copies of the farm laws enacted by the Union Government recently. Extending their support to the farmers opposing the new farm laws near New Delhi for more than a month, they said that these laws would not bring any positive development in the financial condition of farmers in the country. Urging the Central government to withdraw the laws, they burnt copies of the laws during their demonstration at Thanjavur, Thiruvaiyaru, Budalur, Thennamanadu and Peravurani.  Tiruchi Seven members including two women of the Makkal Adhikaram, led by its district secretary Jeeva, were arrested here on Wednesday since they burnt copies of the Centre’s new farm laws. They assembled at Gandhipuram in Woraiyur and expressed their stiff opposition to the farm laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/copies-of-farm-laws-burnt-in-thanjavur-and-tiruchi/article33572786.ece
14 January 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Good response to clean-up drive||The mega cleaning exercise, which was organised across the district on Wednesday to ensure cleanliness everywhere while ensuring ‘smokeless Bhogi’, elicited rousing response from the public. Since ‘Bhogi’ would always lead to burning of discarded materials and the waste that would pollute seriously the environment every year, Collector K. Senthil Raj mooted this proposal, christened ‘Thooimaiyana Thoothukudi’. As per this plan, residents living in all local bodies – right from the Corporation to the village panchayats - and the heads of all government offices across the district – right from the Collectorate to the village panchayat office – should ensure the collection of degradable and non-degradable garbage generated on their respective premises between 7.30 a.m. and 11 a.m. on Wednesday. While the heads of government offices should monitor the cleaning work on their office premises, head of every family and the residents’ welfare association representatives, local body representatives, traders’ bodies, women’s self-help groups, entrepreneurs etc. should actively take part in this exercise being carried out in their areas.  Dr. Senthil Raj monitored the cleaning operation organised on the Collectorate premises. The Collector, along with Additional Collector Vishnu Chandran, participated in the Pongal celebrations after the end of the cleaning operations. Corporation Commissioner V.P. Jayaseelan monitored the special cleaning drive on the Corporation premises and then along the railway track near Second Gate area. Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar led the cleaning work on the District Police Office premises and also at the Central Police Station Quarters. Those who translated the Collector’s idea in a better fashion and submitted photographs online will be honoured during the Republic Day celebrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/good-response-to-clean-up-drive/article33573150.ece
14 January 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Over 60,000 cusecs going waste into sea||With no credible infrastructure in place beyond Srivaikundam check-dam to store surplus water of the Tamirabharani during flood, over 60,000 cusecs of water was going waste into the Gulf of Mannar on Wednesday. The flood water that entered the cultivable lands in Murappanadu, Vallanaadu, Muthalankurichi, Alwarthirunagari and Karungulam gave tense moments to the farmers, who have cultivated paddy in their ranches. While 10 families from Kongarayakurichi have been relocated to the relief camp in the village, another 35 families from Alwarthirunagari were moved to the relief centre. Collector K. Senthil Raj, accompanied by Sub-Collector, Thoothukudi, Simranjeet Singh, met the relocated people at the Alwarthirunagari and Kongarayakurichi relief centres after visiting Srivaikundam check-dam and the Eral Bridge. When the flood water from the Tamirabharani overflowed onto the nearby Tirunelveli - Tiruchendur Highway at Karungulam around 6.30 p.m., traffic was stopped. Vehicles going to Tiruchendur from Tirunelveli were diverted via Vasavappapuram and Deivaseyalpuram. Rainfall Rainfall in the district (in mm): Sattankulam – 52, Kadambur – 31, Vedanatham – 30, Srivaikundam and Soorangudi – 28, Vaippar – 26, Kayathar – 20, Vilathikulam and Maniyachi – 19, Tiruchendur – 17, Kulasekarapattinam – 16, Ettaiyapuram – 14, Keezha Arasadi – 13, Kovilpatti, Kayalpattinam and Kadalkudi – 12, Thoothukudi – 8, Ottapidaaram – 3 and Kazhugumalai – 2.50. Tenkasi Following heavy rainfall along the Western Ghats, all waterfalls in Courtallam experienced flood on Wednesday. Collector G.S. Sameeran has said that the public would not be allowed entry into the Courtallam falls till January 17. As the catchment areas of the dams continue to record good rainfall, discharge of water from the near-full Gadana, Ramanadhi and Karuppanadhi dams is heavy since Tuesday. Of this, over 3.300 cusecs of water is being discharged from Gadana dam alone. Rainfall recorded in the district was (in mm): Gadana dam – 75, Ramanadhi dam – 25, Shencottai – 21, Karuppanadhi dam – 16, Tenkasi – 15.80, Gundar dam and Aayikudi – 14, Sankarankovil – 10, Sivagiri – 8.40.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-60000-cusecs-going-waste/article33572795.ece
14 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 vaccine vials reach Tiruchi||The Tiruchi regional vaccine store (RVS) received a total of 68,800 doses of the COVID-19 vaccine as its first consignment from Chennai on Wednesday morning. The COVISHIELD vaccine, supplied by Serum Institute of India, reached Chennai on Tuesday from where it was dispatched to various RVS points in the State for the first phase of the vaccination drive to begin on January 16. Of the 68,800 doses, Tiruchi has been allotted 17,100 vials while the remaining doses have been sent to Ariyalur (3,300 vials), Perambalur (5,100), Pudukottai (3,800) and Aranthangi (3,100), Karur (7,800), Thanjavur (15,500), Tiruvarur (6,700) and Nagapattinam (6,400). Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar, Tourism Minister Vellamandi N. Natarajan, Minister for Minority Welfare S. Valarmathi and Collector S. Sivarasu inspected the consignment. Mr. Vijayabaskar told reporters that two doses of the vaccine would be given in a 28-day interval. ‘As per norms, healthcare workers will be administered the vaccine in the first phase. Afterwards, frontline workers, people with comorbidities and the public would be given the vaccine,’ he said. He insisted that both the vaccines - Covishield from SII and Covaxin - from Bharat Biotech have been tested and approved after a series of trials. The decision to administer the vaccine to frontline workers was taken only after good results emerged from various clinical trials. ‘We undertook trials for the vaccines in Tamil Nadu where promising results were observed. There is no need for unnecessary worry,’ he said. He asked the public not to believe fake messages being forwarded on social media about the quality and the efficacy of the vaccine. Following a successful dry run held on January 8 at five locations in Tiruchi - Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital, Inamkulathur Rural Primary Healthcare Centre (PHC), Ramalinga Nagar Urban PHC, Manapparai Government Hospital and Apollo Hospital, eight locations have been earmarked for phase one of the vaccination drive. The eight locations - Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital, Manapparai Government Hospital, Srirangam Government Hospital, Lalgudi Government Hospital, Musiri Government Hospital, Inamkulathur rural Primary Healthcare Centre (PHC), Puthanatham PHC, Ramalinga Nagar Urban PHC have been prepared to administer the vaccine from January 16 onwards free of cost. In Tiruchi, a total of 5542 government healthcare providers, including paramedics, nurses and support staff have registered to receive vaccination. As many as 7000 private healthcare workers and 2874 anganwadi workers have also registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-vaccine-vials-reach-tiruchi/article33572770.ece
14 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Rain spoils business of traders||The intermittent and unseasonal rain has dealt a severe blow to the business of seasonal traders of sugarcane stalks and turmeric leaves. The sellers usually set up temporary stalls on street corners and thickly populated areas to sell edible sugarcane, turmeric and puja items at least two days prior to Pongal. Not many traders preferred to turn up this year due to rain battering different parts of the district for the last one week. Sugarcane was sold mainly at the vegetable markets and farmers markets. There were, however, a small section of farmers and traders, who set up stalls in thickly populated places to cash in on the demand. Residents in need of essential ingredients to make Pongal and perform pujas in their homes turned up in large numbers. The traders had sourced sugarcane, mostly from Thiruvalarcholai on Tiruchi-Kallanai Road and Thirukattupalli in Thanjavur district. Medium size sugarcane stalks were sold at Rs. 80 a pair at Uzhavar Sandhai in Thennur. It was sold at Rs. 100 a pair at Bheema Nagar. It was Rs. 20 more than the last year. A bunch of turmeric leaves was priced at Rs. 50. Traders attribute the price rise to transport and sharp rise in overhead expenses. “There is no short supply of sugarcane this year. But, the overhead and transport cost has gone up sharply. So, prices have gone up by Rs. 20 to Rs. 30 a pair when compared to last year,” says K. Shanmugan, a seasonal trader on Heber Road. He said that the sale was dull this year. Nearly 70% of the total sale would happen on the previous day of the Pongal. But, only around 50% of the stock had been cleared. The rain forced many residents to remain indoors. If the same trend continued on Pongal day, traders would have to end up with loss this year, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rain-spoils-business-of-traders/article33572777.ece
14 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||67 fresh cases in central region||The central region on Wednesday registered a drop in COVID-19 cases with 67 patients testing positive. No fresh case was reported in Perambalur district for another day, while one death of COVID-19 was reported across the central region- in Tiruchi. A 75-year-old man with a history of acute respiratory distress syndrome succumbed to the viral infection at a private hospital in the city. Thanjavur reported 24 fresh cases, and Tiruchi 17. Among patients in both districts were local index cases with no travel or contact history, or patients with a history of Influenza-Like Illnesses and their immediate contacts. Meanwhile, three patients who were undergoing treatment at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital for COVID-19 were discharged after recovering from the viral infection. The six other districts in the central region reported less than 10 fresh cases on Wednesday. Karur and Nagapattinam reported eight cases each. Patients were asymptomatic, or local contacts, official sources said. Among the patients who tested positive in Karur were residents from Thoranakalpatti and Vengamedu. Interdistrict travellers too, tested positive. In Tiruvarur district, four patients tested positive while in Pudukottai, five fresh cases were reported. One patient tested positive in Ariyalur district while in Perambalur, no new fresh cases were reported for COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/67-fresh-cases-in-central-region/article33572772.ece
14 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK cadre stage demonstration||Over 1,300 AIADMK cadres including women staged a demonstration organised by the party’s rural south district unit at Manapparai on Wednesday condemning DMK youth wing leader Udhayanidhi Stalin for his alleged derogatory remarks against Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami recently. Former Tiruchi Lok Sabha MP and the AIADMK’s rural south district secretary P. Kumar led them near the Periyar statue. Carrying placards and holding party flags, they condemned Udhayanidhi Stalin for his remarks and demanded an apology for ‘insulting’ the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-cadre-stage-demonstration/article33572784.ece
14 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||No entry to tourism spots||The district administration has announced that the public would not be allowed in all tourism spots during Pongal holidays on January 15, 16 and 17. The decision has been taken as a precautionary to prevent the spread of COVID-19. A press release said visitors throng tourism spots like Tropical Butterfly Conservatory, Mukkombu and Puliancholai during the Pongal holidays. The lockdown was in place since March with some curbs. Collector S. Sivarasu has asked the public to adhere to precautionary measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-entry-to-tourism-spots/article33572781.ece
14 January 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Demonstration||AIADMK cadres staged a demonstration at Manapparai on Wednesday condemning DMK youth wing leader Udhayanidhi Stalin for his alleged remarks on Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/demonstration/article33572810.ece
14 January 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Unseasonal heavy rain batters Tirunelveli district||The unseasonal and unexpected rain that unprecedentedly lashes the district during this season has badly affected normal life in the district. To make things worse, heavy discharge of water from the overflowing dams triggered heavy flood in the Tamirabharani that entered the low-lying areas. After 29,000 cusecs of water was released from the Papanasam and Manimuthar dams on Tuesday afternoon, the heavy rain that lashed the catchment areas of the reservoirs compelled the officials to release 51,000 cusecs of water from these two dams late in the night. As the Manjolai tea estate above the Manimuthar dam also experienced heavy rainfall, Manimuthar Falls swelled with menacing flood that submerged the bridge near the waterfalls. The heavily discharged water reached the Tirunelveli city limits in the early hours to enter the low-lying areas like Meenakshipuram, Kailaasapuram, C.N. Village and five streets in the northern side of Vannarpet. Fire and Rescue Services personnel, with the help of inflatable boats, relocated the people and the cattle from the five streets of Vannarpet. Collector V. Vishnu and Superintendent of Police N. Manivannan were on the move throughout the night to monitor the flood situation, particularly along the Tamirabharani watercourse following the heavy discharge of water from the dams. They also visited 16 of the 187 relief camps as 227 persons relocated from the low-lying areas had been kept in these places. During an informal chat with reporters after taking a look at the flood from the Sulochana Mudaliyar Bridge across the Tamirabharani near the Collectorate, Collector V. Vishnu on Wednesday morning said 32,858 cusecs of water was being discharged from three dams – Papanasam – 15,700 cusecs, Manimuthar – 15,446 cusecs and Gadana – 1,712 cusecs after rain subsided in the catchment areas. “Crop damage is being jointly assessed by the revenue and agriculture department officials. Since pumping of drinking water from the infiltration wells in the Tamirabharani remains affected following the flood, the affected people are being supplied drinking water in the tankers,” Mr. Vishnu said.  Discharge from the Papanasam and Manimuthar Dams was increased to 61,454 cusecs since 7 p.m. Besides the 50 NDRF personnel, 15 Indian Navy personnel drawn from INS Kattabomman, the low-frequency communication centre here, following an appeal from Mr. Vishnu, were deployed at Vickramasingapuram. Rainfall in the district (in mm): Papanasam Dam – 185, Manimuthar Dam – 165, Kalakkad – 106, Ambasamudram – 97, Cheranmahadevi – 65, Nambiyar Dam – 45, Nanguneri – 32, Kodumudiyar Dam – 30, Radhapuram – 28, Palayamkottai – 26, Moolaikkaraipatti – 25, and Tirunelveli – 23.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rain-batters-tirunelveli/article33572793.ece
14 January 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Two killed||Two persons, including an 8-year-old girl, were killed in a road accident near Kovilpatti on Wednesday when the cargo autorickshaw in which they were travelling hit a stationary lorry from behind. Police said Gopalakrishnan, 35, of Mela Thediyoor near Palayamkottai, who is running a lathe in Coimbatore, was returning to his native place in his cargo auto along with his family and relatives for ‘Pongal’. When they were crossing Idaiseval Chathrapatti intersection, the cargo auto hit a stationary lorry from behind around 7 a.m. in which Gopalakrishnan’s daughter Yashika, 8, and driver Bhaskar’s wife Sumithra, 35, were killed on the spot. Moreover, Gopalakrishnan, his wife Vijaya, son Pranesh, Bhaskar, his son Rajkumar, 4, Parthibhan, 20, and R. Preetha, 20, sustained grievous injuries. Deputy Superintendent of Police, Kovilpatti, Kalaikathiravan, and team from Nalattinpudhur police station rescued the injured and sent them to the Kovilpatti Government Hospital and the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital. Nalattinpudhur police have registered a case. Inquiries revealed the lorry remained on the stretch after there was a break-down complaint.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-killed/article33572802.ece
14 January 2021||Vellore,TAMIL NADU||23 cases in Vellore||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 20,494 with 23 new cases reported on Wednesday January 13. While a total of 19,961 have been discharged, the active cases stands at 190. The district's death toll is 343. In Ranipet district, four cases were reported positive taking the total to 16,022. In Tirupathur district, the total number of positive cases stood at 7,521 with four new cases on Wednesday. In Tiruvannamalai district, seven new cases were reported, taking the total number of cases to 19,266.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/23-cases-in-vellore/article33573155.ece
14 January 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||23 new cases in Vellore||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 20,494 with 23 new cases reported on Wednesday. While a total of 19,961 have been discharged, the active cases stand at 190. The district's death toll is 343.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/23-new-cases-in-vellore/article33573076.ece
14 January 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Widespread rain in Virudhunagar district||Widespread rain was reported in Virudhunagar district on Wednesday. The steady rain, however, did not lead to any breach in the tanks, according to an official. The district had reported 13.19 mm of average rainfall in the last 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Wednesday. Rainfall in the catchment areas brought good inflow of 178 cuses to Periyar Pilavakkal and 100 cusecs to Sasthakoil dams. Kovilar dam also got 26 cusecs of inflow. Water level in Periyar Pilavakkal dam was 201 metre (204.50 metre), Kovilar 207 metre (212 metre) and Sasthakoil 103.2 m (103.4). While Aruppukottai, Tiruchuli, Kariyapatti and Pilavakkal dam recorded 20 mm each, Kovilankulam registered 17.60 mm, Virudhunagar and Sattur 14 mm each, and Srivilliputtur 12. Rainfall in Rajapalayam was 8 mm and Watrap and Vembakottai received 5 mm each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/widespread-rain-in-virudhunagar-district/article33572796.ece
14 January 2021||January 14 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||71 new cases, one death reported||Coimbatore district on Wednesday reported 71 new cases of COVID-19 and one death due to the disease. The Health Department said that a 69-year-old woman from the district who was undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital succumbed to the disease on Monday. As many as 83 persons from the district got discharged from hospitals after recovering from the disease on Wednesday. The district had 660 active cases of the disease on Wednesday. Tiruppur district had 21 new cases. According to the Health Department, 28 persons from the district returned to their homes after recovering from the disease on Wednesday. As many as 236 patients from Tiruppur district were under institutional care as of Wednesday. In the Nilgiris, seven people tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases of the disease in the district stood at 8,078. The district had 80 active cases of COVID-19 as on Wednesday. Salem district reported 30 cases taking the district’s tally to 32,065. While 35 persons were discharged, 322 persons continue to be under treatment. Erode district reported 22 cases taking the district’s tally to 14,030. While 34 persons were discharged, one person died, raising the toll in the district to 147. Namakkal district reported 12 cases taking the district’s tally to 11,421.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/71-new-cases-one-death-reported/article33572699.ece
14 January 2021||January 14 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Water from Sathaiyar dam released||Water from Sathaiyar dam on Thursday was released to fill up 10 system tanks at Vadipatti taluk after the minor reservoir started to overflow from January 5. Releasing the water, Revenue Minister R.B. Udhayakumar said the water would be used to fill up Periyakulam in Keelachinampatti, Errampatti tank, Nallaiagoundakulam in Sukkampatti, Navalkulam in Kovilpatti, Nanalkulam in Alagapuri, Ayyur tank, Kuravankulam tank, Ammakulam tank in Mudurvarpatti, Adhanur and Kattiakaranpatti tank. Stating that surplus water from the dam was flowing into the tanks and many of them already had good storage, he said water flow would be regulated as and when required. Public Works Department officials would monitor the flow round the clock. Madurai Collector T. Anbalagan and Sholavandan MLA Manickam were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-from-sathaiyar-dam-released/article33572789.ece
14 January 2021||January 14 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||11 cases filed against Chennai theatres||Some theatres were fined Rs. 5,000. “Based on the instruction of city police commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal, the Deputy Commissioners conducted surprise checks. We registered cases wherever violations were found,” a senior police officer said. Despite the government ordering that cinema halls function only with 50% seating capacity and follow the guidelines, some well-known single-screen theatres screened the film to a full house and sold tickets at exorbitant prices. Some of these theatres have been accused of overcharging fans of big stars for the early morning shows. Meeran, 30, who saw the film at a single-screen theatre near Ashok Pillar, said he went to the first show of the first day at 4 a.m. “The fans were celebrating without masks and physical distancing norms. All the seats were filled and a ticket was priced at Rs. 1,000,” he said. In the morning, a few actors of the film and celebrities who had attended one of these shows posted pictures from the theatre. They showed that masking and physical distancing norms and the 50% seating limit were flouted. While these ‘special shows’ were overwhelmingly screened at single-screen theatres, the multiplexes and other theatres followed the norms strictly. Tiruppur Subramanian, president, Tamil Nadu Theatre and Multiplex Owners Association, said, “These are special shows for the fans. Not more than one or two such shows would have been held.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/11-cases-filed-against-chennai-theatres/article33572663.ece
14 January 2021||January 14 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Rahul to watch jallikattu today||Congress MP Rahul Gandhi will arrive here on Thursday to watch a jallikattu event scheduled for the same day at Avaniyapuram here. Mr. Gandhi, who will arive by a special aircraft, will drive straight to the venue around noon. After witnessing the event for an hour, he will return to Delhi. “Mr Gandhi is coming on an invitation from the Avaniyapuram jallikattu organising committee,” said Virudhunagar MP Manickam Tagore. A total of 700 bulls and 300 tamers have been registered for the event. Mr Gandhi will be accompanied by Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K.S. Alagiri and Congress Legislative Party leader K.R. Ramasamy. Meanwhile, Minister for Cooperation Sellur K. Raju, along with Collector T. Anbalagan and Commissioner of Police Prem Anand Sinha inspected the arrangements at the venue on Wednesday evening. Around 1,300 policemen will be deployed at the jallikattu venue. Additional police force is being deployed for the VIP visit, Mr. Sinha said. Five Deputy Commissioners of Police will oversee the security arrangements for the event. The event starts at 8 a.m. and will go on till 4 p.m. The district administration has made arrangements to ensure physical distancing at the venue. After the jallikattu event at Palamedu on Friday, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam will witness the event to be held at Alanganallur on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rahul-to-watch-jallikattu-at-avaniyapuram-today/article33572798.ece
14 January 2021||January 14 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||ERODE||RD National College of Arts and Science:  Virtual Pongal Fest contest 2021, Rangoli contest for parents and photography contest for students, 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode/article33572813.ece
14 January 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Vaccine from Pune reaches Belagavi||The first consignment containing 1.5 lakh doses of COVISHIELD vaccine arrived in Belagavi from SII in Pune on Wednesday. Police officers who were waiting at the Maharashtra-Karnataka border provided escort and pilot vehicles to the vaccine-loaded vehicle. However, confusion among officers led to delay in docking the cargo into the walk-in cooler in the Health Department. When the private taxi with 13 temperature-controlled boxes drove into the Vaccine Depot in Tilakwadi at around 5 a.m. in the morning, it had to wait for some time as there was no one from the Health Department to receive it. A security guard at the depot made a phone call to District Reproductive Child Health Officer Ishwar Gadad who is in charge of immunisation to send someone to the spot. Dr. Gadad came after some time, along with two other staff members. He said that there was some confusion about the arrival time as they had been told that the van would come at 6 a.m. Later, Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremah visited the depot and spoke to Health Department officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vaccine-from-pune-reaches-belagavi/article33572831.ece
14 January 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘Dedicated workers have no place in today’s world’||Abhay Patil, MLA and BJP leader, expressed displeasure at the choice of legislators who were included in the Cabinet on Wednesday. In a tweet sent after the oath taking ceremony, he expressed regret that today’s incident showed that there was no place for dedicated workers in the higher echelons of political power in the State. “Workers who do not aspire for positions of power by employing other means but remain committed to ideology and loyal to the party don’t have a place in today’s world. Today’s events have proved that. It is sad,” he said. He ended his tweet saying, “Loyalty to the party and commitment to ideology are not weaknesses.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dedicated-workers-have-no-place-in-todays-world/article33572829.ece
14 January 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘Want more of my friends to become Ministers’||Ramesh Jarkiholi, district in charge Minister, said he was happy with the Cabinet expansion, but he was waiting for more of his friends to be made Ministers. “I welcome the expansion. But, I want 4-5 friends of mine, who are legislators, to enter the Cabinet,” he told journalists. According to him, the hopefuls include H. Vishwanath, Munirathna, Mahesh Kumthalli, and Malikayya Guttedar. He argued that H. Nagesh would be retained in the Ministry. As far as I know, he will not be dropped, Mr. Jarkiholi said. Mr. Kumthalli, who joined the BJP along with Mr. Jarkiholi, said he was unhappy at being left out of the Cabinet, but he would not make an issue of it. “But I have faith in Mr. Yediyurappa that he will keep his promise of making me a Minister at the appropriate time,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/want-more-of-my-friends-to-become-ministers/article33572838.ece
14 January 2021||Belagavi/Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Yatnal asks PM to end dynastic politics in State BJP||Dissident MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal has charged that Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s family had “hijacked” the Bharatiya Janata Party in the State and appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to start his fight against dynastic politics from the State BJP. “There is a Chief Minister, a Member of Parliament, and a vice-president of the party in one house. Chief Minister takes his son B.Y. Vijayendra to Delhi to meet the high command. Neither senior Ministers nor the party president accompanies him,” he pointed out. “Mr. Modi recently said dynastic politics is the biggest enemy of democracy. I appeal to the Prime Minister to start the fight against dynastic politics from the State,” he said. He alleged the Chief Minister had been blackmailing the party high command that any change in leadership in the State will antagonise the Veerashaiva-Lingayat community. “But this is false. The entire community is not behind him. The Chief Minister gave Veerashaiva-Lingayat mutts Rs. 83 crore recently to rebel against the Centre if he was removed,” he alleged. He claimed the Chief Minister had also “bought the silence of the Opposition.” He challenged the Chief Minister to resign “if he had any morality left”, since the High Court recently levied penalty on him in two corruption cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/yatnal-asks-pm-to-end-dynastic-politics-in-state-bjp/article33572629.ece
14 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BSY, Arun Singh try to mollify disappointed aspirants||Even as the Chief Minister expanded the State Cabinet and inducted seven new faces, he had his hands full firefighting discontent brewing among a long list of ministerial aspirants who failed to make the cut. BJP national general secretary Arun Singh also met several of these disappointed aspirants and assured them of “opportunities ahead”, sources said. The Chief Minister had a tough time pacifying defectors from other parties – H. Nagesh who was dropped from the Cabinet and Munirathna, who did not make it. Both of them also met Mr. Singh. “The Chief Minister had assured me that I would be a Minister for the full term. However, out of respect for his words, I have resigned,” Mr. Nagesh said. By gratis Another defector and MLC A.H. Vishwanath was bitter. “It is by our gratis that Mr. Yediyurappa is Chief Minister today. But he has back-stabbed us by dropping Mr. Nagesh and not making Mr. Munirathna a Minister even after publicly assuring he would during the bypoll campaign,” he said. Mr. Munirathna did not speak to media on Wednesday. Meanwhile, the induction of MLC C.P. Yogeshwar angered many MLAs who hoped to secure a berth in the Cabinet. “Five MLCs have been made Ministers. It is not good for the party if youngsters and those working hard for the party are not recognised,” said Arvind Bellad, a two-time MLA. Chief Minister’s political secretary M.P. Renukacharya also expressed his displeasure. “I do not understand why those who were defeated in elections are made Ministers,” he rued adding he would announce his “decision” soon. He met both Mr. Yediyurappa and Mr. Singh, and is reported to have been pacified. CM’s prerogative Mr. Singh answering a question by mediapersons, said it was the Chief Minister’s decision to induct Mr. Yogeshwar into the Cabinet. Meanwhile, Bengaluru MLA Satish Reddy questioned Mr. Yediyurappa as to what were the criteria for selection of Ministers. “We are acutely feeling the absence of a leader like H.N. Ananth Kumar who used to give a patient hearing to our problems,” he tweeted. Chitradurga MLA G.H. Thippareddy rued that only those who lobbied were made Ministers. “After 50 years of being in politics, I feel it has all gone to waste if no one recognises me,” he lamented. Mr. Singh, who left for Delhi Wednesday evening, said the Chief Minister would personally talk to all the legislators who are dissatisfied at not being able to make it to the Cabinet. “They will get other chances in the party. They must wait,” he said. A few dissatisfied MLAs, meanwhile, have decided to meet Union Home Minister Amit Shah and air their grievances when he visits the State on January 16 and 17.  Those unhappy will get other chances in the party. They must wait.Arun SinghBJP national general secretary in-charge of Karnataka||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/there-are-opportunities-ahead-disappointed-aspirants-told/article33572634.ece
14 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Dealing with vaccine hesitancy, eagerness, is next big challenge||With the COVID-19 vaccine rollout all set to begin on January 16, dealing with vaccine hesitancy and eagerness is the next big challenge for the State Health Department. With a section of registered healthcare workers, who are the prioritised group for vaccination in the first phase, reluctant to take the jab, experts said that the State needs to understand the concerns that healthcare workers and the public have about COVID-19 vaccines, and combat them to build trust and confidence. “It would need a multi-pronged strategy, with transparent communication being key,” one of them said. C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 Task Force, said addressing vaccine hesitancy – that could arise mainly because of apprehension around safety, efficacy, myths and misconceptions – is vital. “At the same time, managing and mitigating any potential disappointment expressed by unmet demand for the vaccine or eagerness amongst people is equally important,” he said. Dr. Manjunath, who is part of the COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC), cautioned against misleading information in the media, which can lead to a negative influence on the common man, creating confusion and fear, driving them away from getting vaccinated. “In the first week after vaccination starts, if no immediate adverse effects are reported, which is most likely, people will develop more confidence,” he said. Jawaid Akhtar, Principal Secretary (Health and Family Welfare), said dealing with vaccine hesitancy among healthcare workers may not be much of a problem. “Healthcare workers are the ones who are quite aware about immunisation. There may not be a problem in the first phase. But we are ready with Information, Education and Communication (IEC) activities,” he said. Stating that the real challenge begins during the second and third phases when frontline workers and those above 50 with co-morbidities will be covered, Mr. Akhtar said an action plan will be put in place to ensure its acceptance. The Centre has come out with a communication strategy that supports the rollout. “This strategy seeks to build trust and enable greater confidence in the vaccine by employing transparency in communication, while also managing any mis/disinformation and rumours,” he said. State Deputy Director (Immunisation) Rajani Nageshrao said on the first day of the vaccination, a video message by a celebrity will be showcased in all the 237 centres where the Prime Minister’s message will also be webcast.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dealing-with-vaccine-hesitancy-eagerness-is-next-big-challenge/article33572616.ece
14 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Government wants to hear parents, managements over school fees||Yielding to pressure from parents, the Department of Public Instruction has decided to convene a meeting to resolve the dispute regarding fee collection by schools during the pandemic. There have been several protests in the last few months by parents over the issue. In a circular issued on Wednesday, the department said that it would convene a meeting on Friday with parents’ associations and private school managements to discuss fee collection for the current academic year. Parents have alleged that private schools were charging an exorbitant amount of money as fees for the 2020-21 academic year and were not willing to let go of infrastructure and other recurring costs that they would not incur this year due to online classes. Many parents had pointed out that schools were blocking their children from attending online classes citing non-payment of fees. School managements, on the other hand, pointed out that a majority of the parents had not paid the fees and that they were unable to pay salaries to their teaching and non-teaching staff. B.N. Yogananda, general secretary of RTE Students and Parents’ Association, said, “We will pay the entire fee amount if the number of students in the school is less than 100. If the number of students is in the range of 101 to 500, we have agreed to pay 75% of the fees. Parents have agreed to pay 50% of the fee amount if the number of students is between 501 and 1,000. Schools that have above 1,000 students can collect 25% of their annual fees.” He added that they arrived at this formula after consultations with hundreds of parents who had lost their jobs or faced a salary cut because of the pandemic. An official of the department said that they would hear from both school managements and parents. “We do not think that we will be able to reach a decision on the same day and are open to more consultations,” the official added.  We will pay the entire fee amount if the number of students in the school is less than 100. If the number of students is in the range of 101 to 500, we have agreed to pay 75% of the fees. Parents have agreed to pay 50% of the fee amount if the number of students is between 501 and 1,000. Schools that have above 1,000 students can collect 25% of their annual fees B.N. Yogananda, general secretary, RTE Students and Parents’ Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/government-wants-to-hear-parents-managements-over-school-fees/article33572623.ece
14 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Kite-flying: Spike in injuries to birds||Animal rescuers in the city have been working overtime to rescue birds from the glass powder coated nylon manja threads used to fly kites. While kite-flying is part of the Sankranti tradition, many birds have sustained severe injuries, some of them fatal. Over the last fortnight, People for Animals (PfA) Wildlife Hospital has been receiving nearly eight calls for rescue of birds entangled in manja threads. However, animal activists said that while there has been a definite spike in recent weeks, last year was bad for birds in the city. According to Col. Dr. Nawaz Shariff, General Manager and Chief Veterinarian, PfA Wildlife Hospital, Bengaluru, bird injuries due to manja threads was an all-year problem in 2020, unlike earlier years. “Usually, we get these bird injury cases in the run-up to Sankranti and maybe, till a month after that. But in 2020, given that there was a lockdown, children were at home with most their parents also working from home. More families seem to have taken up kite-flying. Bird injury cases shot up by nearly 80% compared to the previous year,” he said. PfA Wildlife Hospital, Bengaluru rescued and treated 102 birds injured due to manja threads in the city in 2019, but the number of cases shot up to 177 in 2020. The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has banned the use, manufacture, sale, storage and purchase of glass-coated manja or nylon threads for flying kites. However, animal rights activists rue the lack of implementation of the NGT’s directions. Manja thread that used to be earlier imported from China, is now manufactured locally and sold freely, sources said. PfA wrote to the State government in 2020 asking for enforcement, but with all the focus on COVID-19, there was little action on the ground. Black kites, Brahminy kites, barn owls, jungle and house crows and pelicans are most commonly affected. “Apart from these birds, there will be other smaller birds that are injured, but because of their size, they are incapable of drawing people’s attention. They mostly die of strangulation and starvation in the trees,” Dr. Nawaz Shariff said, adding that these days, injured birds are being found even at a height of 50 feet, which poses a big challenge during rescue efforts. No end to their misery Most of the birds suffer fractures that are tough to fix. “Birds have very thin and fragile bones. Many times, we don’t even recover all pieces of the broken bone from the rescue site. There is no technology to regrow them. Most birds suffer for life. We just set right their wings, putting an intra-medullary pin and try to restore the lost elasticity of their wings. But they can’t fly like before. They just hop on the floor and will need care in captivity for the rest of their life,” he added. “Kite-flyers should be aware of the dangers they pose to birds and consciously opt for cotton thread.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kite-flying-spike-in-injuries-to-birds/article33572625.ece
14 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Immediate leadership change unlikely||The expansion of the State Cabinet on Wednesday, pending for several months, is expected to put to rest talk of leadership change — at least for now — multiple sources in the Bharatiya Janata Party said. It is unlikely that there would be a change in leadership for the “next six months at least”, given that the State budget, byelections, taluk and zill panchayat elections, besides COVID-19 vaccination drive, are lined up ahead. A faction within the party had been arguing that the delay in high command clearing Cabinet expansion was because it was intrinsically linked to a decision on leadership change. Recently, lodging a complaint against dissident Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, Mr. Yediyurappa’s camp had argued that rather than disciplinary action against him, a go ahead for Cabinet expansion would be a fitting reply to quell the talk of leadership change. The fact that the Chief Minister was allowed to expand the Cabinet, and consistent statements by BJP national general secretary Arun Singh that there was no question of leadership change are being interpreted in the party as central leadership putting its weight behind Mr. Yediyurappa for now. Ending impasse Sources in the party credit Mr. Singh for the Cabinet expansion, ending what had become an impasse. “A faction within the party backed by a Central leader from the State had been campaigning hard to depose him, creating an impasse. But Mr. Singh, an outsider to the State’s politics, held wide-ranging consultations and took a fresh look. His inputs played a key role in high command backing the Chief Minister,” a strategist close to the Chief Minister said. “What this has shown is that the opinion of a faction opposed to Mr. Yediyurappa in the party was being painted as high command’s words,” he added. “Given Mr. Yediyurappa’s advanced age and health issues, the party is no doubt looking to groom new leadership. He can definitely not lead the government or the party for another term. However, the decision to expand the Cabinet shows the high command is not confident of an alternate leadership yet,” said a senior BJP Minister. Thorns persist However, in a faction-ridden party, those opposed to the Chief Minister hit back hard on Wednesday with multiple accusations of nepotism and corruption. Dissidence has not shown signs of dying down. What has the Chief Minister worried is the reopening of probe into three denotification cases where he is accused of corruption. In a Narendra Modi-led BJP that prides itself on zero tolerance to corruption, anti-dynastic politics and 75 years age limit as electoral planks, Mr. Yediyurappa, who does not fit on all these counts, seems to have survived yet again for at least now. “In politics, what ultimately matters in winnability. This has only exposed leadership vacuum in the State BJP,” a senior BJP leader said.  A faction within the party backed by a Central leader from the State had been campaigning hard to depose the CM, creating an impasse. But Mr. Singh, an outsider to State’s politics, held wide-ranging consultations and took a fresh look. His inputs played a key role in high command backing the CM.A strategist close to the Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/immediate-leadership-change-unlikely/article33572627.ece
14 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Vaccination on Jan. 16 at 6 locations||A total of 1.05 lakh COVID-19 vaccines have been allocated to the BBMP in the first instalment, with the vials currently stored at the facility at Dasappa Hospital. BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad said that the first phase of vaccinations will be rolled out on January 16 in Victoria Hospital, K.C. General, C.V. Raman Nagar Hospital, Jayanagar General Hospital, St. John’s Hospital and Mallasandra PHC (primary health centre). “The vaccines have been sent from the Serum Institute of India, Pune. The remaining will be sent in the second instalment. The 1.05 lakh vaccines have been stored in two new refrigerators,” the Commissioner said. Mr. Prasad said that the vaccines would be sent from Dasappa Hospital to the 148 PHCs with cold chain facility. “The vaccines will reach the PHCs a day before the vaccination is set to begin. From there, it will be sent to the various sites in the morning. Route maps from these PHCs to the vaccination sites have been drawn up. Vaccinations will take place from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.,” he said. In the first phase, the civic body has registered 1.65 lakh healthcare workers. A total of 760 vaccination sites had been identified. Each centre will have 100 beneficiaries, who will be informed about when they have to go for the vaccination. “We will wait for directions from the government on taking up vaccinations in the other locations,” he said. All the 760 vaccination sites were ready and vaccinators trained. Even if the government directs the BBMP to take up vaccination on January 17, all those registered in the first phase would be covered within three days, he said. Second list The health department had directed BBMP to prepare the list of frontline workers for the second phase. “All BBMP officials and pourakarmikas, including me, police personnel and revenue officials, will be covered in the second phase,” he said. In the third phase, those aged above 50 and people below 50 with comorbid conditions will be selected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vaccination-on-jan-16-at-6-locations/article33572617.ece
14 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Services on extended metro on Kanakapura Road from Friday||The 6-km extended metro line from Yelachenahalli to Silk Institute will be inaugurated on Thursday, and opened to the public for commercial operations on January 15. The Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) will start operating feeder services for the convenience of commuters. These include buses on the following routes: Thalaghattapura station-Kengeri TTMC; Doddakallasandra station-Rajarajeshwarinagar Gate; Silk Institute (earlier referred to as Anjanapura)-Kumbalagodu; and Silk Institute to Harohalli. Most of the feeder services will start operating early in the morning. BMTC, in a press release, stated that services will be increased based on demand from commuters. Hardeep Singh Puri, Union Minister of State (independent charge), Housing and Urban Affairs, will virtually inaugurate the metro line from Delhi on Thursday evening. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa will also take part in the event by flagging off the train. Once the extension is open to the public on Friday, the total length of the operational Green Line will be 30 km.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/services-on-extended-metro-on-kanakapura-road-from-friday/article33572607.ece
14 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Man kills 5-year-old niece in front of her sister||The Chikkaballapura Rural police are searching for a 35-year-old flower vendor who allegedly murdered his five-year-old niece on Tuesday. They say the girl was physically challenged. The accused believed that she was the source of ‘bad luck’ in his life. The accused lives with his parents and elder brother in their ancestral house in Angarakanahalli on the outskirts of Chikkaballapura. Fought with family “His brother had two daughters aged five and three. The elder daughter was physically challenged. The accused was convinced that she was the reason for his failure to find a wife. He would often fight with his family about this, and tried to attack her twice last year, following which his family threw him out of the house” said a senior police officer. A few months ago, he apologised and was allowed to return home. On Tuesday, he spotted his niece playing with other children near a temple close to the house while her mother kept watch. ‘Victim embraced him’ “When the accused approached, the girl came forward to embrace him. Suddenly, he grabbed her, pulled out a knife and slit her throat in front of the other children and her mother. He threw the knife and ran away,” said the police. The victim’s sister collapsed after witnessing the crime. Passers-by took the victim to a hospital where the doctors declared her as brought dead. “We have definite clues and he will be arrested soon,” a police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-kills-5-year-old-niece-in-front-of-her-sister/article33572608.ece
14 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||8 B.Ed colleges to lose BU affiliation||Bangalore University has decided not to renew affiliation of eight B.Ed. colleges in the city for the 2020-21 academic year. The university took this decision after the National Council for Teacher Education (NCTE) withdrew its recognition of these colleges. BU registrar K. Jyothi issued a note earlier this week stating that students were advised not to take admission in these colleges. “In case they get admitted, the university is not responsible for the admissions,” the note stated. The admissions for the 2020-21 academic year have been delayed due to the COVID 19 pandemic. Sources said that the colleges lost the recognition as they did not have adequate infrastructure or qualified lecturers. Many of the colleges had allegedly produced fake or false certificates to get recognition from NCTE, and the council had taken note of these discrepancies. The university decided to issue this notice as some colleges continue to enrol students despite losing recognition from NCTE. According to sources, the institutions continue to lure students to sign up for their programmes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/8-bed-colleges-to-lose-bu-affiliation/article33572610.ece
14 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||20k doses of Covaxin||A day after receiving the first consignment of Covishield, the State on Wednesday also received 20,000 doses of Covaxin from the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech. Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar said the only difference between the two is that the latter has 5 ml of vaccine in a vial and Covaxin has 10 ml. “While one Covishield vial has 10 doses, one Covaxin vial has 20 doses. Both the vaccines will be given in the State and there is no choice for any,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/20k-doses-of-covaxin/article33572612.ece
14 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||3.85L doses dispatched to districts||A day after receiving the first consignment of Covishield, a stock of 3,85,500 doses was dispatched to districts on Wednesday for administering the first dose on January 16. While Bengaluru division got the highest stock of 1,59,000, Kalaburgi division got the lowest — 29,500 doses, according to the district-wise vaccine dose allocation list. While BBMP has been allocated 1,05,000 doses, the Regional Vaccine Store in Mysuru, covering Chamarajanagara, Hassan, Kodagu, Mandya and Mysuru, has been given 47,000 doses. As many as 45,000 doses have been sent to the Regional Vaccine Store in Chitradurga (to cover Ballari, Chitradurga, Davangere and Shivamogga), a total of 42,500 doses were sent to Chikmagalur, Mangaluru and Udupi districts. As many as 30,000 doses were sent to Bagalkote Regional Vaccine Store to cover Bagalkote, Vijayapura, Gadag and Koppal. Arundathi Chandrashekar, Mission Director, National Health Mission (NHM) told The Hindu that the stock for administering the second dose — 28 days after the first dose is given — will be sent after three weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/385l-doses-dispatched-to-districts/article33572614.ece
14 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Legislature session from January 28||The joint session of the State legislature has been convened from January 28. According to Law and Parliamentary Minister J.C. Madhuswamy, the session will be on till February 5. Governor’s speech  It would be restricted to the Governor’s speech and discussion on the speech. “The budget session will be convened in March and date is yet to be fixed,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/legislature-session-from-january-28/article33572630.ece
14 January 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Interaction||The Hassan branch of Krishik Sarvodaya Foundation has organised an interactive session with Indian Forest Service officer M.S. Gunanka on facing civil service examinations on January 19, at 11.30 a.m. Gunanka, a native of Hassan district, has been serving For further details contact V.R. Gudde Gowda on 99103 44332 or 86602 17739.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/interaction/article33573022.ece
14 January 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||KSE hits out at Yatnal||Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj K.S. Eshwarappa has criticised legislator Basanagouda Patil Yatnal for his comments on the Cabinet expansion. Speaking to presspersons in Chikkamagaluru on Wednesday, Mr. Eshwarappa said, “If Yatnal had been inducted into the Cabinet, he would not have spoken like this. He is making baseless allegations as he is disappointed over not getting a ministerial berth.” Except for A.H.Vishwanath and Munirathna, all others who had joined the BJP after resigning as MLAs had been inducted into the Cabinet. “Every MLA has stood by the party and the government will not collapse at any cost”, he said. He denied allegation that legislators blackmailed the Chief Minister with a CD to get ministerial berths. Mr. Eshwarappa was in Chikkamagaluru to attend a Janasevak convention.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kse-hits-out-at-yatnal/article33573023.ece
14 January 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Farmer dies in hospital||A farmer, who allegedly attempted to commit suicide on Tuesday, died in a hospital in Hassan on Wednesday. Shivanna, 50, of Sajjenahalli in Hassan taluk is survived by his wife and two children.  His son, Manjunath, had borrowed up to Rs. 25 lakh from friends and relativesin the recent years but left home a couple of months ago unable to clear the loan. As he was not in the village, the money lenders put pressure on his father to clear the loan. Unable to bear the pressure, Shivanna ended his life.  (Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani Ph.: 104 for help.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmer-dies-in-hospital/article33573024.ece
14 January 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||11,000 vaccine doses arrive in Dharwad||While the Dharwad district administration has made all preparations for the first phase of vaccine administration for control of COVID-19, a vaccine consignment reached Dharwad on Wednesday evening. Speaking to presspersons in Dharwad after the arrival of the first consignment, Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil said that the district had received 11,000 doses of COVISHIELD. “On January 16, after Prime Minister Narendra Modi launches the vaccination drive for the nation, we will launch it at seven centres in the district. In North Karnataka, Hubballi will be the lone centre to have two-way communication to interact with the central team after the launch by the Prime Minister,” Mr. Patil said. The Deputy Commissioner said that after the consignment was received, it was moved to the cold storage at the District Health and Family Welfare Office. The vaccine doses would be transported to the seven chosen centres on Thursday and Friday. The district administration is geared up for the first round of vaccination. It had expected 25,000 doses for COVID warriors. Mr. Patil earlier held a meeting to review the preparedness. In all, 136 vaccination centres, including 66 in private hospitals, have been set up in the district with each centre having a doctor and four health workers. Tahsildars have been entrusted with the work of supervising the vaccination process in their respective taluk centres. Each vaccination centre will have a waiting room, vaccination room and observation room. After entering the waiting room and providing their details, COVID warriors would be inoculated in the vaccination room. They will then be put under observation for half an hour to check for any side effects of the dose. And, there will be a team ready to provide immediate assistance in case of any adverse effect, an officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/11000-vaccine-doses-arrive-in-dharwad/article33572837.ece
14 January 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Ex-Minister Vinay Kulkarni’s bail plea adjourned||A Single Judge Bench of the High Court of Karnataka, Dharwad Bench, hearing a bail plea by Congress leader and former Minister Vinay Kulkarni on Wednesday adjourned hearing to January 20. Earlier, Justice Nataraj had given additional time as sought for by the CBI to file detailed objections to the bail plea by the former Minister. The CBI has filed objections to the bail plea now. On Wednesday, appearing for the CBI through video conference, Additional Solicitor General S.V. Raju presented his arguments and appealed to the court not to grant bail to the accused. Advocate Shashikiran Shetty appeared before the court on behalf of Vinay Kulkarni. After hearing both sides, the judge observed that the court required more time to study the arguments and decide on the issue and adjourned hearing to January 20. Vinay Kulkarni, who is in judicial custody, is now lodged in Hindalga Jail in Belagavi in connection with the murder of zilla panchayat member Yogeeshgouda Goudar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ex-minister-vinay-kulkarnis-bail-plea-adjourned/article33572835.ece
14 January 2021||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||KPCC to hold ‘Sankalpa Samavesha’ on Jan. 18||The Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) will hold a convention of the Kalaburagi division titled ‘Sankalpa Samavesha’ in Kalaburagi city on January 18, said KPCC working president Eshwar Khandre. Addressing presspersons here on Wednesday, Mr. Khandre said that during the divisional-level convention, the leaders will discuss with the party workers on strengthening the grassroots, and emphasis will be given on strengthening block-level organisations. The BJP government is pursuing anti-people and anti-farmer policies, Mr. Khandre said and claimed that the BJP government had brought the progress of the country to a standstill. Accusing the government of trying to handover the agriculture sector to capitalists, he said as this conspiracy stood exposed, farmers had been left with no option but to come out on the streets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kpcc-to-hold-sankalpa-samavesha-on-jan-18/article33572840.ece
14 January 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Rs. 170 crore sought for road development||Chairman of Ballari Urban Development Authority (BUDA) Dammur Shekhar met Urban Development Minister Byrathi Basavaraj at Tinthini in Yadgir district on Wednesday and sought Rs. 170 crore funds for the development of road connecting the National Highway 63 from the northern part of Ballari to the proposed airport. In a media release, Mr. Shekhar said that the project received administrative approval in 2011 and the project cost was Rs. 110 crore at that time. “The project was not implemented for various reasons. Meanwhile, the project cost has escalated to Rs. 170 crore. I have requested the Urban Development Minister to release the required funds under special grants,” Mr. Shekhar said. He also appealed to the Minister to permit the BUDA to sell CA [civic amenity] sites in the layout it had developed for the purpose of building schools, colleges and other civic facilities instead of leasing them out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rs-170-crore-sought-for-road-development/article33572832.ece
14 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Seniority, loyalty pay dividends to six-time MLA S. Angara||Putting rest to all speculations, a six-time MLA from Sullia Assembly constituency in Dakshina Kannada S. Angara (56) finally made it to the State Cabinet on Wednesday. Mr. Angara was upset when he was not inducted into the Cabinet the last time and had said that he and the workers were pained by the party’s decision. But he did not escalate the matter further. Sources in the BJP said that in addition to seniority, the respect he commanded, remaining loyal to the party and his commitment to the Sangh Parivar have paid dividends now. Though Sullia has remained a stronghold of the BJP for over 25 years now, differences of opinion have cropped up in some local units of the party in the last two years. It reflected in the grassroots level in the recent gram panchayat elections and in the cooperative society elections held earlier with candidates of the breakaway factions of the party scoring victories over the official party-backed candidates. In some instances, the candidates of the breakaway factions have made the victories of the official party-backed candidates very difficult by reducing their winning margin. It is yet to be seen whether Mr. Angara becoming a Minister now will put an end to the internal differences and whether he will be able to take all grassroots workers of the party with him. However, the BJP sources termed the differences as minor ones.  Mr. Angara, who had no lobbyists on behalf of him seeking his inclusion into the Cabinet, had tasted defeat when he entered politics for the first time in 1989. He had lost to K. Kushala of the Congress in the then Assembly elections. But he continued to win from the BJP in 1994, 1999, 2004, 2008, 2013 and 2018 elections. He was the lone MLA from the BJP who made it to the Assembly in the 2013 elections from Dakshina Kannada. When the BJP sat in the treasury benches in the Assembly twice earlier — for the first time in 2006 and later in 2008, Dakshina Kannada had representation in the Cabinet. The district has been given representation in the Cabinet now when the party has formed the government for the third time. Following the 2008 Assembly elections, J. Krishna Palemar, the then two-time MLA of the BJP from Mangaluru City North (erstwhile Surathkal constituency), made it to the Cabinet as Minister for Environment and Ports in the B.S. Yediyurappa-led government and later as Minister for Ports and Science and Technology in the D.V. Sadananda Gowda-led government. Mr. Palemar, who was also the district in-charge Minister, resigned as Minister in February 2012 following a video clip controversy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/seniority-loyalty-pay-dividends-to-six-time-mla-s-angara/article33572999.ece
14 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Poor attendance at public consultation on corporation budget for 2021-22||Poor attendance by civil society members marked the public consultation organised by Mangaluru City Corporation for preparing the annual budget for 2021-22 here on Wednesday. The civic body had invited civil society members to seek their suggestions before finalising the budget for the next financial year. Pointing out at the attendance of only six persons from the general public, G. Hanumantha Kamath, president of Nagarika Hitarakshana Samithi, Mangaluru, told Mayor Diwakar that the corporation has not invited representatives of various organisations and professional bodies this time by sending them letters. In the previous years, the civic body was sending letters to such organisations and bodies inviting them to the consultation. This year, the corporation issued only a media release which did not come to the notice of many. Hence, people have not turned up, he said. G.K. Bhat, an activist, said that the corporation has not taken the public consultation seriously. Hence, people have also not considered it seriously. Many a suggestion given by the people in the earlier public consultations have not been incorporated in the budget. Hence, people, realising that the corporation is conducting the consultation only for name-sake, have not turned up this time, he said. Mr. Bhat said that the corporation authorities should ensure that it did not recur. The Mayor said that between 40 and 50 people from civil society had turned up for the first public consultation conducted by the corporation in Surathkal a few days ago. When the Mayor questioned an official why letters had not been sent to civic organisations and bodies this year, the official replied that he had called up such organisations over phone. When Mr. Diwakar wanted to know the number of people to whom telephone calls had been made, the official replied that three people had been telephoned. In addition to the Mayor, Deputy Mayor Janaki alias Vedavathi, whip in the council Premananda Shetty and Kiran Kumar, chairman, Standing Committee on Taxation, Finance and Appeal; Jagadeesh Shetty, chairman, Standing Committee on Accounts; councillors Sudhir Shetty Kanuur and Varun Chowta, Commissioner Akshy Sridhar, Deputy Commissioner (administration) G. Santosh Kumar and some officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/poor-attendance-at-public-consultation-on-corporation-budget-for-2021-22/article33572997.ece
14 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||A forum to air grievances?||The public consultation organised by Mangaluru City Corporation to prepare the annual budget for 2021-22 turned out to be a forum to air grievances against the civic body, though some suggestions to be incorporated in the budget also came in. G. Hanumantha Kamath, president, Nagarika Hitarakshana Samithi, Mangaluru, suggested that the corporation should in the budget reserve funds for paying compensation to those people whose land will be submerged when water at the Thumbe vented dam is stored up to seven metres high. Now, the civic body is storing water up to six metres high. If water is stored up to seven metres high, the civic body will require about Rs. 145 crore to pay compensation to those whose land will be submerged. He said that the corporation should propose to revise building licence fee for commercial and apartment buildings in the budget as it has not been revised for many years now. Mr. Kamath said that the corporation should auction the right to put up hoardings in public places in its jurisdiction for every three years instead of increasing the ground rent by a certain extent and allowing the same agencies to continue it every year. When auctioned, the revenue of the civic body can go up, he added. He said that the civic body is not collecting the ground rent from the scrap dealer in the South Wharf regularly. The rent for the past two years is pending to be collected along with interest. The dealer had not paid the ground rent from 2007-08 onwards. When he (Mr. Kamath) sought the details of payment under the Right to Information Act, the dealer immediately paid the pending rent in three instalments till 2018-19. But the civic body did not charge any interest on it. The ground rent for the subsequent two financial years has not been paid, he said. Ullal Padmanabha, an activist and a retired government engineer, said that the corporation should put an end to unnecessary expenses and plug revenue leakage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-forum-to-air-grievances/article33573002.ece
14 January 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Dharmasthala kshetra contributes Rs. 25L to Ram temple construction||Dharmasthala Dharmadhikari D. Veerendra Heggade on Wednesday announced Rs. 25 lakh contribution from the kshetra for the construction of Ram Temple at Ayodhya with the promise of continued support for the initiative. He made the announcement at the “Nidhi Samarpana” programme at the temple town organised by Sri Ram Janmabhoom Tirth Kshetra Trust under the leadership of Udupi Pejawar Mutt seer and one of the trustees Sri Vishwa Prasanna Tirtha Swami. The Ram Mandir, Mr. Heggade said, should come up as a monument of the century with the active participation of one and all. Speaking on the occasion, Sri Vishwa Prasanna said Sri Ram has been the embodiment of all the virtues. Shunning all vices and imbibing virtues by one and all was the aim behind the construction of the Ram Mandir. The dreams of “Rama Rajya” under the present democracy should be realised through the construction of the mandir, the swami said. Stating that mother and motherland were superior to heaven, the seer urged everyone to chant Rama Naama in their homes every morning and evening thereby reviving the religion and culture to support the Rama Rajya. The donation programme was organised between February 15 and 25 with people donating sums ranging from Rs. 10 to Rs. 1,000 by buying coupons from visiting volunteers of Vishwa Hindu Parishat, Sri Vishwa Prasanna said. He said along with construction of the Ram Mandir at an estimated cost of Rs. 500 crore at Ayodhya, accommodation, library and other facilities for the visiting devotees were planned at an estimated cost of Rs. 100 crore. Earlier, the swami visited the Manjunatha Swamy temple. Belthangady MLA K. Harish Poonja, Alva’s Foundation trustee Vivek Alva, VHP southern Karnataka president M.B. Puranik, and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dharmasthala-kshetra-contributes-rs-25l-to-ram-temple-construction/article33573006.ece
14 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Stolen jewels recovered from theft accused||The Surathkal Police have arrested Rajesh Naik (42) from Manchi village near Udupi on the charge of being involved in theft cases at three places of worship ad recovered gold ornaments and silver articles from him. The police said that Naik has been accused of stealing gold and silver articles from the daivastana on the premises of Ravi Shetty’s house in Nandanajalu of Kulai village, at Ramanjaneya Bhajana Mandira of Idya village and at the daivastana on the premises of Satish Suvarna’s house in Chitrapura.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/stolen-jewels-recovered-from-theft-accused/article33572995.ece
14 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Silver articles taken away from two daivastanas||A gold chain and some silver articles were stolen from Kallurti Panjurli Daivastana on the premises of Bharath Kumar’s house in Kulai Hosabettu during the weekend. The Surathkal Police said that a gang of persons broke open the lock on the front door of the daivastana and made away with a 150 gram silver crown, a 900 gram silver Kadsale, a 200 gram idol of Kallurti Panjurli, a 7.5 gram gold chain and cash kept in the hundi. Similarly, silver articles weighing about 1 kg valued at Rs. 1.25 lakh were stolen from the Kallurti-Kalkuda Vartheswari Jodu Panjurli Daivastana in Kulai Hosabettu during the same period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/silver-articles-taken-away-from-two-daivastanas/article33573004.ece
14 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||MCC draws flak over its ‘apathy’ in tax collection||The meeting convened by the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) here on Wednesday for seeking suggestions from elected representatives, citizens and representatives of various organisations ahead of the presentation of budget for 2021-22 turned into a platform for the participants to hit out at the officials for poor tax recovery and shoddy revenue generation. “How can you prepare the budget when the revenue generation continues to fall and the officials are not showing seriousness in recovering the taxes,” the participants asked. Former Mayor Bhyrappa questioned the logic behind concentrating tax recovery only in certain pockets of the city while there were thousands of households that never paid taxes for years. The discrepancy in tax collection and the higher interest rates have turned the recovery poor. No tax is being collected from 28 revenue layouts despite providing the services, he said. The MCC’s revenue position would have been better if it had shown all seriousness in collecting taxes from all the 2-lakh plus properties. “The officials are not keen on mobilising the resources as they delayclearing the files on building plans and khata transfers,” he said, questioning the reason for imposing two per cent interest on property tax dues since September 2020 when there is time to pay the taxes till March 31, 2021. Another former Mayor, Purushottam, questioned the reason for keeping the MCC and its staff when it is not performing. A number of new residential localities are being added to the MCC but the tax collection continues to be poor. Unless the taxes of the respective years were not strictly collected, the MCC cannot think of developing the city, he argued. ‘Rich people spared’ “The MCC staff are only after the poor when it comes to tax recovery, sparing the rich and the traders. Such an attitude of the staff must go,” he said. Srikantaiah, one of the seniormost members of the MCC and a former Mayor, said officials’ commitment to their work has come down though the number of officials and the expenditure over the years have gone up. “It is high time the tax collection becomes professional and strict, and the staff need to be given monthly targets on property tax and water bills from all nine zones. Despite having a list of over 500 trades across the city, there are many trades that are operating without valid licences, depriving revenue to the MCC.” ‘Lack of will’ He suggested that the MCC adopt the model of electricity supply corporations in recovering their dues from consumers. But the MCC lacks the will to do it the way the other corporations do. There were suggestions at the meeting for finding a remedy to the issue of completion report (CR) which the MCC has stopped issuing to the properties over deviation in building plans. This could bring additional revenue to the MCC. The MCC was also told to look for building new marketing spaces as a means of revenue generation. The revenue from the markets owned by the MCC has become insignificant with no revision in rent since years and the MCC should look for new revenue generation methods, such as construction of new markets, wherever it has land. Mayor Tasneem, who was supposed to have chaired the meeting, did not attend. It was presided over by the Deputy Mayor. MCC Commissioner Gurudatta Hegde and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mcc-draws-flak-over-its-apathy-in-tax-collection/article33573028.ece
14 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||MCC building turns 100||The building where the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) functions would be completing 100 years on January 24. And it is proposed to celebrate the historic moment in a simple manner in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. MCC Commissioner Gurudatta Hegde has sought suggestions on the nature of celebrations. The majestic structure on Sayyaji Rao Road was recently restored, giving it a new coat of paint. Even the interiors of the building were restored complying with the heritage norms.  Former Mayor Srikantaiah said “We need to recognise seniormost councillors of the MCC and felicitate them besides the oldest citizens of Mysuru as a respect to their contributions for the growth of the city. If we cannot do it in a grand manner, we can at least engage the citizens in some activities.” At a meeting in the MCC here on Wednesday, the participants recalled the contributions of the Mysuru Maharajas and thanked them for giving the building for housing the MCC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mcc-building-turns-100/article33573026.ece
14 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Chamundeshwari seat: Election defeat still hurts Siddaramaiah||Former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah on Wednesday claimed that he is yet to emerge from the rout he suffered during the elections to the Legislative Assembly from Chamundeshwari constituency in 2018. Speaking at a function to felicitate victorious gram panchayat members form Chamundeshwari constituency, Mr. Siddaramaiah expressed his hurt by seeking to know if his defeat was “just and fair”, particularly when he was contesting as the Chief Minister of the State. He claimed that he would have contested from Varuna Assembly segment during the elections and won. But, there has been the contribution of people from Chamundeshwari constituency also in his ascent to the post of the State’s Chief Minister. The main reason for him to choose Chamundeshwari during the 2018 Assembly elections was that he started contesting elections from the constituency and wished to wind up his electoral politics from the same constituency. But, he said he never expected to lose. Beef consumption Questioning the BJP’s argument on the religious bar on consumption of beef, Mr. Siddaramaiah claimed that there was a shloka that said consuming beef was good for health. When reporters drew his attention to the BJP leaders’ contention that consumption of beef hurts religious feelings, he sought to know which religion barred its consumption. On Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s critical remarks, Mr. Siddaramaiah sought to make it clear that he has not eaten beef. “I did not say I have eaten beef. I said I will eat if I want to. Who is he to question me?” he said. Farm laws Mr. Siddaramaiah said the apex court had stayed the implementation of farm laws as they were unconstitutional.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/chamundeshwari-seat-election-defeat-still-hurts-siddaramaiah/article33573031.ece
14 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘BSY may resign after State Budget’||Even though he admitted that Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa may have received a fresh lease of life to continue in the top post for some more time, former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah on Wednesday said the Lingayat strongman may have been asked to resign after presenting the State Budget. When reporters reminded Mr. Siddaramaiah of his prediction about change of leadership in the BJP government in the State, the Congress leader said Mr. Yediyurappa may continue for a few more days as the party’s central leadership had permitted him to expand the Cabinet. ‘Received information’ But, he contended that he had earlier received information that Mr. Yediyurappa had been asked to resign. “Probably, he has said that he will resign after presenting the Budget,” Mr. Siddaramaiah said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bsy-may-resign-after-state-budget/article33573030.ece
14 January 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Admn. suspends annual fair of Mailaralingeshwar temple||The district administration has suspended the annual fair of Mailaralingeshwar temple scheduled between January 13 and 18 at Mailapur village in Yadgir district in view of the COVID-19 situation. The annual fair attracts several lakh devotees from across the State and also from neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Maharashtra every year. “It would have attracted the same large number of devotees this year too if the fair had not been suspended,” a resident of Mailapur village said. Yadgir district has seen more than 10,000 COVID-19 positive cases and over 60 deaths. Considering this and to prevent further spread of the virus, the district administration suspended this year’s fair and imposed preventive orders under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code preventing devotees from coming to the temple. Tahsildar of Yadgir Channamallappa Ghanti said that the preventive orders will be in force from Wednesday to Sunday. Thus, devotees should adhere to the orders or legal action will be taken against violators. The temple usually attracts large number of devotees every year during Sankranti. Earlier, devotees offered pujas and hurled sheep on Mailaralingeshwar during the chariot procession. But, this practice was stopped a few years ago by the district administration which asked devotees to hand over sheep to the officials of the Animal Husbandry and Revenue departments at the check-posts set up at the entrance of the village, instead of hurling them on the deity. Barricades The police have put up barricades on routes leading to the temple, while the district administration has distributed pamphlets and taken other initiatives to inform devotees about the suspension of the fair. The Tahsildar of Yadgir, who is the administrator of the temple, has opened an account with a private bank enabling devotees to transfer funds to be offered to the temple hundi. Meanwhile, archaks are allowed to perform formal pujas on Sankranti. Talking to The Hindu , Deputy Commissioner R. Ragapriya urged the devotees to cooperate with the district administration by not coming to the fair.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/admn-suspends-annual-fair-of-mailaralingeshwar-temple/article33572834.ece
14 January 2021||January 14 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Small-scale’ safari to be offered at Bannerghatta park soon||The Bannerghatta National Park (BNP) will soon have safaris. However, Karnataka Forest Department (KFD) officials maintained that the safaris will be run on a “small scale” and the exercise is not aimed at being a commercial activity. At present, the Bannerghatta Biological Park (BBP) is the closest safari option that Bengalureans and visitors to the city have. B.N.N. Murthy, Deputy Conservator of Forest (DCF), BNP told The Hindu that the department is planning to start the safari “shortly.” “We will start with a trial run, which is mainly aimed at getting the elephants familiarised with vehicular movement. We also want to create awareness among villagers. This is not on commercial lines, and on a scale seen at Bandipur, for example. We are looking at the carrying capacity of the park before finalising the details,” he said. Near Ragihalli, for instance, the same group of elephants keep moving around. Once they come to know these vehicles are not a threat to them, they will adapt to the situation, he explained. The safaris, he said, apart from familiarisation for elephants, will help bring awareness among local people. “We are recreating our road network to enhance our visibility and movement to bring our park under the scientific forest and wildlife management. We are planning to run one or two vehicles in the morning and evening. It is not economically viable to run more, and the park is also very fragile. Revenue is not our criterion,” Mr. Murthy added. Last October, two elephants were found dead in the Kodihalli range adjacent to the park. Officials had said preliminary investigations indicated electrocution. Activists had alleged that illegal electric fencing on private properties outside the park caused the death. They are irked by the new proposal too. “It is already a very sensitive area. They have already reduced the Eco-Sensitive Zone (ESZ). Infrastructure projects are being planned. It is not a wise decision at all. It is going to make things worse,” said one of the activists. Earlier last year, despite huge opposition to the proposal to reduce the regulated buffer zone around protected areas, the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change had given the green signal to reduce the ESZ of the BNP by around 100 sq.km.  We will start with a trial run, which is mainly aimed at getting the elephants familiarised with vehicular movement. We also want to create awareness among villagers B.N.N. Murthy, DCF, BNP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/small-scale-safari-to-be-offered-at-bannerghatta-park-soon/article33572606.ece
14 January 2021||January 14 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Focus on academics, not sports or cultural activities’||Students, student organisations and faculty members feel that there is no need to restart sports and cultural activities in colleges during the pandemic. Amaresh Kadagada, State president, Students’ Federation of India, Karnataka said that while it was important to restart offline classes for intermediate semesters, there was no need to begin sports and cultural activities at this point in time. “There are reports that there might be a second wave of COVID-19 cases. During this time, colleges should focus on academics and ensure that students’ learning outcome is not affected. I also feel that colleges will exploit students and charge fees for these activities from students. Students and their families are financially distressed, and cannot afford to pay fees for this,” he said. What they need Suraj K., a student of a city-based college, said that there was a need for colleges to make sure that they fulfil the basic requirements of students, and provide accommodation in hostels and ensure that they get access to transport in a hassle-free manner. “Without fulfilling our basic needs, there is no need to start cultural and sports activities,” he said. Sithara H.M., Bengaluru district president, All India Democratic Students Organisation, said that while cultural activities and sports were important, the main concern due to the pandemic was academics, and the government must ensure basic facilities like laboratory, staff, hostel, class rooms. “As final-year students are quite anxious about their future, academics should not be compromised with other activities,” she said.  Colleges will exploit students and charge fees for these activities. Students and their families cannot afford to pay Amaresh Kadagada, State president, Students’ Federation of India   Without fulfilling our basic needs, there is no need to start cultural and sports activities Suraj K., student   As final-year students are quite anxious about their future, academics should not be compromised with other activities Sithara H.M., Bengaluru district president, All India Democratic Students Organisation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/focus-on-academics-not-sports-or-cultural-activities/article33572619.ece
14 January 2021||January 14 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Three arrested for murder||The railway police have arrested three persons for killing the owner of an eatery. The accused are Afroz, Khaleel and Mubarak. “They claimed that the deceased, Afroz, 37, was sexually harassing one of them. He confided in his friends and they decided to kill Afroz,” said a police officer. They invited him to join them for a drink on January 2 near the railway tracks at Hampinagar. “While Afroz was inebriated, they hit him with a blunt weapon, dumped the body on the railway tracks, and set it on fire,” the officer added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-arrested-for-murder/article33572611.ece
14 January 2021||January 14 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Bengaluru girl wins company law quiz||Veena S. Reddy from Bengaluru was declared the winner of the All India Company Law Quiz 2020, professional level, during the online quiz organised by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India. She won a cash prize of Rs. 50,000 along with a commendation certificate. She is a qualified Chartered Accountant working in a firm in Bengaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bengaluru-girl-wins-company-law-quiz/article33572605.ece
14 January 2021||January 14 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||746 new cases||The State on Wednesday reported 746 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total number of cases to 9,29,552. With three deaths, the toll rose to 12,152. This is apart from 19 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 765 persons were discharged on Wednesday, taking the total number of recoveries to 9,08,494. Of the remaining 8,887 active patients, 193 were being monitored in ICUs. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.65%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 0.40%. Bengaluru Urban reported 426 cases, taking its tally to 3,93,673. With two deaths coming from Bengaluru, the toll in this district rose to 4,352. Active cases in Bengaluru reduced to 5,678. As many as 1,13,515 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 1,06,592 RT-PCR tests, taking the total number of tests to 1,55,98,874.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/746-new-cases/article33572613.ece
14 January 2021||January 14 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||HC notice on cyber crime stations||The Karnataka High Court has ordered issue of notice to the State government on a PIL petition complaining that eight Cyber, Economic and Narcotics (CEN) crimes police stations in the city last year lack infrastructure and staff, resulting in delay in investigations. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum passed the order on a petition filed by Sudha Katwa, a city-based advocate. Staff shortage The petitioner has pointed out that the Director-General and Inspector General of Police had in October 2019 recommended that the government open eight Cyber, Economic and Narcotics police stations in the city with 30 staff each. However, the petitioner pointed out that the government set up the CEN police stations with a total of 56 staff. All the eight police stations lack several basic infrastructure, including technical facilities and vehicles, for day-to-day operations affecting the process of investigation, the petitioner said while contending that there was no point setting up police stations for probing modern-day offences like cyber and economic offences without providing adequate infrastructure and skilled staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-notice-on-cyber-crime-stations/article33572620.ece
14 January 2021||January 14 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Celebrations by design||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/celebrations-by-design/article33572622.ece
14 January 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Drive to promote cultivation of exotic fruits||The Agriculture department is gearing up to tap the potential of exotic fruit varieties in Wayanad district. “As the temperate climate and fertile soil in the hill district are quite suitable for the growth and fruit production of the exotic fruit plants, the cultivation will help to provide a sustainable income to the farmers,” Principal Agriculture Officer Sajimon K. Varghese said. The department would spend Rs. 2 crore for the project and 10 exotic fruit plants including rambutan, avocado, mangosteen, pulasan and litchi fruit plants would be cultivated under the project, Mr. Sajimon said. A sum of Rs. 10,600 per acre would be provided as subsidy to each farmer, he said. The department planned to utilise 1,750 acre for the cultivation this year, he said. Farmers can procure high quality planting materials from approved nurseries in the State, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/drive-to-promote-cultivation-of-exotic-fruits/article33572924.ece
14 January 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||27,233 register in Kannur||The Health department will issue the COVID-19 vaccine at nine health centres in the district. The vaccination will be given to health workers in the first instance as they care for COVID patients. A total of 27,233 people, including 10,563 in the government sector, and 10,670 in the private sector, including health workers, have already registered for the vaccine. The District Medical Officer-in-Charge, M. Preetha, said that all the preparations for the vaccination had been completed in the district. Kannur Govt. Medical College; District Hospital; Taluk hospitals at Iritty and Panur; Mayyil Community Health Centre; Kathirur, Therthalli, Kottiyoor Family Health Centres, Cherukunnu Government Ayurveda Hospital are the centres where the vaccine will be administered. Dr. Preetha said that the first day of vaccination would be held at the Ayurveda Hospital and other health centres. At one centre, 50 people will be vaccinated a day in the morning and 50 in the afternoon. For this, a vaccination team of five persons has been deployed at each vaccination centre. She said a message would be sent to the registered beneficiary’s mobile number stating the date, time and place of vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/27233-register-in-kannur/article33572921.ece
14 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Row over abuse victim’s death||Acrimonious scenes were witnessed in front of the Child Welfare Committee office at Thrikkakara on Wednesday morning after the relatives of a sexual abuse victim, a 14-year-old girl suffering from retardation, staged a protest with her body alleging mystery behind her death. The girl reportedly collapsed and died at a child care institute in the city on Monday afternoon. She was shifted to the institute two years ago after she was sexually abused. Her father and his friend were arrested under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. The Child Welfare Committee and the District Child Protection Unit (DCPU) have launched a probe and sought all records, including medical ones, pertaining to the deceased. “The Child Welfare Committee kept the relatives in the dark about her whereabouts and denied them visiting rights, only to contact them about her death. A detailed investigation should be held to bring out the truth,” said Vaisakh Darshan, State general secretary of the Youth Congress, who claimed to be the victim’s relative and led the protest. ‘Falsely implicated’ He alleged that the father had been falsely implicated and that the death could have been part of a ploy to prevent her from giving statements in a POCSO court where the trial of the case was under way. Child Welfare Committee chairperson Bitty K. Joseph ruled out foul play. “She was moved to the institute registered under the Juvenile Justice Act as per a report of the Special Juvenile Police Unit,” she said. Ms. Joseph said they came to know about the incident only after the death, following which the North police were alerted, who registered a case for unnatural death. “We came to know that the girl wasn’t well for a over week and was being treated at a clinic near the institute before she suddenly died. The post-mortem examination report reveals that she had pneumonia and chest infection,” North police sources said. No information Ms. Joseph said a WhatsApp group involving all child care institutes was active where institutional authorities had been asked to share any serious medical condition of the inmates immediately. “The group is monitored daily. But nothing was reported about the victim’s health in the group. According to the institution authorities, she collapsed and died while having a biscuit,” she said. The protesters disbursed after a police team led by Thrikkakara Assistant Commissioner assured them of necessary action.  14-year-old collapses and dies at a child care institute in Kochi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/row-over-abuse-victims-death/article33572928.ece
14 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||District gets 73,000 doses of Covishield in first allotment||Of the 1.8 lakh doses of the Covishield vaccine that arrived in Ernakulam on Wednesday, 73,000 doses will be for health workers in the district while the rest is being transported to four other districts. Around 63,000 people, including hospital staff, ASHA and anganwadi workers, have registered for the vaccine on the CoWIN app. With the first consignment, around 32,000 people can be vaccinated in two doses, with some buffer. The second dose is to be administered 28 days after the first. District Collector S. Suhas and Dr. M.G. Sivadas, Reproductive and Child Health Officer for the district, collected the boxes that arrived from the airport at the Regional Vaccine Store at the Ernakulam General Hospital. Storage facility The vaccine will be distributed from the regional store to the 12 vaccination centres in the district on Thursday, Dr. Sivadas said. The storage facilities used for regular immunisation will be used at these centres for the Covishield vaccine as well, he added. The vaccine is to be stored at a temperature of 2 to 8 degree Celsius. Another consignment of the vaccine is expected to arrive in the district in a week or two, he said. Ernakulam has the highest number of people registered for the vaccine in a single district in the State. The first dose of the vaccine is likely to be administered to 1,200 people on January 16. Each of the 12 centres, previously identified, is equipped to vaccinate 100 people on a single day. Health workers have already been trained in the district to administer the vaccine. Mr. Suhas told the media here that the number of centres for vaccination will be increased in a few days, based on need and available facilities. The doses meant for Thrissur, Palakkad, Kottayam and Idukki will be transported via road from the General Hospital with police escort.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/district-gets-73000-doses-of-covishield-in-first-allotment/article33572937.ece
14 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Varsities pin hopes on State Budget||An Institute for Sanskrit and Indigenous Heritages of South India and Centre for Interdisciplinary Studies and Innovation figure top among the budget wishes of the Sree Sankaracharya University of Sanskrit and Cochin University of Science and Technology respectively. The varsities remain hopeful that Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac would consider their infrastructure and academic requirements as the State Budget is expected to give a thrust for the higher education sector. “The proposed Institute for Sanskrit and Indigenous Heritages of South India will provide a platform for collaborative and interdisciplinary research. We hope that the Sanskrit University will be the hub of Sanskrit studies in the country with the setting up of the institute,” said Dharmarajan P.K, Vice Chancellor. The project cost is about Rs. 65 crore. Linguistic laboratory An international linguistic laboratory is another major project proposed by the university. Prof. Dharmaraj said that the state-of-the-art lab will enhance learning and research in language comprehension, theory and a wide range of subjects associated with it. The estimated cost for the lab is Rs. 30 crore. Other key projects suggested include an Earth Observation and Geospatial lab for Sustainable Innovation and Development (Rs. 17 crore); Centre for Brain and Cognitive Sciences (Rs. 31.5 crore); Centre for Developmental Disability Management and Research (Rs. 8.5 crore); and Institute for Socio-Demographic Data Analysis and Research (Rs. 10 crore). K.N. Madhusoodanan, Vice Chancellor of Cusat, said that a Rs. 30-crore Centre for Interdisciplinary Studies and Innovation and five-year integrated courses in biological sciences and computer science figure on the wish list presented by the varsity before the government. “The Centre for Interdisciplinary Studies and Innovation will focus on research and learning in Science, Technology, Engineering, Mathematics (STEM). We have proposed postgraduate and M.Tech. programmes in Climate Studies,” he said. The varsity has proposed infrastructure projects worth Rs. 40 crore. B. Manoj Kumar, Registrar of Kerala University of Fisheries and Ocean Studies, said that the varsity remained hopeful of getting financial support for the new regional centres at Payannoor and Kundara proposed last year. “We have also requested allocation for a new academic block on the western side of the main campus in Panangad and a ladies’ hostel,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/varsities-pin-hopes-on-state-budget/article33572935.ece
14 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Discontent among cops over DCP’s action||Discontent is brewing among the police personnel in the city over the perceived haughtiness of the newly appointed Deputy Commissioner Aishwarya Dongre, who ordered a woman cop to two days traffic duty for allegedly failing to recognise her during an inspection. Ms, Dongre dropped in at the women’s police station adjoining the Town North station, reportedly to inspect a cleaning drive on Sunday. As she was about to enter the station, the woman cop on sentry duty asked her not to do so in view of the pandemic restrictions reportedly on failing to recognise the superior officer in civil dress and with her mask on. This didn’t go down well with Ms. Dongre, who summoned the policewoman to her office on Monday and deployed her for two days’ traffic duty, which was widely perceived as a punitive measure. Ms. Dongre, however, said that it was a misperception. “She was on sentry duty and not found to be alert when a senior officer’s vehicle came and stopped at the police station. As part of her duty, she was expected to exert maximum alertness which wasn’t done. As a result, she was given two days’ traffic duty for not being alert on duty,” she reasoned. The Kerala Police Association (KPA), however, said that this sort of punishment was uncalled for where a mere warning would have been sufficient. “Ms. Dongre has assumed charge only recently and hence, the policewoman would have failed to recognise her immediately. She could have been let off with a warning considering the peculiar circumstances in view of the pandemic that added to the confusion,” said KPA sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/discontent-among-cops-over-dcps-action/article33572941.ece
14 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC asks DLSA secretary to visit Central prison||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Wednesday directed the secretary of the Thiruvananthapuram District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) to visit the Central prison every Wednesdays until further orders, and if the convicts make any complaint, it should be brought to the notice of the court. The Bench comprising Justice K. Vinod Chandran and Justice M.R. Anitha issued the directive on a petition filed by the parents of the convict in the Kevin murder case alleging that the jail officials had manhandled their son inside the jail. The court directed the Superintendent of Government Medical College Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram, to discharge Tittu Jerome, the convict, if he was fit for discharge. The court also directed the Thiruvananthapuram City Police Commissioner to ensure that he was taken back to the prison if he was discharged. Official’s responsibility The Bench made it clear that the Superintendent of the Central Prison would be responsible for the safety of the convict and no third-degree methods should be employed on him. The court had last time expressed its unhappiness with the inquiry report filed by the Deputy Inspector General of Police, (Prisons), as it felt that there was prima facie an attempt to safeguard the prison personnel involved in the alleged incident of torture on the inmate of the Central prison. The government had submitted that as part of the disciplinary action, the erring officials had been transferred from the prison.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-asks-dlsa-secretary-to-visit-central-prison/article33572925.ece
14 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Consignment flown in to city||The first consignment of COVID-19 vaccine arrived at Kochi airport on Wednesday morning. The flight arrived about 15 minutes ahead of the schedule of 11 a.m. earlier announced by the airport authorities. The consignment comprised vaccines for Ernakulam and Kozhikode regions. The transfer of the vaccines for the onward journey was completed in 10 minutes. The consignment arrived by GoAir G8 347 flight from Mumbai, airport sources said. The parcel of vaccine comprised 1.8 lakh doses for Ernakulam region and 1.19 lakh doses for Kozhikode region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/consignment-flown-in-to-city/article33572939.ece
14 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Coastal security exercise concludes||The second edition of the pan India coastal security exercise Sea Vigil steered by the Navy in coordination with the Coast Guard, State governments, Union Territories and other maritime stakeholders concluded on Wednesday. The aim of the exercise was to validate the efficacy of India’s coastal defence organisation against threats arising from the sea, a defence press release said. “It was one of the largest coastal security exercises undertaken by the country in recent times, covering the entire spectrum of maritime security. The exercise was conducted in Kerala and Lakshadweep under the aegis of Commander-in-Chief, Coastal Defence, and saw the participation of more than 100 ships, patrol craft and aircraft of the Indian Navy and the Coast Guard, as well as patrol boats manned by various security agencies off the coast of Kerala, Mahe and Lakshadweep,” it added. Sea Vigil sought to undertake a realistic evaluation of the coastal security architecture of the country. The real-time picture of activities during the exercise was monitored by various operational and control centres, especially at the Joint Operation Centres in various States. Vice Admiral Anil Kumar Chawla, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief of the Southern Naval Command, who is also the Commander-in-Chief, Coastal Defence, Kerala, reviewed the progress of the exercise at Joint Operations Centre (Kochi) along with officials from various agencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sea-vigil-exercise-concludes/article33572934.ece
14 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||District posts highest number of cases in State||With 998 new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, Ernakulam recorded the highest number of cases in the State. Twelve health workers and one police officer have newly tested positive. Choornikkara recorded a spike with 39 new cases on Wednesday, while Thrikkakara registered 34, Varapuzha 32, and Kizhakkambalam 31. With 906 recoveries, the district’s active case load is 9,352. A total of 7,842 samples were sent for testing on Wednesday. “The district has seen an upward trend, both in the number of cases and the number of critically-ill patients, for about two and a half weeks now. While Ernakulam has not arrived at the peak we saw around two months ago, lack of caution could worsen the situation,” said Dr. Mathews Numpeli, District Programme Manager, National Health Mission. While 48 patients are admitted at the Government Medical College Hospital, 70 are at PVS Hospital, 20 are at the Fort Kochi Taluk Hospital and seven patients are at the Aluva District Hospital. As many as 7,004 people are recovering at home, 252 at FLTCs and 270 at SLTCs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/district-posts-highest-number-of-cases-in-state/article33572942.ece
14 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Mayor meets Vice Admiral Chawla||At a meeting with Vice Admiral A.K. Chawla, Flag Officer Commanding in Chief of the Southern Naval Command, on Wednesday, Mayor M. Anilkumar sought the Navy’s support in keeping the city clean. Impressed with the way the Navy has maintained the Naval Base as a ‘zero waste campus’, Mr. Anilkumar said the Vice Admiral assured him the force’s support in cleaning the Fort Kochi beach and streets based on the city corporation’s request.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mayor-meets-vice-admiral-chawla/article33572931.ece
14 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Bail for V4Kochi leader||The Ernakulam Sessions Court on Wednesday granted bail to Nipun Cherian, leader of the apolitical outfit V4Kochi, who was arrested on January 6 in connection with the alleged unauthorised opening of the Vyttila flyover. He will be able to get out of the District Sub-Jail on Thursday, according to the members of the organisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bail-granted-to-v4kochi-leader/article33572940.ece
14 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Proposal to use Brahmapuram land to dispose of silt||John Fernandez, MLA, has said that the Chief Minister has assured him that the government will explore the possibility of using 10 acres of surplus land at Brahmapuram, which is now not being used for waste dumping, for disposing of slurry and silt from the 240 drains in Kochi Corporation. The proposal is to seek the consent of the government and the corporation for the purpose. The Chief Minister was replying to a submission by the MLA about the hardship suffered by people living close to the backwaters in West Kochi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/proposal-to-use-brahmapuram-land-to-dispose-of-silt/article33572938.ece
14 January 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||22,006 register for vaccination in Kollam||As many as 22,006 persons have registered for COVID-19 vaccination in the district which will be held at nine centres, District Medical Officer (DMO) R. Sreelatha has said. The centres included government and private hospitals along with Ayush facilities and the Health Department had made arrangements for webcasting the drive, she said here on Wednesday. Government Medical College, Kollam, Government Victoria Hospital, District Ayurveda Hospital, Medicity Medical College (Palathara block), Punalur Taluk Hospital, Karunagapally Taluk Hospital, Chavara Community Health Centre, Nedumankav Community Health Centre and Chithara Family Health Centre are the vaccination centres. The District Medical Office has formed an action plan to administer the vaccine when it arrives and at present arrangements are in place to vaccinate 100 persons a day at each centre. All centres will have a waiting area, vaccination room and observation room as per the guidelines and the department has ensured the availability of staff. Reverse quarantine Meanwhile, the authorities have started strictly enforcing reverse quarantine in the district as part of strengthening preventive measures. Persons belonging to vulnerable sections, including children, expectant mothers, senior citizen and those with other morbidities have been directed to avoid travelling and take all precautions. “Patients with lifestyle diseases should take medicines and maintain physical-distancing norms. They should avoid contact with persons who develop the symptoms of COVID-19. Those living in containment zones and clusters should stay alert,” said the DMO. Since youngsters are causing the highest number of contact cases, they have been advised to regulate their lifestyle and limit travelling for protecting those in reverse quarantine. Students should follow all guidelines and break the chain protocols while travelling and attending classes. They are not allowed to share food, drinking water or study material and the use of masks and sanitiser is mandatory. As five students from a private college have tested positive, the department has instructed all colleges and hostels to ensure that the right protocol is followed. Hostelers should use single rooms if possible and beds should be arranged maintaining proper distance in dormitories. “Different time slots should be fixed for lunch break to avoid rush. If a hosteler tests positive, the student should be immediately moved to home. Those who come into contact with the patient should take test on the fifth day. Primary and high risk contacts should take RT-PCR while others should take antigen test,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/22006-register-for-vaccination-in-kollam/article33572978.ece
14 January 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Coastal police win Vanamitra award||The Kerala Police Officers Association’s (Coastal) green initiatives have won them the Vanamitra award for Kollam district, instituted by the Kerala Forest and Wildlife Department. The honour comes as a major recognition for their various efforts to conserve biodiversity, including the ‘Shuchitwa Theeram, Surakshita Theeram’ project. The award carries a purse of Rs. 25,000 and a citation. Mangrove afforestation Shuchitwa Theeram, Surakshita Theeram was launched as an initiative to eradicate plastic waste from the coastline and the coastal police had followed it up with a massive mangrove afforestation project. The project was implemented with the support of clubs, libraries, green collectives and voluntary organisations. In the initial phase, mangrove saplings were planted near the Neendakara estuary, which also included rare ones like Ceriops tagal (yellow mangrove). A total of 5,000 mangrove saplings were planted and preserved in the past five years along the coastline from Paravur to Azheekkal and near Ashtamudi, Vattakayal and TS Canal.  As part of the project, the officials had also conducted a string of awareness programmes, educating various sections of society about the necessity to conserve the mangrove habitats that make an important part of the aquatic ecosystem. In 2019 another project was launched to bring back the now rare Calophyllum inophyllum (Punna) to coastal areas. Thousand Punna saplings were planted as part of the 12-phase project. During the pandemic, the project was continued maintaining physical-distancing norms. Punna nursery The Coastal police have set up a Punna nursery in front of the station and every day they work nearly two hours for the project without affecting their duty timings. District Police Chief T. Narayanan is the patron of the project and association Kollam city secretary M.C. Prashantan is the coordinator.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/coastal-police-win-vanamitra-award/article33572974.ece
14 January 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Sahodaya Kids Fest begins today||Kollam Sahodaya Kids Fest, 2021, will be held on January 14 and 15. Mary Matha English Medium School, Pothencode, Mar Thoma Central School, Chadayamangalam, St. Francis Assisi English Medium School, Elampal, and Anand Bhavan Central School, Anchal, will be the venues of the online competitions. Fr. Abraham Thalothil, president of Kollam Sahodaya, will inaugurate the festival. From 21 schools The valedictory function will be held at Brook International School, Sasthamcotta. Students from 21 schools will take part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sahodaya-kids-fest-begins-today/article33572977.ece
14 January 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Vacancies in Kudumbashree||The District Kudumbashree Mission has vacancies for farm supervisor, marketing executive and lifting supervisor on contract. Last date for accepting applications is January 27. For details, visit www.keralachicken.org.in or call: 0474-2794692.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vacancies-in-kudumbashree/article33572975.ece
14 January 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Kottayam posts 589 cases||As many as 589 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Wednesday Of the fresh cases, 580 persons, including a health worker, contracted the virus through local contact. The fresh cases also included 49 children and 119 persons aged above 60. With 74 cases, Kottayam municipality led the tally, followed by Changanassery with 32 cases. With 548 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 5,339 active cases. 528 cases in Kollam Kollam reported 528 new cases and 230 recoveries on the day. Among the patients are 525 contact cases, one person who came from another State and two cases with no known source. The district currently has 11,213 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 6,45,353. While 1,110 persons completed home quarantine on Wednesday, the Health Department has traced 1,48,358 primary and 13,504 secondary contacts of the positive cases. 448 in Pathanamthitta As many as 448 persons tested positive in Pathanamthitta. Of the fresh cases, 439 persons contracted the virus through local contact and among these, the contact source of 34 cases is yet to be identified. Among the local bodies, Pandalam reported 30 cases, followed by Adoor with 29 cases. The disease also claimed the life of a 92-year-old woman from Chittar. With 333 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 6,507 active cases. 432 cases in Alappuzha Alappuzha reported 432 COVID-19 cases on Wednesday. It also recorded two COVID-19-related deaths. Among the fresh cases, 424 patients contracted the disease through local contact. The source of infection of another three persons remains unknown. Four persons who came from other States and one from abroad also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Meanwhile, 487 people who were undergoing treatment recovered. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district stands at 4,512.  (With inputs from Kollam, Pathanamthitta and Alappuzha bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kottayam-posts-589-cases/article33572981.ece
14 January 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||CM to interact with students at MGU||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will directly interact with undergraduate, postgraduate, and research students of the Mahatma Gandhi University, Kottayam, and the Sree Sankaracharya University of Sanskrit, Kalady, on February 8. According to the university, the session was scheduled under the ‘Navakeralam-Yuva Keralam-Meet the students’ programme of the Chief Minister. As part of it, Mr. Vijayan is slated to visit the university campus on February 8 to speak to a select group of students who have excelled in the field of arts and sports. The university has constituted an organising committee with Vice Chancellor Sabu Thomas as chairman and Syndicate member P. Shanavas as general convener. Apart from the MGU and its affiliated institutions, students of Sreesankara Sanskrit University, Kalady, will be called for participating in the programme. In addition, all students and faculty from both university campuses, affiliated colleges, and university centres can join the programme online. Ideas of students According to a statement, the Nava Keralam-Yuva Keralam programme intends to develop a new Kerala-model in the education sector by also compiling the ideas and perspectives emerging from within the student community. The objectives of the project include turning innovative ideas by students into inventions; making the concept of multidisciplinary education a reality; leading innovations and innovative ideas to enterprises such as start-ups to make them useful for society; enabling undergraduate and postgraduate research projects to employment guarantee programmes by giving importance to human resource training; and bringing qualitative changes in the higher education sector on the basis of principles such as equality, accessibility, and inclusion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-to-interact-with-students/article33572932.ece
14 January 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Vaccination drive from Saturday as ‘Covishield’ reaches Kozhikode||As many as 1,19,500 doses of the Covishield vaccine manufactured by Serum Institute of India, Pune, reached Kozhikode district on Wednesday. According to the Health Department, they were despatched by a special vehicle from the Nedumbassery airport in the morning. They were taken to the regional vaccine store at Malaparamba in the city by 4 p.m. T. Mohandas, District Reproductive and Child Health Officer, received the vaccine. The vaccine is being kept in temperature-controlled boxes, with each of them containing 12,000 doses. The temperature should be controlled between 2 degrees Celsius and 8 degree Celsius during the storage and distribution. The vaccination drive will begin on January 16. The vaccination centres in the district are Government Medical College; Government General Hospital; District Ayurvedic Hospital; ESI Hospital, Feroke; taluk hospitals at Perambra, Nadapuram, and Koyilandy; family health centre, Panangad; community health centres at Narikkuni and Mukkom, and Aster MIMS Hospital. A total of 33,799 health workers, including those from private hospitals, have registered themselves for the drive. Health workers will be vaccinated in the first phase, frontline workers in the second phase, and the the general public would get in the third phase. Department officials said that 100 people would be vaccinated at each of the 11 centres one day. Each centre would have one vaccinator and four vaccination officers. One additional special centre too had been arranged in each block. The officials claimed that COVID-19 protocol would be enforced in all these places. An ambulance would be kept ready if anyone develops uneasiness after getting the injection. Pregnant women and children would not get the vaccine. COVID-19 protocol would be force in the waiting room next to the vaccination room. Only one person would be allowed entry into the vaccination room at a time and privacy would be maintained there, the district medical officer said. That person would have to be under observation for half an hour after vaccination, she said. The Malaparamba regional vaccine store is one of the three designated places to store the COVID-19 vaccine in the State. The vaccine would be despatched to Kannur, Kasaragod, Malappuram, and Wayanad districts as well as the Union Territory of Mahe from here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vaccination-drive-from-saturday-as-covishield-reaches-kozhikode/article33572920.ece
14 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Knowledge Park: oustees plan dharna for compensation||The people who have lost land for the Kinfra Knowledge Park in Ramanattukara are planning a dharna on January 21 in protest against the negligence of the State government in providing them the due compensation for the acquired land. K.Koyamutti Haji, president of the Ramanattukara Kinfra Knowledge Park Land Losers’ Action Committee, told reporters here on Wednesday that the 140 land owners had not received a large chunk of the compensation since the government took over the land 12 years ago. The government had even neglected the Kerala High Court order in 2018 that had asked it to pay the complete compensation to the land owners. Ever since the acquisition of around 80 acres of land in 2008, it has been a long legal battle between the land owners and the government for the compensation settlement. The government had paid only 10% of the price in 2010. The land owners then approached the Kozhikode principal sessions court for just compensation. The court ordered a compensation in 2013, but the government failed to remit it in court and hence, the land owners had to approach court again. Meanwhile, the government went on an appeal in the High Court. But the appeal could be accepted only if half of the compensation ordered by the sessions court was remitted. Hence, the land owners got half their compensation. Later, the government, Kinfra and the landowners came to a settlement. The High Court passed a compromise decree in 2018 according to which the government had to pay the land owners completely by November 2018. But the government did not follow the orders and instead approached the Supreme Court. Meanwhile, a six-storey building has come up in then acquired land and the Knowledge Park is nearing inauguration. “We are not in a financial position to go on further legal battle with the government. Hence, protest is our only way out,” said Mr. Haji. Eight of the land owners have expired in the meantime while the remaining are mostly senior citizens. “The government has cheated us many times. Now, it is challenging us to battle it out in the Supreme Court, which is pure arrogance. Hence, we are going to protest,” he said, adding that the landowners would not allow the Knowledge Park to function without getting their full compensation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/knowledge-park-oustees-plan-dharna-for-compensation/article33572917.ece
14 January 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Railway approves slew of projects for Kozhikode station||The Palakkad division of the Southern Railway has given its nod to a slew of projects aimed at giving a facelift to the Kozhikode railway station. This follows a visit of Trilok Kothari, Divisional Railway Manager of Palakkad, to the station last week. Some of the new projects included developing a new parking area and installation of two escalators at the cost of Rs. 2 crore, officials said. This apart, they said more rooms would be constructed at the Railway Protection Force (RPF) building. Regarding strengthening its workforce, a woman sub inspector and two constables have been newly inducted into the RPF at Kozhikode. Also, the existing vacancies of two women constables have been filled. The parking area will be developed at the vacant place opposite the main entry of the station. The area will be around 15,000 sqft. The RPF will coordinate with the local police to identify the owners of vehicles illegally parked in the parking area. If owners failed to turn up, the vehicles would be handed over to Railway commercial wing for further proceedings such as auction, they said. Meanwhile, the construction work for the two escalators on the fourth platform has started. The civil work started near the parcel office at the station. The Letter of Authorisation for both civil and engineering works was issued in September 2020. The escalators will have an emergency stop button with a Voice Announcing System, they said. Other projects are upgrading the control room with state-of-the-art facilities and improving sanitation. Patrolling will also intensified during night hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/railway-approves-slew-of-projects-for-kozhikode-station/article33572923.ece
14 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Calicut chamber questions delay in NH bypass development||The Calicut Chamber of Commerce and Industry plans to hold a token dharna in front of the office of the Chief Engineer, National Highways Authority of India at Mananchira on Monday to raise the issue of negligence towards converting the NH bypass in Kozhikode into a six-lane road. Subair Kolakkadan, president of the chamber, told reporters here on Wednesday that the chamber had submitted a memorandum to Union Minister Nitin Gadkari and Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan regarding the issue. “The authorities should explain why a project that started 35 years ago is being put off again and again by the companies that take up the contract,” Mr.Kolakkadan said, pointing out the backout by INKEL from the project recently. “The project costs around Rs. 1,710 crore. But the companies that are entrusted with it are mostly inexperienced and financially incapable of handling it,” he said. Chamber vice president P.A. Asif said that fund insufficiency was the major hurdle before most companies and suggested that the project be divided into four or five reaches and given as separate tenders so that even smaller companies could handle it. He alleged that the reason for the delay in the project was negligence by the NHAI. The chamber also expressed anxiety over similar delay in the completion of the widening of the Mananchira-Vellimadukunnu road. “We have enough MPs and MLAs, but the intervention from them regarding these roads seems to be minimal,” said honourary secretary of the chamber, Rajesh Kunjappan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/calicut-chamber-questions-delay-in-nh-bypass-development/article33572916.ece
14 January 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||COVID-19 caseload crosses 6,000||The active COVID-19 case load in Kozhikode went above 6,000 again when 669 people tested positive for the virus on Wednesday. According to the district medical officer, there are 6,070 infected persons from the district. As many as 4,608 are in home isolation. Of the fresh cases, 651 are locally acquired infections, and 15 with an unknown source. A total of 151 cases of local transmission are from Kozhikode Corporation, 43 from Villiappally, 35 from Kunnamangalam, 29 from Vadakara, 21 from Feroke and 20 from Olavanna. As many as 6,255 samples were tested on the day. There were 573 recoveries. Seven deaths were reported from the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, between Tuesday and Wednesday. Another man who drowned on January 10 was later tested positive for the virus.  248 cases in Wayanad As many as 248 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad district on Thursday. Of the new cases, 247 patients, including four health workers, were infected through local contact and a person had returned from Qatar. The district has so far reported 19,312 COVID-19 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-19-caseload-crosses-6000/article33572918.ece
14 January 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Tender process on for new KV building||The tender process for the new building for Kendriya Vidyalaya, East Hill, is on and the work will begin only after demolition of the existing structure, the authorities have said. According to P.K. Chandran, Principal, the demolition of the existing old building was expected to begin by March. The executive engineer, Central Public Works Department, Kozhikode, would be entrusted with the job of demolition and reconstruction, he said. Sources said that the architectural wing of the department based in Bengaluru would be roped in for preparing a blueprint of the new building.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tender-process-on-for-new-kv-building/article33572914.ece
14 January 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Mother of Walayar girls plans indefinite fast||The mother of the two minor girls of Walayar, who had been found dead in mysterious circumstances in their house four years ago, said here on Wednesday that she would launch an indefinite satyagraha from January 27 demanding action against the police officers who had allegedly scuttled the case. “I will die fasting on the street if no action is taken against the police officer who investigated the case,” said the mother. The parents of the girls, backed by the Walayar Samara Samithi, decided to launch the agitation demanding action against the police officer in the wake of the State government deciding to transfer the case to the CBI. The High Court had found gross lapses in the investigation and the prosecution of the case. V.K. Sreekandan, MP, inaugurated the day-long agitation by the Samara Samithi at Walayar on Wednesday. Former minister V.C. Kabeer addressed the protesters. Samitih president Vilayodi Venugopal announced the agitation plans. Patron C.R. Neelakandan delivered the keynote address.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mother-of-walayar-girls-plans-indefinite-fast/article33573142.ece
14 January 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Man held for draping BJP flag on Gandhi statue||The police on Wednesday arrested a man in connection with draping of BJP flag on Mahatma Gandhi’s statue in the municipal office compound here earlier this week. The Palakkad South police took into custody Bineesh, 29, from Tirunellayi, near here, after an investigation conducted on the basis of surveillance camera footages. The police said he was mentally ill. It was on Monday that a BJP flag was found draped on the Gandhi statue inside the municipal compound building, triggering widespread protests. The police found that the flag was draped on the statue at 7.45 a.m. Police zeroed in on Bineesh after examining several surveillance camera footages. Cong., CPI(M) protest The police had removed the flag following protests by the Congress and the CPI(M). Non-BJP councillors in the municipality had staged a sit-in in front of Municipal Chairperson K. Priya Ajayan’s office. The BJP, meanwhile, alleged that it was a conspiracy to tarnish the image of the party. BJP district president E. Krishnadas said here on Wednesday that some vested interests were working to portray the accused as “mentally deranged”. He said that those who conspired to drape the BJP flag on the Gandhi statue and those who goaded the accused to do it should be exposed in the police investigation. He also demanded that parties and groups such as the Congress, the DYFI, the KSU, the SDPI and the MSF, which had led an agitation against the BJP in the name of the draping of the party flag, should apologise to the people of Palakkad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-held-for-draping-bjp-flag-on-gandhi-statue/article33573072.ece
14 January 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Delegation visits Konni medical college hospital||As part of the proposed upgrading and expansion of the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH) at Konni, a delegation comprising officials from the International Finance Corporation (IFC) and the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) visited the MCH on Wednesday. The visit, according to a statement, followed a request placed by Konni MLA K.U. Janeesh Kumar to grant Rs. 100 crore for the purchase of medical equipment for the hospital. The delegation expressed satisfaction at the currently approved plan of the upcoming buildings in the hospital campus. They also suggested a few changes in the structure of the existing rooms to enable setting up of the equipment. Besides with the hospital staff, the team also held discussions with the Konni MLA who expressed willingness to initiate the changes suggested. According to him, the rooms in the existing buildings followed a plan prepared a decade ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/delegation-visits-konni-medical-college-hospital/article33572979.ece
14 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||District to soon have a performing arts centre||A centre for performing arts is coming up in the district to promote the State’s rich art and cultural heritage around the globe. The Ranga Kalakendram is being set up at a cost of Rs. 10 crore at the popular tourist destination of Varkala. The 13,000-sq ft centre in Kerala Vasthu style, located on two acres of land at the Varkala guest house under the Tourism Department, will be thrown open to visitors at the end of next month. Built as per international standards, it aims to popularise the State’s folk arts, martial arts, culture, heritage, and tourism the world over. A performance hall in ‘koothambalam’ style, ‘kalarithara,’ ‘thamarakulam,’ amphitheatre, facilitation centre, swimming pool are among the facilities arranged at the centre. It will also have facilities for research in traditional arts and comparative study between traditional and modern arts. Arrangements have also been made to present traditional arts. Here, visitors, including those from abroad, can enjoy and study the State’s arts, including Sarpa pattu, thullal, padayani, agni kavadi, Arjuna nrithyam, chavittunatakam, oppana, margamkali, theeyattu, theyyam. Teachers too will be present to take classes. The project is being implemented by Vision Varkala Infrastructure Development Corporation, with the Chief Minister as chairman, which has been formed for comprehensive development of Varkala. Architect B. Sudheer has designed the centre as per Hindustan Lifecare Ltd’s directions. A design committee, comprising artistes and officials, approved the design. Filmmaker Adoor Gopalakrishnan is the chairman of the governing body for the centre. A huge mural adds to the centre’s attractions. The 2,000-sq ft mural has been drawn in four parts by the Arnamula Vasthu Vidya Gurukulam’s mural painting wing. There is also a proposal to raise the centre to deemed university status by associating with the Singapore-based Association of Asia-Pacific Performing Arts Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/district-to-soon-have-a-performing-arts-centre/article33573121.ece
14 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||64,020 doses of vaccine for district||The first consignment of 1,34,000 doses of Covishield vaccine, meant for four southern districts, arrived in Thiruvananthapuram on Wednesday evening. Of these, 64,020 doses were intended for Thiruvananthapuram district, and the rest will be despatched to Kollam, Pathanamthitta and Alappuzha districts on Thursday morning, Navjot Khosa, District Collector, said. 12 cases Ms. Khosa and District Medical Officer K.M. Shinu accepted the consignment that arrived by an Indigo flight from Mumbai in 12 cases. The consignment was later shifted to the Regional Vaccine Storage next to the District Medical Office. From here, it would be transferred to district vaccine stores and vaccination centres. On January 16, the vaccination would be carried out from 11 centres in Thiruvananthapuram district, Ms. Khosa said. They were Sree Gokulam Medical College Hospital, Nedumangad district hospital, Parassala taluk hospital, Vithura talk hospital, Manamboor community health centre, Varkala Government Ayurveda Hospital, Women and Children Hospital at Thycaud, KIMS Hospital, NIMS Hospital, Poozhanad primary health centre, and Pangappara model family health centre. Arrangements made The Collector said all arrangements had been made to distribute the vaccine to other districts and vaccination centres in Thiruvananthapuram.  All arrangements have been made to distribute the vaccine to the respective centres||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/64020-doses-of-vaccine-for-district/article33573131.ece
14 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||It’s a full Budget with five-year agenda, says Isaac||Setting the path again for fiscal consolidation and measures to achieve protected revenue in 2023 to avoid Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation are likely to figure in the last Budget of the present Left Democratic Front government to be presented on Friday by Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac. A single application system for securing licences with the government doing scrutiny and validation is on the cards as part of taking the State to the top 10 in ease of doing business in the country. “It will not be an election Budget. But, it will be a full Budget that will set an agenda for five years. It will unveil innovative programmes for a new Kerala,” Dr. Isaac told The Hindu amidst giving finishing touches for his 12th budget. Concrete policies aimed at reducing deficit and debt accumulation for fiscal consolidation will figure in the report of the Expenditure Review Committee to be provided with the budget documents this time. “The report will spell out how this can be done. It will be a slow process but not drastic,” Dr. Isaac said. For the State, GST is the resource. The opportunity has been used to overhaul the department and go for Artificial Intelligence and Data Analytics. “Our collection will reach (protected revenue) the compensation level in 2023 and the State will not need GST compensation after that and ways will be charted for it. Mobilising resources outside the Budget through special purpose vehicles and financial institutions to invest in the infrastructure sector is a big success.”  Entering market again “We are not shaken by critics. Mobilisation of funds outside the Budget will go on. Rs. 15,000 crore expenditure is to come up next year in the infra sector as the works will be in full swing. The Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) will enter the market again next year. Loans had been tied up and assured,” he said. Kerala lottery will compete with other lotteries and outmatch them. For non-tax revenue, Dr. Isaac is eyeing dam sand and quarries. “The government will supply sand and rock. Environment laws will be protected and it will be legal,” he added. The Health Department has transformed and the sector and will get more personnel and money in the post-COVID era. He also hinted at giving more focus on the transport sector as the sector cannot sustain through roads. Dr. Isaac’s task is to meet people’s aspirations, keep the development trajectory going, and enable the LDF to come back to power again.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/its-a-full-budget-with-five-year-agenda-says-isaac/article33572946.ece
14 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||859 poll winners are literacy mission products||As many as 859 people who have been elected in the recently held elections to local self-government institutions in the State are learners, preraks, and instructors of the Kerala State Literacy Mission Authority. Among the winners are 763 learners attending the literacy mission’s equivalency classes for various grades. Forty-nine preraks and 47 instructors of various literacy and equivalency courses too emerged successful in the local body polls. The mark made by the mission was a win for informal education based on social awareness promoted by the literacy mission, as it looks beyond literacy and equivalency education, a statement by the mission here said. Forty-six of the winners in the elections became presidents of local bodies, and 35 are vice presidents. The maximum number of winners from among learners attending the mission’s equivalency courses were from Malappuram–205. Three preraks and three instructors brought the tally of people’s representatives in the district to 211. Palakkad with 98 and Kozhikode with 76 winners followed. The number of people attending the mission’s courses, preraks, and instructors who had emerged successful in the other districts included Thiruvananthapuram, 37; Kollam, 35; Pathanamthitta, 21; Alappuzha, 24; Kottayam, 38; Ernakulam, 45; Thrissur, 59; Idukki, 26; Kannur, 69; Wayanad, 61; and Kasaragod, 59. Mission director P.S. Sreekala said in the statement that opportunities for learners and instructors, including those from the Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe, coastal, and transgender communities, to interact with the public through the mission was an important factor in the election successes.  Forty-six of the winners in the elections became presidents of local bodies||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/859-poll-winners-are-literacy-mission-products/article33573140.ece
14 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||‘Own your own house’ for plantation workers||Plantation workers who have been living in one-room tenements on estates for generations can now dream of their own house. The Labour Department is implementing the ‘Own your own house’ scheme for plantation workers. The scheme is targeted at workers who have no house or land of their own. In the first phase, 10 houses at Kuttiyar valley in Idukki districts were included in the scheme and completed. The Bhavanam Foundation under the Labour Department has been entrusted with the construction. Steps are under way to build more houses and hand them over. Revenue land to the extent of 5.49 acres has been identified in the Kanan Devan Hills village in Devikulam taluk. Construction of houses for workers of Rehabilitation Plantations Ltd. in Punalur, Kollam, too has got under way. The department is building 100 houses using the social responsibility fund of Kerala State Beverages Corporation. Formalities have been completed for handing over one acre of land for this. In Idukki, steps are on to identify land. A survey conducted by the department in association with the foundation had found that 32,454 plantation workers did not have houses. LIFE houses Of the retired workers, 5,348 did not have their own house. Steps are on to include them under the LIFE Mission.  Work on houses for workers of Rehabilitation Plantations Ltd., Punalur, under way 5.49 acres of revenue land identified in the Kanan Devan Hills||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/own-your-own-house-for-plantation-workers/article33572983.ece
14 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Talking Text for better learning||The Samagra Shiksha, Kerala, (SSK) is embarking on a programme Talking Text to prepare audio texts for visually challenged children in State schools so that they achieve learning outcomes in time. One of the biggest hurdles faced by visually challenged students is difficulty in comprehending their lessons easily. The Talking Text will be prepared for all visually challenged students from Class 1 to 10 in all subjects, including in Tamil and Kannada medium, says Shooja S.Y., State Programme Officer, Inclusive Education, Samagra Shiksha. Onus on BRCs Samagra Shiksha’s 168 block resource centres (BRC) have been entrusted with preparing the Talking Text based on the students’ lessons. For high school classes, the Talking Text will be prepared in the subject for which the White Board lessons are being prepared by the BRCs concerned. For Class 10 students, the audios will be prepared concentrating on the ‘focus areas’ published by the State Council of Educational Research and Training. Audio texts The audio texts will also have descriptions along with audios for better comprehension, be it sounds of rain or that made by animals, speeches of social reformers, poetry, or description of body parts in case of a picture or a diagram. The descriptions should be easy to understand. The Talking Text will have two parts—one for children and the other for parents on how they should supports children during, between, and after classes. Students will also be given activities to perform at home using locally available resources. Block programme coordinators and district programme officers will ensure that the Talking Text material is communicated to students effectively. A core committee in each BRC will be responsible for preparation, distribution, and monitoring of Talking Text. The Talking Text is aimed is not solely aimed at examinations, says Mr. Shooja. The audio texts will be a component, along with White Board, of the academic content on the Samagra’s new inclusive education website. All lessons will be completed and uploaded on the website in days to come.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/talking-text-for-better-learning/article33572982.ece
14 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||EICL to scale up its operations||A day after a meeting with the State government, the management of English Indian Clays Ltd (EICL) has said the company plans to scale up its operations depending on the improvement in the market scenario. “The COVID-19 pandemic leading to a decrease in market demand and loss of credibility of the EICL owing to the disruptions in the last two years have drastically dropped the overall demand, leading to only partial run of the operations, causing the company to incur more losses. Nevertheless, depending on the progress of EICL’s current scenario, the company plans to scale up its operations,” the management said in a statement on Wednesday. At the meeting on Tuesday, Ministers E.P. Jayarajan, T.P. Ramakrishnan, and Kadakampally Surendran had urged the management to restart the operations and pay lay-off compensation to the employees. The government has scheduled another meeting, which is expected to be attended by the Chief Executive Officer, EICL, on January 20. Ever since the company halted operations in August last year citing losses, the employees have been staging an indefinite agitation outside the gates.  Lockout The lockout has affected the livelihood of 1,500 workers. On January 2, a contract employee was found hanging on the company premises, sparking a fresh wave of protests following which the government convened Tuesday’s meeting. Although EICL had partially restarted operations at its Thonnackal unit, the Kochuveli unit has remained shut. Raw material According to the management, it was forced to shut down the units due top shortage of the raw material Kaolin. “Furthermore, COVID has become another obstacle in reopening the factories,” it said on Wednesday. On Tuesday, Labour Minister T.P. Ramakrishnan had urged the management to restart the operations at the earliest. The State government was taking all efforts to resolve the labour disputes, he said. Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan informed the management that the government could not accept any violation of labour laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/eicl-to-scale-up-its-operations/article33573128.ece
14 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital reports 386 fresh cases||The district, which is gearing up for the distribution of the COVID-19 vaccine, reported 386 new COVID-19 cases and 335 recoveries on Wednesday. The active case pool stands at 3,549, the district administration says. Of the new cases, local transmission of the infection accounted for 285 cases. The list also included seven health workers. The death toll in the district touched 688 as per the latest available data. Meanwhile, 1,347 persons were newly quarantined in the district on Wednesday as part of the precautions to prevent the spread of the disease. This has taken the total number of people currently in quarantine to 19,658. One hundred and sixty eight persons also completed the observation period on Wednesday. Workshop on Thursday The Health Department is organising a workshop at the Gorky Bhavan on Thursday for awareness on the vaccine. Health Minister K.K. Shylaja will inaugurate it and public could attend via the facebook linkhttps://www.facebook.com/ kkshailaja. They could WhatsApp their questions to 9446528176, 7012516029. The workshop, to be on till 1 p.m., is being organised ahead of the start of the vaccination on January 16. Health Director Saritha R.L., Planning Board member B. Ekbal, former additional chief secretary Rajeev Sadanandan, WHO representative (India) Roderico H. Ofrin, and other officials will be present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/capital-reports-386-fresh-cases/article33573133.ece
14 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Epidemic curve remains on plateau||Kerala’s epidemic curve continues to remain on the plateau it hit months ago with the State continuing to report 5,000-6,000 new COVID-19 cases daily and the test positivity rate consistently remaining between 8-10%. The State reported 6,004 new cases on Wednesday when 69,081 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The test positivity rate remained at 8.69%. While the cumulative case burden of the State rose to 8,25,769 cases, the active case pool has 65,373 patients. On Wednesday, 5,158 persons were reported to have recovered from the disease. The cumulative recoveries till date has risen to 7,56,817. The addition of 26 new deaths that occurred in the State in the past few days to the list of COVID-19 fatalities has taken the total toll to 3,373 deaths. Ernakulam and Kozhikode reported five of these deaths each; Kannur and Thrissur three each; Wayanad, Thiruvananthapuram, and Alappuzha two each; and Pathanamthitta, Idukki, Kottayam, and Malappuram reported one death each. The number of critically ill COVID-19 patients in the State who are currently being treated in ICUs in various hospitals is 775 on Tuesday, according to official reports, with 227 of them requiring ventilator assistance. Of the 6,004 new cases reported on the day, in 73 cases, the Health Department has reported a history of travel outside the State while 5,931 are locally acquired infections. Amongst them, in 477 cases the source of infection remains untraced while the number of health-care workers who acquired the infection is 53. Among districts, Ernakulam continues to report the maximum number of new cases with 998 cases. U.K. strain One more person who reached the State from the U.K. has tested positive for COVID-19 in the past 24 hours. So far, 56 persons who arrived from the U.K. have tested positive for COVID-19, though infection owing to the U.K. virus variant B.1.1.7 has been detected in only six samples. More results are awaited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/epidemic-curve-remains-on-plateau/article33572958.ece
14 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Minister urges Centre to conduct RRB tests within the State||Kerala has urged the Union Railway Minister to issue directive to the Railway Recruitment Boards (RRB) to conduct computer-based test for various Non-Technical Popular Categories (NTPC) in the State itself. In a letter to Union Railway Minister Piyush Goyal, Minister for Public Works and Railways G. Sudhakaran said candidates from Kerala had been slotted at centres far away, including many outside the State, owing to non-booking of available colleges and institutions with computer labs. Over five lakh candidates are appearing from the State for the examinations “In this time of pandemic, it would be unwise to make candidates travel long distances to appear in the examination, especially outside the State,” he said. Mr. Sudhakaran said there were enough institutions with computer labs in all the 14 districts. Presently, these were not being utilised. Computer labs Mr. Sudhakaran has urged Mr. Goyal to include all such institutions willing to spare their computer labs before the next phase of the examination begins and clear the apprehension of the candidates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minister-urges-centre-to-conduct-rrb-tests-within-the-state/article33573067.ece
14 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Keep child’s name away from disputes: panel||An application to register a child’s name should not be ignored in the name of a dispute between the parents, the Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has said. The commission asked the Local Self-government Secretary and Urban Affair and Panchayat Directors to issue orders that a child’s name should be registered on the birth certificate based on the application of the parent who is taking care of the child. All local bodies should follow the direction, the commission comprising members K. Nazeer and B. Babitha said on a complaint by a Wayanad resident. Delay on the part of her husband in providing documents, including those related to identity, for adding their child’s name to the birth register led to the problem, it was pointed out. The commission directed that as the child was living under the mother’s protection and the couple were experiencing marital discord, the child’s name could be added to the birth register on the basis of the mother’s application instead of a joint application. Any conflict between the couple should not come in the way of registering the child’s birth or adding his/her name. Divorce  In case of divorce or if a parent has abandoned the child, the name can be corrected in the register on the application of the parent with whom the child is living, an order by the Local Self-government Secretary in 2017 has said. Moreover, registering of a child immediately after birth and the right from birth to a name are important rights of a child as per Article 7 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child of 1989. The commission said it took the failure to register the name of the child born on August 22, 2018, as a serious matter. It directed the Sulthan Bathery municipal secretary to add the name for the child given in the complainant’s application.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/keep-childs-name-registration-process-away-from-disputes/article33572913.ece
14 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Isaac alleges serious lapses in CAG report on KIIFB||The controversy over the report of the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) on the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) re-emerged in the Assembly on Wednesday with Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac accusing the CAG of serious lapses in preparing the final report. The report triggered a controversy because the CAG included conclusions and observations which were not in the draft report in the final one. This was done unilaterally, without any discussions with the State government, Dr. Isaac said, replying to questions in the Assembly. He alleged “mala fide intentions” behind such a step.  The Minister alleged that a conspiracy was hatched by certain quarters to destroy KIIFB. Nonetheless, the State government and KIIFB had been able to adequately defend the credibility of KIIFB.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/isaac-alleges-serious-lapses-in-cag-report-on-kiifb/article33572927.ece
14 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||66,000 seek to add their names to electoral rolls||More than 66,000 people have applied in the district for adding their names to the electoral rolls ahead of the Assembly polls. The district administration on Wednesday put the number of applications received between October 16 and December 31, 2020, at 66,107. The applications are being processed and the final voters’ list will be published after scrutiny later this month. Applications could continue to be filed via the Election Commission of India websitewww.voterportal.eci.gov.inor the ‘Voter Helpline’ mobile app, the district administration said. Thiruvananthapuram taluk received the highest number of applications; 27,205. Neyyattinkara received 11,334 applications, while Nedumangad taluk received 10,550. The number of applications received in the other taluks are as follows: Varkala (4,630), Chirayinkeezhu (7,663) and Kattakada (4,725). 47 NRIs Additionally, election officials in the district have also received applications from 47 NRIs. The district was progressing well in the revision of electoral rolls, electoral rolls observer Sharmila Mary Joseph said. She was speaking after reviewing the progress of work at a meeting held at the Collectorate on Wednesday. District Collector Navjot Khosa presided over the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/66000-seek-to-add-their-names-to-electoral-rolls/article33573129.ece
14 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State treasuries are secure, says Finance Minister||Treasuries in the State are secure against fraud, Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac asserted on Wednesday, adding that Kerala had the best treasury software in the country. Replying to questions in the Assembly, he said no further irregularities had been unearthed in treasuries in inspections ordered after the detection of fraud at the additional sub-treasury, Vanchiyoor, in July last year. Functional audits will be carried out in treasuries soon. Such audits require the treasury system to be frozen temporarily. Three officials were dismissed from service by the government in connection with treasury fraud cases. Nine officials were dismissed from service in the past 50 years, he said. Isolated case On the incident where a senior accountant at the additional sub-treasury, Vanchiyoor, siphoned off a huge sum from the STSB account of the Collector, Dr. Isaac said the preliminary conclusion was that the incident was an isolated one. The government has not found any evidence of conspiracy. Following the incident, the government has introduced troubleshooting measures in treasuries, including automatic deactivation of user ID and passwords when an official superannuates, or is placed under suspension, or goes on leave, Dr. Isaac said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-treasuries-are-secure-says-finance-minister/article33572926.ece
14 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Legislation for quality fodder||Legislation to ensure quality of fodder being supplied in the State is under the consideration of the government, Minister for Forests, Animal Husbandry, and Zoos K. Raju has said. The Bill is ready and the legislation in this regard will be a first in the country, Mr. Raju said while replying to a calling attention by Anoop Jacob in the Assembly on Wednesday. The Minister said quality fodder was being provided by the Kerala Feeds and Milma. The Minister said 24-hour testing facilities were available to check the quality of milk arriving from across the border at Meenakshipuram and Aryankavu. Soon, they would be introduced at Parassala too. The Malabar region had surplus milk and the wayout was to come up with new milk products.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/legislation-for-quality-fodder/article33572947.ece
14 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State’s RT lessons for Madhya Pradesh||Madhya Pradesh signed a memorandum of understanding with Kerala for replicating the latter’s pioneering Responsible Tourism (RT) initiative. The MoU was exchanged by Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran and his Madhya Pradesh counterpart Usha Thakur. Ms Thakur said with the help of RT Mission of Kerala, the rustic beauty, life and heritage of Madhya Pradesh could be highlighted on the world tourism map. Next week, a 13-member team from Bhopal, led by Ms Thakur, will tour different parts of Kerala to gather first-hand knowledge about RT in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kerala-mp-sign-mou-on-responsible-tourism/article33573119.ece
14 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Armed Forces Veterans’ Day fete today||The fifth Armed Forces Veterans’ Day celebrations and Swarnim Vijay Varsh to mark the 50th anniversary celebrations of the 1971 India-Pakistan War will be held at the Pangode military station in Thiruvananthapuram on Thursday. The Armed Forces Veterans’ Day is commemorated on January 14 each year in recognition of the services rendered by Field Marshal K.M. Cariappa, the first Commander-in-Chief of the Indian Army. Veterans from the Army, Navy, and the Air Force are will attend the event at Cariappa auditorium on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/armed-forces-veterans-day-fete-today/article33573117.ece
14 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Let-up in wet spell likely||After a thoroughly wet start to the new year, rainfall is likely to ease off in the State by Thursday morning, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). “We expect a reduction in rainfall by Thursday morning,” K. Santhosh, director, IMD, Thiruvananthapuram, said. Excess rainfall The year had begun on a rainy note for Kerala with the State recording large excess – in fact a percentage departure of a whopping 2,344% from the normal – in the initial weeks. During the January 1-13 period, the State averaged a rainfall of 95.3 mm against 3.9 mm normal for the period. In fact, all 14 districts in the State and Mahe and the Lakshadweep regions have recorded large excess, which, in IMD parlance, denotes rainfall in excess of 60% above the normal for a given period. Kasaragod recorded a percentage departure of 15,364% (108.3 mm against the normal of 0.7% mm) and Malappuram, 11,279% (79.7 mm against 0.7 mm). On Wednesday, the southern districts of Kerala, especially Thiruvananthapuram, received widespread rainfall. The cyclonic circulation, which had triggered widespread rainfall over the State, persisted to the south of the Kanyakumari region. Moreover, the northeast monsoon has not yet withdrawn fully, indicate wind patterns, IMD officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/let-up-in-wet-spell-likely/article33572949.ece
14 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Two districts to get new Collectors||The Cabinet on Wednesday decided to appoint new District Collectors for Palakkad and Pathanamthitta. D. Balamurali, currently District Collector, Palakkad, is to be posted as Labour Commissioner. He will have additional charge as Director, Department of Environment and Climate Change. Joshi Mrunmayi Shashank, staff officer to the Chief Secretary, will be District Collector, Palakkad. Registrar of Cooperative Societies Narasimhugari T. L. Reddy will be the new District Collector, Pathanamthitta. P.B. Nooh will be Registrar of Cooperative Societies. Umesh N.S.K. is the new staff officer to the Chief Secretary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-districts-to-get-new-collectors/article33572950.ece
14 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Rs. 25-cr. aid for stranded NoRKs||The State Cabinet which met here on Wednesday approved the release of Rs. 25 crore from the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund to NoRKA-Roots to provide an assistance of Rs. 5,000 each for non-resident Keralites (NoRKs) who are unable to return to their workplace overseas due to the COVID-19 pandemic situation. The amount will supplement the Rs. 58.5 crore released earlier for the purpose. An amount of Rs. 10,000 each would be provided to 22 Kashmiri traders at Kovalam who lost their livelihood to the pandemic. Those without ration cards would be issued cards soon. The Cabinet decided to sign a Memorandum of Understanding with the Government e- Marketplace (GEM), a Central initiative, to procure materials and services for government departments and public sector institutions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rs-25-cr-aid-for-stranded-norks/article33572955.ece
14 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KWA asks consumers to pay water bill dues||The Kerala Water Authority (KWA) has directed consumers under the Palayam, Pattoor, Kowdiar, Peroorkada, Pongumoodu and Kazhakkuttam section offices to pay their water bill dues by January 31. These section offices fall within the PH Division (North). Consumers who have defaulted on payments for more than four months should settle the arrears by January 31. Defaulters The KWA launched measures to disconnect supply to defaulters, the Executive Engineer, PH Division (North), said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kwa-asks-consumers-to-pay-water-bill-dues/article33573135.ece
14 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||More coaches for special trains||Railways have permanently augmented additional coaches in eight special trains. Train 06063 Chennai Egmore-Nagercoil Junction weekly special will be augmented with one additional three-tier AC coach from January 14, 06064 Nagercoil Junction-Chennai Egmore weekly special with one additional three-tier AC coach from January 15, and 06729 Madurai Junction-Punalur daily special with one additional general second class coach from January 15. Train 06730 Punalur-Madurai Junction daily special will be augmented with one additional general second class coach from January 16, 06338 Ernakulam Junction-Okha biweekly special with one three-tier AC coach, second class sleeper coach, and general Second class coach from January 15. Train 06337 Okha-Ernakulam Junction biweekly special train will be augmented with one three-tier AC, second class sleeper coach, and general second class coach from January 18. Train 02643 Ernakulam Junction-Patna Junction biweekly special will be augmented with one additional three-tier AC coach from January 18 and 02644 Patna Junction-Ernakulam Junction biweekly special will have one additional three-tier AC coach from January 21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/coaches-added-to-special-trains/article33573118.ece
14 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||please carry today - tj||The Kerala Tourism Development Corporation (KTDC) has decided to cancel the process for selecting Graduate Engineering Trainees in Civil, Architecture, Electrical and Mechanical branches in the corporation, an official release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/please-carry-today-tj/article33573124.ece
14 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Congress to take out Raj Bhavan march||The Congress will take out a Raj Bhavan march on Saturday in protest against the Union government’s three farm laws, District Congress Committee president Neyyattinkara Sanal has said. In a statement here on Wednesday, Mr. Sanal said the march, on a call by the All India Congress Committee to express solidarity with protesting farmers, would begin at the Museum junction at 10 a.m. Senior Congress leaders such as K.C. Venugopal, Tariq Anwar, Oommen Chandy, Mullappally Ramachandran, and Ramesh Chennithala would take part in the march.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/congress-to-take-out-raj-bhavan-march/article33573126.ece
14 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Training for new local body leaders||A four-day preliminary training of the new people’s representatives in Venganoor grama panchayat was inaugurated by panchayat president R.S. Sreekumar. Vice president Rani Vatsalam presided. Classes are held on topics ranging from planning and administration to waste management and women empowerment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/training-for-new-local-body-leaders/article33573127.ece
14 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Holiday on Jan. 15||January 15, Friday, will be a holiday for government offices and education institutions in Thiruvananthapuram city on account of Beemapally Urus. Examinations scheduled on the day will be held as planned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/holiday-on-jan-15/article33573134.ece
14 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||NABL accreditation for KHRI||The Kerala Highway Research Institute (KHRI) under the Public Works Department has got accreditation of the National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL). Minister for Public Works G. Sudhakaran said the KHRI is the first civil engineering laboratory under the government department to get the NABL recognition. In addition to cement, concrete, bitumen, and earth, non-destructive tests and 61 other tests at the KHRI, functioning near Karyavattom, have got the NABL nod.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nabl-accreditation-for-khri/article33572948.ece
14 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Webinar on scheme for the differently abled||The National Institute of Speech and Hearing (NISH), in association with the Directorate of Social Justice, is organising an online seminar on ‘Social Welfare Schemes and Services for Persons with Disability’ on January 16. The proceedings will be streamed live through Google Meet from the NISH campus at Akkulam here from 10.30 a.m. For registration, visit: http://nidas.nish.ac.in/be-a-participant/. For details, contact 0471 2944675.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/webinar-on-scheme-for-the-differently-abled/article33572952.ece
14 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Move to popularise coir geotex||The Department of Coir Development is organising a series of webinars from January 20 to February 10 as part of efforts to popularise the use of coir geotex by local bodies. District-level project officers of the Coir Development Department will also sign an MoU with local bodies and the Employment Guarantee Mission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/move-to-popularise-coir-geotex/article33572953.ece
14 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Interview postponed||The interview for the post of Confidential Assistant (through employment exchange) scheduled to be held at the Institute of Management in Government on January 15 has been postponed to January 21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/interview-postponed/article33572954.ece
14 January 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Vaccine lot reaches Thrissur||A consignment of 37,640 doses of the COVID-19 vaccine meant for use in the first phase reached Thrissur on Wednesday. The vaccine consignment from the Regional Vaccine Store in Ernakulam reached the district medical office here by 5 p.m. “Arrival of the COVID-19 vaccine provides huge relief. But it will take time for completing the distribution. So people should continue to be vigilant against the spread of the pandemic,” District Collector S. Shanavas said. Vaccination will be done at nine selected centres in the district from January 16. The vaccine will be administered to health workers in the government and private sectors in the first phase. Officials involved in prevention works against the pandemic will be given vaccination in the second phase. The third phase will cover people above the age of 50. In all, 100 people will be administered vaccine from a centre in a day. Of the total 37,640 doses, 90 doses will be given to health workers under the Union government and the rest to health workers under the State. District Medical Officer K.J. Reena said the number of distribution centres would be increased from Monday. District logs 437 cases A total of 437 COVID-19 cases were reported in the district on Wednesday while 518 people recovered from the pandemic. There are 5,021 active cases in the district and 74 people from the district are undergoing treatment in hospitals in other districts. So far, 79,876 COVID-19 cases have been reported from the district and 74,295 people have recovered. According to official statistics, 424 people, including two health workers, contracted the disease through local contact on Wednesday. Of them, 62 people are above the age of 60 and 27 patients are below the age of 10. In all, 3,643 people are under home care. On Wednesday, 107 people were admitted to hospitals for treatment of COVID-19. A total of 6.812 samples were collected for testing on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vaccine-lot-reaches-thrissur/article33573070.ece
14 January 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Mock drill today on CCK pipeline||The district disaster management authority will conduct a mock drill on the Cochin- Coimbatore- Karur (CCK) pipeline at 2.30 p.m. on Thursday. The mock drill will be conducted near the Kurumalikkavu temple, Puthukad, where the CCK pipeline of the Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited is passing through. Hydrocarbon products of the BPCL from Kochi are passing through the district. The pipeline has been installed to take hydrocarbon products from Irumpanam to Coimbatore. The 18-inch diameter pipeline is passing through 58 km in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mock-drill-today-on-cck-pipeline/article33573066.ece
14 January 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Online training on safe food||The Kerala Agricultural University’s Centre for e-learning has invited application for an online training programme on ‘Safe food - our right for good health’. This is a free programme with no course fee. The classes are scheduled from January 20. The last date for registration is January 19. The training has nine sessions (20 day-duration) and is offered in Malayalam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/online-training-on-safe-food/article33573064.ece
14 January 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Awareness programme held at theatres||The district medical office in association with the National Cadet Corps conducted an awareness programme ahead of film shows in Thrissur on Wednesday as theatres reopened after a long break. The awareness programme focussed on maintaining COVID-19 protocols such as physical distancing and personal hygiene. It was organised ahead of shows at 9 a.m. and 12 noon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/awareness-programme-held-at-theatres/article33573065.ece
14 January 2021||January 14 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||SHRC for better traffic control at Thiruvallam||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has directed the City police to deploy adequate police personnel at the Thiruvallam junction to prevent traffic blocks and accidents till a subway is built there. Commission chairperson Antony Dominic has issued the direction to District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram city). The Thiruvallam Station House Officer (SHO) informed the commission that only if a bridge parallel to the Thiruvallam bridge and a subway were constructed could the traffic block at the junction be prevented. Preliminary work related to the subway construction had begun. The Minister for Public Works too had visited the spot, the report said. Increase on traffic on the Kovalam-Kazhakuttam route had resulted in traffic jams at Thiruvallam becoming a permanent feature. The commission’s action comes on a complaint by Kazhakuttam resident K. Sreekumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shrc-for-better-traffic-control-at-thiruvallam/article33573125.ece
14 January 2021||January 14 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Crowd-puller||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/crowd-puller/article33573144.ece
14 January 2021||January 14 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Rain of troubles||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rain-of-troubles/article33573123.ece
14 January 2021||January 14 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Finding their way to cinemas again||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/finding-their-way-to-cinemas-again/article33573139.ece
14 January 2021||January 14 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Renewed rhythm||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/renewed-rhythm/article33572960.ece
14 January 2021||January 14 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Caution to the wind||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/caution-to-the-wind/article33572986.ece
14 January 2021||January 14 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Waging a protest||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/waging-a-protest/article33572988.ece
14 January 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Protesting CPI leaders arrested, released later||As many as 50 activists of the Communist Party of India(CPI) burnt copies of the three central farm laws in ‘Bhogi’ fire at the Clock Tower Circle here on Wednesday. All the CPI activists holding placards and flags raising slogans against the Centre were rounded up and taken to II Town police station and released after an hour. While about 100 activists began gathering at the junction, the II Town police personnel kept the majority did not allow them to disrupt the festive traffic on the roads. Party district secretary D. Jagadeesh and raised slogans against the Union government for being adamant and not withdrawing the farm laws. Mr. Jagadeesh said that the Centre should have taken a hint from the SC observation and withdrawn the laws by now. “It is a big loss of face for the BJP and it is still trying to push the laws by calling the farmer leaders to hold discussion with people, who were pro-government and had spoken in favour of the three laws” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/protesting-cpi-leaders-arrested-released-later/article33572571.ece
14 January 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP, CPI(M) leaders oppose fixing of power meters||The Telugu Desam Party and the Communist Party of India (Marxist) leaders opposed fixing of power meters for agricultural connections in the State, with former TDP Ministers Paritala Sunitha and Kalava Srinivasulu on Wednesday burning copies of G.O. proposing fixing of power meters on a pilot basis. They said that the reforms will leave the farmers burdened with large amounts of power bills. Ms. Sunitha, along with party cadre and her son Paritala Sriram, TDP candidate from Rapthadu in 2019 elections, made a bonfire of the G.O. at Venkatapuram in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-cpim-leaders-oppose-fixing-of-power-meters/article33573083.ece
14 January 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu playing cheap politics: Roja||While the entire State is relishing the welfare schemes launched by the Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy government and celebrating Bhogi, TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu is going all out to instigate the farmers, R.K. Roja, APIIC chairperson and Nagari MLA, has alleged. Speaking during the Bhogi and Sankranti celebrations organised at her residence at Nagari, 65 km from here, on Wednesday, Ms. Roja objected to Mr. Naidu throwing some G.O. copies into the Bhogi bonfire and asking the farmers to do the same. Rythu Bharosa “After Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy, it is Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy who is really concerned about the plight of the farmers. The relief towards Rythu Bharosa and input subsidy released to compensate the farmers who were badly hit by Cyclone Nivar is a record of sorts. Free power to the farmers, distribution of house-sites and housing units to the poor and other welfare schemes have endeared Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy to the people,” Ms. Roja said. Criticising the TDP president for neglecting the plight of the poor during the COVID-19 pandemic and resorting to cheap politics, she said, “At present, all sections of people are happy in the State as the government is fulfilling all the promises made by Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy during his pre-poll walkathon.” Earlier, as part of the celebrations, Ms. Roja arranged rangoli, song and dance events in which the party cadres and people participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-playing-cheap-politics-roja/article33573047.ece
14 January 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man ‘ends’ life after losing money to deposit app||A resident of Madakuppam village of V.Kota mandal, 100 km from here, reportedly ended his life by throwing himself before a running train on outskirts of Kuppam. He was said to have lost a huge amount of money that he had deposited through an online app for good return. According to sources, the victim, identified as Balachandar (35), reportedly deposited small amounts through the app and got benefited from high interest for a specified period. Lured by this, he had started depositing big amounts. The temptation eventually led him increasing the deposits to several lakhs of rupees, besides persuading some people in this neighbourhood to join the app for quick monetary gain. Balachandar had reportedly taken debts from his near and dear ones and deposited the same through the app. A few days ago, he reportedly realised that the app was a fake as it became defunct. Complaint lodged With pressure mounting from his debtors, Balachandar reportedly boarded an RTC bus from V.Kota to Kuppam on Tuesday. After lodging a police complaint against the app operators at Kuppam, he reached the outskirts of the town and resorted to the extreme step on the railway tracks. The issue came to light on Wednesday. The police are investigating the case. Those suffering from depression and suicidal tendencies can seek help by dialling the helpline number 100.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-ends-life-after-losing-money-to-deposit-app/article33572893.ece
14 January 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||PDS dealer accused of harassing woman||A resident of Eguva Matyam village in Tavanampalle mandal has accused a ration shop dealer of harassing his wife by sending objectionable messages to her cellphone. Speaking to the media, the villager said that he, along with his wife, lodged a complaint with the Tavanampalle police on January 10. The villager sought the intervention of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, Minister P. Ramachandra Reddy and Puthalapattu MLA M.S. Babu. Circle-Inspector (Chittoor rural west) C. Lakshmikanth Reddy said that an FIR had been registered and investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pds-dealer-accused-of-harassing-woman/article33573059.ece
14 January 2021||CHITTOOR/Anantapur/Kurnool,ANDHRA PRADESH||Districts receive first batch of vaccine||The first batch of vaccine vials reached Chittoor, Anantapur and Kurnool on Wednesday, while the administrations are gearing up to administer it to health workers from January 16 onwards. The van carrying the vaccines under specified cold chain norms from Gannavaram reached the cold storage point set up at the office of District Medical and Health Officer at the Collectorate in Chittoor. Joint Collector Veerabrahmam said the stage was set for administering the vaccine to the target group, for which 29 centres have been set up While Chittoor received 41,500 doses of Covishield vaccine, Anantapur received 35,000 and Kurnool 40,500. Each centre will administer only 100 doses per day as per the protocol and many health professionals and workers have already been registered on the Co-WIN software, Anantapur In-charge Collector A. Siri said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/districts-receive-first-batch-of-vaccine/article33572572.ece
14 January 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID vaccine arrives in Guntur||The most eagerly awaited morning has come to the district. The Covishield vaccine has reached the district centre. District Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar said that plans were afoot to administer vaccine to 43,500 people. The Collector inspected the vials stored at the office of the District Medical and Health Department. The Collector directed the medical officers to keep them safe in prescribed temperatures. The first phase of the vaccination programme is scheduled for January 16. Mr. Samuel said the vaccination programme would be carried out at 31 centres in the district at the rate of 100 shots per day. The first priority would be to vaccinate health workers. They would be given a second dose of the vaccine 28 days after the first dose. Antibodies are said to develop within 14 days of the second dose. Until then, people should be careful and take protective measures such as hand wash, social distance and wearing a mask, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-vaccine-arrives-in-guntur/article33573158.ece
14 January 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man held for creating communal hatred||The Crime Investigation Department, Andhra Pradesh, has nabbed a 33-year-old man, Sodadasi Praveen Chakravarthy, a native of Kakinada, On the charges of spreading falsehood and creating disharmony and strife by posting videos on youtube. Additional Director General (CID) P.V. Sunil Kumar said that Praveen was charged under Sections 153 (A), 153 (B), (1), ©, 505 (2), 295 (A), 124 (A), 115 IPC read with Sections 66 (F) of IT Act, 2000. According to a complaint registered in Guntur , the accused posted a video on ‘Bangalore Gossips’, tagging himself as Pastor Praveen. A video clipping of him speaking on the desecration of temples had gone viral and basing on a complaint given by one Singam Venkata Srilakshminarayana, the CID registered a case in Guntur. On the directions of additional DG, CID, additional SP Vijaya Paul investigated the case and arrested the accused. Mr. Sunil Kumar said that four cases were registered against the accused in East Godavari district and a cyberbully sheet was opened at Cyber Crime Police Station. The accused was arrested and sent to judicial remand on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-charged-with-creating-communal-hatred/article33573114.ece
14 January 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Follow COVID-19 guidelines, cinemas told||Joint Collector A.S. Dinesh Kumar has asked the managements of cinemas to follow COVID-19 guidelines. During a surprise check to Naz Theater and the SPL Cinemas, he said they were not following the norms, though the theatres owners had been made aware of it. He instructed that they should allow only 50 % occupancy in the cinemas. Everyone who enter the cinema, including the crew, was required to wear masks strictly, and to keep a physical distance. Mr. Dinesh said promotional images should be displayed at the beginning of the film to create awareness on COVID and not more than four shows per day should be screened.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/follow-covid-19-guidelines-cinemas-told/article33573164.ece
14 January 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rooster fights: 2,000 knives seized in E.G.||The East Godavari police seized nearly 2,000 knives to be used for cockfights, during raids in the district in the early hours of Wednesday, apart from serving notices on 504 owners for allowing cockfights at their sites. According to an official release issued by East Godavari SP Adnan Nayeem Asmi, as many as 1,832 persons, suspected to be involved in organising the ‘blood sport’, were bound over. Some cockfight venues have been destroyed by deploying machinery and additional staff have been pressed into service in the Konaseema region. The police with the support of the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB- sand and liquor) keep an eye on the strategic points to prevent cockfights. Meanwhile, the police imposed a few restrictions on the pongal celebrations in Konaseema. In Kothapeta area, the procession of chariots by local communities will be allowed till 7 p.m. on January 15. As per the local tradition, chariots are taken in procession in paddy fields marking Kanuma (January 15).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rooster-fights-2000-knives-seized-in-eg/article33573084.ece
14 January 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP govt. policies pushing farm sector into crisis: TDP||Activists of the Telugu Desam Party made a bonfire of five GOs terming them anti-farmer as part of the Bhogi celebrations here on Wednesday. The activists raised slogans against the YSRCP government for issuing a GO to facilitate fixing of meters to farm pumpsets. Metering of power consumed by farmers would result in dilution of the free power scheme, said Mr. Balaji before putting the copies of the GOs in ‘Bhogi manta’'. The other GOs consigned to flames related to putting restrictions on zero interest loans to farmers with less than one hectare of land, scrapping of the fourth and fifth instalment of the loan waiver scheme. Farm sector was in a deep crisis due to ‘anti-farmer’ policies of the State government which had paid paltry input subsidy of about Rs. 5,000 per acre when the loss suffered by farmers was over Rs. 50,000 per acre due to Nivar cyclone, said Mr. Balaji.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-govt-policies-pushing-farm-sector-into-crisis/article33573043.ece
14 January 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Copies of farm laws burnt in Bhogi fire||Members of the Andhra Pradesh Rythu Sangam burnt the copies of farm Acts enacted by the Narendra Modi government across Prakasam district during ‘Bhogi’ celebrations on Wednesday. Leading the protest at Anantasagaram village, near Ponnalur, APRS State council member K.Veera Reddy said the struggle against the farm Acts would be intensified ahead of the Republic Day to put pressure on the BJP-led NDA government to repeal the three farm Acts. The Union government left the farmers at the mercy of the agri-marketing firms on the pretext of reforms, said Andhra Pradesh Rythu Sangam Prakasam District Secretary V. Hanuma Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/copies-of-farm-laws-burnt-in-bhogi-fire/article33573042.ece
14 January 2021||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||First batch of vaccines reaches city||The first batch of 46,720 Covishield vaccines from Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) reached the city in a refrigerated vehicle and was stored at the District Immunology Department here on Wednesday. The vaccines will be stored in the specially built freezers, which will maintain a temperature from 2° to 8° degree Celsius. The vaccination programme will begin on January 16 for the frontline health workers and 32 session or vaccination sites have been readied in the district. Speaking to The Hindu , District Collector V. Vinay Chand said that the session sites will be scaled up gradually and by January 20 there will be about 225 sites, spread across the district, which includes 91 PHCs, 12 CHCs, two area hospitals, two district hospitals, eight teaching hospitals and about 70 to 80 private hospitals. “As we move from one phase to another, the sites will be scaled up and the infrastructure further strengthened. As of now each session site is capable of handling about 100 persons per day and once all the sites are operational, the daily count could be close to 22,000,” he said. But the challenging part will the second and third phase, which are likely to begin in the mid of February. In the second phase, vaccines will be administered to about one lakh employees from various frontline departments such as GVMC, Revenue, Police and Panchyat Raj. In the third phase, the vaccination programme will be open for all above 50 years of age and those with comorbidities, which can tune up to over 10 lakhs in the district. “Once we get through the first phase, which will be a learning experience for us, we will be adding and adjusting things to our requirement for the next phases and even the vaccines will be replenished periodically. The freezers at the Immunology Department is equipped to store close to 17 lakh vaccines at given time,” said Mr. Vinay Chand. He also said that adequate number of refrigerated vehicles have been roped in by the district administration and the vaccines will be transported from the central storage to the respective area or district hospitals and from where they will be further moved in refrigerated boxes to the session sites. The vaccination drive will be launched around 11 a.m. on January 16 by the Prime Minister in a two-way video conference. The details of the healthcare workers have already been fed into the Co-WIN app and frozen and it will be soon opened for rest of the people, said Mr. Vinay Chand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/first-batch-of-vaccines-reaches-city/article33573176.ece
14 January 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Bhogi Theru’ marks end of Dhanurmasam||‘Bhogi Theru’ was organised at the Sri Govindaraja Swamy temple on Wednesday, marking the end of the month-long festivities during the Dhanurmasam. It also marked the revival of the rituals conducted prior to the auspicious ‘Margazhi’ month. As part of the rituals, ‘Tiruppavai’ was recited and ‘Sahasra Namarchana’ performed in the morning, while the processional deities of Goddess Andal (Godha Devi) and the Sri Krishna were taken out on a procession on a mini chariot inside the temple in the evening. The event was conducted in ‘ekantam’ (private) as per the guidelines issued inthe wake of coronavirus pandemic. ‘Adhyayanotsavam’ ‘Adhyayanotsavam’ also began at the temple on Wednesday and it will continue till Februray 5. During the period, verses from the ‘Nalayira Divya Prabandham’ would be recited by scholars in the evening in the presence of Sri Govindaraja, Sri Ramanuja, Senadhipathi and the twelve Alwars. Parinayotsavam Meanwhile, the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) has announced to conduct the ‘Chakra Snanam’ at the Kalyana Mandapam as part of ‘Makara Sankranti’ on Thursday and perform ‘Parinayotsavam’ on January 15 (Friday). Similarly, ‘Paruveta Utsavam’, a mock hunting programme, will be organised on January 16 at the temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bhogi-theru-marks-end-of-dhanurmasam/article33573061.ece
14 January 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two injured during ‘Pasuvula Panduga’ in Chittoor district||Two youths sustained injuries while trying to taming a bull during the ‘Pasuvula Panduga’ organised at Anuppalle village in Ramachandrapuram mandal of Chittoor district on Wednesday. ‘Pasuvula Panduga’, considered the ‘milder equivalent’ of Jallikattu in Tamil Nadu, is conducted every year in the villages of Chittoor district during the Sankranti festival. Despite attempts by the police to prevent it, ‘Pasuvula Panduga’ was organised at Anuppalle amid chaos. The police personnel and the village elders entered into arguments. However, the event was conducted finally, with the police backing out. The bulls ran amok as the participants gave them hard chase in their attempt tame the animals and grab the prize money tied to their horns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-injured-during-pasuvula-panduga-in-chittoor-district/article33572604.ece
14 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSR pre-schools getting ready||As many as 55,607 anganwadi centres, which remained shut in the last one year, will reopen tentatively on February 1 in their new avatar -- YSR pre-schools. The transformation is happening through interventions at various levels. Anganwadi workers, who will take up the teachers' role at the pre-schools are currently taking classes in spoken English. “Books and other learning material like videos of spoken English, designed with the help of a team of resource persons, have been handed over to the department concerned,” said State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) Director Pratap Reddy. Language skill “We have shared 12 spoken English videos with the workers and want them to make extensive use of them to develop their communication skills in English language with parents and children,” said Director of Women Development and Child Welfare Department Kritika Shukla, while speaking to The Hindu . “Recognising the need for Early Childhood Development (ECD) by ensuring adequate nourishment, physical health, mental alertness, emotional balance and socially competent environment, the government has embarked on this initiative,” she said. The anganwadi centres with around 8.70 lakh children in the age group of 3-6 years, are administratively under the control of 257 Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) projects in the State.  Age-specific syllabus Age-specific syllabus and activities designed separately for pre-primary-1 and pre-primary-2 in the past have been revised with focus on English learning, she said, adding that workshops with simple classroom instructions are aimed at engaging children and tuning their language, arithmetic and social skills. Training Anganwadi workers will be trained by 257 Child Development Project Officers (CDPOs) and 1,414 supervisors in the department, from January 20 to 25. These CDPOs and supervisors have already received training in remote learning and ‘100 days school readiness’ in a collaborative programme with the Pratham organisation. In view of the pandemic, mothers of the children have been divided in groups and trained remotely on how to engage children at home. Each anganwadi centre has been given Rs. 1,000 for procurement of material needed to organise various activities such as number puppets, sand paper numbers and alphabets, Aksharamala, flash cards, stories, sound boxes and other material. Besides, a pre-school kit worth Rs. 5,000 consisting of play material will be supplied to the centres. Ms. Shukla further said that under the Nadu-Nedu scheme, the government has taken up construction of new buildings for 27,438 anganwadi centres and upgradation of 28,169 centres would be taken up in next three years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysr-pre-schools-getting-ready/article33573053.ece
14 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APSCHE offers free courses in emerging technologies||Andhra Pradesh State Council for Higher Education (APSCHE), in association with the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) and the National Association of Software and Service Companies (NASSCOM), is offering professional and certification courses in emerging technologies. In a statement, APSCHE Chairman Hemachandra Reddy said the courses focus on promoting business skills under the banner of FutureSkills Prime to students and faculty members of universities and colleges in the Andhra Pradesh which was the first to launch this programme free of cost. The online professional certificate programmes are being offered on AI, Blockchain technology, Big Data analysis, cybersecurity, cloud computing, Internet of Things, Robotic Process Automation, Web Mobile Development and Marketing, Virtual Reality ad 3D Printing. The courses imparted to help enhance one's business skills including problem solving, design thinking, continuous learning, project management, negotiation and influencing, product and programme management, digital leadership, communication and story-telling. Registration Those interested can register by logging in the portalhttps://lifeskillsprime.in. All courses are based on learning outcomes and will start with basics and take the learner through, ending with the certification level and each course is divided in modules with a final test for certification, jointly given by the Sector Skill Council of NASSCOM and AICTE. “Credits will be allotted based on the number of hours prescribed for each of the certification course. The credits earned can be transferred to the mandatory academic credits and suitable methodology for credit equivalancy will be evolved by the university concerned,” explained Mr. Reddy, stating that the courses would be offered for free of cost till June 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apsche-offers-free-courses-in-emerging-technologies/article33573168.ece
14 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Panel to suggest modalities for procuring land under TPS||The government on Wednesday constituted a committee to suggest modalities on procuring land in the Urban Local Bodies / Urban Development Authorities under the Town Planning Schemes (TPS) to be made available for housing plots at affordable prices. According to G.O. RT. No. 4 issued by Secretary (Municipal Administration & Urban Development) Y. Srilakshmi, AP-TIDCO Managing Director Ch. Sridhar will be the Chairman. Director of Town and Country Planning V. Ramudu, Vice-Chairman of A.P. Housing Board B. Raja Gopal and Joint Director of the Amaravati Metropolitan Region Development Authority T. Chiranjeevi will be members of the committee. It was stated in the G.O. that the committee was mandated to suggest the possibilities and arrive at a yardstick for the number of plots to be made available in the ULBs / UDAs. Planned development The Andhra Pradesh Town Planning Act, 1920, and the Andhra Pradesh Metropolitan Region & Urban Development Authorities Act, 2016, empower the competent authorities to prepare town planning schemes for a planned development.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/panel-to-suggest-modalities-for-procuring-land-under-tps/article33573048.ece
14 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Villages soak in Sankranti spirit||The sheen of Sankranti was seen in villages on Bhogi, the first day of the three-day festivities.  Farmers decorated their houses and painted their bullock carts. Farmers performed ‘puja’ to ‘Gadelu’ (paddy storage baskets) and bullocks and prayed the rain god to give bumper crop during the ongoing rabi and kharif seasons this year. They tied ‘toranams’ to the houses and offered ‘Pongali’ to the Gods and ancestors. ‘Bhogi pallu’ event was performed for children and they celebrated the festival by wearing new dresses. Women prepared delicious food items such as ‘ariselu’ ‘sunnundalu’, ‘bobbatlu’, ‘kobbariundalu’, ‘jantikalu’, ‘kajjikayalu’, ‘garelu’ and other varieties. Houses wore festive look with new sons-in-law visiting their in-laws’ places for the harvest festival. Farmers were seen shifting paddy, sugarcane, pulses and other produce to their houses. Family members and near and dear ones, staying at different places and abroad, came to their native villages to celebrate the festival. Cock fights Villagers were seen busy at the cockfight arenas in towns and rural areas as part of Sankranti. Celebrities, traders, farmers, industrialists, film personalities, software professionals and the youth thronged the venues to enjoy the rooster fights. Despite ban, cockfights are being organised at many places in Krishna, Guntur, East and West Godavari and other districts. Gangireddula melalu, Haridasulu and Budigajangalu were seen visiting the houses and giving blessings to the newly-wed couples. With many employees and traders staying in Hyderabad, Chennai, Bengaluru, Pune and other cities visiting their native places, heavy rush was seen at the toll gates on the National Highways for the last two days. Heavy rush was seen at the bus and railway stations. Railways and RTC are running special services to clear the festival rush.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/villages-soak-in-sankranti-spirit/article33573116.ece
14 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State reports 203 new COVID cases, one death in 24 hours||The State reported one death and 203 new COVID infections in the past day. For the fifth consecutive day, less than 300 infections were reported and seven deaths were reported during the same period. The tally increased to 8,85,437. Meanwhile, 231 patients have recovered in the past day leaving  2,382  cases active. The total recoveries increased to 8,75,921 which puts the recovery rate at 98.93% and the death rate with 7,134 deaths was at 0.81%. The overall positivity rate of 1.24 crore samples came down to 7.12%. In the past day, 44,679 samples were tested and their positivity rate was 0.45%. The lone death in the State was reported in Krishna district, which continues to have the highest death rate at 1.39% and lowest recovery rate of 97.88%. Guntur reported 41 new cases and was followed by Krishna (30), East Godavari (27), Anantapur (23), Visakhapatnam (22), Chittoor (18), Kadapa (9), Vizianagaram (9), Srikakulam (8), West Godavari (7), Kurnool (5), Nellore (2) and Prakasam (2). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,24,010), West Godavari (94,078), Chittoor (86,648), Guntur (75,217), Anantapur (67,539), Nellore (62,239), Prakasam (62,098), Kurnool (60,701), Visakhapatnam (59,476), Kadapa (55,138), Krishna (48,270), Srikakulam (46,040) and Vizianagaram (41,088). Nellore has 422 active cases, the highest among the districts, while Vizianagaram only has 32 active cases. Recovery rate in five districts was more than 99% and in the remaining districts expect Krishna it was more than 98%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-reports-203-new-covid-cases-one-death-in-24-hours/article33573045.ece
14 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dues for paddy procured cleared||The Finance Department on Wednesday released Rs. 1,000 crore for clearing the dues of farmers towards the cost of paddy procured from them two weeks ago. The money was credited to the bank account of the AP State Civil Supplies Corporation, which made direct payments into the farmers’ bank accounts, a press release by Commissioner of Civil Supplies Kona Sasidhar said. He stated that the balance arrears would be cleared soon and paddy would be procured in full as per the guidelines in order to ensure that the farmers got minimum support price.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dues-for-paddy-procured-cleared/article33573049.ece
14 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TSRTC operating over 3,000 buses to State to clear Sankranti rush||The Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) is operating more than 3,000 buses to various destinations in Andhra Pradesh for the convenience of passengers visiting their native places. The special services, which began January 10 will continue up to January 18, to clear the festival rush. “For the first time, TSRTC is operating such a huge number of buses for Sankranti, as part of the agreement reached with the APSRTC to operate our services to different destinations in Andhra Pradesh. The occupancy ratio is good,” a TSRTC official said.  “As part of the inter-State agreement with Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) in November last year, we are operating buses to A.P. Officials have been deputed to monitor the services from various bus depots,” a TSRTC official said. APSRTC Executive Director (Operations) K.S. Brahmananda Reddy said that the corporation was running 3,607 Sankranthi festival special buses from various depots in the State. Special services “Special Garuda, Indra, Amaravathi and other services are being operated to Hyderabad, Chennai, Bangaluru and other destinations. The cooperation from our neighbouring counterparts is good,” Mr. Reddy said. Private operators too are operating special buses to Hyderabad and other destinations. “As we are providing sleeper and semi-sleeper services, many passengers are booking tickets in private travel buses also,” a private travel operator said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tsrtc-operating-over-3000-buses-to-state-to-clear-sankranti-rush/article33573058.ece
14 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Copies of farm laws burnt in Bhogi fire||Members of farmers’ associations and Left parties burnt copies of GOs relating to farmers, workers codes and Municipal taxes, in Bhogi mantalu, a bonfire lit during the Sankranti festival, on Wednesday. At different locations, the CPI, CPI(M), and farmers’ associations burnt copies of the recent farm laws in the bonfire, as a mark of protest and shouted slogans against the Union government. Accusing the Centre of promoting crony-capitalism, they said the staying of the laws by the Supreme Court was not a solution to the impasse. The government was bent to scuttle the farmers’ agitation. The panel included members in favour of the farm laws and it was of no use, they said .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/copies-of-farm-laws-burnt-in-bhogi-fire/article33573166.ece
14 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ask Jagan to produce evidence on temple attacks, Varla tells DGP||TDP Polit Bureau member Varla Ramaiah has urged Director General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang to serve a notice on Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy under Section 91 of the CrPC and ask him to produce evidence, whichever he has, with regard to the temple attacks. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy had admitted that he was aware of the culprits vandalising the temples in the State at a public meeting in Nellore on January 11, the TDP leader alleged, and added that it might help the police finalise the sensitive case as early as possible. In the letter on Wednesday, Mr. Ramaiah said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s statement gave the impression that he and his advisers were aware of the forces behind the series of attacks. Adviser to the Government Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy too had stated that political forces were behind the attacks on temples. In the past, notices had been served on the Leader of the Opposition and TDP chief N. Chandrababu Naidu under the same section, asking him to produce evidence on certain allegations he had made, Mr. Ramaiah said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ask-jagan-to-produce-evidence-on-temple-attacks-varla-tells-dgp/article33573051.ece
14 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘IB asked to probe bid to destabilise government’||The State government had alerted the Intelligence Bureau (IB) to probe possible atempts to destabilise the government, if any, in Andhra Pradesh, said Director-General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang. Responding to a query on the series of allegations and attacks by the main Opposition Telugu Desam Party (TDP) about attacks on the Scheduled Castes, targeting police personnel, desecration of idols in temples, making derogatory comments on the name of religion on a few VVIPs, the DGP said the police were observing the situation from time to time. “We have alerted the IB to check whether any group was trying to destabilise the government in the State,” Mr. Sawang said. Constitutional machinery Meanwhile, the IB personnel have reported over the political developments and on the major issues in the State during the last few months. “Discussion on the alleged breakdown of Constitutional machinery has come in for discussion recently. We have sent our observations to the Central government,” an officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ib-asked-to-probe-bid-to-destabilise-ap-govt/article33572895.ece
14 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bulls from Krishna, Guntur district win prizes||Bulls from Krishna and Guntur districts stood top in Sankranti Rythu Sambaralu competitions organised by farmer Yarlagadda Venkat Rao. Competitions were conducted from January 8 to 12. Bulls owned by D.V.R. Memorial of Daivabaktuni Subba Rao, Kanuru, Krishna district, won first prize. Organiser and the chief guests presented a car to Mr. Subba Rao. Farmers of Kadapa and Prakasam districts also won prizes in the competitions, said Mr. Venkat Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bulls-from-krishna-guntur-district-win-prizes/article33573159.ece
14 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor, CM extend Sankranti greetings||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu have extended their Sankranti greetings to the people. In his message, Mr. Harichandan said, “On the joyous occasion of Sankranti, I convey my heartiest greetings to the people of Andhra Pradesh. The harvest festival occupies a significant place in our cultural tradition and is celebrated with abundant gaiety and jubilation,” he said. “The celebrations bring out memories of our age-old traditions and glorious past that binds all sections of society together. May this auspicious occasion inspire noble thoughts of love, affection, amity and brotherhood in all of us,” the Governor said. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy wished the very best to the Telugu people living worldwide on the auspicious ‘Makara Sankranti’ festival. “Sankranti is a symbol of our culture and traditions, of the love we have towards our villages, the respect we give to farmers and of the arts that are unique to us,” he said. In his wishes, Mr. Naidu said the houses of farmers should “overflow with riches and happiness.” The farmers could not celebrate Sankranti happily after YSRCP came to power, he alleged. “Farmers in Amaravati are at loss as the government plans to shift the Capital. Floods, cyclones and rains brought them misery,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/governor-cm-extend-sankranti-greetings/article33573050.ece
14 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jana Sena panel to fight against Ramateertham incident||Jana Sena Party president Pawan Kalyan has formed a four-member committee to fight along with the BJP till the persons who vandalised the idol at the Ramateertham temple are nabbed and punished. Mr. Pawan Kalyan’s political secretary P. Hari Prasad said in a release that the party’s general secretary T. Sivasankar would lead the panel that comprised of Political Affairs Committee member P. Yasaswini and party’s north Andhra regional committee members G. Appa Rao and B. Raghu. Mr. Prasad said there was no progress in the case so far. “The police have apparently been not given full freedom to crack the case,” he stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jana-sena-panel-to-fight-against-ramateertham-incident/article33573054.ece
14 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Marketing Dept. procures 24 tonnes of tomato||The Agricultural Marketing Department purchased about 24 tonnes of tomato by participating in bidding/auctions from December 21 to 28 as part of its market intervention measures. When the prices stabilised, the intervention was stopped and the department was continuously monitoring the prices of farm commodities through CM APP daily to take steps as and when required. Commissioner of Marketing P.S. Pradyumna said the department was resorting to market intervention when the Village Agriculture Assistants reported a fall in tomato prices in CM APP. It would participate in bidding and purchase the tomato from January 15||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/marketing-dept-procures-24-tonnes-of-tomato/article33573169.ece
14 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Beach Control Room started||The city police started an exclusive Beach Control Room in the name “We are here for you” near Kali Mata Temple at RK Beach as part of the community policing here on Wednesday. The control room was started under the instructions of Police Commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha and its functioning will be monitored by Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Ch. Adinarayana. The control room will be monitored by women from the police force and will be operational 24/7, said the Police Commissioner. The beach control room will have police personnel working in shifts round the clock, the ADCP said and added that the control room will further ensure safety of beach visitors. The police released a sky balloon to create awareness over the outpost on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/beach-control-room-started/article33573174.ece
14 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||22 persons arrested for ‘taking part’ in rooster fights, gambling||Teams from the district police on Wednesday conducted raids at several places and caught 22 persons while they were allegedly involved in rooster fights and gambling, in the rural areas on Wednesday. Nine persons were arrested at Kothali village and four roosters and Rs. 6,305 were seized from them. Nine persons were held on the outskirts of Ramachandrapuram and four roosters and Rs. 6,305 were seized from them. A police team conducted raid at Yathapeta village and caught four persons while they were allegedly indulging in gambling. Police seized Rs. 32,470 cash from them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/22-persons-arrested-for-taking-part-in-rooster-fights-gambling/article33573172.ece
14 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI activists protest against tax hike, farm laws||CPI State assistant secretary J.V. Satyanarayana Murthy has said that it is not wise to tax the people in the name of reforms. Bhogi fire The CPI activists threw copies of property tax hike G.O. and the farm laws into the Bhogi fire at Arilova here on Wednesday. Mr. Satyanarayana alleged that in the name of funding development of urban areas, the government was planning a steep hike in taxes ranging from 15% to 50%. He also demanded repeal of the farm laws by the Centre. Party leaders A. Vimala, SK Rehaman, Lakshmana Rao, Devudamma and Ravi were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpi-activists-protest-against-tax-hike-farm-laws/article33573177.ece
14 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Class X student found dead in welfare hostel||A 15-year-old boy allegedly ended his life in his hostel room at Andhra Pradesh Tribal Welfare Residential school at Koyyuru mandal in Visakhapatnam district. The boy reportedly wrote in his suicide note that he didn’t want to return home as no one liked him. He also reportedly wrote that no one is responsible for his death. Though the incident seems to have occurred in the early hours of Tuesday, it came to light on Tuesday night. The deceased was identified as P. Soujithraju (15), a Class X student and a native of Paderu. According to the Koyyuru police, the school had announced holidays from Monday evening on the occasion of Sankranti and all the students have left for home. Those who are in distress can contact police helpline No. 100.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/class-x-student-found-dead-in-tribal-welfare-hostel/article33573087.ece
14 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four persons robbed of gold ornaments at gunpoint||Some unidentified miscreants allegedly attacked four persons at gunpoint and made good with about three-and-a-half tolas of gold ornaments on ghat road near Daralamma temple in G.K Veedhi mandal, in Visakhapatnam district, in the early hours of Wednesday. A case was registered and investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/four-persons-robbed-of-gold-ornaments-at-gunpoint/article33573170.ece
14 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District reports 22 new COVID cases||The district COVID-19 tally rose to 59,988, after 22 new COVID-19 infections being reported in the last 24 hours as on Wednesday morning. The death toll stands at 528 as no deaths were reported in the last two day. As many as 22 persons, who were undergoing treatment for the virus, have recovered, according to the bulletin. The total number of active cases and recoveries is 189 and 59,271 respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-reports-22-new-covid-cases/article33573171.ece
14 January 2021||January 14 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pomp and gaiety||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pomp-and-gaiety/article33573162.ece
14 January 2021||January 14 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rural buzz in urban setting||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rural-buzz-in-urban-setting/article33573056.ece
14 January 2021||Desiya Thanda,TELANGANA||Tribal woman wins test of nerves||Desiya Thanda cannot be found on any online map. Deep inside Telangana, beyond Thorrur in Jangaon district, lies the hamlet which Vankudothu Bharathi has brought under the spotlight by winning a test of nerves, entrenched misogyny and legal challenges. “I climbed up and down an 8-metre electricity pole in under a minute and I am now waiting for the appointment letter from Telangana State Southern Power Distribution Corporation Limited,” says Ms. Bharathi, a wiry five-foot tall woman. While her eight-year-old son sleeps in a hammock, her four-year-old daughter plays with scampering chickens in front of the house. “I am the first person in my family, from both my mother’s and father’s side, to be educated and about to get a government job. I have written many competitive exams, but I managed to pass the TSSPDCL exam for junior lineman,” says Ms Bharathi who had to get court orders twice to break the vertical ceiling. Hailing from a farming family, she finished her M.Com from Kakatiya University in 2012. Thanks to a supportive husband, she continued her job hunt even after marriage. Realising that just an academic degree would not help, she did a course for electricians from an Industrial Training Institute. Then she ran into a legal wall. “While the TRANSCO job notification had 33% reservation for women, the TSSPDCL made no provision for women’s reservation. Thirty-eight other women and I filed a petition for the same and won,” informs Ms. Bharathi. But after the examination, the TSSPDCL conducted the pole-climbing test only for men. Again, Ms. Bharathi went to the High Court which ordered the department to conduct the pole climbing test for women as well. Ms Bharathi aced that test too. “After practising a lot, I realised climbing an electrical pole is not that difficult,” she says. Wetting her palms and feet, she climbs a disused electricity pole near the house. The climb is effortless. “The key is the grip. When we went for the test, they wanted me to wear the security harness but I wore only the hard-hat and salwar kameez and climbed,” she says. “I used to practice climbing the pole secretly so that family members didn’t see me. I was worried they would laugh and snigger if I don’t get the job. Now, people from many surrounding villages know my name and are proud of what I have achieved,” says Ms Bharathi, who is waiting for the appointment letter for junior lineman. A letter which will make the government rethink the job title to include competent women like Ms Bharathi.  I used to practice climbing the pole secretly so that family members didn’t see me. I was worried they would laugh and snigger if I don’t get the job. Vankudothu Bharathi, Junior lineswoman||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tribal-woman-jumps-gender-hurdle-wins-test-of-nerves/article33572863.ece
14 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||No helmet, you are under lens!||Hyderabadis will have no respite from penalties if they are ‘careless’ about wearing the helmet, warns traffic police. The ongoing crackdown by the Cyberabad traffic police on improper use of helmets is set to intensify, with contact-less fines coming to haunt bikers. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Vijay Kumar S.M. told The Hindu that the drive may take years to reach complete implementation but is necessary in the face of increasing cases of road accidents, where bikers are losing their lives because of wearing substandard helmets or wearing their helmets improperly. “Wearing a helmet without buckling it or wearing a cheap quality one is useless for protection. Many riders are seen doing this to escape fines, but we are going to use photographic evidence and book these violations too,” he said. ‘Not wearing helmet’ challans will be issued against two-wheeler riders who are found wearing low-quality or fake or half/skull cap helmets, the officer said. “Our endeavour is to increase implementation of Motor Vehicles Act rules not simply for the sake of enactment but to help save hundreds of lives,” Mr. Kumar explained. On Monday, the Cyberabad traffic police announced the arrest of two persons from Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh, who manufactured substandard headgears. Last year alone, 775 people died in various road accidents in Cyberabad, of which 445 are two-wheeler riders or pillion riders. “Among them only 80 people were wearing helmet, rest 375 victims, including pillion riders, were not wearing a helmet or had fastened low-quality helmets,” Mr. Kumar said, adding that more than 300 deaths could have been averted if the rider/pillion rider had worn protective headgears. “The magnitude of problem is serious,” the officer observed, stating that people should have ‘fear of law’, but not ‘fear of enforcement’. “People should be more rational. When they are ashamed of wearing a cheap quality dress or saree to a function, they must be ashamed of buying low-quality helmets also,” said the DCP, a stickler himself of rules for strict regimen. Mincing no words, he said a preventable loss of life is squandered by just wearing a helmet of good quality. The police have launched a drive to weed out substandard helmets, which are dotting the highways and main thoroughfare. Expressing concern over political interference even at micro level to overlook the offence of not wearing helmets, Mr. Kumar said that political leaders at all levels must shun from prevailing over the police to look the other way. “This must stop. Will any leader bring back the lost lives and come to the rescue of bereaved families? The responsibility is upon everyone,” the officer said. He said they will write to the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) against the ‘misuse’ of ISI certification so that they check the quality of helmets being sold and take action against the manufacturers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-helmet-you-are-under-lens/article33572871.ece
14 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||ESIC Medical College turns mentor||The Employee State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) Medical College in Sanathnagar here will be the model based on which two new teaching hospitals are to be upgraded in Alwar (Rajasthan) and Bihta (Bihar). A two-member committee consisting of ESIC board member K.K. Agarwal and Hyderabad Medical College dean M. Srinivas — nominated by the Union Ministry of Labour and Employment and ESIC Head Quarters in New Delhi — had already visited the two places, looked at available infrastructure and decided on steps to upgrade for making them fully functional. “Both places already have a 500-bed hospital each, fully equipped and constructed on par with the best medical colleges but they have been used only optimally for the past four years. The plan is to tone up the health facilities within the next six months,” said ESIC sources. The two colleges have digital classrooms, laboratories, auditorium, sports facilities, hostels and staff quarters sufficient to run a medical college with an intake of 100-150 students annually. The renewed effort to improve the medical colleges on the lines of the Sanathnagar college (affiliated to the KNR University of Health Sciences-Warangal) is thanks to the fact that their novel initiatives in the past four years got noticed. Spread over an area of 30 acres, the college here has been upgraded to 470-bed hospital and an additional super speciality back-up with 150 beds for taking up complicated cases. Here, all the services, including tertiary care, are available on a single campus for insured persons. The hospital drastically reduced referrals to other hospitals from 20,000 in 2016 to zero last year while patient attendance went up from 2,500 to up to 4,000 per day improving laboratories, outpatient services, etc. A referral committee monitors validity of all referrals online with patient biometrics so that only genuine cases are approved, they informed. There are 14 operation theatres running in parallel, reducing waiting time for patients and about 16 super-speciality departments were developed which helped reduce the referrals and plans are afoot to run a round the lock dialysis centre. The college has been among the first medical colleges to go for Aadhaar-Enabled Biometric Attendance System (AEBAS) and officials say this has led to immediate impact on service improvement and thereby, patient care. The AEBAS and the online recruitment process with 60 parameters has been made applicable to other colleges with the Sanathnagar institute made the nodal centre for recruitments to all other colleges. “We became the first ESIC medical college to fill up 100% insured people and also secured the highest number of distinctions among all the medical colleges in 2019 in Telangana. We have made our 400 students adopt hospital beds for regular interaction with patients,” explained dean Srinivas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/esic-medical-college-turns-mentor/article33572861.ece
14 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Court directs IT officials to return Rs. 5 cr. with 12% interest||Observing that seizure of Rs. 5 crore by Hyderabad Income Tax officials nearly 18 months ago from a private company employee was illegal, the Telangana High Court directed them to refund the money within four weeks. The order was passed by a bench of Justices M.S. Ramachandra Rao and T. Amarnath Goud in two writ petitions, one filed by M/s Mectec and the other by its employee Vipul Kumar Patel. The bench also directed the Director of Income Tax (Investigation) - Hyderabad and the Deputy Director of IT Unit-I (3) to pay an interest of 12% per year to the company from the date of seizure of the cash till date of refund of the money. In an order passed a fortnight ago, the bench strongly deprecated the conduct of the IT Deputy Director noting that the document relating to cash seizure prepared by the officer was fabricated. “Why the second respondent - IT Deputy Director-Hyderabad - should resort to fabricating this panchanama (Exhibit R-8) is obvious i.e., to make out a case for seizure and retention of cash illegally by giving a colour of legal validity,” the bench said. The bench also remarked, “this document, in our opinion, is clearly a fabricated document of a search of an unknown/undisclosed place. We disbelieve that any such search was in fact conducted at all by the officer and her team to seize the cash.” The petitioners contended that Hyderabad Police Commissioner’s Task Force Inspector (West) intercepted Vipul Kumar Patel’s car in Hyderabad on August 23, 2019 and seized Rs. 5 crore which was in his possession. The TF Inspector later wrote a letter to IT officials in Hyderabad informing about the seizure of the cash. The IT Deputy Director and her team visited the TF office in Secunderabad and recorded sworn statements of Patel under Section 131 (A) of IT Act-1961. Since he could not explain source of the cash in his possession, a warrant under Section 132 of the IT Act was issued. “Curiously, in the counter affidavits filed by IT officials, they do not give the date on which they took possession of the cash and how they got possession of it,” the bench remarked. Whereas the TF Inspector, in his counter affidavit, stated that he had handed over Mr. Patel to IT officials on August 27, 2019. The panchanama prepared by the IT officials about the seizure of the cash left the place of search blank. “How there could be a warrant issued under section 132 by the Principal Director of Income Tax Hyderabad to IT Deputy Director without mentioning the place to be searched...”, the bench said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/court-directs-it-officials-to-return-rs-5-cr-with-12-interest/article33572891.ece
14 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||More support for rice exports urged||Export of rice from Telangana has a natural disadvantage of connectivity or rather lack of it — connectivity of water way — compared to several other paddy-growing States in the country and “it’s making a big difference in a bulk commodity business like rice which is a low-margin export,” the Federation of Telangana Chambers of Commerce and Industry has felt. In a report prepared on ‘Rice Exports from Telangana – Opportunities and Way Forward’ submitted to Vice-Chairman of the Telangana State Planning Board B. Vinod Kumar here on Wednesday, the Chambers, however, suggested that rice exports from Telangana could be made more viable with supportive measures. Stating that Telangana is a landlocked State and the transport charges for shipment from the nearest port are costing high to the exporters, the report suggested that the State could bat for CONCOR (container corporation) subsidy scheme, which is extended to a few dry ports in the country. However, the subsidy is not extended to the inland container depot (ICD) at Sanathnagar. Underscoring the fact that price competitiveness is key to export marketing, the trade and industry body felt that the CONCOR subsidy scheme should be extended to Telangana too and “the State government must take it up with Railways for the same”. Global markets Further, the report suggested that there is every need to establish ICDs in Nizamabad and Karimnagar districts, both of which are over 150 km away from Hyderabad, emerging as major rice belts and the two ICDs at Sanathnagar and at Thimmapur in Mahabubnagar districts are far away from the rice belts. Stating that international markets are agnostic for a product such as rice and always go by the landed cost, the report pointed out that all the rice exporters have been unanimously contending that implementation of minimum support price (MSP) has been adding to distortion of the paddy market with artificial increase in the price of paddy. Besides, new areas growing paddy within the country such as Chattisgarh, Odisha, Jharkand, West Bengal, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh have added to high price variation amongst States. “Unless the price disadvantage is addressed, low procurement of rice by exporters cannot increase,” the FTCCI report said. It has strongly suggested to give subsidy to rice exporters to make the price on a par with other States. The Federation of Telangana Chambers of Commerce and Industry asked the State government to address the price variation by following Taiwan model in implementing MSP, wherein the government would buy paddy and auctions it to exporters to buy at market price. “The system will reduce the burden on market variations but also clears the inventories,” the report noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/more-support-for-rice-exports-urged/article33572882.ece
14 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Dial ‘104’ in case of adverse effects post vaccination||COVID-19 vaccine beneficiaries developing adverse reactions after going home following the immunisation can dial ‘104’. The State Health department has made a list of hospitals where the Adverse Events Following Immunisation (AEFI) cases will be attended. Information about the hospitals will be provided to the beneficiary calling on the three-digit helpline number. After getting inoculated, a beneficiary has to spend half hour in the ‘Observation Room’ at the designated vaccination centre where health staff will monitor the person’s health condition. If one develops minor reactions, it will be attended at the centre itself. AEFI kits will be made available for the purpose. In case of severe reactions, however, the staff would shift the person to a major healthcare centre in an ambulance. If the adverse effects start showing after the vaccine beneficiary has reached home, they can dial 104, said Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dial-104-in-case-of-adverse-effects-post-vaccination/article33572858.ece
14 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Cultural extravaganza at Shilparamam on Sankranti||“Sankranti Sandadi - 2021” is being organised by Shilparamam at Madhapur and Mini Shilparamam at Uppal till January 21. “We are arranging Gangireddulu, Haridasulu, Budabukkalu, Jangamadevarulu, Pagati Veshalu and also daily cultural programmes at the amphitheatre,” an official release said. On Thursday, “Maarghashera masa Pradarshana” Bharatnatyam performance by Dr. Gowthami Ravi Chandra’s disciples, apart from Haridasulu, Budabukkalu, Jangamadevarulu, and Gangireddula aata, would be organised. A Kuchipudi performance by Trishna Kuchipudi Dance Academy founder and director Alekhya Punjala will be held on Friday. On Saturday, Kuchipudi performance by G. Ravi, Perini Tandavam by Dr. Perini Ravi Teja and Kathak performance by Subrat Sarkar and his disciples will be held. On Sunday, there will be another Kuchipudi performance by Sudheer Rao of Warangal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cultural-extravaganza-at-shilparamam-on-sankranti/article33572874.ece
14 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||No clarity yet on free coverage||The State government is yet to give clarity on the extent of population that will be covered for administration of COVID-19 vaccine free of cost. The issue assumes significance as the administration of the vaccine is set to commence on January 16 starting with the frontline workers. The State and Central governments have assured that the vaccine will be administered to frontline warriors - those employed in the health, municipal administration, especially sanitation staff, police and other connected departments, free of cost, in the first phase. And, the process would be set in motion for other sections subsequently. There is no clarity however on whether the government would foot the bill for other sections, the below poverty line families in particular, for administration of the vaccine. The Serum Institute of India which started dispatch of the vaccine doses to States has announced that 100 million doses of Covishield had been purchased by the government for a special price of Rs. 200 per dose. Company chief executive officer Adar Poonawalla described the moment as historic and said the institute had offered a special rate to the government "which is slightly below our costs incurred" The company decided to sell the rest of the 5.6 crore doses assigned to it at reasonable prices, a little more than Rs. 200. But the prices in the private market are likely to be around Rs. 1,000 per dose. The State and Central governments have, in principle, hinted at supplying the vaccine free of cost for people aged over 50 including those with comorbidities, but clarity is yet to emerge on whether the State government took a final decision in this regard. With the State population pegged around 3.6 crore through the Samagra Kutumba Survey, the government should ensure vaccine coverage for little over 2.7 crore people leaving aside around 80 lakh children below 14 years. Given the magnitude of the coverage, the financial implication would be huge if the State proposes to administer the vaccine free of cost for all ages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-clarity-yet-on-free-coverage/article33572886.ece
14 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Farm laws: special House session sought||Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Bhatti Vikramarka has urged Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to convene a special session of the Assembly to overrule the three farm laws of the Central government as has been done by five state governments including those ruled by the Congress, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in Delhi and the CPI(M)-led government in Kerala. In a letter to the Chief Minister that was released to the media, Mr. Bhatti said even the Supreme Court had taken a serious note of the farm laws and the Central government’s inability to end the ongoing farmers’ agitation. “Since you have openly opposed the laws and also asked the TRS cadre to participate in the bandh on December 6, negating the laws in the State Assembly will put further pressure on the Central government,” he said. Mr. Bhatti reminded how the Chief Minister had repeatedly said the laws were made to help the corporates at the cost of Telangana, and said the CM himself had spoken of calling a special session to overrule the Central laws. The CLP leader said he however was surprised by the sudden U-turn by the Chief Minister and subsequently withdrawing agriculture produce purchasing centres. The Congress Legislature Party leader, who had been vocal opposing the new farm bill since they were passed, said the farm laws were also being opposed by the farmers across the country and the Congress led by AICC president Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi had collected two crore signatures from the farmers and submitted them to the President. The Congress had organised a series of protests in Telangana, including a mega tractor rally at Khammam, involving hundreds of farmers and farmers’ march and a relay fast at Indira Park.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/farm-laws-special-house-session-sought/article33572887.ece
14 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||IRCTC packages for rail, air and road travellers||Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) has announced tourism packages by rail, road and air to important destinations across the country from Secunderabad and other places under the label “Dekho Apna Desh” for promotion of domestic tourism between January and March. Bharat Darshan special tourist trains include Dakshin Bharat Yatra starting from Secunderabad on January 22 covering Tiruchirapalli, Thanjavur, Rameswaram, Madurai and Kanyakumari with ticket price of Rs. 7,140. Ganga Yamuna Yatra starts from Renigunta on January 20 covering Prayagraj, Varanasi and Gaya with ticket price of Rs. 7,140. Jagannath Dham Yatra starts from Secunderabad from March 5 and covers Puri, Bhubaneswar and Konark with ticket price of Rs. 5,250. Ramayan Yatra or Shri Rampath from Renigunta on March 16 covers Ayodhya, Chitrakoot, Gaya, Nandigram, Prayagraj, Shringaverpur and Varanasi for a ticket price of Rs. 11,395. Travel will be on IRCTC’s most economical and affordable tourist train, said deputy manager-Tourism G.S.D.P. Kishore at a press conference. Domestic air packages include Amazing Andaman from Hyderabad towards Port Blair, Havelock Island, Neil Island, Ross & North Bay Island from February 24 with ticket price of Rs. 31,170. Madhya Pradesh Maha Darshan tour starting from Hyderabad on February 27 covers Omkareshwar and Ujjain priced at Rs. 18,950. Saurashtra with Statue Of Unity from Hyderabad on March 6 covers Ahmedabad, Dwarka, Somnath and Statue Of Unity with ticket cost fixed at Rs. 23,300. Majestic Kerala with Shree Padmanabhaswamy from Visakhapatnam covers Cochin-Munnar-Alleppey-Kovalam-Trivandrum starting from February 25 at a cost of Rs. 25,870. Other tours aredaily Hyderabad city tour from Monday to Friday with each ticket priced at Rs. 1,115; and Heritage Hyderabad tour from Monday to Friday for Rs. 1,170; Mysterious Hyderabad from Monday to Friday for Rs. 2,965; city tour with Ramoji Film City for Rs. 3,845; Ramoji Film City for Rs. 6,450; Hyderabad-Ramoji Film City-Srisailam tour from Monday to Friday for Rs. 8,970.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/irctc-announces-new-packages/article33572892.ece
14 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Few takers for special buses this year||There were fewer passengers compared to previous years at various bus stations on Wednesday, a day before Sankranti. To cater to the rush of passengers usually witnessed during the festive season, Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) had planned to operate 4,981 special buses over a period of eight days – from January 8-14. However, Jubilee Bus Station, which caters to passengers proceeding to destinations such as Adilabad and Nizamabad, and Mahatma Gandhi Bus Station saw a relatively lesser crowd. According to sources within the TSRTC familiar with bus schedules, around 2,200 special buses were pressed into service over the past eight days. “There could be two or three reasons for the relatively less passenger movement. Firstly, it is because of the pandemic. It is also because several professionals are already in their home towns as they are working from home. Also, schools and colleges are closed. So, a large number of students are in their towns and villages,” the source said. Meanwhile, traveller experience had its share of glitches. Those seeking clarifications stated that the phone numbers provided on TSRTC’s website www.tsrtconline.in were not working, and not updated. Others said that many passengers either opted to drive to their destinations in their own vehicles or used private buses. “My watchman hired a private vehicle, and along with him eight other people from nearby areas went to their village near Guntur,” Sanjay Borra, an architectural photographer and resident of Anand Bagh Colony, said. However, on Wednesday night, some rush on account of passenger activity was witnessed at Uppal, Lingampally, Ameerpet and Jeedimetla, among other places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/few-takers-for-special-buses-this-sankranti/article33572880.ece
14 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Expose TS students to global varsities’||B.Vinod Kumar, Vice-Chairman of Telangana State Planning Board, has called for the need to expose Telangana students involved in research and higher education in the state varsities to international institutions to learn from the quality of education and research in them. He sought the cooperation of teachers and researchers from Telangana working in various institutions across the world to take a lead in this direction and the government would be keen to extend all the possible help. Mr. Vinod Kumar was expressing his views at a webinar organised to felicitate and appreciate Pravasi Bharatiya Samman Award Recipient Prof. Muralidhar Miryala from Shibaura Institute of Technology in Tokyo, Japan. Mr. Vinod Kumar felt there was immense talent from Telangana working around the world and they should be brought together to create a path where young students from Telangana get an opportunity either to visit them or work with them. He appreciated the idea of Prof. Miryala assuring to invite a group of school students from Telangana to Japan and expose them to the systems there. He said the Chief Minister, K. Chandrasekhar Rao always encouraged such initiatives. Principl Secretary, Information Technology, Jayesh Ranjan explained the rapid progress being undertaken by Telangana and assured all support to the collaborative work. Prof. Ramana Rao, Director, NIT Warangal, suggested that an action plan be drawn up to connect with NITs and other leading technical institutions. Prof. Miryala recalled his association with Mr. Vinod Kumar during the latter's visit to Japan and the meeting resulted in some Telangana students getting an opportunity to visit the university in Japan. He said he had raised funds to invite 10 students each from Osmania University, Kakatiya University, JNTU Hyderabad and BV Raju Institute of Technology on an exchange programme to visit Japan. "It has been withheld due to COVID19 restrictions but once the situation eases it will be implemented.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/expose-ts-students-to-global-varsities/article33572888.ece
14 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Nine members of a dacoity gang among eleven arrested||Nine members of an inter-State dacoity gang were arrested by the Cyberabad police on Wednesday for stealing huge quantities of copper wire and other electrical material from various construction sites. Commissioner of Police V.C. Sajjanar said that the gang committed seven offences in Shankarpally, RC Puram and Dundigal, and Narsingi police station limits. Stolen property worth Rs. 55 lakh, including an SUV and 11 mobile phones, were recovered from their possession. The accused -- Pradeep Kushwaha (27), Kuldeep (23), Madhav Singh (29), Dharmender Singh (32), Sanjay (21) -- hail from various parts of Rajasthan, while Nihal Singh (22), Shailendra Singh (22), Dharmendra (26), and Satyabhan Singh (23) hail from Uttar Pradesh. The police also arrested stolen property receivers -- Manish Kumar (25) of Deepak Electricals, Kondapur, and Govula Vijay Kumar (35), a scrap dealer from Hafeezpet. The gang came to Hyderabad and worked as electricians during the day, and recce the premises. Between 11 p.m. and 3 a.m. in the night, they used to enter the construction site and decamp with the property, Mr. Sajjanar said. In the last one week, the gang committed five offences, and last year they were involved two, he said. "They used an SUV while committing an offence and threatened the security guard or the site incharge by brandishing a country-made pistol and tied them with ropes in a room, before they decamped with the material," the officer said. The stolen property was sold to receivers Manish and Vijay Kumar at a cheaper price. For instance, if the market price of the material was Rs. 1,000, the gang used to dispose it at Rs. 400 or Rs. 500, which was later sold at prevailing market price by the receivers, Mr. Sajjanar said. Police also found that the accused gang members were involved in similar offences in Delhi, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. After receiving similar complaints from different police station, a special team under the supervision of Shamshabad DCP N Prakash Reddy, Traffic DCP Vijay Kumar SM and Balanagar DCP PV Padmaja, were formed to nab the dacoity gang members who were also attacking the security guards and others in case resist. The Commissioner advised the employers to verify the antecedents of the workers before hiring them and deploy sufficient security personnel on the premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nine-members-of-a-dacoity-gang-among-eleven-arrested/article33572897.ece
14 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Telangana sees 331 more COVID cases||Telangana recorded 331 COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the total to 2,90,640. While 38,192 people were examined, results of 571 were awaited. Three more patients died of the infection. The new cases include 61 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation, 28 from Medchal Malkajgiri, 25 from Karimnagar and 21 from Rangareddy. No case was recorded in Jogulamba Gadwal, and one case each was detected in Narayanpet and Nirmal districts. Of the total 38,192 persons who underwent testing for the novel coronavirus, 34,413 opted for government laboratories while the remaining 3,779 chose to get examined at private facilities, 73.5 lakh tests so far In the March 2 to January 12 period, a total of 73,50,644 samples have been tested and 2,90,640 have tested positive for the novel coronavirus. Of the total cases, 4,458 are active with 2,84,611 having recovered and 1,571 succumbing to the virus as of data available till January 12.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/telangana-sees-331-more-covid-cases/article33572856.ece
14 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘RTA not cooperating’||The Cyberabad traffic police have alleged the Regional Transport Authority (RTA) of not cooperating with them in suspension or cancellation of driving licences of tippler drivers. Speaking to The Hindu , Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Vijay Kumar S.M. said that last year, they caught over 9,000 people for driving under the influence of alcohol and around 3,000 were disposed of in the court. “When we wrote to the RTA officials to cancel or suspend the driving licences of those people, they neither responded nor took action against those drivers,” he said. He said that if any person is caught drunk driving for the first time, a penalty of Rs. 10,000 would be imposed on violators or an imprisonment of six months. And for the second or subsequent offence, a penalty of Rs. 15,000 and or an imprisonment of up to two years. Their driving licences will be seized and forwarded to the RTA for suspension as per the Motor Vehicles Act 1988, but the concerned officials were not responding. Refuting the allegations, Joint Transport Commissioner C. Ramesh said that as and when they get communication from the police to suspend or cancel the licences, they do it accordingly. “We are regularly revoking driving licences. The number is very high, we need some time,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rta-not-cooperating/article33572873.ece
14 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Burglar nabbed, gold worth Rs. 12 L seized||A ‘habitual’ house burglar was arrested here on Wednesday, and 23 tolas of diamond studded gold ornaments worth Rs. 12 lakh were recovered from his possession. Acting on a tip-off, the sleuths of Commissioner’s Task Force (east zone) apprehended the accused, Shaik Abdul Jaffar (50) alias Ahmed, an auto driver from Tolichowki, who was involved in 66 offences between 2006 and 2019. He was recently involved in two house burglary cases and a two-wheeler theft. The vehicle was also recovered. Shifted base to AP After getting caught in all 66 cases by the Telangana police, Ahmed shifted his base to Andhra Pradesh and committed offences in Guntur and Kurnool districts, police said. The accused along with the seized property was handed over to Golconda police for further investigation. Another burglar held In another case, the Task Force sleuths of south zone arrested a burglar and recovered 20 tolas of gold ornaments and an autorickshaw worth Rs. 10.5 lakh, apart from Rs. 3,000 in cash. With the arrest of Habeeb Azmat, 28, from Kishanbagh, police detected three house burglary cases. His fugitive associate Shaik Sharooq, 24, an auto rickshaw driver from Chaderghat, was involved in more than 30 house break offences. Hyderabad Commissioner of Police Anjani Kumar said that the accused committed the offences in the wee hours and targeted the houses of a particular community when the inmates went for prayers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/burglar-nabbed-gold-worth-rs-12-l-seized/article33572875.ece
14 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||TSPCB inspects COVID waste burning sites||Following the report ‘Toxic COVID waste burnt, mixed with trash’ published in these columns on January 8, the Telangana State Pollution Control Board (TSPCB) carried out inspection of the sites and issued notices to Area Hospital, Golconda and Malakpet for non-compliance of the Bio-Medical Waste Management (BMWM) Rules 2016. “The Board officials inspected Area Hospital, Golconda on 08.01.2020 and observed that the Area Hospital-Golconda is disposing the Bio-Medical Waste to M/s. Roma Industries, Common Bio-Medical Waste Treatment Facility (CBMWTF). It was also noticed that general waste was being burnt in the premises and some PPE kits were mixed with general waste,” said TSPCB in a note about action taken. Compliance of rules The Board officers are monitoring the HCFS & CBMWTFs for compliance of BMWM Rules, says the note. The officials also inspected PHC-Malakpet and observed that PHC bio-medical waste is disposed to M/s Sattva Global Services, a CBMWTF and no COVID waste burning was observed in the premises. During the inspection, it was instructed to collect the bio-medical waste separately and to hand it over to CBMWTF along with PHC waste. The TSPCB also issued letters with guidelines addressed to DM&HO and stakeholder to ensure for timely entering/renewal of agreement by all the government HCFS viz. Area Hospitals, PHCS, UPHCs, Diagnostic Centres, COVID Testing Centres with CBMWTFs and to hand over the biomedical waste and COVID waste on a daily basis duly following segregation procedure with colour coding to CBMWTFs. “It was also intimated for collection of bio-medical waste from COVID testing centres to concerned PHCs/UPHCs/Basti Dawaakhanas, following guidelines issued by CPCB and to hand over the same to CBMWTFs along with other bio-medical waste,” according to the State Pollution Control Board note.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tspcb-inspects-covid-waste-burning-sites-issues-notice-to-hospital/article33572878.ece
14 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Health department receives 20,000 doses of Covaxin||Along with 3.64 lakh doses of Covishield, manufactured by Serum Institute of India, the Telangana Health department has received 20,000 doses of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin. Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao said beneficiaries of Covaxin will be asked to sign a consent form. It will not be asked of those who will receive Covishield vaccine. Health department officials have started to transport the vaccine doses from the State Vaccine Centre in Hyderabad to other districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/health-department-receives-20000-doses-of-covaxin/article33572859.ece
14 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||A royal letter for the Nizam on Sankranti||It was 138 years ago on Til Sankrat, a once popular nomenclature of Sankranti, that Maharaja Tukojirao Holkar II, of the Holkar dynasty of Indore, sent a letter to the sixth Nizam Mir Mahbub Ali Khan, conveying warm greetings. The letter, resplendent with gold inlays and in exquisite Persian, was accompanied by a bag each of kanjad-e-shireen and samsam-e-shakreen as a symbol of reaffirmation of the love and friendship between the two princely states and its people. The letter, now in safe custody of Telangana State Archives and Research Institute, according to its director Zareena Parveen, is dated January 15, 1883. “ Kanjad-e-shireen and samsam-e-shakreen are bags of sweet sesame seeds and jaggery. It was tradition. Interestingly, the Maharaja wrote Til Sankrat, or the festival of Sankranti, is like S hab-e- B araat which is observed by Muslim community,” she says. The Maharaja’s letter wishes the Nizam well, and hopes that the mutual love and respect increases manifold on Sankranti, which he writes, is a festive occasion. In turn, the Nizam signed a draft of a letter from Rahat Mahal in Purani Haveli complex, which was later finalised and despatched to the Maharaja stating the letter of love and friendship, the bags, and other gifts were received. He then proceeded to describe Sankranti as a festival of colours and scents, which is celebrated with joy, and the coming of spring. According to Sajjad Shahid, a chronicler of Hyderabad and its heritage, the equivalence between Sankranti and Shab-e-Baraat drawn in the Maharaja’s letter is interesting and reflects the Deccan’s composite culture. “Since the Qutb Shahi era, Sankranti and Shab-e-Barat were important. In fact, there used to be fireworks on Shab-e-Barat, as recorded in Mohammed Quli Qutb Shah’s poems in Kulliyat-e-Mohammed Quli Qutb Shah. And, of course, Sankranti or Til Sankrat, was a very important festival here. In folklore of the Deccan, it is called Til Sankrat because, it from this day that the temperature increases by a til (sesame seed) a day, meaning little by little,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sankranti-greetings-for-the-nizam-from-indore/article33572866.ece
14 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Webinar on UN 2030 agenda for sustainable development||A webinar on “Sustainable Technologies in Civil Engineering: Perspectives and Strategies (STEPS-2020)” on the occasion of United Nations 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development with 17 goals was organised by the Department of Civil Engineering, Centre for Sustainable Technologies for Eco-Social Resilience to Global Climate Change (CST-ERG) and Centre for Water Resources Engineering and Management (CREAM) of Gokaraju Rangaraju Institute of Engineering and Technology (GRIET). Director of Water Resources Centre, Texas Tech University, USA, Dr. Venkatesh Uddameri delivered the keynote address on “Action Plans and Implementation Strategies to meet sustainable development Goal 6 of United Nations on Sustainable Water and Sanitation”. Former Director, ICRISAT Development Centre, Dr. Suhas P. Wani spoke on Action Plans and Implementation Strategies to meet sustainable development Goal 2 of United Nations on Zero Hunger, Goal 13 on Climate Action, Goal 14 on life below water and Goal 15 on life on land.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/webinar-on-un-2030-agenda-for-sustainable-development/article33572877.ece
14 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Lathicharge: BJP wants action against police||Bharatiya Janata Party TS president Bandi Sanjay Kumar has demanded that the government take action against the police officers responsible for lathicharge against party men at Jangoan within 24 hours. Otherwise, the government would have to face the party’s wrath on Wednesday. Addressing a gathering at Karimnagar after meeting party men who were at the receiving end of the police lathicharge the day before, Mr. Sanjay Kumar charged the TRS government with targetting BJP men and foisting false cases on them. But, the party would not be deterred in taking up the issues affecting people and would continue their protests, he maintained. The Karimnagar MP accused certain sections of the police of acting tough against party workers under the direct orders of the Chief Minister. The police action came when the party men were protesting to highlight the problems of the government teachers and employees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/lathicharge-bjp-wants-action-against-police/article33572885.ece
14 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Certification programme in Deep Learning||The Indian Institute of Science (IISc) and TalentSprint have launched a PG level Advanced Certification Programme in Deep Learning. The 10-month executive programme will be taught by a team of inter-disciplinary faculty from IISc and TalentSprint through live and interactive online classes. It is best suited for aspiring and practising AI and ML professionals who want to build expertise in Deep Learning and master applications in speech, text, image and video, including hardware optimisation. Details can be had on ‘https://iisc.talentsprint.com/deeplearning’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/certification-programme-in-deep-learning/article33572876.ece
14 January 2021||KHAMMAM/SURYAPET,TELANGANA||Farm laws’ copies put in Bhogi fire||In a novel protest against the Centre’s new farm laws, activists of the CPI(M) burnt the copies of the new pieces of legislation relating to agriculture in the “Bhogi” bonfire here on Wednesday. The local cadre of the CPI(M) and its frontal organisations staged the novel demonstration near the Sundaraiahnagar Park in a symbolic protest against the new farm laws. The demonstrators shouted slogans against the three farm Acts terming them “anti-farmer” and “pro-corporate.” The party State committee members Y Srikanth and M Bharathi, among others took part in the demonstration. Meanwhile, the CPI (M) district committee has called upon all sections of people to actively participate in the massive human chain scheduled to be organised by the Rythu Sangheebhava Samithi against the farm laws in the town on January 17. In a statement, party district secretary N Nageswara Rao demanded that the Telangana Rashtra Samithi government pass a resolution against the Centre's new laws related to agriculture in the State Assembly on the lines of the resolution adopted by the Kerala Assembly against the three farm laws. At Suryapet, as part of protests against Centre’s three farm laws, Communist Party of India (Marxist) on Wednesday took to burning copies of the legislation in Bhogi bonfire. Communist Party of India CPI(M) cadre and its affiliate trade and student wings earlier in such protests had burnt SIM cards of Reliance Group and discarded cooking oils of Adani Wilmar Limited to say that the three laws were only to favour a few corporates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/farm-laws-copies-put-in-bhogi-fire/article33573110.ece
14 January 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||All set for COVID-19 vaccination drive||District Collector Prashant Jeevan Patil on Wednesday said that all arrangements for COVID-19 vaccination drive, scheduled to begin from Saturday, are in place. Nalgonda district will have three centres – District General Hospital in Nalgonda town, Jyothi Hospitals in Miryalaguda and Kamineni Hospitals at Narketpally. Within the three centres, Nalgonda and Narketpally centres will be equipped with two stations each while Miryalaguda will have one. Officials said vaccination on the first day will target about 2,400 frontline staff from the healthcare sector - who include doctors, nurses, anganwadi teachers and ASHA workers. And starting January 18, vaccinations will be conducted at 47 primary health centres to administer vaccines to 100 frontline staff, both from private and government, each day. A total of 11,037 healthcare staff will be vaccinated on a priority basis, followed by municipal and sanitation, police personnel and others. DM&HO A. Kondal Rao said that vaccine boxes as per protocol have reached the district vaccine store in the headquarters in the evening. They will be dispatched to the 41 cold chain points as per requirement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/all-set-for-covid-19-vaccination-drive/article33573111.ece
14 January 2021||ONGOLE,TELANGANA||Godha Kalyanam performed||‘Godha Kalyanam’ was performed with religious fervour here on Wednesday, bringing down the curtains on the month-long austerities during Dhanurmasam. Vedic pandits performed the elaborate rituals to mark the celestial marriage of Andal with Lord Ranganatha in front of the Ananta Kodandarama Swamy temple, near the Court Centre here. Devotees recited Andal’s Thirupavai Pasuram sung by Godha Devi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/godha-kalyanam-performed/article33573041.ece
14 January 2021||sangareddy,TELANGANA||320 kg ganja seized||Officials of the Prohibition and Excise conducted a vehicle check at Kankol toll plaza on Wednesday and seized a huge quantity of ganja and arrested five persons. According to K.A.B. Sastry, Deputy Commissioner of Prohibition and Excise, the officials led by D. Gayatri, Assistant Commissioner, held vehicle check and seized 320 kilograms of ganja from two vehicles. They seized two vehicles and five cell phones. The arrested were P. Ganesh, B. Srikanth, Md Frioz Khan, P Naidu and M Suribabu. It was estimated that the cost of ganja would be around Rs. 50 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/320-kg-ganja-seized/article33573109.ece
14 January 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Mobile Bio-Diversity Festival from today||The 21st Mobile Bio-Diversity Festival by the Deccan Development Society (DDS) will be commenced at Shamshallapur from Thursday, January 14, and conclude on February 15 at Machanoor. DDS Director P.V. Satheesh said that Bio-Diversity bullock carts decorated with millet boxes and flowers would visit the selected villages and create awareness on bio-diversity. Collector M. Hanumantha Rao, Dr P Chandrasekhar, NIMSME Director General M Glori Swaroopa will participate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mobile-bio-diversity-festival-from-today/article33573108.ece
14 January 2021||ZAHEERABAD (SANGAREDDY DISTRICT),TELANGANA||ZPL commences on a grand note||In a move to encourage local cricket talent, Zaheerabad Premier League (ZPL) competitions commenced here on Wednesday. As many as 50 teams will participate in the league. This is the fifth season of ZPL in the town, which will be on till January 24 at Baga Reddy Sports Stadium in the revenue divisional headquarters. Arrangements have been on for the smooth conduct of ZPL for the past one month. In the past, ‘franchises’ used to pay huge amounts to players. However, as it was hindering remuneration to others, they have decided to pay players based on the performance in A, B and C categories with the amount ranging from Rs. 2,000, Rs. 1,500 and Rs. 1,000 respectively to each player. The winners will be offered an amount of Rs. 40,000 -- followed by Rs. 25,000 to runners-up, and Rs. 5,000 each to third and fourth ranking teams. “In a team, while six will be local players, five will be from other places like Karnataka, Maharashtra and Hyderabad. Traders and others are buying players in auction,” said Md. Nayeem, organiser of the event. “We are getting a chance to participate in the grand event and are being paid for participating in the competitions. This has been taking place on the lines of the IPL -- and we are happy,” said Naveen, one of the players.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/zpl-commences-on-a-grand-note/article33573113.ece
14 January 2021||January 14 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Sanitation workers among the first to get vaccination||Sanitation workers will be among first beneficiaries of COVID-19 vaccination programme set to be launched at 9 a.m. of January 16. Along with nurses, doctors and patient-care providers, sanitation staff too have been in the frontline of COVID-19 management from March 2020, when the pandemic broke out in the State. At the time when people shied away from coming close to patients with COVID-19, sanitation workers were involved in cleaning and sweeping hospital wards where the patients were admitted. Some of them were meted with harsh treatment because of the work they were involved in. Chased from home At least nine women who worked in sanitation wing of Gandhi Hospital were forced to stay on the hospital premises during lockdown as their neighbours in Chengicherla village, Medchal, chased them away from homes. They were asked to choose to either quit work or stay away from home. The sanitation workers chose to report for duty as they were the sole earning members of family. The women stayed at a shelter home on the hospital’s premises. Healthcare workers are given the first priority when the COVID-19 vaccination programme will be launched. The Director of Public Health, Dr. G Srinivasa Rao, said that sanitation workers would be among the first beneficiaries to get vaccinated. At govt. hospitals There is change of the plans about the places where the vaccination will be rolled out from Saturday. Earlier, the programme was scheduled to be rolled out in around 40 private hospitals too. However, officials of the Health department said that the programme would be carried out only at government health centres for a few days. Gradually, in a week or two, it would be rolled out in private hospitals too. Whenever it was launched at private health centres, Health department staff would administer the vaccine doses. All empty vials of the vaccines have to be returned. If doses are remaining after opening a vial, it would to be discarded. The information about empty vials, discarded doses, has to be uploaded into Co-WIN. Officials have prepared a list of the vaccine session sites, the number of beneficiaries, and the number of vials and doses, as per district on the day of the launch. The beneficiaries might start receiving messages about the vaccine session site, time of vaccination and other details through SMS from Thursday. Dr Srinivasa Rao said if anyone missed the vaccine on the date they were supposed to, a mop-up round would be conducted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sanitation-workers-among-the-first-to-get-vaccination/article33572884.ece
14 January 2021||January 14 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||A bittersweet tech story||The Telugu feature film Mail , now streaming on Aha, is another reminder that there is no dearth of close-to-reality stories. Director Uday Gurrala ushers us into Kambalapally village in Mahabubabad district, Telangana, and captures people as they are, slowly unravelling their day-to-day lives and aspirations. Yet again, we have Venkatesh Maha (of Care of Kancharapalem ) and Malayalam cinema to thank for encouraging more Telugu filmmakers to narrate stories that reflect region-specific ethos. After the recent Middle Class Melodies , this is another film that tries to keep things realistic and endearing. It looks like a simple story but has enough scope to show how people can use anything new as a tool of power to enforce a social hierarchy, or worse, take the gullible for a ride. In the late 90s, the clunky personal computer and printer were prized possessions. Computer labs in schools and colleges were sanitised spaces — footwear at the door, and the PC was handled with trepidation and reverence. Internet penetration in rural pockets took time. Uday incorporates these nuances into this story set in Kambalapally in the mid 2000s. Ravi Kumar (Harshith Malgireddy) eyes the monitor, keyboard, CPU and the UPS with awe when he goes to check his high school board examination results. Back then, those who knew to operate the PC considered themselves higher than those who don’t. The first half hour establishes the aspirational value of a computer course for a rural 18-year-old. For other folks, like Ravi’s father who toils in the fields, the computer is mysterious and unaffordable. Ravi is wide-eyed in admiration when Hybath (Priyadarshi) opens a cyber gaming centre. Kamran’s background music equates Ravi’s yearning for the PC to a romance. A little later, Ravi falls in love with Roja (Gouri Priya), a fellow student. Had there been a contest between the computer and Gouri to win Ravi’s attention, it might have been a tough call! The process of Ravi learning to use a computer, from Hybath, follows a wicked gurukul pattern. Ravi borrows money to buy liquor for Hybath and in turn, uses the PC. Harshith is a delight to watch as the innocent and enthusiastic teen; Gouri as Roja and Mani as the friend Subbu perfectly fit into the film’s world. Priyadarshi is effective as the smug Hybath and this is another credible addition to his repertoire. Once the admiration for the computer and social dynamics are established, nothing much happens for some time. The languorous storytelling is deliberate. Out of the blue, things take a turn when Ravi gets an email in his inbox. The rest of the story explores what happens when a gullible tech novice believes what he sees in his inbox. A few other characters who until then have been on the fringes, gain prominence. Had this been a Malayalam film or an Anurag Kashyap film, things would have taken a dark turn. Sweekar Agasthi, who has emerged as the go-to composer for those who want to narrate rooted stories, delivers again. Uday also handles the cinematography along with Shyam Dupati and presents Mail in a documentary fashion, where the rustic beauty of the region is captured without indulgence.  (For the longer review, check www.thehindu.com )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/a-bittersweet-tech-story/article33572869.ece
14 January 2021||new delhi,||NDMC budget proposes no new taxes in 2021-22||Smart roads, more dedicated toilets for third gender, public e-charging stations, drinking water fountains, a 50-bed hospital, bagless classrooms, and no imposing any new tax for the next financial year, are among the plans listed by the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) in its annual budget announced on Wednesday. Civic body chairman Dharmendra presented a budget with a moderate surplus of Rs. 136.18 crore in the current financial year and Rs. 172.47 crore for financial year 2021-22 reflecting its commitment to a well governed and financially sustainable municipality. ‘Internal governance’ “NDMC has not proposed any new tax for the next financial year in spite of a number of reliefs granted this year... projects for the next financial year focus on uninterrupted power supply, other civic services and strengthening internal governance,” he said in his budget speech. “The New Delhi Municipal Council budget is focused on uninterrupted, smart, and caring public service delivery,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ndmc-budget-proposes-no-new-taxes-in-2021-22/article33572750.ece
14 January 2021||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan gets its first vaccine consignment||The first consignment of COVID-19 vaccines for Rajasthan arrived here on Wednesday, three days ahead of the nationwide vaccination drive on January 16. The first batch, comprising 20,000 doses manufactured by Bharat Biotech, landed in a flight from Hyderabad at Sanganer airport here. Packed in three boxes, the vaccines were transported to the State-level storage centre in Sethi Colony of the State Capital under police protection. Health Department officials received the consignment with the beating of drums. Chief Medical & Health Officer (Jaipur-I) Narottam Sharma said the vaccines would be stored at regular refrigerated temperature ranging between 2 degree and 8 degree Celsius before their use on the first day of vaccination campaign. Another consignment of 4.43 lakh doses of Covishield vaccine, manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII), was likely to reach here late in the evening. The vials of Bharat Biotech, each of which contains 20 doses, were stated to be bigger than those of SII. 4.50 lakh to be covered Principal Secretary (Medical & Health) Siddharth Mahajan visited the model vaccination centre at Sawai Man Singh Government Hospital here and saw the arrangements. About 4.50 lakh healthcare and frontline workers across the State will be administered the vaccine in the first phase of the drive. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said after the arrival of vaccines, the State government would ensure a smooth process of vaccination and show a “model like the COVID-19 management”. “We have reasons to be optimistic in Rajasthan with low infection and lowest mortality rates,” Mr. Gehlot tweeted, while asking people to keep following the health protocols and taking precautions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/rajasthan-gets-its-first-vaccine-consignment/article33572762.ece
14 January 2021||Mumbai,||NIA court allows five books a month to Sudha Bharadwaj||The special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court has allowed Sudha Bharadwaj, accused in the Bhima-Koregaon violence case, access to five books a month from outside the Byculla district prison. Special judge D.E. Kothalikar directed the Superintendent of the prison to grant the access to Ms. Bharadwaj, trade unionist and human rights lawyer. The court said, “The Superintendent shall carefully examine the books and if they contain objectionable material, which preaches violence, vulgar, obscene, pornographic or the material propagating the banned organisation namely Revolutionary Democratic Front or CPI (Maoist), in that case he shall not allow the applicant [Ms. Bharadwaj] to accept such books.” On November 11, a clerk from the office of Ms. Bharadwaj’s lawyer had gone to the prison to deliver a parcel consisting of two kurtas and one book. The jail authorities, however, accepted the parcel but removed the book —The Empire of Cottonby Sten Backert. On December 30 last year, lawyers representing Ms. Bharadwaj, along with co-accused in the case Hany Babu and Gautam Navlakha, lodged at the Taloja Central Jail moved the special NIA court seeking access to books and newspapers in prison. Mr. Navlakha sought two books —The World Of Jeeves and Woosterby P.G. Wodehouse andAgainst the Grain: A Deep History of the Earliest Statesby James C. Scott. Meanwhile, Mr. Babu wanted to read three books namelyA Man Called Oveby Fredrick Backman,Sea of Poppiesby Amitava Ghosh andLast Train to Istanbulby Ayse Kulin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/nia-court-allows-five-books-a-month-to-sudha-bharadwaj/article33572764.ece
14 January 2021||Mumbai,||Congress bolsters social media cell||The Maharashtra unit of the Congress on Wednesday strengthened its social media cell by expanding its State committee. The 428-member new committee comprises 48 district presidents, 252 Assembly presidents, 118 State executive committee members, and 10 State core committee members. The move is in continuation of the party’s efforts to revamp the organisational structure in the State and boost efforts to counter the agenda of the Bharatiya Janata Party. Abhijit Sapkal, president of the party’s State social media department, said, “The social media team has been working to reach out to citizens and apprise them of the party’s stand on issues. This mega committee will be more effective in fulfilling this task.” He said the members were inducted based on their active social media presence, organisational skills, and responsible use of technology. Ashish Dua, All India Congress Committee secretary, said the mega committee was formed to ensure the “confluence of old and new members and their ideas”. Mr. Dua said the Congress believes the induction of more people in committees will not only expand its reach but also acknowledge the tireless efforts of party workers. As part of the revamp, Sandhya Sawalakhe from Yavatmal district was appointed the State Women Congress Committee president in place of Charulata Tokas. Ms. Sawalakhe, an OBC face from Vidarbha, has been Zilla Parishad president and secretary at the All India Committee of the party’s women’s wing. Meanwhile, the Central leadership has completed its process of seeking feedback from State leaders on who should be appointed the new chief of the party’s State unit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/congress-bolsters-social-media-cell/article33572972.ece
14 January 2021||Mumbai,||Education boards get BMC nod to hold exams||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has allowed State, national and international educational boards to hold exams physically in Mumbai by following COVID-19 guidelines. Last month, citing fear of a second wave, the BMC deferred the reopening of schools and colleges till January 15. However, it has now decided to permit the boards to conduct examinations. Not doing so could result in the loss of a year for students, the BMC said in its order issued on Tuesday night. The boards have been allowed to conduct exams from January 18, a BMC official said on Wednesday. The order stated that members of International Schools Association (Cambridge board) can conduct preliminary or pre-planned examinations of Classes IXto XII. Other boards like SSC, HSC (Maharashtra board), CBSE, IB, CISCE and IGCSE can conduct exams of Classes X and XII as per their planned time table, the BMC said. “They should follow all the precautionary, health, cleanliness and security guidelines for the COVID-19 pandemic,” the order said. According to the BMC, in the Mumbai municipal limits, some subjects of the Cambridge board schools for Classes IX to XII are of February-March session and their examinations are starting on January 23. The BMC last month allowed city-based schools of the U.S. and other consulates to reopen from January 18, but has not specified when exactly the other educational institutions can reopen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/education-boards-get-bmc-nod-to-hold-exams/article33572759.ece
14 January 2021||Mumbai,||CMO creates stir, refers to Osmanabad as Dharashiv||The official Twitter handle of the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) again stirred controversy on Wednesday by referring to Osmanabad as Dharashiv while posting about the decisions taken at a State Cabinet meeting. The CMO tweeted a photo with the caption: “Dharashiv-Osmanabad will have a new government medical college with a capacity of 100 students and an adjoining 430-bed hospital.” Congress leader Amit Deshmukh heads the Medical Education Department. The tweet is being seen as Uddhav Thackeray’s signal to his allies that the renaming of cities is still on the government’s agenda. The Shiv Sena has been demanding the renaming of Aurangabad as Sambhajinagar and Osmanabad as Dharashiv.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/cmo-creates-stir-refers-to-osmanabad-as-dharashiv/article33572760.ece
14 January 2021||Mumbai,||Accused in drug case gets bail||A court here on Wednesday granted bail to Ramkumar Tiwari, one of the owners of Muchhad Paanwala shop, who was arrested in connection with a drug case. Mr. Tiwari was granted bail by the court of a metropolitan magistrate on a cash bond of Rs. 15,000. Mr. Tiwari was questionned for several hours by the Narcotics Control Bureau on January 11 after his name cropped up during the investigation into a drugs case in which three people, including a British national, were arrested with drugs from Khar and Bandra on January 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/accused-in-drug-case-gets-bail/article33572757.ece
14 January 2021||Mumbai,||Consider Rao’s age, health: HC to NIA||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday said the National Investigation Agency and the State government should consider the age and health condition of poet-activist Varavara Rao, arrested in the Elgaar Parishad, while making submissions on his bail plea. A Division Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and Manish Pitale posted Mr. Rao’s plea on medical grounds for hearing on Thursday. Mr. Rao was last month admitted to Nanavati Hospital following the court’s intervention while hearing a petition filed by his wife, raising concerns over his health. Since then, the hospital has been submitting periodical reports on his health condition to the HC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/consider-raos-age-health-hc-to-nia/article33572758.ece
14 January 2021||Nagpur,||Bhandara fire: victims’ kin to get Rs. 2 lakh each||Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Wednesday announced an aid of Rs. 2 lakh each to the families of 10 infants who died in a fire at Bhandara district general hospital on January 9. Mr. Koshyari said the fire incident was hurtful during a visit to the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bhandara-fire-victims-kin-to-get-rs-2-lakh-each/article33572756.ece
14 January 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Navi Mumbai witnessed 60% dip in narcotics cases in 2020||Navi Mumbai saw a dip in narcotics cases by 60% in 2020. While 153 cases were registered in 2019, the figure came down to 61 in 2020. The number of people arrested in 2019 were 249 from whom Rs. 3.01 crore worth of drugs were seized, while in 2020, a total of 86 people were arrested from whom drugs valued at Rs. 92.55 lakh were confiscated. Anti-Narcotics Cell (ANC) officials said due to the pandemic, schools, colleges and pubs remained shut, and hence demand was low. “With restrictions on movement and transportation means closed, supply of drugs was affected, leading to a decline in the number of cases and seizures in 2020,” senior police inspector Ravindra Budhwant, ANC, said. Consumers of drugs included labourers, drivers and students, he said. Seizures made last year included 260 kg of ganja worth Rs. 39 lakh, and 2.309 kg of afeem valued at Rs. 23.11 lakh. Among the seizures in 2019 were 240 kg of ganja worth Rs. 71 lakh, 6.15 kg of charas valued at Rs. 31 lakh, and 3.7 kg of amphetamine powder worth Rs. 1.05 crore. The ANC made this year’s first arrest in the city on January 11 when a Nigerian national identified as Ogoda Immanuel Uchechukvu (26) was nabbed from Koparkhairane. The police confiscated 19.66 gram of amphetamine powder worth Rs. 18,300 and 57 tablets of MDMA drugs worth Rs. 1.42 lakh from him. The ANC was set up in Navi Mumbai in June 2016 by then police commissioner Prabhat Ranjan. In 2015, a total of 17 cases were registered with various police stations and 22 people were arrested. As many as 77 cases were registered in 2016, in which 142 people were arrested for peddling drugs worth Rs. 7.38 lakh. In 2017, a total of 54 cases were registered, 74 people were arrested, and drugs worth Rs. 13.23 lakh were seized. Only 44 cases were registered and 80 people were arrested in 2018, making them the lowest and the fewest figures since the ANC was formed, while drugs worth Rs. 1.57 crore were confiscated. The lowest seizure of drugs, as per their monetary value, was in 2020.  With restrictions on movement, supply of drugs was affected leading to a decline in number of cases and seizures Ravindra Budhwant Senior police inspector, Anti-Narcotics Cell||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/navi-mumbai-witnessed-60-dip-in-narcotics-cases-in-2020/article33572761.ece
14 January 2021||New Delhi,||COVID-19 vaccine: names of defence health workers will not be shared||The Delhi government on Wednesday reduced the number of COVID-19 vaccination sites in the city from 89 to 75, as per Central government directions, an official said. The number of days immunisation will happen in a week at a vaccination site has also been reduced from six to four following the Centre’s orders. “On Wednesday, the Centre gave multiple directions which indicated to go a little slow on the vaccination drive,” another official said. The immunisation drive is set to begin from Saturday. Meanwhile, 20,000 doses of Covaxin reached Delhi’s central vaccine cold storage facility at the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital (RGSSH) on Wednesday afternoon, said hospital spokesperson Chhavi Gupta. On Tuesday, Delhi had received its first consignment of Covishield, 2.64 lakh doses, which were also stored at the RGSSH, as per the hospital. On Wednesday evening, the doses were moved from RGSSH to several district vaccine stores, multiple officials said. The Delhi government, however, did not officially comment on the move. Exception for Army Exceptions will be given to healthcare workers of the armed forces and vaccine doses will be handed over to the armed forces without taking names of beneficiaries, according to a document seen by The Hindu . A presentation made to the Delhi government by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Wednesday read: “The vaccines for the armed forces is to be handed over at the district level to their designated officer. No line listing of the beneficiaries may be asked and no registration on Co-WIN is required.” “Basically, from the district vaccine stores, the vaccine doses will be given to the armed forces for vaccinating their healthcare workers. The names will not be shared with the city government for security reasons. Only the total number of healthcare workers will be shared,” a Delhi government official said. “Only the number of healthcare worker vaccinated by the armed forces will be conveyed to the District Immunization Officer,” the document read. The document added that the Delhi government should give syringes along with the vaccines to the armed forces and support them for storage and any adverse event following immunisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/vaccination-sites-cut-from-89-to-75-jabs-to-be-given-just-4-days-a-week/article33572746.ece
14 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Civic bodies ban sale, storage of poultry||The North, South and East Municipal Corporations of Delhi on Wednesday imposed a ban on sale, storage of poultry or processed chicken meat by shops and restaurants with immediate effect. The steps were taken after cases of bird flu were confirmed in the Capital. The South Delhi Municipal Corporation ordered “complete prohibition of keeping live poultry birds, sale and purchase of poultry meat at shops and in restaurants and running processing and packaging units anywhere in the jurisdiction of the civic body from immediate effect”. It added that in view of public health and safety, SDMC has asked people involved in poultry business to follow the prohibitory order properly. “If violated, action will be taken and their Meat Trade License will also be cancelled. Owners of restaurants are being ordered not to serve food containing poultry meat and eggs. Otherwise penal action will be initiated against them as per the law,” the order said. Mayor of East Delhi Nirmal Jain said that the EDMC has increased vigilance in area and that the civic body is conscious about the health of the citizens. The North Delhi Municipal Corporation, in an order, said: “All meat and poultry shops and meat processing units in areas are prohibited to sell, store poultry or processed or packaged chicken meat with immediate effect, till further orders.” Loss to businesses The civic bodies’ decision has left the owners of meat shops and restaurants in the national capital worried as they termed the order “needless” and said it would cause a huge loss to their businesses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/civic-bodies-ban-sale-storage-of-poultry/article33572753.ece
14 January 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi govt. starts 5th sero survey||The Delhi government has started a fifth serological survey to find the percentage of the population that has developed antibodies against COVID-19, an official source told The Hindu . Blood samples of random people will be collected to check how many of them have developed antibodies against the virus. “This is the largest such survey done by the government in terms of sample size and 28,000 samples will be collected. The aim is to get an idea about the situation before citizens get the vaccine,” a Delhi government official said. The Delhi government is yet to make the decision to conduct the survey public. “The sample collection started on Monday and about 9,000 samples have been collected so far. The sample collection is expected to be completed by January 21 and results are likely to be out in the first week of February,” the official said. The first such survey done in the city in June-July had shown that 23.4% people had developed antibodies. A survey in August showed 29.1% people had antibodies, 25.1% in September, and 25.5% in October. The blood samples will be tested using antibody testing kits. A positive result would imply that the person has developed antibodies against the virus. This means that the person was infected at some point by the virus and now has developed immunity against it.  When a larger part of the population develops antibodies and becomes immune to the virus, the chain of transmission of the virus is broken and this reduces the spread of the disease and this is called herd immunity. So, a higher value of sero prevalence is favourable. As per experts, the result of the serological survey has to be about 50-60% to attain herd immunity. 357 new infections Delhi on Wednesday reported 357 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total to 6,31,249. The death toll has risen to 10,718 with 11 more fatalities reported in a single day. There are now 2,991 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/govt-launches-fifth-sero-survey/article33572755.ece
14 January 2021||new delhi,||NDMC budget proposes no new taxes in 2021-22||Smart roads, dedicated toilets for third gender, public e-charging stations, drinking water fountains, sewage treatment plants, setting up of an Integrated Command and Control Centre and not imposing any new tax for the next financial year, are among the plans listed by the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) in its annual budget announced on Wednesday. Civic body chairman Dharmendra presented a budget with a moderate surplus of Rs. 136.18 crore in the current financial year and Rs. 172.47 crore for financial year 2021-22 reflecting its commitment to a well governed and financially sustainable municipality. “NDMC has not proposed any new tax for the next financial year in spite of a number of reliefs granted this year... projects for the next financial year focus on uninterrupted power supply, other civic services and strengthening internal governance,” he said in his budget speech. “The New Delhi Municipal Council budget is focused on uninterrupted, smart, and caring public service delivery,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/ndmc-budget-proposes-no-new-taxes-in-2021-22/article33572970.ece
14 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC takes cognisance of contamination of rivers||The Supreme Court on Wednesday took suo motu cognisance of the contamination of rivers by sewage effluents through lapses committed by municipalities, saying “open surface water resources including rivers are the lifeline of human civilisation”. ‘Right to life’ “Deterioration of quality of fresh water has a direct co-relation with the quality of public health... The right to clean environment, and further, pollution-free water, has been protected under the broad rubric of the right to life,” a three-judge Bench led by Chief Justice Sharad A. Bobde said. The Bench was hearing an urgent petition filed by the Delhi Jal Board (DJB), represented by advocate Shadan Farasat, to “immediately stop” Haryana from discharging pollutants into the Yamuna, which is causing an alarming increase in ammonia levels in the water. The Board said the increased ammonia levels have impaired its water treatment plants and a drinking water crisis looms large in Delhi. “Ammonia and chlorine will cause cancer. We cannot release water to the citizens,” senior advocate Meenakshi Arora, arguing counsel for the DJB, submitted. The petition triggered the court to step in to protect rivers in similar peril as the Yamuna. The court directed the registration of a PIL titled “Remediation of polluted rivers” and issued notice to the Centre, the Ministries of Environment and Housing and Urban Affairs and the Central Pollution Control Board. It also sought response from Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/sc-takes-cognisance-of-contamination-of-rivers/article33572751.ece
14 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Minimum temperature settles at 3.2°C in Delhi||Delhi on Wednesday witnessed a cold wave, with the minimum temperature settling at 3.2 degrees Celsius, which is four degrees colder than normal. The maximum temperature settled at 18.5 degrees Celsius, which was one degree colder than normal. The coldest area in the city was Lodhi Road, which recorded a minimum of 3 degrees Celsius. The sky was partially cloudy during the day. Several parts of the city reported low visibility during the early hours. Dense fog brought visibly down to as low as 50 metres in some parts. In the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave if the minimum temperature dips to 4 degrees Celsius. A severe cold wave is when the minimum is 2 degrees or less. Cold wave conditions are likely to prevail for the next two days. The forecast for January 14 reads “partly cloudy sky with dense to very dense fog in the morning. Cold wave conditions in isolated pockets. The maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to be around 19 and 3 degrees Celsius”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/minimum-temperature-settles-at-32c-in-delhi/article33572752.ece
14 January 2021||new delhi,||Govt. issues health advisory||The Delhi Health Department on Wednesday issued an advisory in view of bird flu cases in the city, asking people not to panic and follow a set of dos and don’ts, including not consuming half-cooked chicken, and half-boiled or half-fried eggs. “Eat only completely cooked eggs and poultry products cooked at 70°C for 30 minutes,” read the advisory, which also recommended cleaning any bowls used for feeding birds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/govt-issues-health-advisory/article33572749.ece
14 January 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi’s AQI to worsen over next few days||The air quality of Delhi and Noida deteriorated to ‘very poor’ category and Gurugram’s to ‘poor’ category, according to CPCB data. The national capital’s air quality is expected to further worsen over the next few days. “The AQI is likely to slip from the middle to the higher end of ‘very poor’ by tomorrow [Thursday]. Extremely low ventilation conditions and lowering of boundary layer height are forecast for Friday,” said SAFAR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/delhis-aqi-to-worsen-over-next-few-days/article33572971.ece
14 January 2021||Washington,||House opens debate to impeach Trump||President Donald Trump is on the verge of being impeached for a second time in an unprecedented House vote on Wednesday, a week after he encouraged a mob of loyalists to “fight like hell” against election results just before they stormed the U.S. Capitol in a deadly siege. Mr. Trump, who would become the only U.S. President twice impeached, faces a single charge of “incitement of insurrection.” The debate was heated almost from the start as the House convened to impeach President Donald Trump. Democrats and a few Republicans say Mr. Trump must be removed immediately after he egged on a violent mob of supporters a week ago who then stormed the Capitol.  Most Republicans are saying impeachment is divisive. Republican Representative Jim Jordan of Ohio is one of Mr. Trump’s most vocal defenders. Mr. Jordan blames Democrats for objecting to previous election results and he’s repeating baseless claims that the 2020 election was rigged. But Democratic Representative Jim McGovern of Massachusetts said Democrats haven’t pushed conspiracy theories that a President won in a landslide when he actually lost — which is what happened to Mr. Trump. Mr. McGovern said, “people died because of the big lies that were being told.” And he said that’s enough to “merit impeachment.” Security was exceptionally tight, beefed up by armed National Guard troops, with secure perimeters set up around the Capitol complex and metal-detector screenings required for lawmakers entering the House chamber. Oath violation While Mr. Trump’s first impeachment in 2019 brought no Republican votes in the House, a small but significant number of leaders and lawmakers are breaking with the party to join Democrats, saying Mr. Trump violated his oath to protect and defend U.S. democracy. The stunning collapse of Mr. Trump’s final days in office, against alarming warnings of more violence ahead by his followers, leaves the nation at an uneasy and unfamiliar juncture before Democrat Joe Biden is inaugurated January 20. The four-page impeachment resolution relies on Mr. Trump’s own incendiary rhetoric and the falsehoods he spread about Biden’s victory, including at a White House rally on the day of the attack on the Capitol, in building its case for high crimes and misdemeanors as per the Constitution. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, a Republican, believes Mr. Trump committed impeachable offenses and considers Democrats’ impeachment drive an opportunity to reduce the divisive, chaotic President’s hold on the GOP, a Republican strategist told The Associated Press on Wednesday. Mr. Trump took no responsibility for the riot, suggesting it was the drive to oust him. “To continue on this path, I think it’s causing tremendous danger to our country, and it’s causing tremendous anger,” Mr. Trump said on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/house-opens-debate-to-impeach-trump/article33572485.ece
14 January 2021||Washington,||Trump is a clear and present danger: Pelosi||President Donald Trump is on the verge of being impeached for a second time in a fast-moving House vote, just a week after he encouraged loyalists to “fight like hell” against election results and then a mob of his supporters stormed the U.S. Capitol. During debate on Wednesday, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi asked Republicans and Democrats to “search their souls” ahead of the historic afternoon vote. Mr. Trump would be the first American president to be impeached twice. “Trump must go,” Ms. Pelosi said. “He is a clear and present danger to the nation we all love.” Senate trial delayed A spokesman for Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said the Republican leader would not agree to bring the chamber back immediately, ensuring a Senate trial could not begin at least until January 19, a day before the inauguration of President-elect Joe Biden. While Mr. Trump’s first impeachment in 2019 brought no Republican votes in the House, several GOP leaders and other lawmakers are breaking with the party to join Democrats this time, saying Mr. Trump violated his oath to protect and defend U.S. democracy. However, most Republicans planned to vote “no,” and Representative Tom McClintock of California said during debate that impeaching Mr. Trump a week before he leaves office is a “petty, vindictive and gratuitous act.” House GOP leader Kevin McCarthy said Mr. Trump ‘bears responsibility’ for attack on Capitol, but says he opposes fast impeachment. U.S. Representative Dan Newhouse, a Republican, on Wednesday said he would vote to impeach Mr. Trump, becoming the sixth Republican to join the effort. As for threats of more trouble from intruders, security was exceptionally tightened at the Capitol with National Guard troops and secure perimeters around the complex. ‘An opportunity’ “We are debating this historic measure at a crime scene,” said Representative Jim McGovern, D-Mass. Though Mr. McConnell is declining to hasten an impeachment trial, a Republican strategist said the GOP leader believes Mr. Trump committed impeachable offenses and considers the Democrats’ impeachment drive an opportunity to reduce the divisive, chaotic president’s hold on the GOP. Mr. McConnell called major Republican donors last weekend to gauge their thinking about Mr. Trump and was told that Mr. Trump had clearly crossed a line. Mr. Mr. McConnell told them he was through with Mr. Trump, said the strategist. Mr. Trump faces a single charge of “incitement of insurrection.” The four-page impeachment resolution relies on Mr. Trump’s own incendiary rhetoric and the falsehoods he spread about Mr. Biden’s election victory in making its case for “high crimes and misdemeanors” as demanded in the Constitution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-is-a-clear-and-present-danger-pelosi/article33572551.ece
14 January 2021||Beirut,||57 killed in deadliest Israeli strikes on Syria in years||Israeli air strikes on east Syria killed 57 regime forces and allied Iran-backed fighters, in the deadliest such strikes since the start of the conflict, a war monitoring group said on Wednesday. The overnight raids against arms depots and military positions killed at least 14 Syrian regime forces, 16 Iraqi militia fighters and 11 Afghan members of the pro-Iran Fatimid Brigade, said the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights. The nationality of the remaining 16 who lost their lives in the 18 strikes was not immediately clear. “This is the largest death toll from Israeli raids in Syria,” Observatory head Rami Abdul Rahman said. The official Syrian news agency SANA said “the Israeli enemy carried out an aerial assault on the town of Deir Ezzor and the Albu Kamal region”, only adding that “the results of the aggression are currently being verified”. An Israeli Army spokesperson declined to comment. Days before the strikes, the Fatimid Brigade transported a consignment of Iranian-manufactured weapons to eastern Syria from neighbouring Iraq, said the Observatory, which is based in the United Kingdom. They were stored in the region targeted overnight, it added. In June 2018, strikes on the same region killed at least 55 pro-government fighters, including Iraqis as well as Syrians, according to the monitoring group, which relies on a network of sources on the ground. The latest raids came hours after separate strikes near the Iraqi border killed at least 12 Iran-backed militia fighters on Tuesday. The Observatory said it could not identify the warplanes responsible for the earlier strikes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/57-killed-in-deadliest-israeli-strikes-on-syria-in-years/article33572478.ece
14 January 2021||Washington,||A strong India would act as ‘counterbalance’ to China: U.S.||With days to go before its end, the Trump administration has declassified a sensitive document on the U.S. strategic framework for the Indo-Pacific’ from 2018. The 10-page document outlines objectives and strategies with regard to China, North Korea, India and other countries in the Indo-Pacific region. Maintaining “U.S. strategic primacy” in the region and promoting a “liberal economic order” while stopping China from establishing “illiberal spheres of influence” is the U.S.’s first national security challenge, as per the document. The other two challenges are ensuring that North Korea does not threaten the U.S. and advancing U.S. economic leadership globally. With regard to India, one of the ‘desired end states’ of the U.S.’s strategy is for the U.S. to be India’s preferred partner on security issues and for the two countries to “cooperate to preserve maritime security andcounter Chinese influence” in South Asia, Southeast Asia and other regions of “mutual concern”. Several sentences in the document — including in sections on India — have been redacted. Border dispute The U.S. aims to help India become a net security provider in the region, solidify a lasting strategic partnership with India “underpinned by a strong Indian military able to effectively collaborate with” the U.S and its regional partners. These objectives it plans to achieve via enhanced defence cooperation and interoperability; working with India “toward domestic economic reform” and greater leadership roles for India in the East Asia Summit and ASEAN Defence Ministers’ Meeting Plus. Consequently, the U.S.’s to-do list has on it offers of support to India via military, diplomatic and intelligence channels “to help address continental challenges such as theborder disputewith China and access to water,including the Brahmaputra and other rivers facing diversion by China.” Last year, India and China were engaged in their deadliest border dispute in decades along the Line of Actual Control, in which 20 Indian soldiers and an unknown number of Chinese soldiers were killed. Just last week U.S. Ambassador to India Kenneth Juster had said that the U.S. cooperated with India to counter China’s “aggressive” actions along the LAC, but did not g this cooperation. Act-East policy The U.S. also seeks to bolster common principles, including the peaceful resolution of disputes and the transparent infrastructure-debt practices (a reference to alternatives to financing by China’s Belt Road Initiative, which has led to untenable debt positions in borrowing countries), as per the strategy. The U.S. aims to supportIndia’s “Act East” policyand “its aspiration to be a leading global power, highlighting its compatibility with the U.S., Japanese and Australian vision” of the Indo-Pacific. “A strong India, in cooperation with like-minded countries, would act as a counterbalance to China,” is one of the underlying assumptions of the strategy, which expects Chinese military, economic and diplomatic influence will continue to increase in the short term. “China aims to dissolve U.S. alliances and partnerships across the region. China will exploit vacuums and opportunities created by these diminished bonds,” the document says. On Russia, it says the country will “remain a marginal player” in the region relative to the U.S., China and India. On North Korea, a stated U.S. objective is to, “Convince the Kim regime that the only path to its survival is to relinquish its nuclear weapons.” The official reason for the early declassification of the document, 20 years ahead of time, was “ to communicate to the American people and to our allies and partners, the enduring commitment of the U.S. to keeping the Indo-Pacific region free and open long into the future,” said national Security Advisor Robert C O’ Brien in a covering note. “Frankly, the early declassification doesn’t tie the Biden administration’s hands,” Ankit Panda, a senior fellow in the Nuclear Policy Program of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, told The Hindu . “I suspect it’s an attempt by some in the outgoing administration to make their mark on policy clear and public, but it’s not a document that speaks to tremendous strategic foresight,” he said. “There’s a considerable bit of dissonance across this document, however, in its professed goal of spreading American and liberal values and the complete lack of any language  on human rights. That again isn’t particularly surprising given how the administration has gone about things,” Mr. Panda wrote in a post analysing the document.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/a-strong-india-would-act-as-counterbalance-to-china-us/article33572477.ece
14 January 2021||Colombo,||Sri Lankan court acquits rebel-turned lawmaker||A Sri Lankan court on Wednesday acquitted a rebel-turned-lawmaker of charges that he was involved in the killing of an ethnic Tamil legislator at the height of the island’s long civil war. Four others were also released. The court in the eastern town of Batticaloa released Sivanesathurai Chandarakanthan, who won a seat while in detention in last August’s parliamentary election, representing a party that backs President Gotabaya Rajapaksa. The Attorney General’s Department told the court earlier this week that it does not intend to continue the case against Chandrakanthan. Chandrakanthan was a former child soldier in the Tamil Tiger rebel group that fought a quarter-century civil war. He later joined a renegade faction that emerged from the biggest split in the rebel group in 2004 and functioned as a paramilitary group supporting government forces. His faction played a key role in the defeat of the Tamil Tigers in the eastern province, a precursor to their total rout in 2009. He then entered politics and became the government-backed Chief Minister of Eastern Province.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lankan-court-acquits-rebel-turned-lawmaker/article33572483.ece
14 January 2021||Washington,||U.S. makes negative COVID-19 test mandatory for all arrivals||The U.S. on Tuesday announced all air travellers entering the country will need a negative COVID-19 test before departure, as concerns grow over more contagious coronavirus variants. The policy takes effect on January 26 and expands an existing measure targeting Britain, where the strain known as B117 has been tied to a drastic spike in cases. Ireland, which now has the world’s highest infection rate, also announced on Tuesday it was extending to all arrivals testing measures that previously applied only to travellers from the U.K. and South Africa. The U.S. remains the worst-affected country, with around 3,80,000 dead.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-makes-negative-covid-19-test-mandatory-for-all-arrivals/article33572486.ece
14 January 2021||COLOMBO,||Sri Lanka reports ‘new virus variant’ from U.K.||Sri Lankan authorities on Wednesday said a visiting British national tested positive for the new strain of COVD-19 reported recently in the United Kingdom. “An individual who arrived from the U.K. was found carrying the new COVID-19 variant that is rapidly spreading in the U.K.,” Chief Epidemiologist Dr. Sudath Samaraweera told local media. Health authorities suspect that the infected person arrived in Sri Lanka within the last two weeks. A team of scientists at the Faculty of Medical Sciences at the University of Sri Jayewardenepura confirmed detection of the new variant of the novel Coronavirus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lanka-reports-new-virus-variant-from-uk/article33572482.ece
14 January 2021||Washington,||Biden names Samantha Power as US aid chief, boosts role||President-elect Joe Biden on Wednesday nominated former Ambassador to the UN Samantha Power, a forceful advocate of humanitarian diplomacy, to lead the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID), and elevated the position’s role. Ms. Power, if confirmed, would sit on the National Security Council along with John Kerry, the former Secretary of State tapped as climate envoy — for the first time giving such prominence to the two issues. “Samantha is a voice of conscience and moral clarity,” Mr. Biden said.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-names-samantha-power-as-us-aid-chief-boosts-role/article33572480.ece
14 January 2021||Lahore,||Pak court sentences Hafiz Saeed’s two close aides to over 15 years in jail in terror financing case||An anti-terrorism court in Pakistan has handed down more than 15 years jail term each to two close aides of Mumbai terror attack mastermind and banned Jamat-ud Dawah (JuD) chief Hafiz Saeed, including the outfit’s media face Yahya Mujahid, in a terror financing case. The anti-terrorism court in Lahore on Tuesday also sentenced Saeed’s brother-in-law Abdul Rehman Makki, in a case registered by the Counter Terrorism Department of Punjab Police, to six-month in jail.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pak-court-sentences-hafiz-saeeds-two-close-aides-to-over-15-years-in-jail-in-terror-financing-case/article33572481.ece
14 January 2021||January 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Farm laws, their constitutional validity, and hope||With the Supreme Court of India staying the operation of the farm laws and setting up a committee of experts to negotiate with the government and the farmers, the agitation being carried on by the farmers is entering a new phase. The farmers’ unions have not reacted favourably to the formation of the experts’ committee. As it happens, the committee does not comprise entirely impartial experts. Most of them are well known and strong defenders of the farm laws, and are critical of the agitation. The situation now For conducting negotiations with both the government and the farmers, the members of the committee ought to and should be known to have an open mind on the core issues, which alone will create a necessary confidence in the parties concerned. The farmers have, however, made it clear that they will not agree to anything less than the repeal of these laws. This would mean that the present agitation is likely to continue indefinitely. It is not yet clear what impact the report of this committee will have on the final decision of the Supreme Court on the question of the constitutional validity of the farm laws. That is the real issue before the Supreme Court. So whatever the experts’ committee recommends, the question of the constitutional validity of the farm laws can be decided only after a proper hearing of the matter before the Court. The most curious thing about a decision on this issue by the Supreme Court is that if the Court upholds the validity of the laws, the agitation will not stop because the farmers’ demand is for the repeal of the laws. But the government of India seems to have taken a maximalist approach, particularly on the question of a repeal of the farm laws. While the repeal of a law is a simple legislative act, having to repeal a law in which the government has invested a lot of its prestige is not so easy especially for a government which is extremely proud of its numerical majority in the Lok Sabha, which has generated a great deal of hubris. On the other hand, the farmers are unyielding on the demand for a repeal. Not in accordance with rules The constitutional validity of the farm laws has been challenged in the Supreme Court mainly on the ground that Parliament has no legislative competence to enact these laws, the subject matter of which is essentially in the State list. But there is a more fundamental reason to challenge these enactments which will be examined now. It is a universally acknowledged fact that the voting on the Farm Bills in the Rajya Sabha was not done in accordance with the rules of the House. These rules require the Chair to order the recording of votes (division) by members even when one member demands it. The Deputy Chairman of the House, who was conducting the proceedings at that time, did not order division although a few members openly and loudly demanded it. It is true that there was disorder in the House but it could have been controlled and a proper voting could have been conducted. Disorder was not taking place for the first time in the House. Thus, there was a violation of the rules of the House in passing the Bills by voice vote when there was a demand for division. Voice vote is unrecognised But the matter goes beyond the violation of the House rules. It involves the violation of the Constitution itself. Article 100 says that all questions at any sitting of either House shall be determined by a majority of votes of the members present and voting. Majority can be determined only in terms of number, and therefore what this Article requires is that all questions in the House should be determined by recording the votes of the members present and voting. Majority cannot be determined through voice vote. In fact the Constitution does not recognise voice vote to determine majority in a legislature. However, deciding a question by voice vote is a practice prevailing in all legislatures. This was devised for the sake of convenience and there is always an assumption that since the government of the day has a majority, any proposal before the House has the support of the majority. But that assumption goes when a member demands voting in the House and the Chair has, then, no option but to order the actual voting. Since this was not done and the Bills were all passed by voice vote, there is a violation of the rules as well as the Constitution. Options before the judiciary It is true that Article 122 of the Constitution protects the proceedings of the House from judicial review. But this protection is available only when the proceedings are challenged on irregularity of procedure. Violation of the Constitution is not a mere irregularity of procedure. The Supreme Court in Raja Ram Pal’s case had clarified that the proceedings can be challenged on substantive grounds like violation of the Constitutional provisions. Therefore, the Farm Bills were passed in the Rajya Sabha in violation of Article 100 of the Constitution and can be challenged in the Supreme Court on that ground. Now what are the options before the Supreme Court if and when such a challenge is made? The Court can strike down the whole laws as the requirement of Article 107 has not been fulfilled. This Article says that a Bill shall not be deemed to have been passed unless it has been agreed to by both Houses. As has been explained above, the Bills have not in fact been passed by the Rajya Sabha because the majority had not been determined in accordance with Article 100. It would mean that the three Bills did not become laws. The Court may also invalidate the proceedings of the Rajya Sabha and send the three ‘Acts’ back to that House for further proceedings in accordance with the constitutional provisions. If this happens, it may provide a good opportunity to the government to revisit these laws. These can then be referred to a Select Committee of the Rajya Sabha which can invite the farmers and all other stakeholders and finally produce better Bills. Such an opportunity is invaluable in the present circumstances when the government is facing virtually a no-win situation. If, on the other hand, the government decides to withdraw the Bills after these are sent back to the Rajya Sabha on the ground that it wants to bring fresh Bills with altered proposals, it will have that option too under the rules of the House. The possibility of these options can be creatively considered for finding a solution to this problem. Centrality of Parliament We may not forget that the issue that needs to be settled by the top court is only the constitutional validity of the laws. In resolving a problem like the agitation by farmers against the laws, the centrality of Parliament in the legislative process in all its dimensions should not be lost sight of. Once the Court decides the legality or constitutionality of a law, the political and legislative aspects of the issue will have to be dealt with only by Parliament. Parliament and its systems alone can produce a satisfactory solution. The only condition is that the government which is accountable to Parliament should genuinely demonstrate its faith in those systems. P.D.T. Achary is a former Secretary General of the Lok Sabha||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/farm-laws-their-constitutional-validity-and-hope/article33572466.ece
14 January 2021||January 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Karnataka’s giant leaps backward||My local bank has a framed picture of M. Visvesvaraya on its wall, a curious throwback to an era of optimistic belief that over time, Mysore, and later the enlarged State of Karnataka, would take its place among the most modernised and industrialised regions of India. Certainly, Visvesvaraya, as Chief Engineer and then Dewan and even in unofficial capacities, hoped that the State would enter into and reorganise nearly all aspects of economic, social and cultural life to make Mysore modern – in the absence of a social class before independence that could lead that transformation. But his portrait in the bank is marked by vibhuti and vermillion markings, a sign of what Indians prefer to do to even the most ardent repudiators of tradition: worship them, rather than walk their path. ‘Industrialise or perish!’ was among his most well-known injunctions, but he left no stone unturned in proposing a developmental regime for everything, from the establishment of Sahitya Parishats and club cultures to social audits of government work — the State in effect compensating for an absent civil society. And he considered ‘tradition’ (naively but unwaveringly) as an ideological drag on the State’s development — almost unbelievable in these times. Policies of inclusion Karnataka was once known for its pioneering policies of inclusion — the Miller Committee Report of 1919 which proposed reservations for Backward Classes (though note, not those then referred to as ‘Panchamas’ and reservations were finally accepted only in May 1921), family planning and rights of women to property in 1934. It was heralded for the bold and creative post-independence measures of Chief Ministers like Devaraj Urs (1972-80), who has been justly acclaimed as among the most important non-communist Chief Ministers, fiercely committed to deepening democracy and social equality. The State has had upper caste Chief Ministers who balanced the two dominant castes as well as non-dominant caste Chief Ministers. All of them added to the State’s commitment to democracy and development in different ways. Whatever their quirks and failures, none of them made an agenda of peddling hate. The State’s splendid economic achievements evolved in ways that are too obvious to bear repetition. Debates on anti-cow slaughter Today we are in precipitous decline, thanks to the current leadership, which insists on taking its cues from the Indo-Gangetic regions of India, instead of looking to more recent peninsular achievements in managing natural disasters, pandemics, or in encouraging educational reform. In rushing through an anti-cow slaughter ordinance without a debate, the present government undoes more than a century of nuanced debate and policy on the matter. For example, Mysore’s Dewan Seshadri Iyer refused those members of the Mysore Legislative Assembly demanding prohibition of cow slaughter not once but four times (in 1884, 1885, 1889, 1890), saying that the custom had been in existence for so long that it was impossible to ban it without the consent of all classes of people. Decades later, M.K. Gandhi took the same stand when the Mysore Cow Protection Committee, an all-Hindu body constituted by the Maharaja to explore the prospect of a legislative ban, asked for his opinion in 1927. He too said that legislative bans were meaningless: Mysore had already led the way in creating a more positive programme. “It has,” he said, “from all accounts received by me, a popular prince, an enlightened public opinion, no Hindu-Mussalman question, and a sympathetic Dewan. Mysore has also the Imperial Institute of Dairying and Animal Husbandry… The state has, therefore, all the materials necessary for evolving a constructive policy ” (emphasis mine). No wonder, as Dewan Mirza Ismail later recounted, “the committee expressed itself unanimously against any restriction in the matter of cow slaughter” unlike other States. “Their opinion,” he said, “was based mainly on economic grounds.” How remarkable that men separated by time and space – Seshadri Iyer, M.K.Gandhi, Mirza Ismail, and Krishnaraja Wodeyar IV – shared a different idea of India, which was economically independent and culturally inclusive. Following the U.P. model The current Karnataka government now flatters Uttar Pradesh’s ‘administrative genius’ by imitation, and proposes to protect ‘its’ women by passing a ‘love jihad’ law. It is as if Karnataka is mesmerised by U.P., which has seen child deaths in hospital, deadly crumbling infrastructure and steadily increasing violence against women. All this is compounded by the illegalities of the State, and its commitment to endangering its minority population. Karnataka’s own men in saffron, the mathadhipatis, who number in the thousands, had for long kept a respectable distance from the hurly burly of representative politics (or had at least refrained from public pronouncements). They have now shown no hesitation in appearing in public to voice their demands, particularly on the heated debate on ‘reservations within reservations’ and on whether their sub-caste deserves more ministerships and administrative headships. Not a day passes without one or another Swamiji threatening padayatras, rallies or other protests on the question of how much more their micro-group deserves. Karnataka thus moves closer to ‘proportional representation’, far from the democratic impulse of the Communal Government Order. The word ‘development’ sends shudders through the spines singled out for such effort, and equally those left out of it. Agrarian communities feared the arrival of ‘development’ in the form of the amendments to the Land Reforms Act of 2020 that permitted non-agriculturalists to buy land. In keeping with the penchant of the national government for ‘bigger and better’ even in the time of financial distress, the Chief Minister has announced a Rs. 500 crore ‘renovation’ of the Anubhava Mantapa at Basava Kalyan (formerly Hyderabad Karnataka), among the least developed regions of the State. The work of Vivesvaraya and a legion of progressive administrators now stands tarnished. Janaki Nair taught history at the Centre for Historical Studies, JNU, New Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/karnatakas-giant-leaps-backward/article33572474.ece
14 January 2021||January 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Mediating the farmers’ protests is difficult terrain||For nearly half a hundred days, the farmers of North India protesting against the recent farm laws have been at the capital’s outskirts, braving the bitter cold, and growing in numbers. They have mostly kept the peace and their dignity, and their communities seem ready to support them for as long as need be. If the authorities had any hopes of the protest petering out by dissonant voices claiming to represent farmers, or labelling them as anti-national and fuelled by pro-Khalistan elements, these do not look like carrying much weight. New Delhi’s mandarins have a first class headache, brought on principally by the way in which they hustled through legislation which affects the lifeline of India’s agrarian sector. Central issue is about trust One thing stands out clearly, and that is the lack of trust the farmers have developed about the designs of the government; the laws, they say, will leave them at the mercy of corporates. Given the imputed closeness of the ruling elite with corporate houses which have ascended to commanding heights of the economy in multiple key sectors, this is not a charge easily to discount. The farmers’ focus is on retention of the MSP, the minimum support price mainly for wheat and rice, and the need to provide a statutory backing for this, in the absence of which a corporate with ready cash will tap into farms in need. And the necessity of continuing with the mandi system which provides the wherewithal for open trade. On its part, the government offers assurances but these fall short of binding legal mandates, in other words asking the farmer to accept on trust that all will be well — and that brings us back to the central problem of lack of trust in the central government. Another thing that stands out clearly is the fact that the Prime Minister and the top leadership have been absent from dialogues with the farmers’ representatives, these being helmed by junior Ministers out of the decision-making range. The earnestness of the government in finding a fair solution would have been well demonstrated if its heads lent a willing ear to those who toil on the ground to keep us well fed. For the essence of a hearing is that it may well open out your mind and give you a better perspective. And it brings comfort and confidence to those who are agitating to have their concerns redressed. Committee and its mandate In the encrusted stalemate now comes pitchforked the appointment of a committee by the Supreme Court, before which were petitions calling for removal of protesters and challenging the farm laws, accompanied by a stay of implementation of the laws with observations to the effect that the protesters need not continue on site. This is problematic for several reasons. Staying a law on legal grounds of prima facie force in the constitutional challenge is one thing, holding it in abeyance to facilitate the committee’s work and dispersal of protesters is another. Another is the mandate itself — the committee is supposedly made up of experts to give its recommendations to the Court on the laws; where exactly does a court come into the picture in what seems to be a legislative and executive exercise? It is another matter for a court to undertake legal examination and on finding provisions to be ultra vires , strike them down or declare the entire law void. The body has not been termed a mediation committee nor formally tasked with conducting a mediation, but the Court does mention a role in assisting the negotiations between the farmers and the government, and in public discourse this is being talked about. A structured mediation would be approached differently. First, and this is of the essence, all necessary parties must consent to it; mediation’s strength lies in its voluntary aspect. Here, prominent farmer unions held back, perhaps because they perceive that growing public support dictates the choice of the political battleground rather than the mediation table; if so, the Court should be circumspect before entering the arena. The other reason for rejection has to do with the second basic requirement for mediation, that the mediators must be fair and neutral, and seen and perceived by all parties to be such. Appointing persons who have publicly taken strong stands on the merits of the matter is asking for a non-starter. The pathway to take It is a tricky situation and caution would forbear a Court from wading into a political minefield. However, it has repeatedly been said by the Chief Justice of India that the negotiations seem to be going nowhere, and something urgent needs to be done. In times gone by, the Court has utilised its reservoir of public trust to mandate and structure a mediation in public disputes. This is being occasioned because increasingly, current day politicians seem to have lost the willingness and capacity to reach out and build bridges and find solutions. But if the Court does find itself mandated by a higher public duty to intervene, then it must observe some essentials. The first is to offer a committee of such composition that its neutrality, calibre and gravitas command respect and persuade doubters to give the process a try. There are some, but not many, former Chief Justices of the Supreme Court of India who will qualify to serve. The second is to obtain from the government the assurance that its highest level will meet the committee and participate in the proceedings. With this on offer, the consent of all parties may be secured. Once discussions start and are properly guided, solutions are possible. It may well be that once the important elements get focused upon and the key concerns expressed, approaches will open up which will secure legitimate interests to the maximum extent possible. Right now, parties are log jammed on the demand for immediate repeal, and the counter of focusing on amendments. The Supreme Court order may relegate this obstacle to the background. With all aspects on the table, it may be possible to get agreement and then put forward a law for repeal and reenactment, a known legislative device. All this is however possible if it is mediation on accepted principles and lines, which is not the case now. The Court needs to be careful about further continuance; its reservoir of public trust should not further be diminished. Sriram Panchu is Senior Advocate and President, Mediators India. E-mail: srirampanchu@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/mediating-the-farmers-protests-is-difficult-terrain/article33572468.ece
14 January 2021||January 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Building trust in vaccines||Over the last year, as the novel coronavirus has plagued humanity killing thousands, the role of science and particularly vaccines has become critical. To millions, vaccines represent the possibility of a swift end to an uncontrollable pandemic. It is not surprising then that recent news of promising vaccines has been greeted with hope and faith. In India, however, lack of transparency and public information as well as the government’s seeming high-handedness have started creating a distrustful narrative around the two vaccine candidates. The accelerated approval of Covaxin without Phase III trials data puts forth several critical questions. Why are approvals shrouded in mystery? Has the scientific process and validation been followed rigorously before approval? Most importantly, why has there been no open discussion and comprehensive public education about the vaccines?  Fear and scepticism The role of the vaccine in putting an end to this pandemic is critical. Yet public trust in such vaccines is indispensable. In short, a vaccine-led control effort will only be as effective as the public confidence and support it garners. However, as experts and politicians engage in public sparring, the general public’s fear and scepticism around these vaccines is only growing. This underscores the urgent need and critical importance of transparency as also public education and participation in this process. For the public, there exist multiple concerns around any large-scale vaccination programme. A vast majority of these concerns are fuelled by a lack of trust in approval processes, insufficient information combined with limited health literacy and a poor understanding of the protection vaccines provide. These concerns are exacerbated when you couple them with the fact that trust in public institutions has been quite low, especially in the wake of the lockdowns and economic desperation. So, the expectation that populations will accept a vaccine blindly and flock to government programmes to take it is misguided. How do we remedy this? The government and public institutions need to start by building open, participative frameworks for building trust, and engaging and informing all stakeholders, especially experts and communities, on these vaccines. This should have started months ago but even now it is not late. For building trust, a national forum needs to be created. It should include representatives from all stakeholders, where both the scientific basis for approval and the roll-out strategy need to be discussed. Until this is done, public confidence will remain low. Simultaneously, there needs to be public education and information through large-scale State- and local-level networks where people are informed, sensitised and their feedback taken. These efforts need to be guided by scientific experts, communication and community specialists and leaders. This is important because misinformation about the vaccines is rife. This is potentially damaging for any mass vaccination programme.  Participatory decision-making The people who need to take this vaccine need to understand the programme, be assured of the vaccine’s efficacy but also be involved in decision-making. Local leaders from public figures to religious leaders need to be made Ambassadors in this process. Local networks from self-help to faith groups, the media and even educational institutions need to participate to help citizens understand its importance and build trust. It is important that the process is not just directive but participative with people being able to ask questions and offer suggestions. It is instructive to note that this will be the largest immunisation exercise to be rolled out globally. Yet, in India we still have no idea what the roll-out and access strategy is. This is why an accountable, open, ground-up participative model needs to be implemented. This conversation should be led by experts, local and community leaders, not political leaders. In fact, using vaccines for political gains and image building, though not unexpected, will not only be unethical but counterproductive. Governments everywhere need to understand that a simple, democratic, yet effective way of improving uptake while reducing costs is by creating participatory frameworks of engaging experts and communities and building effective and reliable public information, and transparency. Science has done its job. Now it is time for the government’s to do what is expected in a democracy – be accountable, build trust and counter misinformation with openness and communication and not obfuscation. Chapal Mehra isPublic Health Specialist and Director, Pi Consulting||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/building-trust-in-vaccines/article33572471.ece
14 January 2021||January 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Two protests and false parallels||As a pro-Trump mob swarmed the U.S. Capitol on January 6, the comparisons drawn to the storming of Hong Kong’s Legislative Council (LegCo) complex on July 1, 2019 were immediate. The two historic moments marked days when protest movements breached the hearts of their respective governments. But that is where the similarities ended. Beyond this superficial level, the differences between the two were numerous. Stark differences While those besieging the Capitol sought to overturn the results of an election to cement their strongman leader’s rule, those in Hong Kong sought to secure their right to elect their leader and govern themselves, as promised in their own constitutional document. While hordes supporting U.S. President Donald Trump stormed the Capitol as Congress was in session, intending to hold their elected representatives hostage, LegCo was occupied late at night when it was empty. The target of the Hong Kong protesters was not any individual but a symbol: a building that, far from a centuries-old temple of democracy, was a barely eight-year-old steel-and-glass dolmen for a government they had never voted for, and which continued to ignore them even when two million Hong Kongers marched peacefully through the streets to demand the withdrawal of a bill allowing criminal suspects to be sent to Communist Party-controlled courts in mainland China. But not all comparisons between Washington and Hong Kong are unwarranted. Days after the LegCo siege, another watershed event took place that bears far more of a resemblance to the events on Capitol Hill: the infamous attack at Yuen Long station, launched by pro-government thugs viciously and indiscriminately targeting returning protesters, journalists and everyday commuters. The venue — a metro station far from the city centre in the northwest New Territories — was different, but the motivations and actions of the Yuen Long mob share far more in common with the one on Capitol Hill: manipulated by establishment figures to exact revenge against those desperately seeking to make their voices heard, and the “fake news” media deemed complicit in helping to project these voices. Like the pro-Trump mob — and unlike the LegCo protesters — they were largely unmasked, confident in their impunity as defenders of the existing order. When they struck, the police patrolling the station at the time walked away. Citizens ran to the nearest police station to report what was happening only to find its doors shuttered. When a sizeable number of anti-riot officers finally arrived 40 minutes later, they were filmed gently escorting the armed men away from their bloodied victims — a far cry from the tear gas and rubber bullets fired at pro-democracy protesters earlier in the day. No arrests were made on the scene, and it later emerged that police had received warnings about the impending attack and had observed the throng of men wielding wooden sticks, poles, rattan canes, steel rods, and even knives as they amassed outside the station. Not unlike Missouri Senator Josh Hawley, Hong Kong pro-Beijing lawmaker Junius Ho turned up to show his support for the armed mob, hailing them as “heroes.” Misrepresentative equivalence It can be tempting to draw parallels between two events that present similar images: the surging crowd, the makeshift battering rams, the shattered glass, and a legislative chamber briefly occupied by an uninvited crowd. But before making those comparisons one ought to consider what motivated that crowd, what led the protesters there, and what that legislative body and its composition tell us about its significance and the political climate surrounding it. One should also ask whether it is responsible to make an equivalence between an incident in which democracy was under siege and one in which autocracy was under siege. By all means, draw parallels between the events in Washington and those in Hong Kong in 2019, but be sure that you are making the right one. Ryan Ho Kilpatrick is a journalist from Hong Kong||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/two-protests-and-false-parallels/article33572475.ece
14 January 2021||January 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Terror trail||In his speech to the UN Security Council (UNSC) marking 20 years since the resolutions that announced a global commitment to the war against terror after the U.S. 9/11 attacks, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar made a pitch for greater coordination between counter terrorism agencies worldwide. He highlighted the necessity to streamline the process of the UN’s top body in designating terrorists while strengthening coordination in the agencies that check their financial resources. First, the world must acknowledge that terrorist organisations use not only extortion and money laundering, drugs and wildlife trafficking to raise funds, but, in the present and future, will use loopholes in digital security and the “anonymity” provided by block chain technology to access finances. Second, in a clear reference to Pakistan, he spoke of the need to link actions between the UN and the Financial Action Task Force (FATF), and for countries that “wilfully provide financial assistance and safe havens” as well as “5 star” treatment to criminals and terrorists, to be held to account by them. His words are significant given that a FATF committee, the Asia Pacific Joint Group (APJG), is meeting this week to finalise recommendations for the FATF on whether to continue Pakistan’s ‘greylisting status’, downgrade it to a blacklist, or let it off, decisions that India is watching closely. Finally, he pointed to countries that allow their “political and religious” affinities to decide on issues of designation of terrorists, blocking and unblocking requests at the UNSC for such reasons rather than technically evaluate the evidence against these individuals. While the broad message here was for China, which has often blocked India’s efforts to designate individuals at the UNSC, this also includes Turkey and Malaysia which have helped Pakistan avoid stringent measures at the FATF thus far. While Mr. Jaishankar’s words were meant for the global struggle with terrorism since 2001, their import is for India’s particular problems with Pakistan and cross-border terrorism in the present for the impending decision at the FATF plenary next month. Pakistan’s recent actions, including the sudden arrests and quick convictions of most wanted figures Zaki Ur Rehman Lakhvi and Hafiz Saeed, and the warrant for JeM chief Masood Azhar, all in cases of terror financing, indicate that Islamabad is aware of the importance of these decisions for its economic future; for the moment, the government is appearing to fall in line with the FATF’s 27-point action plan. By drawing the connection between the actions of the UNSC and the FATF together, Mr. Jaishankar is indicating that India is not only watching what Pakistan does but also how the international community “walks the talk” on “zero tolerance to terrorism”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/terror-trail/article33572461.ece
14 January 2021||January 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Final blow||The Trump administration’s decision to redesignate Cuba as a state sponsor of terrorism, taken in its last days, appears to be a blatantly politicised move, bereft of any strategic or moral reasoning. In the announcement, U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo cited Cuba’s hosting of 10 Colombian rebels, a few American fugitives and its backing for Venezuelan President Nicolás Maduro as evidence for its “support for acts of international terrorism”. The designation now puts the Caribbean country with Iran, North Korea and Syria, and would trigger fresh sanctions, making it more difficult for Cuba to do business. Havana has stated that returning the Colombian rebels would complicate the peace process in which it is a mediator. With regard to Venezuela, Cuba is following a foreign policy which it thinks serves its best interests, dealing with the country’s government, irrespective of Washington’s opinion. Not even the harshest critics of the single-party communist government in Havana, which faced domestic protests recently for freedom of expression, would allege its involvement in terrorist activities. As the Trump administration prepares to hand over power to a new President, it is taking a host of consequential foreign policy decisions that would make it difficult for Joe Biden to move quickly on his foreign policy agenda. America’s acrimony towards Cuba has its roots in the Cold War period. As U.S. President Barack Obama noted when he opened up towards Cuba, their adverse relations were a relic of the past. He had taken a more realistic approach towards the Cubans than his predecessors. The U.S. has punished Cuba for decades with harsh sanctions, hoping that the Castro regime would eventually collapse. But the Cuban communists survived even the fall of the Soviet Union. With the Cold War memories fading and a new generation of Americans demanding a reset in foreign policy, Mr. Obama re-established ties, opened the American embassy and travelled to Havana, marking a new beginning. The logical approach of his successor should have been taking more confidence-building measures between the two countries and working towards a gradual normalisation of ties. But Donald Trump did just the opposite. It is strange that the U.S., the world’s largest military power that had cooperated with communist China since the early 1970s, still treats this tiny communist country that lies off the Florida coast as an enemy. Mr. Biden, during his campaign, had criticised the Trump administration’s Cuba policy and promised a more open approach. He could reverse the terror listing, but it would take time as the decision should follow a review process. Perhaps that is what Mr. Trump, who resisted the November election result till the Congressional certification of Mr. Biden’s victory, wants. Mr. Biden should not be deterred by these last-minute policy sabotages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/final-blow/article33572462.ece
14 January 2021||January 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Literacy for Progress||The national workshop on functional literacy inaugurated recently in New Delhi by Dr. V.K.R. V. Rao, Union Education Minister, marks the commencement of the mass literacy programme intended to make 100 million adult illiterates literate by the end of 1980. Since the Fourth Plan coverage is expected to benefit only 10 millions of them the target for the decade requires that the annual coverage in the six years after 1974 is higher than what is to be achieved on the aggregate over the current quinquennium. This is not going to be easy. The country’s experience in adult education is such as to make it clear that there is, on the one side, the reluctance of adults to enlist themselves for this purpose and, on the other, shortages of teachers as well as of financial and other resources. The reluctance of the adult is due to his preference for rest as against mental activity of any kind, because he has toiled all day for a mere pittance with his stomach half-empty. This situation represents both the challenge and the need for social education in the country. Since the need is ingrained in the fact that there can be no progress social or economic, without work, the challenge has to be taken and the people put through a scheme of functional literacy which will infuse in them a better sense of values and social exertion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/literacy-for-progress/article33572469.ece
14 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Infosys profit climbs 16.6%, Wipro’s jumps 20.8%||Infosys Ltd. on Wednesday reported third-quarter net profit climbed 16.6% to Rs. 5,197 crore buoyed by large deal wins and gathering demand for enabling digital transformation. The upbeat outlook also spurred the country’s second-largest information technology services provider to raise its revenue guidance for the year ending in March for the second straight quarter. And smaller rival Wipro Ltd. reported third-quarter profit jumped 20.8% to Rs. 2,968 crore, boosted by the strongest sequential IT services revenue growth in 36 quarters — of 3.9%. Chief Executive Officer Thierry Delaporte said the company was ‘bullish’ on revenue growth adding, “the demand environment is steadily improving, especially for digital transformation, digital operations, and cloud services”. Infosys said it expects revenue to grow by 4.5-5% in the financial year ending March 2021, faster than the 2-3% pace it had projected earlier. It also raised its operating margin guidance to 24-24.5%, from 23-24%. “Execution of client relevant strategy focused on digital transformation continues to drive superior growth, well ahead of the industry,” said CEO and MD Salil Parekh. “The scale of new client partnerships with leading global companies such as Vanguard, Daimler and Rolls-Royce demonstrate the depth of digital and cloud capabilities of Infosys,” he added. India’s IT firms have benefited from a global trend to add digital offerings and leverage cloud capabilities as the pandemic has made businesses realise the strategic need to bolster remote services both for internal work and for customers. Large deal wins Infosys reported total contract value for large deals in the quarter touched an all-time high of $7.13 billion, with 73% being net new business. Among the several deals it bagged were a cloud partnership with German automaker Daimler AG and a strategic partnership with Rolls-Royce. Revenue grew 12.3% to Rs. 25,927 crore. Operating margin at 25.4%, surged 350 basis points from the year-earlier quarter. The firm said it would hire 24,000 more staff from campuses, adding that voluntary attrition rate at its IT services business slid to 10%, from 15.8% a year earlier. The cash flow during the quarter grew 19.4% to Rs. 5,683 crore. Infosys COO Pravin Rao said the company would adopt a hybrid model of work from home and office going forward. “We have to wait and watch on real estate rationalisation. We are not renewing many offices on rent. We have slowed down on infrastructure expansion,” he added. “Infosys reported another solid quarter beating the revenue and margin performance, along with record-high deal wins,” said Sanjeev Hota, head of research at Sharekhan. “Strong revenue growth was driven by market share gains and ramp-up in deals,” he added. Broad-based growth Wipro said growth had been broad-based, across sectors and markets. Revenue from operations grew 1.3% to Rs. 15,670 crore, while IT services revenue grew 3.9% from the preceding quarter to $2,071 million. “We expanded our operating margins... by about 240 bps to 21.7%,” Mr. Delaporte said, adding it was the highest in the last 22 quarters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/infosys-profit-climbs-166-wipros-jumps-208/article33572440.ece
14 January 2021||New Delhi,||Paytm Money to offer futures and options trading||Online investment platform Paytm Money on Wednesday unveiled futures and options (F&O) trading on its platform with an aim to reach a daily turnover of Rs. 1.5 lakh crore and one million trades in the next 18-24 months. The platform, which is a wholly owned subsidiary of Paytm, currently offers wealth management services. For F&O trading, the company said it would charge a competitive brokerage of Rs. 10 for all trades. “Our pricing of Rs. 10 flat per order without any contracts/commitments/conditions brings the overall cost of trading significantly lower and makes it super transparent,” Varun Sridhar, CEO, Paytm Money said. “With this, Paytm Money is taking one step further to become India’s most comprehensive and number 1 digital wealth management platform,” Mr. Sridhar added. Paytm Money currently has more than seven million users, he said, adding that almost 50% of mutual funds and stocks investors on the platform were new to the market and more than 60% were from tier II, tier III cities. Initially, the company will give early access to a select user base on Android and Web to receive their feedback and roll out commercially to all traders and iOS users over the next few weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/paytm-money-to-offer-futures-and-options-trading/article33572448.ece
14 January 2021||MUMBAI,||RBI forms working group on digital lending||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has constituted a working group on digital lending — including online platforms and mobile apps — to study all aspects of digital lending activities in the regulated financial sector as well as by unregulated players. This is to ensure that an appropriate regulatory approach is put in place. “Digital lending has the potential to make access to financial products and services more fair, efficient and inclusive. From a peripheral supporting role a few years ago, FinTech-led innovation is now at the core of the design, pricing and delivery of financial products and services,” the RBI said in a notification. “While penetration of digital methods in the financial sector is a welcome development, the benefits and certain downside risks are often interwoven in such endeavours,” the RBI said. “A balanced approach needs to be followed so that the regulatory framework supports innovation while ensuring data security, privacy, confidentiality and consumer protection,” banking regulator added. The working group consists of both internal and external members. The internal members include Jayant Kumar Dash, Executive Director, RBI (Chairman); Ajay Kumar Choudhary, Chief General Manager in-charge, Department of Supervision, RBI; S.P. Vasudevan, Chief General Manager, Department of Payment and Settlement Systems, RBI; and Manoranjan Mishra, Chief General Manager, Department of Regulation, RBI (Member Secretary). The external members are Vikram Mehta, co-founder, Monexo Fintech; and Rahul Sasi, cyber security expert and founder of CloudSEK. The working group will evaluate digital lending activities and assess the penetration and standards of outsourced digital lending activities in RBI regulated entities; identify the risks posed by unregulated digital lending to financial stability, regulated entities and consumers; and suggest regulatory changes to promote orderly growth of digital lending. It will also recommend measures for expansion of specific regulatory or statutory perimeter and suggest the role of various regulatory and government agencies. It will also recommend a robust fair practices code for digital lending players. The group will submit its report within three months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rbi-forms-working-group-on-digital-lending/article33572443.ece
14 January 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi HC asks Future to respond to Amazon plea||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday asked Future Retail Limited (FRL) to respond to Amazon’s plea challenging certain observations made by a single judge bench against the U.S.-based e-commerce major. A bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh also issued notice to Future Coupons Pvt. Ltd. (FCPL), seeking a stand on Amazon’s plea against the observations made by the single judge bench in its December 21, 2020 order. Amazon, in its appeal before the division bench, said certain observations were made by the single judge bench “on the merits of the case in the arbitration proceedings, which were inconsistent with the findings contained in the emergency award (EA) order by the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC)”. It contended that the observations ‘effectively resulted in allowing FRL to collaterally bypass the EA order’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/delhi-hc-asks-future-to-respond-to-amazon-plea/article33572438.ece
14 January 2021||Chennai,||Hyundai Motor exports cars to Nepal via rail||Hyundai Motor India Ltd. has used the rail mode for the export of a consignment of 125 cars to Nepal in an effort to bring down logistics cost, travel time and to cut carbon footprint. The consignment in 25 rakes was flagged off by S. Ganesh Mani, director, Production, HMIL, and S. Subramanian, additional divisional railway manager, Southern Railway, from the Walajabad Railway hub near Chennai. The train will reach the Nautanwa near the border town of Sonauli, from where the last-mile delivery will be through road. The overall on-road movement time is expected to reduce to 5 days from 8 days, taking the cars faster and in a more eco-friendly manner to the customers, HMIL said in a statement. “This is the first-ever eco-friendly exports operations through railways,” Mr. Mani said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/hyundai-motor-exports-cars-to-nepal-via-rail/article33572450.ece
14 January 2021||MUMBAI,||IRFC fixes price band for Rs. 4,633-cr. IPO||The Indian Railway Finance Corporation Ltd. has announced an initial public offering (IPO) to raise up to Rs. 4,633 crore. The issue will open on January 18, 2021 and close on January 20. The price band has been fixed at Rs. 25-26 per equity share. The offer comprises 178.2 crore shares of face value of Rs. 10 each and includes fresh issue of up to 118.8 crore shares and an offer-for-sale of up to 59.4 crore equity shares by the President of India, acting through the Ministry of Railways.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/irfc-fixes-price-band-for-rs-4633-cr-ipo/article33572446.ece
14 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Kerala allowed to borrow Rs. 2,261 cr. more||The Finance Ministry has enhanced Kerala’s borrowing limit by Rs. 2,261 crore, after the State joined seven others in completing reforms to improve the ease of doing business as stipulated by the Centre. States have so far been granted an additional borrowing limit of about Rs. 23,100 crore linked to this aspect of the conditional reform-linked borrowings permitted this year. The reforms for meeting the additional borrowing grant include the completion of first assessment of ‘District Level Business Reform Action Plan’, elimination of the requirements of renewal of registration certificates and licences obtained by businesses under various laws, and implementation of a computerised central random inspection system for allocation of inspectors. In May, the Centre had allowed States to avail of enhanced borrowing limits of 2% of their Gross State Domestic Product, citing the COVID-19 pandemic. Half of this special dispensation was linked to the States undertaking citizen-centric reforms. The four areas identiffied were implementation of ‘One Nation One Ration Card’ system, ease of doing business, urban local body and utilities’ reforms and power sector reforms. “So far, 10 States have implemented the One Nation One Ration Card system, 8 States have done ease of doing business reforms, and 4 have done local body reforms,” the ministry said in a statement on Wednesday, adding States could overall borrow Rs. 56,526 crore additionally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/kerala-allowed-to-borrow-rs-2261-cr-more/article33572451.ece
14 January 2021||HYDERABAD,||IRDAI forms advisory panel on health cover||Insurance regulator IRDAI has constituted a health insurance advisory committee to examine the availability of products, suggest approach on the coverage of specific diseases, and develop a strategy on treatment protocol. The 10-member committee has been also tasked with examining the extant health insurance product structure in terms of policy conditions to protect the interest of the policyholders. The committee will have the IRDAI chairman and member (non-life) as its chairperson and vice-chairperson, respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/irdai-forms-advisory-panel-on-health-cover/article33572441.ece
14 January 2021||New Delhi,||Govt to offload up to 10 pc stake in SAIL; OFS opens on Thursday||The Centre on Wednesday said it proposes to offload up to 10% in public sector steel firm SAIL. “Offer for Sale (OFS) in SAIL opens on Thursday (14.1.2021) for non-retail investors. 15th January (Friday) is for retail investors. GoI would divest 5% equity with a 5% greenshoe option,” DIPAM Secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey tweeted.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/govt-to-offload-up-to-10-pc-stake-in-sail-ofs-opens-on-thursday/article33572460.ece
14 January 2021||KOZHIKODE,||Azharuddeen blinder stuns Suryakumar’s men||Mohammed Azharuddeen played one of the great T20 knocks in India's domestic cricket to power Kerala to a stunning eight-wicket victory over Mumbai in the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy at the Wankhade Stadium on Wednesday night. It was the first ever victory for Kerala over Mumbai in any form of cricket at the senior level. The 26-year-old opener, named after the stylish former India batsman Mohammed Azharuddin, made an unbeaten 137 off just 54 balls (9x4, 11x6) to make light of what appeared a stiff target of 197. He put on 129 for the first wicket with Robin Uthappa (33, 23b, 4x4) in merely 57 balls. Second fiddle Uthappa was content to play the second fiddle while Azharuddeen unleashed an array of gorgeously timed shots — almost all of them proper cricketing ones — all around the park. By the time Uthappa fell lbw to left-arm spinner Shams Mulani, the game had slipped away from the mighty Mumbai. Now captain Sanju Samson joined Azharuddeen but was caught behind off Tushar Deshpande when just seven runs were required. Fittingly, Azharuddeen played the winning shot, a huge six over mid-wicket off Siddhesh Lad. It was with such freedom he batted right through, after beginning his fireworks with a six off Deshpande over long-off in the second over. Earlier, Mumbai, after being put in, was served well by its top-order, which had crumbled against Delhi in the first match. Yashasvi Jaiswal (40, 32b, 4x4, 2x6) and Aditya Tare (42, 31b, 4x4, 1x6) put on 88 for the opening wicket. Skipper Suryakumar Yadav (38, 19b, 4x4, 2x6) was delectable as usual. Seamer K.M. Asif was the pick of the Kerala bowlers, taking three wickets in the last over of the innings. A little later, Azharuddeen came out to bat and a dazed Mumbai slid to its second defeat in as many matches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/azharuddeen-blinder-stuns-suryakumars-men/article33572903.ece
14 January 2021||Brisbane,||Injury-ridden India out to breach Australia’s Gabba fortress||India, plagued by injuries, headed to Australia’s Gabba fortress for Friday’s final Test with high hopes of retaining the Border-Gavaskar Trophy after securing an epic draw in Sydney to leave the series locked at 1-1. But Australia will be optimistic of snatching a series win at the Gabba, where it is unbeaten in more than three decades, especially as India has been hit by a series of injuries. All-rounder Ravindra Jadeja was ruled out on Wednesday after dislocating his left thumb in Sydney, while fast-bowling spearhead Jasprit Bumrah is set to miss the final Test with an abdominal strain. Inexperienced attack If Bumrah cannot play, the already inexperienced attack will be led by Mohammed Siraj, who has only played two Tests, alongside Navdeep Saini who made his debut at Sydney plus one of the uncapped T. Natarajan or Shardul Thakur. There are also doubts over the fitness of No. 6 batsman Hanuma Vihari, who tore his hamstring during his 161-ball vigil for 23 runs that helped earn the unlikely draw on Monday. Fellow Sydney hero R. Ashwin, who spent more than three hours at the crease with Vihari in an unbroken sixth-wicket stand to save the game, has a back issue. Despite the horror injury-run, Sunil Gavaskar believes India can win in Brisbane. “I know that the Gabba in Brisbane is Australia’s fortress but India has the ability to take on the Australians,” he told the Indian media this week. “They (Australia) have not lost there since 1988 but there is always a first time. If Ajinkya Rahane and company do it, I won’t be surprised at all.” Australia has its own injury worries with young opener Will Pucovski facing an anxious wait after suffering a partial dislocation of his right shoulder while fielding in Sydney. Meanwhile, the Indian team underwent its first training session at the Gabba here on Wednesday, hoping to field 11 fit players . Chinaman bowler Kuldeep Yadav was seen bowling at the nets and there is a chance that he could be picked for the match with all-rounder Ravindra Jadeja ruled out due to a fractured thumb.  The teams (from):   India: Ajinkya Rahane (Capt.), Rohit Sharma, Shubman Gill, Cheteshwar Pujara, Mayank Agarwal, Hanuma Vihari, Rishabh Pant (wk), Wriddhiman Saha (wk), R. Ashwin, Navdeep Saini, Mohammed Siraj, Shardul Thakur, T. Natarajan, Kuldeep Yadav and Prithvi Shaw.   Australia: Tim Paine (Capt.), David Warner, Marcus Harris, Will Pucovski, Marnus Labuschagne, Steve Smith, Cameron Green, Mathew Wade, Pat Cummins, Josh Hazlewood, Mitchell Starc, Nathan Lyon, Travis Head, Moises Henriques, Michael Neser and Mitchell Swepson.   Umpires: Bruce Oxenford and Paul Reiffel; Third umpire: Rod Tucker; Match referee: David Boon.   Match starts at 5 a.m. IST on Friday (January 15).   Live on Sony Ten 1, 3 and Six (SD & HD) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/injury-ridden-india-out-to-breach-australias-gabba-fortress/article33572548.ece
14 January 2021||Mumbai,||Delhi pacers call the shots||Delhi ran through the opposition batting line-up without any fuss to set up its second convincing win in as many outings in the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy here on Wednesday. Thanks to its pacers sharing seven wickets between them, Delhi outclassed Andhra by six wickets with three overs to spare at the Wankhede Stadium to top the Group E standings with a healthy net run rate. Faith justified If Monday saw Delhi strangulate Mumbai’s top-order while defending a gargantuan total, on Wednesday, the pacers justified captain Dhawan’s faith in them after chose to field first. Veteran Ishant Sharma (two for 17), promising talent Simarjeet Singh (two for 21) and seasoned Pradeep Sangwan (three for 33) wreaked havoc in the Andhra top-order. The Delhi pacers accounted for three batsmen on whom Andhra’s batting relies on, leaving it reeling at 15 for three. While Simrajeet induced at edge off K.S. Bharat in the second over, Ishant cleaned up Ricky Bhui for a blob in the next over. Simrajeet then had the prize scalp of captain Ambati Rayudu an over later over. Too big a damage The damage was too much to handle as Andhra crawled to 35 for three at the half-way stage. Thanks to a late charge by K.V. Sasikanth and Shoaib Mohammed Khan, Andhra managed to finish at 124 for nine. A target of 125 was never going to be challenging for Delhi. Despite Harishankar Reddy dismissing openers Shikhar Dhawan and Hiten Dalal in the second over, Nitish Rana and Anuj Rawat steadied the ship with a 52-run partnership before Himmat Singh and allrounder Lalit Yadav finished the job.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/delhi-pacers-call-the-shots/article33572582.ece
14 January 2021||CHENNAI:,||Born Queen for South India Derby Stakes||Born Queen, who is unbeaten in all her four starts including two Classics, appears to have an edge over her rivals in the South India Derby Stakes (2,400m), the star attraction of the season to be run on Thursday afternoon (Jan. 14). South India 2000 Guineas winner Taimur should provide keen competition in a field of 11 runners.  A.M.M. ARUNACHALAM MEMORIAL CUP (1,000m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms), 1-30 p.m.: 1. Gingersnap (5) S. Kamble 56, 2. Royal Eminence (—) (—) 56, 3. Tudor (7) Umesh 56, 4. Amendment (6) Akshay Kumar 54.5, 5. Annexed (4) Brisson 54.5, 6. Elegant Touch (3) Zervan 54.5, 7. Royal Treasure (1) Nakhat Singh 54.5 and 8. Subjucate (2) R.N. Darshan 54.5.  1. TUDOR,   2. AMENDMENT,   3. SUBJUCATE   BANGALORE TURF CLUB CUP (Div. II) , (1,200m), rated 20 to 45, 2-00: 1. Choir (4) Azfar Syeed 60, 2. Royal Dreams (3) Akshay Kumar 60, 3. Striking Distance (8) P. Trevor 60, 4. Tifosi (9) Umesh 59.5, 5. Pappa Rich (5) Arshad Alam 59, 6. Rwanda (14) Brisson 58.5, 7. Lord Of The Turf (1) Nakhat Singh 56, 8. Phoebe Buffay (13) Shahar Babu 56, 9. Star Chieftain (7) P. Ajeeth Kumar 56, 10. Moment Of Life (12) R.N. Darshan 55, 11. Rajputana (2) Stephen Raj 55, 12. Full Of Surprise (11) S. Kamble 54.5, 13. Nightingale (10) Kiran Naidu 54.5 and 14. Queen Justitia (6) B. Nikhil 54.  1. STRIKING DISTANCE,   2. RWANDA,   3. FULL OF SURPRISE   BANGALORE TURF CLUB CUP (Div. I) , (1,200m), rtated 20 to 45, 2-30: 1. Copper Queen (11) Nakhat Singh 60, 2. Star Convey (13) Bhawani Singh 60, 3. Star Fling (7) Akshay Kumar 59, 4. Incredible Star (5) P. Sai Kumar 58.5, 5. Rhiannon (6) Arshad Alam 58.5, 6. Shalem (4) Suraj Narredu 58.5, 7. Oberon (3) Azfar Syeed 58, 8. Pacific (12) Umesh 56.5, 9. Protea (8) Brisson 56, 10. Absolute Authority (1) R.N. Darshan 54.5, 11. Highland Light (10) A. Ayaz Khan 54, 12. Fun Storm (2) P. Ajeeth Kumar 52.5, 13. Lady Blazer (9) B. Nikhil 52.5 and 14. Tender Rebel (14) Kiran Naidu 52.  1. SHALEM,   2. COPPER QUEEN,   3. PACIFIC   HYDERABAD RACE CLUB CUP (1,600m), rated 20 to 45, 3-00: 1. Grand Royal (4) Zervan 60, 2. Shield Maiden (8) Umesh 60, 3. Sanctuary Cove (7) P. Ajeeth Kumar 59.5, 4. Star Symbol (1) Akshay Kumar 59.5, 5. Wise Don (2) R.N. Darshan 58.5, 6. Brilliant Script (5) Arshad Alam 57.5, 7. Divina (9) Brisson 55, 8. Salva (6) P. Sai Kumar 55 and 9. Supreme Excelsior (3) Nakhat Singh 53.  1. SANCTUARY COVE,   2. STAR SYMBOL,   3. BRILLIANT SCRIPT   DR. M.A.M. RAMASWAMY MEMORIAL TROPHY (1,400m), 4-y-o & over (Terms), 3-30: 1. Corfe Castle (8) P. Trevor 60, 2. My Opinion (1) Brisson 60, 3. Cavallo Veloce (2) A. Imran Khan 57, 4. Multifaceted (4) A. Sandesh 57, 5. Glorious Destiny (3) Neeraj 54, 6. Megasthenes (9) P. Sai Kumar 54, 7. Victory Parade (5) Akshay Kumar 54, 8. Versallies (7) R.N. Darshan 52.5 and 9. Flash Star (6) A. Ayaz Khan 51.  1. MULTIFACETED,   2. CORFE CASTLE,   3. CAVALLO VELOCE   SOUTH INDIA DERBY STAKES ( 2,400m), 4-y-o (Terms), 4-15: 1. Bold Legend (11) P.S. Chouhan 57, 2. Cavallo Vincente (3) A. Imran Khan 57, 3. Giant Star (6) Srinath 57, 4. Hope Island (2) S. John 57, 5. Illustrious Ruler (4) Nakhat Singh 57, 6. Rubik Star (5) Bhawani Singh 57, 7. Sporting Memories (1) Neeraj 57, 8. Taimur (10) A. Sandesh 57, 9. Vachan (9) Umesh 57, 10. Born Queen (8) Suraj Narredu 55.5, 11. Infinite Spirit (—) (—) 55.5 and 12. Successor (7) P. Trevor 55.5.  1. BORN QUEEN,   2. TAIMUR,   3. GIANT STAR   ROYAL WESTERN INDIA TURF CLUB CUP (1,000m), rated 60 to 85 (outstation horses eligible), 5-00: 1. Boro Bora (1) Brisson 60, 2. Oscars Thunder (13) P. Trevor 57.5, 3. Royal Currency (6) Akshay Kumar 57.5, 4. Abira (9) Neeraj 55.5, 5. D Warrior (7) Umesh 55, 6. Rutbedaar (10) Arshad Alam 55, 7. Gods Plan (4) P. Sai Kumar 54.5, 8. Mzilikazi (8) Zervan 53.5, 9. Star Guitar (2) Azfar Syeed 53, 10. Priceless Ruler (3) Nakhat Singh 52.5, 11. Glorious Fire (5) A.M. Alam 51.5, 12. Royal Prestige (12) B. Nikhil 51.5 and 13. Pretty Gal (11) M. Bhaskar 51.  1. MZILIKAZI,   2. GODS PLAN,   3. ABIRA   TURF AUTHORITIES CUP (1,400m), rated 40 to 65, 5-30: 1. Breaking Bounds (8) A. Imran Khan 60.5, 2. Demerara (6) P.S. Chouhan 58.5, 3. Comanche Brave (1) Nakhat Singh 57, 4. Nekhbet (5) Zervan 57, 5. Renegade (9) Arshad Alam 56.5, 6. Torbert (2) P. Trevor 56.5, 7. Star Glitter (4) B. Nikhil 55.5, 8. Ganton (3) P. Ajeeth Kumar 54.5 and 9. Pirate's Love (7) Kiran Naidu 53.  1. NEKHBET,   2. TORBERT,   3. DEMERARA  Jkt: 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8; Mini Jkt: 5, 6 7 & 8; Tr (i): 1, 2 & 3; (ii); 4, 5 & 6; (iii): 6, 7 & 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/born-queen-for-south-india-derby-stakes/article33572640.ece
14 January 2021||CHENNAI,||Sharath, Sathiyan confident of making it to Tokyo||With two crucial international tournaments clashing with each other, India’s top paddler Sharath Kamal has spoken to Table Tennis Federation of India (TTFI) and asked for clarification. While the WTT-Star Contender is scheduled from March 6 to 13 in Doha, the Asian qualification tournament is due to be held in the same city between March 13 and 15. A problem   “There is a problem. What if I reach the semifinals of Star Contender on March 13? Then how can I compete in the Asian tournament which starts on the same date? If TTFI asks me to skip the Star Contender and play in the other tournament, I have no choice. “But playing in Star Contender will help me improve my world rankings,” Sharath told The Hindu . Meanwhile, after a poor show in the World team table tennis championships in Gondomar (Portugal) where they failed to qualify, the Indian players would be keen to make amends in singles and make it to Tokyo Olympics through the Asian qualification event. The winner of the [South] Asian tournament will directly qualify to the Olympics. India’s top two players, Sharath and G. Sathiyan, [Olympic] ranked 32 and 37 in the world, being the highest-ranked paddlers in the field, are hoping to reach the final given the quality and rankings of those in the fray. Even the second-placed player, too, has a chance to qualify for Tokyo. According to the qualification system, of the players who finish second in all the regional qualification events, one will go through based on his/her world rankings. On this count, both Sharath and Sathiyan are confident and believe they don’t have to play in the World singles qualification tournament in Doha from March 16 to 19. “We should make it in men’s singles,” said the duo. India is hoping to make the Olympic grade in mixed doubles too with Sharath and Manika Batra pairing up. Manika and Sutirtha Mukherjee will play in the women’s singles in the Asian qualification tournament.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sharath-sathiyan-confident-of-making-it-to-tokyo/article33572457.ece
14 January 2021||Chennai,||A significant milestone in Lyon’s journey from groundsman to Test great||The aerial distance between Adelaide and Brisbane is 995 miles. Beginning his cricketing career as a groundsman in Adelaide and then, remarkably, journeying to his 100th Test in Brisbane, Nathan Lyon has gobbled up countless miles and crossed numerous milestones. Indeed, the fourth Test of this gripping series, at the ‘Gabba, will see Lyon completing a century of Tests. In classical mould The magnificent bowler, cast in the classical mould, has deceived and consumed batsmen around the world. Lyon, pivoting and releasing the ball from a high-arm action, imparts overspin that causes the sphere to dip on the right-hander and then turn and bounce into the batsman from outside the off-stump. To the southpaws, the off-spinner is always a handful taking the ball away from them, the spin laced with bounce; he dismissed the formidable Kumar Sangakkara with his first delivery in Test cricket, in Galle, 2011. Now, he is just four shy of 400 Test scalps, his 396 Test wickets coming at 31.98. His returns are rather evenly distributed, with 197 wickets coming in 51 Tests at home at just over 32, and his 184 wickets in 44 Tests away from home arriving at 29.42. In four Tests in neutral venues, Lyon has 15 wickets. His below par performance in India was one blemish in his record with M.S. Dhoni wading into him with mighty slog-sweeps in the Chennai Test of 2013. When Lyon returned to India in 2016-17, he was a different bowler, quicker through the air, and getting his deliveries to fizz off the pitch. He bowled Australia to a Test win in Pune and finished with 19 wickets in four Tests.  In the Ashes he has always been a major factor, complementing the pacemen, maintaining the pressure, and making inroads when the pitch deteriorates. He is a game-changer. The manner Lyon ran through the Indian line-up, using footmarks, in the Adelaide Test’s (2014) final session when India — needing 159 with eight wickets in hand at tea — was well poised for victory, is high up in the list. He scalped seven, Australia won. In this series, Lyon and his great Indian counterpart R. Ashwin, have followed contrasting methods. Lyon has bowled in the traditional off-spinner’s arc, getting the ball to turn in and bounce from outside the off-stump. He has, however, been let down by poor catching. Ashwin has bowled the middle and leg line — he does slip in the odd under-cutter — extracting bounce and having a leg-side trap in play. Irrespective of what the 100th Test holds for Lyon, the fierce competitor will enjoy the occasion.  I look at the other 12 guys who have played more than 100 Test matches of cricket for Australia and they’re pure legends. I’m going to pinch myself each and every day to see my name up against those fellows   I’m pretty excited about this... just the thought of playing 100 Test matches for Australia is very humbling||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/it-will-be-a-magnificent-off-spinners-significant-milestone-at-brisbane/article33572545.ece
14 January 2021||KOCHI,||Tripunithura CC ‘C’ reigns||Tripunithura CC ‘C’ topped the four-team super league and won the Ernakulam District B-Division Cricket League title here. TCC finished with two wins and an abandoned match (2 points) for a total of 12 points in the super league. The victory saw TCC ‘C’ and Fighters CC, which finished runner-up with 10 points, gain promotion to the District A-Division League which will begin in a few days. “We will now have two of our teams (TCC ‘B’ and TCC ‘C’) playing in the A-Division after some six years,” said Kunal Viswam, joint secretary of the TCC and the club’s cricket in-charge, on Wednesday. Meanwhile, Masters RCC ‘B’ won the C-Division title while Vytilla CC finished runner-up after the super league matches. And the D-Division super league ended on Wednesday with all the three teams winning a match each. But Youngster CC, with a better run-rate, won the title and Vypin CA finished second.  B-Div. final placings (after four-team super league): 1. Tripunithura CC ‘C’ (12 points), 2. Fighters CC (10), 3. Globstar CC (7), 4. Sharon CC ‘A’ (0) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tripunithura-cc-c-reigns/article33572900.ece
14 January 2021||BANGKOK,||Saina and Srikanth progress; Kashyap, Prannoy and Sameer bow out||Saina Nehwal and former World No. 1 K. Srikanth entered the second round, but P. Kashyap made an early exit from the Thailand Open Super 1000 tournament here on Wednesday. Saina got the better of Selvaduray Kisona of Malaysia 21-15, 21-15 in the opening round to set up a clash with Thailand's Busanan Ongbamrungphan. Saina, who was first forced to withdraw from the event for positive COVID-19 results on Tuesday but later returned a negative test, thanked the Badminton World Federation officials and doctors for allowing her to participate. Earlier in the day, Srikanth took just 31 minutes to prevail over compatriot Sourabh Verma 21-12, 21-11 in men's singles, but Kashyap was forced to retire midway through his opening-round match against Jason Anthony Ho-Shue of Canada. Kashyap was traiing 8-14 in the third game when he chose to retire after puling his calf muscle. He had lost the first game 9-21 before making a comeback to take the second 21-13. Srikanth will next play eight seed Zii Jia Lee of Malaysia, who defeated another Indian H.S. Prannoy 13-21, 21-14, 21-8. Sameer Verma, too, made a first round exit. He lost 15-21, 17-21 to Shesar Hiren Rhustavito of Indonesia. In men's doubles, Satwiksairaj Rankireddy and Chirag Shetty came from behind to defeat the South Korean pair of Kim Gi Jung and Lee Yong Dae 19-21, 21-16, 21-14.  Other results (first round):   Men’s doubles: Ong Yew Sin & Teo Ee Yi (Mas) bt Arjun Ramachandran & Dhruv Kapila 21-13, 8-21, 22-24; Weeraphat Phakjarung & Wongsathorn Thongkham (Tha) bt Manu Attri and B. Sumeeth Reddy 21-19, 21-14.   Mixed doubles: Chung Man Tang & Yong Suet Tse (Tpe) bt Sikki Reddy & Sumeeth Reddy 22-20, 21-17 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/saina-and-srikanth-progress-kashyap-prannoy-and-sameer-bow-out/article33572542.ece
14 January 2021||Brisbane,||Coach Langer bats for Paine and Smith||Australia coach Justin Langer gave under-fire skipper Tim Paine his “100%” support and blasted criticism of Steve Smith as “absolute rubbish” on Wednesday after a backlash against their behaviour in the drawn third Test against India in Sydney. Paine’s captaincy has been questioned after he launched an ugly verbal tirade at India’s R. Ashwin and Smith was accused of foul play after appearing to scuff up batsman Rishabh Pant’s guard at the crease during a tense final day. But an indignant Langer was having none of it. “Do I have faith in Tim Paine? You have no idea how much faith I have in Paine,” he said. “He didn’t have his best day, no doubt about that, but after three years he has hardly put a hair out of place. “He has been outstanding as the Australian captain in everything he does. He had a frustrating day and we have got to cut him some slack, surely. “When you set a standard as high as he does, and we do, we understand we get criticised when you fall below that. It’s not what we are about,” he said. “But Tim is an outstanding leader and will continue to be for some time to come yet. He has my 100 percent support. Absolute rubbish “As for Steve Smith, I literally cannot believe some of the rubbish I’ve read — absolute load of rubbish,” said Langer. He took particular aim at England greats Michael Vaughan and Darren Gough, personally phoning them after they criticised Smith. “On that wicket, that was that flat, and it was like concrete, you’d need 15-inch spikes to make an indent on the crease and he went nowhere near the crease.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/coach-langer-bats-for-paine-and-smith/article33572546.ece
14 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Ghufran and Shainy triumph||Mohd. Ghufran was consistently brilliant to beat the World online carrom champion K. Srinivas in the men’s final of the Indian online carrom challenge on Tuesday. Ghufran had two black slams as he wound up the eight boards with 19 points. On the other hand, K. Srinivas had one black slam to show for in a below-par finish with 28 points. In the women’s final, 17-year-old Shainy Sebastian came up with a strong performance, collecting 33 points. In contrast, two-time World champion Rashmi Kumari struggled her way to 51, after conceding 28 points in the first three boards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ghufran-and-shainy-triumph/article33572575.ece
14 January 2021||January 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Esmael brace helps CFC down Odisha||Two costly errors from Gaurav Bora within the first 20 minutes allowed Chennaiyin FC to get its third win, thanks to a brace from Esmael Goncalves, as it defeated Odisha FC 2-1 in the Indian Super League match at the GMC Stadium in Bambolim on Wednesday. The victory helped Chennaiyin climb to the fifth spot with 14 points from 11 games while Odisha remained rooted to the bottom with six from 11. In the 15th minute, Bora failed to control a long ball from the centre-line and his fumble meant the ball fell in front of Isma who had an easy run to the net without trouble, firing it to the left of the keeper. Within minutes, another mistake in the midfield from Odisha allowed Anirudh Thapa to take possession. As he made a run into the box, Thapa was brought down by Bora with Isma scoring from the spot easily to double the lead for CFC. The Portuguese striker made up for a miss in the fifth minute when he was given a through ball and produced a good run on the right flank, but his shot went over the post. Odisha FC had a chance to get one back in the 38th minute when Jerry Mawihmingthanga produced a moment of brilliance with a reverse chip over his head that found Manuel Onwu, but the latter messed it up by shooting it wide of the far post. In the second half, Odisha looked the better team as CFC let its guard down with some poor defending and failed to keep control of possession. Superb goal In the 63rd minute, substitute Diego Mauricio pulled one back for OFC with a superb goal from nearly 25 metres after he got control of the ball near the centre line. However, CFC managed to hold on to the lead to pocket three points and move up the table.  The result: Odisha FC 1 (Diego Mauricio 63) lost to Chennaiyin FC 2 (Esmael Goncalves 15, 21-pen) .   Thursday’s match: FC Goa vs Jamshedpur FC.   Friday: SC East Bengal vs Kerala Blasters .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/esmael-brace-helps-cfc-down-odisha/article33572668.ece
14 January 2021||CHENNAI:,||Premier Action wins feature event||Mr. Harisharan Devgan & Mr. Tinder Singh Ahluwalia’s Premier Action (Umesh up) won the Kumarrajah M.A.M. Muthiah Memorial Cup, the chief event of the races here on Wednesday (Jan. 13). L. D’Silva trains the winner.  1. DELHI RACE CLUB CUP (Div. II) , (1,200m), rated 00 to 25: SHELOMI (A.M. Alam) 1, Heavenly Blue (Umesh) 2, Vibrant Approach (Azfar Syeed) 3 and Picture Girl (Shahar Babu) 4. 1-1/2, shd and hd. 1m, 17.12s. Owner: Mr. Vazhaparambil J. Joseph. Trainer: G.S. Parmar.  2. DELHI RACE CLUB CUP (Div. I) , (1,200m), rated 00 to 25: WILD PASSION (Umesh), Pragmatic (P. Sai Kumar) 2, Orange Pekoe (Azfar Syeed) 3 and Palace Music (M. Bhaskar) 4. 3-3/4, 1-1/4 and 1/2. 1m, 15.67s. Owners: Mr. Rahul Jagtiani, Mr. Wayne Beck, Mr. Krishore Reddy & Mr. Anjan Kumar Rangaraj. Trainer: N. Rupa.  3. DR. M.A. CHIDAMBARAM MEMORIAL CUP (1,200m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms): KNIGHT ENVIED (Brisson) 1, Emelda (Akshay Kumar) 2, Bolivia (Umesh) 3 and Sweet Fragrance (Arshad Alam) 4. 1-1/2, 3/4 and 3. 1m, 13.61s. Owner: M/s. Arun Alagappan Racing. Trainer: B. Suresh.  4. MYSORE RACE CLUB CUP (1,800m), rated 20 to 45: STAR TEMPLAR (Nakhat Singh) 1, City Of Sails (Kiran Naidu) 2, Otus (Brisson) 3 and Welcome Chakkaram (Umesh) 4. 5, 5 and 1. 1m, 57.28s. Owner: M.A.M. Ramaswamy Chettiar Of Chettinad Charitable Trust. Trainer: R. Foley.  5. DANDIFIED PLATE (Div. I) , (1,200m), rated 40 to 65: SOARING HIGH (Suraj Narredu) 1, Catelyn (Azfar Syeed) 2, Royal Protocal (Brisson) 3 and Glorious Trust (Zervan) 4. 5, 2 and 1/2. 1m, 13.02s. Owner: M/s United Racing & Bloodstock Breeders. Trainer: R. Ramanathan.  6. KUMARRAJAH M.A.M. MUTHIAH MEMORIAL CUP (1,400m), rated 60 to 85: PREMIER ACTION (Umesh) 1, Night Hunt (Suraj Narredu) 2, Sadeek (Saddam Hussain) 3 and Storm Flag (Akshay Kumar) 4. 1, 1-1/4 and 1/2. 1m, 26.62s. Owners: Mr. Harisharan Devgan & Mr. Tinder Singh Ahluwalia. Trainer: L. D’Silva.  7. DANDIFIELD PLATE (Div. II) , (1,200m), rated 40 to 65: SASAKWA (Zervan) 1, Butterfly (Azfar Syeed) 2, Shadow Of Love (B. Nikhil) 3 and Desert Force (C.P. Khanal) 4. 2-1/4, 1-1/2 and shd. 1m, 14.11s. Owner: M/s. Fivestar Shipping Co. Trainer: R. Foley.  8. ROYAL CALCUTTA TURF CLUB CUP (1,400m), rated 20 to 45: After a stewards enquiry, the race was declared null and void.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/premier-action-wins-feature-event/article33572641.ece
14 January 2021||KOLKATA,||Fernando Hierro bullish on football in India||India’s efforts at bringing its football to the global level received encouragement from former Spanish world cupper and Real Madrid legend Fernando Hierro, who felt that the sport will see an exponential growth in the country. “India as a country has great potential and I think it will have the biggest growth in football in future. I can tell it from my experience of visiting India some time back,” said Hierro, who is a brand ambassador of LaLiga, during a media interaction. “The sport will further grow depending on the objectives and planning laid out for the tournament. I think training of coaches is very important for the growth and the tournament needs to have a consolidated structure and proper vision for the future,” he said about the development happening with ISL. “I have colleagues who are working in India and there are players in India whom I have known for a long time. I think the growth of football reflects the global growth of India, which is a big country.” Turning a new page Moving back to LaLiga, Fierro said that it was turning a new page in its development after introducing effective financial control for clubs. “I think the huge gap that existed between the teams have narrowed down a lot. The financial control implemented by LaLiga in recent times did help the comparatively smaller sides improve their positions. “You can make that out from the fact that the so called big sides are often seen losing or drawing with smaller sides and the huge margin of wins managed by the giants have also come down,” he said. Fierro also appreciated the emergence of new talent. “The best thing about LaLiga is the quality of players, especially the younger ones, the academy graduates and overall the competitive level of the tournament,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/fernando-hierro-bullish-on-football-in-india/article33572707.ece
14 January 2021||Burnley,||‘Liverpool clash comes at perfect time’||Manchester United manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer said his side’s visit to defending champion Liverpool on Sunday could not have come at a better time after moving top of the Premier League for the first time in three years. Paul Pogba’s deflected strike earned United a hard-fought 1-0 win at Burnley on Tuesday to move three points of clear of Liverpool, which has failed to win in its last three league games. “It’s a brilliant position to be in,” said a smiling Solskjaer, whose future as manager had been under threat just a few months ago after a slow start to the season and group stage exit from the Champions League. “We know we are going to the champions, they’ve had an unbelievable three-and-a-half seasons, we know that’s going to be a difficult game, but we’re ready for it. “We couldn’t be going there at a better time to play them because we are in good shape, good form, hungry, these boys want to get better and that’s a test again.” In recent weeks Pogba has become an increasingly important influence in United’s first serious title challenge since Alex Ferguson’s retirement as manager in 2013. “I’ve always said Paul is a big, big player for us,” added Solskjaer. “He is a good character in the dressing room, he is always one the lads look to (because) he’s a world champion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/liverpool-clash-comes-at-perfect-time/article33573010.ece
14 January 2021||Pune:,||Sultan Suleiman capable of an encore||Sultan Suleiman, who won well in his last start, may repeat the performance in the Maharaja Sir Pratapsingh Gaekwad Trophy, the feature event of Friday’s (Jan. 15) Mumbai races here. Rails will be announced one hour before the first race.  SPRUNGLI PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46, 1.30 p.m.: 1. Rambler (2) Zeeshan 59, 2. Recall Of You (5) Trevor 56.5, 3. Cellini (1) Ayyar 54.5, 4. Cipher (10) Neeraj 54.5, 5. Blazing Bay (3) Bhawani 54, 6. Sophistocrat (7) Zervan 53.5, 7. Tomorrow’s Dreams (6) Sandesh 53.5, 8. Wayin (8) Chouhan 53.5, 9. Windy City (9) Raghuveer 52 and 10. Saltbae (4) S. Amit 50.  1. CELLINI, 2. TOMORROW’S DREAMS, 3. RECALL OF YOU   SIMPLY NOBLE PLATE (1,200m), Cl. III, rated 40 to 66, 2.00: 1. Joaquin (4) Zeeshan 59, 2. Epiphany (2) Aniket 58.5, 3. Red Carnation (8) Kaviraj 57.5, 4. Princess Annabel (1) Bhawani 56.5, 5. Sky Fall (3) Trevor 56.5, 6. Market King (6) Sandesh 55, 7. Arc Shine (5) Merchant 53 and 8. Rising Brave (7) Nazil 52.5.  1. MARKET KING, 2. SKY FALL, 3. EPIPHANY   MAHARAJA SIR PRATAPSINGH GAEKWAD TROPHY (1,400m), Cl. II, rated 60 to 86, 2.30: 1. Valegro (1) Chouhan 59, 2. Revelator (4) Parmar 56.5, 3. Gloriosus (3) Sandesh 55, 4. Majestic Warrior (6) Kaviraj 55, 5. Sultan Suleiman (7) Trevor 54, 6. Enid Blyton (2) Neeraj 49 and 7. Odessa (5) S. Amit 49.  1. SULTAN SULEIMAN, 2. VALEGRO, 3. ENID BLYTON   JAYANT M SHAH PLATE (Div. II) (1,400m), Cl. V, 5-y-o & over, rated 4 to 30, 3.00: 1. World Is One (13) Trevor 61, 2. Take It Easy (7) Nazil 58.5, 3. So Splendid (9) Zeeshan 57, 4. Saddle In The Wind (14) Bhawani 56.5, 5. Shapath (2) Chouhan 56.5, 6. Honourable Eyes (12) Raghuveer 55.5, 7. Kanadario (3) Kaviraj 55, 8. Nusrat (11) Aniket 55, 9. Whispering Queen (4) Vishal 54.5, 10. Gandalf (8) Neeraj 54, 11. Saffron Flower (10) Shailesh Shinde 54, 12. Chezza (6) Merchant 53, 13. I Am The Way (5) Kuldeep 51.5 and 14. Red Fire (1) S. Amit 50.  1. WORLD IS ONE, 2. TAKE IT EASY, 3. SHAPATH   V R MENON PLATE (1,400m), Cl. IV, Maiden, 4-y-o only, rated 20 to 46, 3.30: 1. Chancellor (5) Trevor 59, 2. Beejay (11) Santosh 58.5, 3. Rays Of Sun (3) Parmar 58.5, 4. Spanish City (6) Chouhan 58, 5. Marlboro Man (7) Ajinkya 57.5, 6. Marvin (4) Sandesh 57.5, 7. Kamaria (9) Bhawani 56.5, 8. Right To Privacy (8) Neeraj 56.5, 9. Falaknuma (1) Nazil 56, 10. Memorable Moments (2) Dashrath 56, 11. Smokin’ Hot (12) Kaviraj 56 and 12. Farahnaaz (10) J. Chinoy 55.5.  1. CHANCELLOR, 2. BEEJAY, 3. MARVIN   KARL UMRIGAR TROPHY (1,400m), (Terms), Maiden, 3-y-o only, 4.00: 1. Above The Law (4) Ajinkya 56, 2. Arc De Triomphe (7) Zervan 56, 3. Infinite N Beyond (3) Sandesh 56, 4. Roman (1) Trevor 56, 5. Spinoza (6) Chouhan 56, 6. Supreme Runner (5) S. Amit 56, 7. Alaskan Sky (2) Neeraj 54.5 and 8. Beastia (8) Bhawani 54.5.  1. ROMAN, 2. SPINOZA, 3. INFINITE N BEYOND   SPRUNGLI PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46, 4.30: 1. Speed Air (2) Vishal Bunde 61, 2. Belenus (11) Gagandeep 60, 3. Run Forrest Run (6) N.B. Kuldeep 60, 4. Agrami (7) Aniket 59, 5. Ron (4) M. S. Deora 59, 6. Pleiades (3) Ayyar 58.5, 7. Pulverize (9) A. Prakash 58, 8. Powerful Lady (8) Sandesh 57.5, 9. Royalty (1) Chouhan 57, 10. Mount Olympus (5) Kaviraj 55.5 and 11. Percivale (10) Parmar 54.5.  1. POWERFUL LADY, 2. ROYALTY, 3. AGRAMI   JAYANT M SHAH PLATE (Div. I) (1,400m), Cl. V, 5-y-o and over, rated 4 to 30, 5.00: 1. Crosswinds (1) Shubham 61.5, 2. Sachertorte (9) Vishal Bunde 61.5, 3. Mikayla’s Pride (4) J. Chinoy 60, 4. Caesar (7) M.S. Deora 59.5, 5. Periwinkle (5) Nazil 59.5, 6. Arabian Storm (6) Kaviraj 58.5, 7. Ellysia (Late Alpine Dancer) (13) Trevor 58.5, 8. Eternal Dancer (2) Parmar 58.5, 9. Va Bene (12) Neeraj 58.5, 10. Hollywood Park (3) Kuldeep 58, 11. Dowsabel (14) Zervan 57.5, 12. Polaris (11) Bhawani 57.5, 13. Cupido (10) Merchant 57 and 14. Romanesque (8) Dashrath 56.  1. SACHERTORTE, 2. ELLYSIA, 3. PERIWINKLE  Day’s best: CHANCELLOR  Double: CELLINI — WORLD IS ONE  Jackpot: 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8. Treble: (i) 3, 4 & 5; (ii) 6, 7 & 8. Tanala: All races. Super jackpot: 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8. Exacta Win Races: All races; Exacta Place Races: 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sultan-suleiman-capable-of-an-encore/article33573007.ece
14 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||FC Kerala to hold selection trials for senior team||FC Kerala, the Thrissur-based professional football club, will be conducting selection trials for its senior team which will be taking part in the Kerala Premier League this season. The trials will be held at the Sree Kerala Varma College ground on January 16 and 17 under COVID-19 protocol. Interested players should register their names through Google Form and the link is available on the club's website, FB page and on its twitter handle. The players will be given time slots and they’ll should report at the venue only at the allotted time. The club has also announced the appointment of former Kerala Santosh Trophy coach Narayana Menon as its technical advisor. FC Kerala, which entered the semifnals of the Kerala Premier League in the last season, has teams from under-7 to senior category. The club also runs FC Kerala Soccer Schools and FC Kerala Residential Football Academy in Thrissur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/fc-kerala-to-hold-selection-trials-for-senior-team/article33572901.ece
14 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rahi bests Chinki, Manu||Asian Games gold medallist Rahi Sarnobat asserted her class yet again as she overtook fellow Olympic quota winners Chinki Yadav and Manu Bhaker to the top spot in the women’s 25m sports pistol event of the National shooting selection trials at the Dr. Karni Singh Range on Wednesday. Rahi had qualified in the fourth place with 578, but called the shots in the final, twice with perfect rounds, as she pipped the young Chinki by two points with a total of 36. Manu who had topped qualification with 582 placed third, marginally ahead of Neha. Olympian Annu Raj Singh, Neeraj Kaur, Anisa Sayyed and Niveditha Nair were the others to make the final. In trap, Asian Games silver medallist Lakshay Sheoran was in top form as he beat Adhiraj Singh Rathore by four points for the top position. In women’s trap, Rajeshwari Kumari topped qualification and final ahead of Shreyasi Singh, the newly elected MLA from Bihar. Shapath Bharadwaj took the honours in the junior men’s event by beating qualification topper Shardul Vihan by one point.  The results:   Women’s 25m sports pistol: 1. Rahi Sarnobat 36 (578); 2. Chinki Yadav 34 (581); 3. Manu Bhaker 27 (582).   Trap: Men: 1. Lakshay Sheoran 46 (120); 2. Adhiraj Singh Rathore 42 (117); 3. Zoravar Singh Sandhu 33 (116).   Women: 1. Rajeshwari Kumari 43 (110); 2. Shreyasi Singh 36 (108); 3. Kirti Gupta 29 (105).   Junior men: 1. Shapath Bharadwaj 41 (111); 2. Shardul Vihan 40 (112); 3. Aditya Bhardwaj 29 (109).   Junior women: 1. Kirti Gupta 43 (105); 2. Sabeera Haris 42 (100); 3. Neeru 28 (101) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rahi-bests-chinki-manu/article33572585.ece
14 January 2021||Monastir (Tunisia),||Zeel in second round||Zeel Desai beat USA’s Gabriella Price 6-4, 6-4 in the first round of the $15,000 ITF women’s tennis tournament here on Wednesday.  Other results:   $15,000 ITF women, Monastir, Tunisia: Singles (first round): Vaidehi Chaudhari bt Oceane Babel (Fra) 3-6, 6-1, 6-1.   Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Laetitia Pulchartova (Cze) & Zeel Desai bt Lois Boisson (Fra) & Renee Van Bommel (Ned) 6-1, 6-3.   $15,000 ITF women, Cairo: Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Elina Avanesyan (Rus) & Lexie Stevens (Ned) bt Eline Audenaert (Bel) & Saumya Vig 6-1, 6-0.   Fanny Ostlund (Swe) & Riya Bhatia bt Beatrice Ricci & Alessandra Simone (Ita) 6-2, 6-3.   Vanda Lukacs (Hun) & Chantal Skamlova (Svk) bt Yasmin Ezzat (Egy) & Smriti Bhasin 6-1, 7-5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/zeel-advances/article33572586.ece
14 January 2021||Burnley,||United perched on top||Manchester United moved three points clear at the top of the Premier League after a Paul Pogba goal gave it a 1-0 win over Burnley at Turf Moor on Tuesday. The victory, in the re-arranged fixture, put United on 36 points from 17 games with rival Liverpool on 33 points ahead of the clash between the two sides at Anfield on Sunday. The breakthrough came in the 71st minute when Marcus Rashford floated in a ball from the right which Pogba met with a volley that deflected off Burnley defender Matt Lowton and beat the wrong-footed Nick Pope. It is the first time United has been top of the league after 17 games since December 2012 and the victory was its seventh in eight games away from Old Trafford. “It’s very hard to play here,” said Pogba, who enjoyed another good performance in the centre of midfield. “They have a style of play, very strong and we knew it would be difficult. We had to keep our heads calm and just focus on ourselves and hope the goal would come and it did come. It was a great performance from everyone, good focus. “There is still a long way to go and we have big games to go so we have to focus on that.” United skipper Harry Maguire had an effort ruled out in the first half after referee Kevin Friend ruled he had pushed Erik Pieters as he rose to head in a Luke Shaw cross at the back post.  United should have wrapped up the win in the final minutes but Anthony Martial, through on goal, was denied by the legs of Pope. Everton claimed a sixth win from nine away games this season as Michael Keane’s late header earned them a 2-1 victory at Wolverhampton Wanderers to move it into fourth spot. Lively opening A lively opening saw Alex Iwobi fire Everton in front before Ruben Neves replied for Wolves. Wolves had looked the more likely winner in a dull second half but Keane’s towering header in the 77th minute sealed maximum points for Carlo Ancelotti’s side. LaLiga leader Atletico Madrid proved its title credentials yet again by beating in-form Sevilla 2-0 at home on Tuesday to stride four points clear at the top of the standings. Atletico got off to an ideal start when Angel Correa received a pass from returning right back Kieran Trippier and took Sevilla by surprise with a shot which bounced in off the near post to give it the lead in the 17th minute. Midfielder Saul Niguez effectively clinched the victory with a thumping effort from the edge of the area in the 76th to score his first goal of the season and condemn Sevilla to a first defeat in 10 games in all competitions. The victory took Atletico on to 41 points after 16 games, four clear of second-placed Real Madrid which has played 18.  The results: Premier League: Burnley 0 lost to Manchester United 1 (Pogba 71); Sheffield United 1 (Sharp 73-pen) bt Newcastle 0; Wolverhampton Wanderers 1 (Neves 14) lost to Everton 2 (Iwobi 6, Keane 77).   LaLiga: Granada 2 (Suarez 22, Herrera 46-og) bt Osasuna 0; Atletico Madrid 2 (Correa 17, Saul Niguez 76) bt Sevilla 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/united-perched-on-top/article33572589.ece
14 January 2021||January 14 2021 00:00 IST,||The archa form||The archa form of Lord Narayana is lauded because it shows His saulabhya, said Kidambi Narayanan in a discourse. One day, Ramanujacharya was going for his bhiksha when he saw some boys playing on the street in Srirangam. They had drawn a figure on the sand and said to Ramaunja, “Look! We have drawn a figure of the God you worship.” Ramanuja worshipped the figure they had drawn. Periavachan Pillai in his commentary for a pasuram in Mudal Thiruvandhadi, narrates this incident. Whatever form you imagine Him to have, He assumes that form for your sake. Being in a divya desam must have influenced even the games the children of Srirangam played. Periavachan Pillai, in an explanation of a pasuram in Tondaradippodi Azhvar’s Thirumaalai, says a man should live only in a sacred town. When he marries and has children, he will want to take his children to the temple, because he has seen other parents do so. Soon his children begin to take an interest in the temple festivals, and when they play with their friends, they enact what they have observed in the temple. So, even when they are at play, their minds are on the Lord. Whatever utsava they have witnessed in the temple on a particular day becomes a part of the games they play. One day, the children in Srirangam picked up a coconut shell, put some sand in it and pretended it was the Lord. They even offered sand as a food offering to this God! Ramanuja was passing by and the children said, “Come and get the prasada which we have offered to the Lord!” And so saying, they gave him a handful of sand, which he accepted, as if it were indeed temple prasada. This shows the importance the Acharya gave to the archa form.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/the-archa-form/article33572538.ece
14 January 2021||Galle,||Mathews in squad for England Tests||Former Sri Lanka captain Angelo Mathews has recovered from injury and was named on Wednesday in a 22-player squad to face England in two Tests here from Thursday. Mathews, 33, did not make the South Africa trip due to a hamstring injury. Both games will be played behind closed doors.  The squad: Dimuth Karunaratne (capt.), Kusal Perera, Dinesh Chandimal, Kusal Mendis, Angelo Mathews, Oshada Fernando, Niroshan Dickwella, Minod Bhanuka, Lahiru Thirimanne, Lasith Embuldeniya, Wanindu Hasaranga, Dilruwan Perera, Suranga Lakmal, Lahiru Kumara, Vishwa Fernando, Dushmantha Chameera, Dasun Shanaka, Asitha Fernando, Roshen Silva, Lakshan Sandakan, Nuwan Pradeep and Ramesh Mendis .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mathews-in-squad-for-england-tests/article33572455.ece
14 January 2021||January 14 2021 00:00 IST,||ISL— Esmael helps CFC climb to fifth||Two costly errors by Gaurav Bora within the first 20 minutes helped Esmael Goncalves find the target twice as Chennaiyin FC defeated Odisha FC 2-1 and registered its third win in the Indian Super League at the GMC Stadium in Bambolim on Wednesday. The victory helped Chennaiyin climb to the fifth spot with 14 points from 11 games while Odisha remained rooted to the bottom with six from 11.  The result: Odisha FC 1 (Diego Mauricio 63) lost to Chennaiyin FC 2 (Esmael Goncalves 15, 21-pen).   Thursday’s match: FC Goa vs Jamshedpur FC.   Friday: SC East Bengal vs Kerala Blasters .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/isl-esmael-helps-cfc-climb-to-fifth/article33572580.ece
14 January 2021||Brisbane,||‘Delayed IPL may be cause for injuries’||Australia coach Justin Langer suggested on Wednesday the delayed IPL was to blame for so many injuries marring Australia's blockbuster series with India. The IPL normally begins in March, but was postponed as countries went into coronavirus lockdowns. It was then moved to the UAE as cases rose in India and only got under way on September 19, culminating on November 11. “I love the IPL. “But the timing of it... probably wasn't ideal and I wonder if that's having an impact on the injuries we are seeing for both teams throughout this summer.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/delayed-ipl-may-be-cause-for-injuries/article33572543.ece
14 January 2021||DUBAI,||Ankita loses in final round||Ankita Raina's bid to qualify for a Grand Slam singles main draw failed yet again when she lost in the final round of the Australian Open qualifying event to Serbian Olga Danilovic 6-2. 3-6, 6-1 on Wednesday. It was her sixth attempt to qualify for a Slam. Ankita’s defeat meant that Sumit Nagal, who was awarded a wild card, will be the only Indian in the singles event for the first Slam of the season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ankita-loses-in-final-round/article33572549.ece
14 January 2021||January 14 2021 11:12 IST,||Sudoku - January 14, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-january-14-2021/article33573806.ece
14 January 2021||January 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Bulls, muscle, and a pandemic||Babloo the bull, is ready to charge out of the vaadivasal (entry way) for the first time at the Alanganallur jallikattu on January 16. At two years, with just four teeth, Babloo is technically only a calf. He has been pampered for the past six months — “like a baby”, as K Vignesh, who along with his grandfather and mother is responsible for Babloo’s care, puts it. The 24-year-old is among several young men in and around Alanganallur, the epicentre of the world-famous bull-taming event in Madurai district, who have turned bull-owners this year owing to the pandemic. “I saved up around Rs. 25,000 from my work with a contractor involved in stone-laying,” says Vignesh, adding, “I didn’t have work during lockdown and decided to invest in a bull.” He bought Babloo from Usilampatti six months ago. His employer, G Selva, also from Alanganallur, too has bought two bulls. Vignesh admits he is jittery about the big day. “Jallikattu is not new to me. I have been participating from my teens, but this is Babloo’s first time,” he says, adding, “We have no idea about his temperament. Will he sprint out fearlessly or hesitate at the sight of the crowd? I cannot tell you how anxious I am.” New entrants There are three big jallikattu tournaments held during Pongal in Madurai every year: at Avaniyapuram, Palamedu, and Alanganallur. These events attract thousands from across the country and abroad, including bull owners from across the State who train their animals through the year for the big day. This year, though, jallikattu will be strictly controlled. Participants and bull owners are to take COVID-19 tests a couple of days before the event, and seating arrangements will be spaced out. The most notable change brought about by the pandemic and lockdown is the increase in the number of first-time bull owners. Several men, like Vignesh, have put together their earnings to buy bulls. “Nine of my friends bought bulls during lockdown,” says M Sakthivel, a jallikattu champion from Alanganallur. “This time, 162 bulls from across 19 villages around Alanganallur have registered for the tournament. Last year, we had only 120,” the 25-year-old points out. T Godwin, a physical education teacher from Alanganallur, puts this trend down to the urge to “do something” to combat lockdown-induced boredom. “The mood in the village is vibrant now. Everywhere I see, there are young men walking their bulls. I saw similar scenes in Madurai town as well. Some 15 boys were cheerfully walking four muscular bulls,” he remarks. Alanganallur’s sprightly jallikattu champions did struggle through lockdown though; not all bulls were as lucky as Babloo. A good diet for the animals usually includes cotton seeds, sesame seeds and groundnut oil cakes, toor dal dust and wheat dust mixed with water, and irumbu cholam (a millet variety). “My bull did not get any special food for five months since I didn’t have an income,” says Sakthivel, adding, “It is only during the past one month that I have been able to offer a good feed.” A different scenario Nevertheless, the bulls are fit; and so are the players, according to M Malar Mannan, a champion from Alanganallur. “Physical activity is a given for people like us who lead a rural lifestyle,” says the 33-year-old. “We walk around hills, swim with our bulls in ponds, and as a result we are fit through the year and do not require any special training,” he adds. Mannan is less excited about jallikattu this year, a sport he has been participating in since he was 19. “Jallikattu is all about sweating it out amid mud as crowds cheer. Feeling my fellow players’ breath on my face, almost hearing his beating heart from behind as he awaits to pounce on a bull… for me, these define the jallikattu experience. I am not sure how this mood will be recreated in a strictly-controlled set up,” he says. Sakthivel, however, has other worries. Usually, veteran players who throng the vaadivasal as the bulls are released offer precious tips to players. “They quickly pass on information about each bull. Things like ‘let this one go’, ‘this one is a sprinter’, ‘hold this one by the hump’ and so on,” says Sakthivel, adding, “But this time, there are several new bulls in the tournament. No one knows how they will react or how they will charge.” He adds, “In that sense too, this jallikattu is going to be something new.”  Preparing for the big day Bulls are given an oil bath at a local pond once every two or three days for up to a month before the event. Swimming and walking are an essential part of their training. The horns are rubbed in castor oil in preparation for the tournament and tended to by specialists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/bulls-muscle-and-a-pandemic/article33572390.ece
14 January 2021||January 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Soulmate in the ring||Fourteen-year-old Tanusha Kumar spends a fair bit of time with her horse Soulmate every day, feeding him carrots and jaggery after long practice sessions. Though she has been riding for the past six to seven years, Soulmate joined her only six months ago. It was with him that she went on to clinch a gold at the Junior National Equestrian Championship held in Delhi from December 20 to 28 (2020), in the Dressage category. And, Soulmate is a natural when it comes to dressage. Tanusha is one among 12 riders from the Chennai Equitation Centre (CEC), who won accolades in this competition, which saw a participation of over 200 riders. Apart from winning in team categories, Pradyutha Prasanna (Dressage — Silver), Jaiveer (Show Jumping — Gold) and Hansika (Show Jumping — Silver) are the winners in the Children 2 category, while Tiyasha Vatul secured a Gold in the Juniors category for Show Jumping. The championship covers children and young adults of various age groups and CEC prepares them for this competition every year. “Qualifying rounds are held through the year. In them, one has to figure in the top 50 riders to be able to participate. I don’t think a rider who has not completed at least five years of riding, can even attempt this competition,” explains Isabelle Futnani, international dressage rider and coach at CEC. The Centre took nine horses and 10 riders for this competition, which has two major categories: Show Jumping and Dressage. “Show jumping is when the horse is made to jump over obstacles in the shortest time frame possible, and dressage is where the horse showcases almost precise, dance-like movements with the rider,” says Isabelle. For both, it is important for the rider to build a relationship with the horse. “The horse can understand one’s voice modulation. In order to nurture that relationship, the horse needs to remain motivated,” Isabelle says. “Ever since I started riding, I liked dressage but it took me one to two years to learn it step by step,” says Tanusha. The fact that dressage requires one’s undivided concentration is what attracted Tanusha. “Every part of your body is engaged.” In a day, riders spend 30 minutes to an hour for practice. And, sometimes they practice with more than one horse, adds Isabelle. Typically, a young horse-rider’s day begins at 5 am. Isabelle says that it is encouraging to see a talented crop of new riders emerge. She says that at one point, the sport was taken up mainly by those with a background in horse riding: children of Army officials, for instance. This, she believes, is changing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/soulmate-in-the-ring/article33572422.ece
14 January 2021||January 14 2021 00:00 IST,||The fields are grateful||Growing up, Pongal to me meant holidays, movie releases, play time with cousins and, of course puja as well as making and eating lots of Pongal. However, since becoming a planter (farmer of cash crops), this festival has taken on a significantly different meaning. As the daughter of the family, it was never on the cards that I would be a planter despite my father and grandfather being one. I did just as was expected of me. I became a chartered accountant, got married, sported a corporate career and lived the racy city life in many parts of the world. And then it all changed. I was in the midst of a divorce, treatment for a terminally ill father and relocating back to my small hometown in India all at once. In these dire circumstances the most joyous thing happened. I became a cardamom planter in Kerala. I got myself a wide brimmed hat, rain boots, hiking gear and UV-protect hoodies, and marched right into this otherwise male dominated world. Looking back, the initial set of challenges I faced now seem a cakewalk. It involved establishing myself as a woman leader to the plantation folk, unions and local political parties. It further involved evincing genuine respect for my opinions, rather than reluctant obedience merely because I was ayya ’s (the boss’) city-bred daughter. It included not batting an eyelid when I was given a tour of the locations where huge resident cobras like to sunbathe. I learnt to overcome each of these challenges…and as I learnt, the plantation folk learnt too. They revelled in the new collaborative management style I followed, as compared to the more instructive style my very experienced father had. They took pride and honour in the larger responsibilities I placed on them simply because they are more experienced than I am. They began to respect my use of the Internet, access to research firms and consultants to find solutions to problems rather than rely on just in-house experience. They learnt to value the excel spreadsheets and reports I forced them to maintain, as access to data became remarkably simple. Gradually, over time, they allowed themselves to be challenged, and eventually guided by me. This journey has taken five years and the plantation folks and I now make a strong team. Yet with every passing year, just when we believe we have seen it all, we face new situations that sometimes challenge our very existence. As the Kerala floods of 2018 ravaged our fields and broke our labour quarters and catchment, we worked non-stop over the next 18 months to salvage our plantation. So imagine our bewilderment, come 2020. COVID-19 related lockdown restrictions, extreme dearth of labour due to shut State borders and absent migrant workers, delayed monsoons followed by torrentially excessive rains... the list of challenges seemed endless. Yet while the world stopped, agriculture didn’t. We ploughed on. As members of my team and I fell sick with COVID-19, requiring extensive quarantine planning on the plantation during peak cardamom picking season, I remember lying on the hospital bed breathless and weak, staring at the ceiling, feeling completely overwhelmed. Yet, as January is born and Pongal is here, even the most dire challenges dissipate in memory, leaving us purely grateful for all the things that went right during the year. That every tree that fell did not take one of us along with it. That every gliding snake went by without confrontation. That we were able to address crop rotting caused by the torrential rains in time. That Komalam and Shanthi, the oldest of our workers affected by Covid-19, recovered completely and we were able to arrest the spread. That the rogue tuskers who visited us the past year did not cause havoc. That Gnanaraja, who ran into a tiger, which had lost its way right by the bungalow, was unharmed. That our long-time worker Girija was able to smile and wave at all of us before the cancer that consumed her body took her. That Murali who walked into a truant leopard by the forest boundary did not lose his wits and backed out safely. And most importantly, that even in the darkest hours of 2020, we were able to safeguard our people and produce against the numerous variables that are not in our control, and that it fed all of us on the plantation and kept our families safe and comfortable. Pongal has become a day to truly celebrate that we have made it through the year together successfully. In doing so, we renew our energy and faith to meet the challenges of the year that is to come. With the pristine weather that January offers, festively garlanded gods of our fields, crisp settu mundu s, bright smiles, and caramelised sakkara Pongal that we make together, this festival to me is like no other. It gives me intense gratification to have successfully seen our little plantation through one of the most challenging years in recent history. Pongalo Pongal !||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-fields-are-grateful/article33572430.ece
14 January 2021||January 14 2021 00:00 IST,||The Butterfly Effect||Never underestimate a sandwich. They can be wonderful things, as any midnight snacker can attest. At newly-launched Butterfly Effect on Chamiers Road, popular Kiwi Chef Willi Wilson, who was formerly executive chef at The Park Chennai, has created a line of inventive gourmet sandwiches. The space, launched by architect Junaid Ahmed, is chic and inviting, flooded with natural light. Over a plate of smoky chicken wings, freshly fried and finished with a clingy hot and sweet sauce, Willi says the menu, built around continental and Italian favourites, focusses on food that is “sustainable, quick, tasty, fresh.” Of course ‘continental’ food in India has come a long way from the 90s, thanks to chefs like Willi, moving from stodgy carbs smothered in white sauce and processed cheese to bright inventive takes on classics. For the sandwiches, diners can choose between white bread, wholewheat, baguettes, ciabatta and focaccia. And while fillings include the obligatory roasted chicken, tuna-mayo and a multi-layered vegetable club, the cafe also offers more unusual combinations, including curried apple in creamy mayonnaise, chunky with almonds and raisins; chicken quesadillas oozing cheese and grilled Caprese pesto with mozzarella. Watch out for the just-introduced Asian menu, featuring hawker classics like a spicy Indonesian Nasi Goreng, served with egg and chicken wings. Or Willi’s cheeky Daddy Wu’s chicken, a tribute to sweet and spicy pop-Chinese food. And, a steamy bowl of creamy cajun spiced butter prawns spooned over warm rice. Restaurants are still struggling with the fallout of the pandemic, fighting hard to retain staff, follow rules of physical distancing, keep customers safe and — through all this — keep updating menus to stay relevant in a competitive market. But, despite the setbacks of 2020, the cheery burst of new openings, as well as encouraging return of diners, signal a new beginning. And what better way to do it than with comfort food that pays tribute to the past.  The Butterfly Effect Café, is at   22 Chamiers Road, Nandanam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-butterfly-effect/article33572407.ece
14 January 2021||January 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Pongal by the bonfire||The eight cows at The Banyan Tree Farm Stay (Pollachi) are celebrities, and they know it. Every Pongal people come from all over the world to fuss over them as they get bathed and decked up for Mattu Pongal. This year, the bovine divas will miss their international fans but are more than happy to pose for domestic followers. M Prabhu, the ninth generation owner of the 160-year-old farm says, he has hosted guests from 30 countries. This year, because of the pandemic, however, most of his guests are from in and around Tamil Nadu. Taking a step back With concerns over boarding flights and trains due the pandemic, people are driving to nearby destinations this year. The short Pongal break is a great time for road trips. At The Banyan farm stay, celebrations include a traditional festive menu featuring dishes made with farm fresh yam, mochai (beans), red and white pumpkin. “We also show the attendees how to make pongal. They are mostly fascinated with the cows and how we feed them. Before that, till about 15 years back, it used to be our elephants,” says Prabhu, adding that the elephants also helped with farm work, but they no longer have them as maintenance became a challenge. Given its lush surroundings, the farmstay offers activities such as butterfly watching, birding, herpetology, Nature classes, cooking lessons and games like hop scotch, sack race, lemon and spoon race... “All activities that don’t involve computers,” says Prabhu. “This is a place where guests come to detox from the city. They are interested in different facets of a farm: how it runs, learning to make products out of coconut etc,” he adds. The 210-acres boast a large variety of trees including jamun, kokum, butterfruit and litchi, red and green custard apple, breadfruit and eggfruit. The team organises a treasure hunt so participants can learn names of trees as they play the game. Reconnecting with tradition Classic games like sack races, lemon and spoon races, as well as tree climbing, slow cycling and swimming are an annual fixture during the Pongal celebrations in Naveen Farms, Musiri (in Tiruchi district). City dwellers as well as locals participate in these competitions, which are almost always won by the locals. There is also a segment where couples are challenged to source raw ingredients from the farm and cook a meal. “We have been celebrating Pongal here for the last 10 years and get guests from India and the world over. This year the visitors are primarily from Chennai, Tiruchi, Madurai, Coimbatore and Thanjavur,” says Naveen Krishnan, who started the farm in 2005. He believes that farmstays in particular are popular around this time. “We make pongal in a mud pot. Then, our farm animals like donkeys, camels, cows, bulls are decorated for the occasion,” he adds. Last year, the farm welcomed upwards of 90 guests for the festivities. While many stay the night at the venue, a lot of them come on a day-trip to participate. “This year, so far, we have 70 guests coming,” adds Naveen. Besides the planned activities, people enjoy walking around their miyawaki forest, and acquaint themselves with the 116 varieties of trees grown here. Over the last few years, there has been a growing interest in agritourism among holidayers. Mohanavelu Ramasamy, manager — strategy at Destiny FarmStay in Udhagamandalam, another popular weekend getaway that starts getting booked for Pongal by mid-December, says, “There has been a shift in interest and our guests are keen to learn about agricultural processes and dairy farming.” That explains why, along with horse riding and trekking, the tour of their 30-acre patch growing herbs and vegetables is such a hit. “Sometimes, our guests come on short trips but go back armed with a whole lot of new knowledge, a few have even started their own agricultural ventures,” he says. And after a day at the farms, there is always a bonfire to light up the cold night as people settle down with a bowl of pongal and watch the embers reach the sky.  Over the last few years, there has been a growing interest in agritourism among holidayers||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/pongal-by-the-bonfire/article33572436.ece
14 January 2021||January 14 2021 00:00 IST,||The winning formula||Introspection was the order of the day for ‘Jayam’ Ravi during the lockdown last year. Whilst the film industry had to shut completely, Ravi admits to spending most of his downtime re-evaluating some of the decisions he has made in his career. “It was a good time to sit and think about the mistakes I had done and what I need to do to get better,” he smiles. The actor, whose upcoming film Bhoomi streams on Disney+ Hotstar from January 14, connects over a Zoom call from Hyderabad, where he is filming for a project. Is it for Mani Ratnam’s Ponniyin Selvan in which he plays a lead role? “I can’t admit to anything,” he laughs, sheepishly. Since we connect only a few days after the shoot of Rajinikanth’s Annaatthe , which also was underway in Hyderabad before it had to be ended abruptly due to multiple cases of people on the film set contracting COVID-19, the obvious question arises: does he feel safe going back to work, especially when imposing a bio-bubble on film crews have proved cumbersome in India? “ Every other business has opened up with necessary precautions. We have to handle the situation the same way in film shoots as well. I hope there won’t be any problems, but if there is one we have no choice but to find a way to cope... because work has to happen,” Ravi adds. Edited excerpts from an interview:  Bhoomi is one of three major Tamil films releasing this Pongal. The other two are releasing in theatres, so why did you opt for an OTT release? We did think about a theatrical release but the fact is we waited for 11 months with a completed film, expectantly waiting for theatres to open. It didn’t happen and, as you may know, safeguarding a finished product is akin to walking on a knife’s edge. One never knows when the story will be leaked or something else will happen. So we signed over the film to Disney+ Hotstar, and immediately after came the announcement that theatres were reopening. You play Bhoominathan in the film. Tell us about him. What is he fighting for?  Bhoominathan is fighting for something that is relevant in today’s context — for farmers. It is not a clichéd story, however. The film has addressed the subject with—sincerity; the farmers’ issue is not just one sequence in the larger story, it is connected to the whole of the plot. My character is an astronaut who returns to his hometown after being away for a few years. He comes back and realises that some things are wrong; he makes a few decisions that he thinks will help society heal in a way. As an actor, you have tried to remain apolitical. Can a film on a subject like farmers’ issues be apolitical?  Look, this is a serious subject, but at the same time, I am not making a documentary. I am making a commercial movie, so there are some creative liberties that have been used, which is also the reason why we have a disclaimer at the start of a film. Has cinema lost its charm as a medium that can influence its audience? A few decades ago, cinema was a propaganda tool for the then-rising Dravidian politics, but these days, it would appear that the values don’t stick to the viewer...  I still think audiences take back values from a film. For instance, a film like Comali where the lead character is someone who re-emerges from a coma to find that society has changed. This was the entertainment factor in the film, so if you found the content entertaining, it means that the values also reflected well on the audience. Inevitably then, the viewer will take back the message. Even with Santhosh Subramaniam , where the story is set in a family where the father takes all the decisions, people rang me up after watching the film to tell me that they had forced their son or daughter to do this or that, and that they were going to drop doing it. These are positive changes. Many in Tamil cinema have tried to follow the Viswasam formula for instant success. Is Bhoomi a similar attempt?  (Laughs) I stay away from formula. I did the first zombie and space movie here, so I have always attempted something that is not formulaic because of the confidence in my audience. It wasn’t intentional that Bhoomi has a rural setup or falls in a genre that resembles previous formula films. What changes do you expect to see in Tamil cinema’s business in the pandemic’s wake?  Budgets will reduce, for sure. It is always best to work from a safe zone when you are always unsure of what might happen. It also means there will be limited crew. But I don’t expect the movie watching experience to change. Do you suppose the star-driven culture will change should corporate entities enter production?  No. It will never be affected. It is like how back in the day, a film had to run 100 days to be successful and now it only needs a 10-day run. Those days, there were only single screen theatres and you had four shows in a day. These days, we have multiplexes and 40 shows in a day; just the ratio differs. Likewise, the star value of an actor won’t change. Neither will the public’s interest to go to theatres and watch movies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-winning-formula/article33572382.ece
14 January 2021||January 14 2021 00:00 IST,||The story behind a smile||A black-and-white photographic portrait featuring halved, smiling faces of a man and a woman stands tall against a radiant blue sky dotted with clouds. The half-faces seem to merge into each other on a single wall. Their carefree smiles that somehow seem familiar are spread across Indira Nagar MRTS’ main facade along the Rajiv Gandhi IT Expressway. This portrait by Chennai-based graffiti writer and street artist A-Kill is one of 10 that, within the next 10 to 12 days, will be spread across the 280-metre-long facade as a panoramic mural. Often only identified by its peak hour traffic, the expressway will now carry art that urges to destigmatise and raise awareness about HIV/AIDS. An initiative by St+art India Foundation and Tamil Nadu State Aids Control Society (TANSACS) along with Tidel Park and Southern Railway, the mural was initiated in an attempt to wake the city up to the discrimination faced by people with HIV. It also reflects the theme of this year’s World AIDS Day as declared by UNAIDS — Global Solidarity, Shared Responsibility. To that end, portraits of people with HIV and otherwise are placed one after the other to drive home the point that there are no physical determinants to AIDS. Aptly titled ‘We Are’, the public art project is actualised by A-Kill and Delhi-based street artist Khatra, and assisted by Chennai-based artists Raghupathy and Jaya. Though the recent showers in the city disrupted their work briefly, the team, which has been working since December 23, is now back on the ground to complete the mural within a fortnight. “I will be drawing 10 very familiar, faces. Among these will be faces of those with HIV as well. This is to show that at the end of the day we are all human. This is the core concept behind the work,” says A-Kill, of the project curated by Guilia Ambrogi, co-founder of St+art India Foundation. The first portrait that features on the facade is that of a couple with HIV/AIDS. A-Kill, whose works derive from street photography, had shot them at Chengalpattu while researching for the project. Other faces are inspired by some of the earlier shots from his photo library. While some images will be photo manipulated to protect the subjects’ identities, others (with permission) will be portrayed as is. A-Kill’s creative process spurts from something called a lazy grid or doodle grid, which are markings across the wall that help him ascertain the scale of the surface. On these seemingly incoherent markings, the image is superimposed. This time, however, to make the documentation process more interesting, a poem was scribbled on the wall as a lazy grid. Khatra, on the other hand, is working on a colourful backdrop on which A-Kill’s work will rest. He has already done the markings and will return to the city again to complete the mural. “There will be a red ribbon running throughout the entire portrait,” adds A-Kill. The project will be 65 feet by 903 feet in dimension. Regarding the choice of the wall, A-Kill who was assigned to the project after the wall was chosen, says, “The Indira Nagar MRTS wall is the ideal one to paint on with very few obstructions. It is also a long stretch. The other [MRTS] surfaces were layered .”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-story-behind-a-smile/article33572386.ece
14 January 2021||January 14 2021 00:00 IST,||My experiments with rice||The cooker with black rice and dal whistles, puffing steam along with a drizzle of purple-coloured water onto my kitchen walls. I wince at the thought of cleaning up: black rice, evidently, is not easy to handle. But once I open the cooker — after five whistles and 10-minutes of simmering on low flame — the glistening deep-purple rice makes me forget all else.    Kavuni arisi or black rice pongal is the third variety I am experimenting with. In an attempt to make sakkarai pongal with heritage rice varieties this year, I narrow down to three: thooyamalli , kavuni arisi , and thinai arisi . The best pongal wins, which I will cook on the big day.  Sakkarai pongal is a silky concoction of rice, moong dal , jaggery and ghee. Although raw rice is widely used, several heritage rice varieties make for a great pongal. These include iluppai poo samba , mappilai samba , neelam , Salem sanna , jeeraga samba , hand-pound raw rice, thooyamalli , kuruvai , and thinai arisi , according to Praveen Anand, executive chef, South Indian Cuisine, ITC Hotels. “Pongal is a festival in which farmers offer to Nature whatever they grew on their land,” explains Praveen, adding, “The above varieties are grown in the Madurai belt, the stronghold of Tamil culture.” Cooking time and the amount of water required, varies for each; Praveen suggests soaking the hard varieties such as mappilai samba for half an hour before cooking. Round 1  Thooyamalli is from his list and the rice, slightly longer, but as thin as jeeraga samba , does a great job of becoming one with the jaggery and dal. The taste is similar to the typical raw rice pongal; the rice, a shade darker than ivory, bears a mild fragrance. Round 2  Thinai or foxtail millet is technically not a rice variety. But I decide to cook it thanks to a conversation Coimbatore-based A Shrikumar, (who works for an NGO) had with an elderly man from a tribal village in the Sathyamangalam forest. “I learnt that people of the Urali tribe make pongal with millets, thinai , ragi , cholam , varagu or samai ,” says Shrikumar. This is because they chiefly grow millets in the hills. And years ago, when jaggery was difficult to source, tribal people used honey to sweeten their pongal. “They also made a curry with the vegetables they grew, to be had with pongal,” he points out. “They used wild tubers, broad beans…whatever they cultivated.” I cook thinai pongal in a steel wok since millets do not require pressure-cooking. The tiny round morsels yield well — in no time, they take in the jaggery syrup I spoon in. Thinai has a nice earthy fragrance that is subdued in the end result: what makes this pongal stand apart is the pleasingly grainy texture. Round 3  Kavuni or black rice is the best-looking of them all. Apart from the health benefits the rice boasts, I pick it to attempt cooking a hard rice variety. Which means it requires soaking the night before to make the rice pliable. I pressure-cook it: it is easier that way. But before that, I spread the soaked rice on a piece of cloth to dry and dry roast it before cooking. I add jaggery syrup and simmer the deep-purple mix of rice and dal , but the colour remains the same. Once done, I top it with plenty of ghee-roasted cashews. The taste is unique: the rice’s nutty flavour fits jaggery’s sweetness to the T. And the pongal is chewy, with a depth of flavour. The winner is undoubtedly black rice. It is slightly more elaborate to cook, but the end result is worth it.  Thooyamalli, that is longer thanjeeraga samba, does a great job of becoming one with the jaggery and dal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/my-experiments-with-rice/article33572402.ece
14 January 2021||January 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Ribbons on an ox||As a child, U Kavita’s favourite part of Sankranti was decorating her favourite ox with ribbons. “I would spend hours with him trying to tie beautiful ribbon knots to his horns and applying a red tilak to his forehead. As part of festivities, farmers in Karnataka decorate their livestock during Sankranti,” she says. Growing up in Bidarur, a remote village in Kodagu district, the celebrations at Kavita’s house were homey. Preparations for the festival in her household began a few weeks in advance when they cleaned the house and whitewashed it. “Sankranti was a two-day festival for us. On day one we give away old clothes and other household things. It is symbolic of making way for newer and better things in life. On the day of Sankranti, my mother would make lemon rice, vada s and payasam . Sometimes, we would also have akki (rice) roti and a vegetable to go with it. Most of the ingredients that were used for the feast were from our own farms,” says the 57-year-old. After her wedding, Kavita moved to Belgaum where the tradition of Ellu Birodhu is followed; people visit their friends and family on the evening of Sankranti and exchange e llu bella , a mixture of sesame seeds and jaggery. “Sankranthi is now just a day-long festival when we feast on food prepared from store-bought ingredients and visit our relatives in the evening. There is no white-washing the house or decorating the livestock anymore,” she says. For 84-year-old Savitri Jain in Nagpur, the flood of memories begins at sunrise. Savitri grew up in a village in Madhya Pradesh’s Sagar district, with rituals distinctly different from that in Nagpur, Maharashtra, where she now lives. One thing, however, is common in the festivities of both states. “ Zyadatar, y eh aurato ka tyohar hai. [It is primarily a festival for women],” she states matter-of-factly over the phone from Nagpur. Which is why the Sankranti of her girlhood would begin even before the sun rose for the women of her village. “It was customary for the women to walk together to the river nearby. We would bathe there, and use that water to give offerings to the sun god,” she recalls.  Daan or donation, or offering food to the less fortunate was also an important ritual. A large part of Savitri’s memories have to do with the foods she doesn’t get to taste any more. “These days, people don’t think beyond til gur (sesame and jaggery). But back in the day, we used to make so many kinds of laddu s together: with rice flour, wheat flour, lai (puffed rice), and even rajma and dalwa (green gram). The main dish was always khichdi ,” she states,“There are a lot of reasons behind this festival, but I think the main one for us, was finding an excuse to bring the whole family together.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/ribbons-on-an-ox/article33572426.ece
14 January 2021||January 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Master and me||Master ’s story unfolds in Chennai and Nagercoil; it is an action entertainer film. It was a new experience for me working with Vijay anna . I did have fears about how I was going to handle a film with a big star, but that dissipated in the first couple of days of shoot because he (Vijay) consciously builds a comfort space for technicians on set. It is his nature, and I could say that it rubbed off on us as well. So we worked without pressure for the 129 days that we shot the film. The idea with Master was to make a film that satisfies Vijay anna’s fans but also make a movie that the common audience would like as well. He too wanted to be part of such a film as he wanted to do something different. The biggest selling point of the film will be the clash between Vijay and Vijay Sethupathi. With each big star I work, my biggest takeaway has been to remain more humble than before. One thing I wish to clarify is that irrespective of their stardom, none of my actors have asked me to compromise on my script. My debut film, Maanagaram has been my identity thus far. Even when Kamal [Haasan] sir signed me on, Kaithi had not released at that point; he only had Maanagaram to go by before making his choice. It just proves that big stars are watching young filmmakers and that they are keen to work with us. So our craft becomes a recognition point if they are to handpick us.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/master-and-me/article33572416.ece
14 January 2021||January 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Non-stop entertainment||Netflix has promised “a new movie every week” for 2021. A tweet from the streaming service offered a sneak peek into 27 of the biggest titles in the line up this year, including Red Notice , starring Gal Gadot, Ryan Reynolds and Dwayne Johnson. Other films on offer are Zack Snyder’s zombie film Army of the Dead , the Leonardo DiCaprio-Jennifer Lawrence film Don’t Look Up , Halle Berry’s directorial début Bruised and Lin Manuel Miranda’s directoral début Tik, Tik... Boom!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/non-stop-entertainment/article33572383.ece
14 January 2021||January 14 2021 00:00 IST,||The pot of abundance||The organic store Vaer has put together a special sakkarai pongal hamper to familiarise people with heritage rice varieties of India. The hampers are made using three different types of rice such as Poongar (known as the women’s rice, as it is given to lactating mothers and pregnant women), Pal Veliyan (native to Wayanad and grown by Kurichiya tribes), and Mappilai Samba (said to improve immunity and stamina). The hampers are designed in the form of DIY kits, and includes the ingredients required as well as a cooking instruction card. The store will be closed on January 13 and 14; those interested in buying can walk-in to the store after Pongal.  @Vauer Organic Store, Rs. 599. Call: 99628 27070    How about a sumptuous vegetarian fare for this harvest festival? Head to Savera, where the chefs of Malgudi Restaurant have a specially curated menu for Pongal. The Malgudi Pongal virundhu has regional specials such as kalkandu varagarisi pongal, pachamocha vendakka puli kulambu, arakeera kadayal and more. This take away lunch comes with a set menu, and will be sufficient for two.  @Malgudi Restaurant, Hotel Savera, January 14 and 15, lunch only by pre-order. Rs. 795. Call: 9710947361    Spend the day at DakshinaChitra where Raju and his troupe will perform folk dance of Tamil Nadu such as Karagattam, Mayilattam , Poi-kaal kudiraiyattam and Oyilattam . They will also play nadaswaram and tavil and enthrall the visitors. Traditional games such as uri adi and also Pongal preparation in traditional manner (on January 14) are also being organised as part of Pongal celebrations. Guests can also check in at the rooms available at the museum guest house (Rs. 975 onwards per day).  @Dakshinachitra, Muttukadu, The Pongal Thiruvizha is on till January 17, 10.30 am to 5.30 pm. Call: 9841266149    A Pongal theme buffet lunch (Rs. 1199 plus taxes) at Seasonal Tastes, featuring thematic display along with traditional Pongal festival delicacies await guests. Apart from this, Pongal specials such as thinai pongal, poosanikai peratal , kadala paruppu payasam and much more can also be home delivered through Marriott on Wheels, where they offer set menu that serves two (Rs. 1200 plus taxes)  @The Westin Chennai, Velachery, lunch buffet on January 14, 12 noon to 3 pm. For reservations, call: 8939892056 .   Master Chef Jagdeesh and his team at Sheraton Grand Chennai Resort & Spa have curated a week-long experience for guests showcasing South India’s best traditional dishes for the harvest festival. The Pongal Festive Buffet (lunch and dinner, Rs. 1600 plus taxes) at The Reef offers a wide range of dishes such as sarson ka saag and makki ki roti, appam and stew , maamidikaya pappu, paniyaram and the season’s special sakkara pongal ! Enjoy the special Pongal thali which will be served on banana leaf at C Salt (lunch and dinner, veg: Rs. 1600, non-veg: Rs. 2800) with South Indian fare such as kothavaranga poriyal, vazhathandu kootu , kalkandu pongal and inippu sevai served on a banana leaf.  @Sheraton Grand Chennai Resort & Spa, 13 to 17 January, 2021. For reservations, call: 71006000||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-pot-of-abundance/article33572399.ece
14 January 2021||January 14 2021 00:00 IST,||The fields are grateful||Growing up, Pongal to me meant holidays, movie releases, play time with cousins and, of course puja as well as making and eating lots of Pongal. However, since becoming a planter (farmer of cash crops), this festival has taken on a significantly different meaning. As the daughter of the family, it was never on the cards that I would be a planter despite my father and grandfather being one. I did just as was expected of me. I became a chartered accountant, got married, sported a corporate career and lived the racy city life in many parts of the world. And then it all changed. I was in the midst of a divorce, treatment for a terminally ill father and relocating back to my small hometown in India all at once. In these dire circumstances the most joyous thing happened. I became a cardamom planter in Kerala. I got myself a wide brimmed hat, rain boots, hiking gear and UV-protect hoodies, and marched right into this otherwise male dominated world. Looking back, the initial set of challenges I faced now seem a cakewalk. It involved establishing myself as a woman leader to the plantation folk, unions and local political parties. It further involved evincing genuine respect for my opinions, rather than reluctant obedience merely because I was ayya ’s (the boss’) city-bred daughter. It included not batting an eyelid when I was given a tour of the locations where huge resident cobras like to sunbathe. I learnt to overcome each of these challenges…and as I learnt, the plantation folk learnt too. They revelled in the new collaborative management style I followed, as compared to the more instructive style my very experienced father had. They took pride and honour in the larger responsibilities I placed on them simply because they are more experienced than I am. They began to respect my use of the Internet, access to research firms and consultants to find solutions to problems rather than rely on just in-house experience. They learnt to value the excel spreadsheets and reports I forced them to maintain, as access to data became remarkably simple. Gradually, over time, they allowed themselves to be challenged, and eventually guided by me. This journey has taken five years and the plantation folks and I now make a strong team. Yet with every passing year, just when we believe we have seen it all, we face new situations that sometimes challenge our very existence. As the Kerala floods of 2018 ravaged our fields and broke our labour quarters and catchment, we worked non-stop over the next 18 months to salvage our plantation. So imagine our bewilderment, come 2020. COVID-19 related lockdown restrictions, extreme dearth of labour due to shut State borders and absent migrant workers, delayed monsoons followed by torrentially excessive rains... the list of challenges seemed endless. Yet while the world stopped, agriculture didn’t. We ploughed on. As members of my team and I fell sick with COVID-19, requiring extensive quarantine planning on the plantation during peak cardamom picking season, I remember lying on the hospital bed breathless and weak, staring at the ceiling, feeling completely overwhelmed. Yet, as January is born and Pongal is here, even the most dire challenges dissipate in memory, leaving us purely grateful for all the things that went right during the year. That every tree that fell did not take one of us along with it. That every gliding snake went by without confrontation. That we were able to address crop rotting caused by the torrential rains in time. That Komalam and Shanthi, the oldest of our workers affected by Covid-19, recovered completely and we were able to arrest the spread. That the rogue tuskers who visited us the past year did not cause havoc. That Gnanaraja, who ran into a tiger, which had lost its way right by the bungalow, was unharmed. That our long-time worker Girija was able to smile and wave at all of us before the cancer that consumed her body took her. That Murali who walked into a truant leopard by the forest boundary did not lose his wits and backed out safely. And most importantly, that even in the darkest hours of 2020, we were able to safeguard our people and produce against the numerous variables that are not in our control, and that it fed all of us on the plantation and kept our families safe and comfortable. Pongal has become a day to truly celebrate that we have made it through the year together successfully. In doing so, we renew our energy and faith to meet the challenges of the year that is to come. With the pristine weather that January offers, festively garlanded gods of our fields, crisp settu mundu s, bright smiles, and caramelised sakkara Pongal that we make together, this festival to me is like no other. It gives me intense gratification to have successfully seen our little plantation through one of the most challenging years in recent history. Pongalo Pongal !||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-fields-are-grateful/article33572715.ece
14 January 2021||January 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Bulls, muscle, and a pandemic||Babloo the bull, is ready to charge out of the vaadivasal (entry way) for the first time at the Alanganallur jallikattu on January 16. At two years, with just four teeth, Babloo is technically only a calf. He has been pampered for the past six months — “like a baby”, as K Vignesh, who along with his grandfather and mother is responsible for Babloo’s care, puts it. The 24-year-old is among several young men in and around Alanganallur, the epicentre of the world-famous bull-taming event in Madurai district, who have turned bull-owners this year owing to the pandemic. “I saved up around Rs. 25,000 from my work with a contractor involved in stone-laying,” says Vignesh, adding, “I didn’t have work during lockdown and decided to invest in a bull.” He bought Babloo from Usilampatti six months ago. His employer, G Selva, also from Alanganallur, too has bought two bulls. Vignesh admits he is jittery about the big day. “Jallikattu is not new to me. I have been participating from my teens, but this is Babloo’s first time,” he says, adding, “We have no idea about his temperament. Will he sprint out fearlessly or hesitate at the sight of the crowd? I cannot tell you how anxious I am.” New entrants There are three big jallikattu tournaments held during Pongal in Madurai every year: at Avaniyapuram, Palamedu, and Alanganallur. These events attract thousands from across the country and abroad, including bull owners from across the State who train their animals through the year for the big day. This year, though, jallikattu will be strictly controlled. Participants and bull owners are to take COVID-19 tests a couple of days before the event, and seating arrangements will be spaced out. The most notable change brought about by the pandemic and lockdown is the increase in the number of first-time bull owners. Several men, like Vignesh, have put together their earnings to buy bulls. “Nine of my friends bought bulls during lockdown,” says M Sakthivel, a jallikattu champion from Alanganallur. “This time, 162 bulls from across 19 villages around Alanganallur have registered for the tournament. Last year, we had only 120,” the 25-year-old points out. T Godwin, a physical education teacher from Alanganallur, puts this trend down to the urge to “do something” to combat lockdown-induced boredom. “The mood in the village is vibrant now. Everywhere I see, there are young men walking their bulls. I saw similar scenes in Madurai town as well. Some 15 boys were cheerfully walking four muscular bulls,” he remarks. Alanganallur’s sprightly jallikattu champions did struggle through lockdown though; not all bulls were as lucky as Babloo. A good diet for the animals usually includes cotton seeds, sesame seeds and groundnut oil cakes, toor dal dust and wheat dust mixed with water, and irumbu cholam (a millet variety). “My bull did not get any special food for five months since I didn’t have an income,” says Sakthivel, adding, “It is only during the past one month that I have been able to offer a good feed.” A different scenario Nevertheless, the bulls are fit; and so are the players, according to M Malar Mannan, a champion from Alanganallur. “Physical activity is a given for people like us who lead a rural lifestyle,” says the 33-year-old. “We walk around hills, swim with our bulls in ponds, and as a result we are fit through the year and do not require any special training,” he adds. Mannan is less excited about jallikattu this year, a sport he has been participating in since he was 19. “Jallikattu is all about sweating it out amid mud as crowds cheer. Feeling my fellow players’ breath on my face, almost hearing his beating heart from behind as he awaits to pounce on a bull… for me, these define the jallikattu experience. I am not sure how this mood will be recreated in a strictly-controlled set up,” he says. Sakthivel, however, has other worries. Usually, veteran players who throng the vaadivasal as the bulls are released offer precious tips to players. “They quickly pass on information about each bull. Things like ‘let this one go’, ‘this one is a sprinter’, ‘hold this one by the hump’ and so on,” says Sakthivel, adding, “But this time, there are several new bulls in the tournament. No one knows how they will react or how they will charge.” He adds, “In that sense too, this jallikattu is going to be something new.”  Preparing for the big day Bulls are given an oil bath at a local pond once every two or three days for up to a month before the event. Swimming and walking are an essential part of their training. The horns are rubbed in castor oil in preparation for the tournament and tended to by specialists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/bulls-muscle-and-a-pandemic/article33572718.ece
14 January 2021||January 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Pongal by the bonfire||The eight cows at The Banyan Tree Farm Stay (Pollachi, Tamil Nadu) are celebrities, and they know it. Every Pongal people come from all over the world to fuss over them as they get bathed and decked up for Mattu Pongal. This year, the bovine divas will miss their international fans but are more than happy to pose for domestic followers. M Prabhu, the ninth generation owner of the 160-year-old farm says, he has hosted guests from 30 countries. This year, because of the pandemic, however, most of his guests are from in and around Tamil Nadu. Taking a step back With concerns over boarding flights and trains due the pandemic, people are driving to nearby destinations this year. The short Pongal break is a great time for road trips. At The Banyan farm stay, celebrations include a traditional festive menu featuring dishes made with farm fresh yam, mochai (beans), red and white pumpkin. “We also show the attendees how to make pongal. They are mostly fascinated with the cows and how we feed them. Before that, till about 15 years back, it used to be our elephants,” says Prabhu, adding that the elephants also helped with farm work, but they no longer have them as maintenance became a challenge. Given its lush surroundings, the farmstay offers activities such as butterfly watching, birding, herpetology, Nature classes, cooking lessons and games like hop scotch, sack race, lemon and spoon race. “All activities that don’t involve computers,” says Prabhu. “This is a place where guests come to detox from the city. They are interested in different facets of a farm: how it runs, learning to make products out of coconut etc,” he adds. The 210-acres boast a large variety of trees including jamun, kokum, butterfruit and litchi, red and green custard apple, breadfruit and eggfruit. The team organises a treasure hunt so participants can learn names of trees as they play the game. Reconnecting with tradition Classic games like sack races, lemon and spoon races, as well as tree climbing, slow cycling and swimming are an annual fixture during the Pongal celebrations in Naveen Farms, Musiri (in Tiruchi district, Tamil Nadu). City dwellers as well as locals participate in these competitions, which are almost always won by the locals. There is also a segment where couples are challenged to source raw ingredients from the farm and cook a meal. “We have been celebrating Pongal here for the last 10 years and get guests from India and the world over. This year the visitors are primarily from Chennai, Tiruchi, Madurai, Coimbatore and Thanjavur,” says Naveen Krishnan, who started the farm in 2005. He believes that farmstays in particular are popular around this time. “We make pongal in a mud pot. Then, our farm animals like donkeys, camels, cows, bulls are decorated for the occasion,” he adds. Last year, the farm welcomed upwards of 90 guests for the festivities. While many stay the night at the venue, a lot of them come on a day-trip to participate. “This year, so far, we have 70 guests coming,” adds Naveen. Besides the planned activities, people enjoy walking around their miyawaki forest, and acquaint themselves with the 116 varieties of trees grown here. Over the last few years, there has been a growing interest in agritourism among holidayers. Mohanavelu Ramasamy, manager — strategy at Destiny FarmStay in Udhagamandalam, another popular weekend getaway that starts getting booked for Pongal by mid-December, says, “There has been a shift in interest and our guests are keen to learn about agricultural processes and dairy farming.” That explains why, along with horse riding and trekking, the tour of their 30-acre patch growing herbs and vegetables is such a hit. “Sometimes, our guests come on short trips but go back armed with a whole lot of new knowledge, a few have even started their own agricultural ventures,” he says. And after a day at the farms, there is always a bonfire to light up the cold night as people settle down with a bowl of pongal and watch the embers reach the sky.  Over the last few years, there has been a growing interest in agritourism among holidayers||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/pongal-by-the-bonfire/article33572716.ece
14 January 2021||January 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Ribbons on an ox||As a child, U Kavita’s favourite part of Sankranti was decorating her favourite ox with ribbons. “I would spend hours with him trying to tie beautiful ribbon knots to his horns and applying a red tilak to his forehead. As part of festivities, farmers in Karnataka decorate their livestock during Sankranti,” she says. Growing up in Bidarur, a remote village in Kodagu district, the celebrations at Kavita’s house were homey. Preparations for the festival in her household began a few weeks in advance when they cleaned the house and whitewashed it. “Sankranti was a two-day festival for us. On day one we give away old clothes and other household things. It is symbolic of making way for newer and better things in life. On the day of Sankranti, my mother would make lemon rice, vada s and payasam . Sometimes, we would also have akki (rice) roti and a vegetable to go with it. Most of the ingredients that were used for the feast were from our own farms,” says the 57-year-old. After her wedding, Kavita moved to Belgaum where the tradition of Ellu Birodhu is followed; people visit their friends and family on the evening of Sankranti and exchange e llu bella , a mixture of sesame seeds and jaggery. “Sankranthi is now just a day-long festival when we feast on food prepared from store-bought ingredients and visit our relatives in the evening. There is no white-washing the house or decorating the livestock anymore,” she says. For 84-year-old Savitri Jain in Nagpur, the flood of memories begins at sunrise. Savitri grew up in a village in Madhya Pradesh’s Sagar district, with rituals distinctly different from that in Nagpur, Maharashtra, where she now lives. One thing, however, is common in the festivities of both states. “ Zyadatar, y eh aurato ka tyohar hai. [It is primarily a festival for women],” she states matter-of-factly over the phone from Nagpur. Which is why the Sankranti of her girlhood would begin even before the sun rose for the women of her village. “It was customary for the women to walk together to the river nearby. We would bathe there, and use that water to give offerings to the sun god,” she recalls.  Daan or donation, or offering food to the less fortunate was also an important ritual. A large part of Savitri’s memories have to do with the foods she doesn’t get to taste any more. “These days, people don’t think beyond til gur (sesame and jaggery). But back in the day, we used to make so many kinds of laddu s together: with rice flour, wheat flour, lai (puffed rice), and even rajma and dalwa (green gram). The main dish was always khichdi ,” she states,“There are a lot of reasons behind this festival, but I think the main one for us, was finding an excuse to bring the whole family together.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/ribbons-on-an-ox/article33572714.ece
14 January 2021||January 14 2021 00:00 IST,||My experiments with RICE||The cooker with black rice and dal whistles, puffing steam along with a drizzle of purple-coloured water onto my kitchen walls. I wince at the thought of cleaning up: black rice, evidently, is not easy to handle. But once I open the cooker — after five whistles and 10-minutes of simmering on low flame — the glistening deep-purple rice makes me forget all else.    Kavuni arisi or black rice pongal is the third variety I am experimenting with. In an attempt to make sakkarai pongal with heritage rice varieties this year, I narrow down to three: thooyamalli , kavuni arisi , and thinai arisi . The best pongal wins, which I will cook on the big day.  Sakkarai pongal is a silky concoction of rice, moong dal , jaggery and ghee. Although raw rice is widely used, several heritage rice varieties make for a great pongal. These include iluppai poo samba , mappilai samba , neelam , Salem sanna , jeeraga samba , hand-pound raw rice, thooyamalli , kuruvai , and thinai arisi , according to Praveen Anand, executive chef, South Indian Cuisine, ITC Hotels. “Pongal is a festival in which farmers offer to Nature whatever they grew on their land,” explains Praveen, adding, “The above varieties are grown in the Madurai belt, the stronghold of Tamil culture.” Cooking time and the amount of water required, varies for each; Praveen suggests soaking the hard varieties such as mappilai samba for half an hour before cooking. Round 1  Thooyamalli is from his list and the rice, slightly longer, but as thin as jeeraga samba , does a great job of becoming one with the jaggery and dal. The taste is similar to the typical raw rice pongal; the rice, a shade darker than ivory, bears a mild fragrance. Round 2  Thinai or foxtail millet is technically not a rice variety. But I decide to cook it thanks to a conversation Coimbatore-based A Shrikumar, (who works for an NGO) had with an elderly man from a tribal village in the Sathyamangalam forest. “I learnt that people of the Urali tribe make pongal with millets, thinai , ragi , cholam , varagu or samai ,” says Shrikumar. This is because they chiefly grow millets in the hills. And years ago, when jaggery was difficult to source, tribal people used honey to sweeten their pongal. “They also made a curry with the vegetables they grew, to be had with pongal,” he points out. “They used wild tubers, broad beans…whatever they cultivated.” I cook thinai pongal in a steel wok since millets do not require pressure-cooking. The tiny round morsels yield well — in no time, they take in the jaggery syrup I spoon in. Thinai has a nice earthy fragrance that is subdued in the end result: what makes this pongal stand apart is the pleasingly grainy texture. Round 3  Kavuni or black rice is the best-looking of them all. Apart from the health benefits the rice boasts, I pick it to attempt cooking a hard rice variety. Which means it requires soaking the night before to make the rice pliable. I pressure-cook it: it is easier that way. But before that, I spread the soaked rice on a piece of cloth to dry and dry roast it before cooking. I add jaggery syrup and simmer the deep-purple mix of rice and dal , but the colour remains the same. Once done, I top it with plenty of ghee-roasted cashews. The taste is unique: the rice’s nutty flavour fits jaggery’s sweetness to the T. And the pongal is chewy, with a depth of flavour. The winner is undoubtedly black rice. It is slightly more elaborate to cook, but the end result is worth it.  Thooyamalli, that is longer thanjeeraga samba, does a great job of becoming one with the jaggery and dal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/my-experiments-with-rice/article33572719.ece
14 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi schools to reopen for senior students from Jan. 18||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday said that the Delhi government has allowed the reopening of schools for students of Classes 10 and 12 from January 18 so that they may complete their required studies ahead of the CBSE Board examinations, the dates of which have already been announced. The government said that physical attendance is not compulsory and students will attend schools only with the consent of parents and issued a standard operating procedure for all schools to follow. “Keeping in view CBSE board exams, permission is being granted for schools to reopen for Classes 10 and 12 from January 18 for practicals, project work and counselling. Students will be called with parent’s consent and will not be bound to come,” Mr. Sisodia tweeted. Schools have been closed since March 19 just ahead of the nationwide lockdown to prevent the spread of COVID-19. The CBSE issued a notification saying that board examinations for Classes 10 and 12 will commence from May 4 and that schools affiliated to the CBSE will be allowed to conduct practical/project/internal assessment of Classes 10 and 12 from March 1. Clear doubts The Directorate of Education said that although most of the syllabus has been covered during online classes of Class 12 and through worksheets of Class 10, the same may be revised and doubts/difficulties of students may be cleared by the teachers as it will impact positively on the mental well-being of students for the preparation of the examinations. “The CBSE has modified the design of question papers of Classes 10 and 12 by introducing the objective type questions, source- based questions, analytical and application-based questions from the session 2020-21. The students should be guided accordingly and given sufficient practice to answer all these type of questions in the board examinations,” the DoE said in its circular to the heads of schools. It added that pre-board examinations may be conducted from March 20 to April 15 tentatively for Class 12 and between April 1 and April 15 for Class 10. “While the records of children coming to school be maintained, the same should not be used for attendance purpose as sending the child to school is completely optional for parents,” the DoE said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/schools-to-reopen-for-class-10-12-students-from-january-18/article33572738.ece
14 January 2021||Chandigarh,||Farmers’ protest puts JJP under strain||Even as Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal and Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala have asserted that there was no threat to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) coalition government, a section of JJP legislators continue to take their party to task by cautioning it on facing farmers’ anguish and backlash in the backdrop of the JJP’s support to Centre’s farm laws. Some political observers are of the view that while there’s no imminent threat to the stability of the coalition government, if the farmers’ agitation continues for long, it could result in cracks developing within the JJP. “If the ongoing agitation continues for a long period and the pressure on JJP MLAs from farmers mounts, then one or two MLAs could rebel,” said Vijay Chauhan, Assistant Professor and Head of the Department of Political Science, Maharana Pratap National College, Mullanahe. In Haryana, the BJP and the JJP head a coalition government, with the BJP having 40 members and the JJP having 10 members in the 90-member State Assembly. In Haryana, leaders of the BJP and the JJP have been facing protests by anguished farmers on the farm laws. On January 10, a group of people protesting the farm laws ransacked a venue at Kaimla village in Karnal, where Mr. Lal was scheduled to address a farmers’ gathering. Last month, a group of farmers dug up a makeshift helipad in Jind’s Karsindhu village ahead of a scheduled visit by Mr. Chautala, and demanded his resignation. Amid the ongoing protests Mr. Lal and Mr. Chautala on January 12 met Union Home Minister Amit Shah in New Delhi. On Wednesday, Mr. Chautala even met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and deliberated on issues related to the farmers’ protest.  ‘Repeal the laws’ JJP MLA Ram Kumar Gautam, who has been vocal in his support of the farmers’ cause on Wednesday told The Hindu that “if the three farm laws were not repealed then its consequences would not be good”. “When the farmer does not want these laws, then what’s the necessity for implementing them? The government should immediately repeal the laws and then engage farmers in talks. All those who are supporting the laws will suffer immense loss,” said Mr. Gautam. Mr. Gautam said the JJP is a one-man party and is being run by one family. “No one is realising that it would be difficult to cover up the loss arising due to farmers’ anguish. The anti-defection law has made MLAs bonded labourers. We are handicapped. The way the Chief Minister’s event was cancelled in Karnal — it’s an eye-opener,” he said. Another JJP MLA, Jogi Ram Sihag, has also been vocal in his support to farmers and has been demanding repealing of the farm laws. Professor Chauhan said, “In the last few days, several senior JJP leaders have spoken in favour of the farmers and indicated that the party may change its opinion. But the number of these MLAs has been two or three. It is not easy for any JJP MLA to rebel from party as a two-third majority of MLAs is needed to save themselves from the anti-defection law. Moreover, there has been no strong statement from Dushyant Chautala that he wants to break the alliance with the BJP. Dushyant’s stand on farmers’ laws is like ‘two steps forward and one step backward’,” he said. ‘Chautala concerned’ JJP’s Haryana State president Nishan Singh said that Mr. Chautala mainly deliberated on the farmers’ protest, among other issues, in his meeting with the Union Minister. “Mr. Chautala expressed his concern over the issue of the farm laws and conveyed that the issue was serious and it should be addressed seriously,” Mr. Singh told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/farmers-protest-puts-jjp-under-strain/article33572729.ece
14 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Prayer space to pay homage to farmers who have died in stir||A temporary prayer space has come up inside an arcade near the main stage at the Singhu border to pay homage to the farmers who died during the agitation. Farmers from several States, including Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting at the borders of the national capital against the three controversial agriculture laws brought in by the Centre. The protest, which has been going on for nearly 50 days, have agitating farmers demand a repeal of the three laws and a legal guarantee for Minimum Support Price (MSP). Among the several resources and reinforcements, including dedicated medical kiosks, hospital, langar, waterproof and insulated tents, a temporary prayer space also found space at the Singhu border on Wednesday. Volunteers of the space, which is on the ground floor of an arcade along the highway, said the facility would be there for at least three days. “This has been set up exclusively for prayers meant for those who have lost their lives during this movement. The Akhand Path [reading of the sacred religious text without any breaks] began on Wednesday and will go on till January 15,” said a volunteer at the prayer meet. The initiative, taken by group leader Singh Saheb Baba Kulwinder Singh, saw the plaza being taken on rent. “All the arrangements have been made by us. We procured carpets, mattresses and installed the stage inside the premises where the Akhand Path is taking place. Our sect leaders got together to ensure that this facility was made operational. There was no other process involved and we set this up as soon as we got the space. Now, this will go on for two more days after which we will vacate the space. However, we will not leave the protest site,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/prayer-space-to-pay-homage-to-farmers-who-have-died-in-stir/article33572744.ece
14 January 2021||GURUGRAM,||Haryana govt. has lost trust of people and MLAs, says Hooda||Former Haryana Chief Minister and Leader of the Opposition, Bhupinder Singh Hooda, on Wednesday said the Bharatiya Janata Party-Jannayak Janta Party coalition government in the State had lost the trust of both, the public and the legislators, and would fall due to the burden of its own failures. Mr. Hooda was in Gurugram to pay tributes to former minister Sukhbir Kataria’s mother on her death anniversary. On the rebellious tone of some MLAs from the State’s coalition government, Mr. Hooda said: “The Congress wants to move a no-confidence motion against the government on the issue of the farmers. As soon as no-confidence motion comes in the Assembly, the truth of the rebellious MLAs will also be revealed to the public. Everyone will know if they stand with the government or they stand with the farmers and vote against the government on the motion of no-confidence,” he said. Responding to questions on Indian National Lok Dal’s lone MLA Abhay Chautala’s offer to resign, Mr. Hooda said he should vote against the coalition government on no-confidence motion instead of resigning. “If he resigns from the post of MLA, then it will benefit the government, because the Opposition will have one less vote,” he said. Reiterating his support to the farmers’ agitation, Mr. Hooda said the farm laws harm not only the farmers but also every consumer and poor section of the society and this is why the movement has received support from all sections of the society. He said the government should accept the demands of the farmers and bring an end to the agitation. The former Chief Minister said the laws would hurt the consumers and poor as there are fears that profiteers would indulge in black marketing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/haryana-govt-has-lost-trust-of-people-and-mlas-says-hooda/article33572731.ece
14 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Ban sex-selective surgeries on intersex infants and children’||The Delhi Commission for Protections of Child Rights (DCPCR), in an order on Wednesday, recommended that the Delhi government should declare a ban on medically unnecessary, sex selective surgeries on intersex infants and children except in the case of life-threatening situations. The commission passed the order after deliberating on a plea that brought to its notice that there have been instances wherein intersex people are treated as disabled, and hence are approached through a medical lens, reducing them to an ‘impairment’ leading to medical interventions that can lead to long-term impairments and requiring lifetime medical care. The plea added that most of the times these surgeries are conducted without prior, free and fully informed autonomous consent. Only exception The order read: “After careful deliberations, the commission is of the considered opinion that the Government of Delhi should declare a ban on medically unnecessary, sex-selective surgeries on intersex infants and children except in cases of life-threatening situations and advises the government accordingly.” The commission said that it conducted an enquiry into a plea and requested submissions from the Delhi Medical Council, Department of Health and Family Welfare, Government of NCT of Delhi, Department of Social Welfare, Govt. of NCT of Delhi and organisations and experts in the domain. Adviser to the commission, a human rights activist Anjali Gopalan, in her response said that such medical interventions are violative of the fundamental right to bodily integrity and physical autonomy. She added that some intersex people can face significant health issues that require treatment, which may include hormone-based therapy or surgery while others do not require medical intervention. The Delhi Medical Council in its response said that surgical interventions and gender-related medical interventions should be delayed until the patient can provide meaningful informed consent/assent to these interventions. Madras HC order The DCPCR also said it had taken due notice of the judgment of the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court wherein the court directed the Government of Tamil Nadu to ban sex reassignment surgeries on intersex infants and children.  Such medical interventions are violative of the fundamental right to bodily integrity and physical autonomy Anjali Gopalan  Adviser to the commission, and a human rights activist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ban-sex-selective-surgeries-on-intersex-infants-and-children/article33572739.ece
14 January 2021||Guwahati,||ULFA(I) demands ‘due share’ from oil firm||The outlawed United Liberation Front of Asom (Independent) ULFA (I) has said a man from Bihar, one of the two employees of a private oil firm its cadres had abducted from an oil drilling site in Arunachal Pradesh almost a month ago, “will be a victim” if “anything goes wrong”. It said the other employee, an Assamese, would not be harmed. On Tuesday evening, ULFA (I) chief Paresh Baruah warned the New Delhi-based Quippo Oil and Gas Infrastructure Limited that Ram Kumar, one of its two abducted employees, could be harmed if the firm did not pay the outfit its “due share” as the price for exploiting the natural resources of Assam and elsewhere in the Northeast. Duo abducted On December 21, 2020, radio operator Ram Kumar, 35, and drilling superintendent Pranab Kumar Gogoi, 51, were abducted from the Kumchaikha hydrocarbon drilling site in Changlang district of Arunachal Pradesh. The district borders Myanmar.  ‘Rs. 20 cr. for release’ The outfit reportedly demanded Rs. 20 crore from the oil firm, a subsidiary of SREI Infrastructure Finance Ltd, for releasing the duo. “This is not ransom. The conflict with all the MNCs [multinational companies] is because they are continuously exploiting our natural resources and have siphoned off billions of dollars over decades from our land, which we cannot accept. These MNCs have understanding with all political parties. They have to come to an understanding with us. All we want is our due share,” Baruah told local TV channels. He warned that Ram Kumar would be a victim if Indian security forces made any rescue attempts and the oil firm would be responsible for it. “Gogoi is an Assamese and he is with us unfortunately because of the situation and not by any plan. No harm will come to him and his family can rest assured,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ulfai-demands-due-share-from-oil-firm/article33572732.ece
14 January 2021||Guwahati,||Panel to identify facilitators of ‘illegal migrants’||The border wing of the Assam police has formed a five-member panel for taking “immediate and proactive steps to identify the intermediaries, facilitators, collaborators” of “illegal migrants from across the international border into Assam and initiate legal action to bring them to justice”. Comprising police officers, the committee is headed by Subhrajyoti Borah, commandant of the 7th Assam Police Battalion based in western Assam’s Kokrajhar district. Mukesh Agrawal, Special DGP (Border), confirmed the setting up of the panel after a meeting with Chief Secretary Jishnu Barua on January 11. An order issued on the panel said the Deputy Commissioner of Police (Border), the SPs (Border), SP, Railway Police (Border) and other officials concerned would take legal action in their respective jurisdictions according to the recommendation of the five-member committee. “They would also render necessary assistance to the committee in performing its task including utilisation of Border staff of the districts as and when required by the committee,” the order said. The DIG (Ranges) would supervise the progress of the work of the panel as would the Commissioner of Police for Guwahati and the IGP for the Bodoland Territorial Region. “Identifying illegal migrants as well as people who help them enter India illegally has been part of our job. The only thing new is that a panel has been formed for this,” a Border police officer said. Poll staple But the constitution of the panel has assumed significance with the Assam Assembly elections barely four months away. The issue of illegal migrants, or “Bangladeshis”, has been a poll staple for most political parties. The Assam Police Border Organisation was formed in 1962 under the Prevention of Infiltration of Pakistani scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/panel-to-identify-facilitators-of-illegal-migrants/article33572733.ece
14 January 2021||New Delhi,||Builder held for duping investors of Rs. 38 lakh||A 40-year-old builder has been arrested from Jaipur for allegedly duping investors of Rs. 38 lakh on the pretext of giving them plots on Ajmer-Jaipur Road, the police said on Wednesday. The accused, Anil Kumar Sharma, is the chief managing director of a construction firm he started in 2000. In order to raise more funds, he kept launching new projects and used the raised funds from one project to the other, the police said. A probe was initiated against Mr. Sharma after the Economic Offences Wing of Delhi Police received several complaints against the builder. The complainants alleged that they had purchased plots of lands from the accused situated at Asiana Enclave on NH-8, Ajmer-Jaipur Road from 2012 to 2014. They alleged that they had paid the full amount but till date were yet to get the plot. After preliminary enquiry, a case was registered against Mr. Sharma in 2018. During investigation, bank details were verified and relevant documents were scrutinised. Investigation from government land authorities revealed that no approval in the name of project “Ashiana Enclave” was given by them, said Joint Commissioner of Police (Economic Offences Wing) O.P. Mishra. “The accused had been avoiding to join inquiry despite repeated notices. A team was constituted and he was arrested from Jaipur on Tuesday. He was produced before a Delhi court and has been taken into one-day police remand,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/builder-held-for-duping-investors-of-rs-38-lakh/article33572736.ece
14 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Fake call centre busted, three arrested||With the arrest of three persons, Delhi Police claimed to have busted a fake call centre operating in Rohini, said a senior police officer on Wednesday. The arrested persons were identified as Bhupesh Gupta, Prashant and Mohit Kumar. Ten mobile phones, a computer and other devices were recovered from them. They have cheated more than 500 people in the last one month. A senior police officer said that specific information was received regarding a fake call centre duping innocent people by offering costly mobile phones on discounted rates. “A raid was conducted and three men and six women were found working at the fake call centre,” added the officer. Following this, an FIR was registered at Budh Vihar police station On sustained interrogation the accused Bhupesh revealed that he along with Prashant started the fake call centre. They used to cheat people by making phone calls on a series of numbers chosen randomly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/fake-call-centre-busted-three-arrested/article33572740.ece
14 January 2021||New Delhi,||2 juveniles apprehended for killing shopkeeper||Two juveniles were apprehended for allegedly killing a 26-year-old shopkeeper to take revenge for harassing them in north-east Delhi’s Jafrabad, the police said on Wednesday. The deceased, Afzal, was shot dead by the two juveniles with the help of another juvenile on the night of January 9 at a lane in Chauhan Bangar, they said. “During the probe it surfaced that around six months ago, Afzal had a scuffle with two juveniles and both the families had amicably settled the matter at that time. After that, there had been incidents of heated arguments between Afzal and the two juveniles. So, the two juveniles along with an accomplice planned to eliminate Afzal. As per their plan, they fired at Afzal near his shop,” said DCP (North-East) Ved Prakash Surya. They were apprehended at Jafrabad metro station. A countrymade pistol with two cartridges were recovered from them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/2-juveniles-apprehended-for-killing-shopkeeper/article33572741.ece
14 January 2021||New Delhi,||50-year-old man shot dead by bike-borne men||A 50-year-old man was shot dead allegedly by two unidentified bike-borne men in north-east Delhi’s Jafrabad on Wednesday afternoon, the police said. The deceased has been identified as Raees Ansari. He was the president of Resident Welfare Association (RWA) of the locality, they said. According to a senior police officer, they received information about the incident around 1 p.m. on Wednesday. The deceased was sitting outside his house when two unidentified persons came there and struck a conversation with him, following which one of them shot Ansari in his head. Later, they fled the spot, the officer said. The deceased was taken to a hospital, where he was declared brought dead. A murder case has been registered, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/50-year-old-man-shot-dead-by-bike-borne-men/article33572742.ece
14 January 2021||New Delhi,||‘PM should talk to farmers in next round of dialogue’||The Aam Aadmi Party on Wednesday demanded that in the next round of parleys with protesting farmers, Prime Minister Narendra Modi should directly talk to them and repeal the “anti-farmer” laws. “Significantly, we should note that all the four members of the Supreme Court-appointed committee to provide justice to the farmers have earlier supported these new laws. How can the farmers expect justice from these people?” AAP national spokesperson Raghav Chadha said. ‘Ego of Centre’ He said that due to the “ego and shameful silence” of the BJP government, thousands of farmers were spending the festival of Lohri on the streets and borders of Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/pm-should-talk-to-farmers-in-next-round-of-dialogue/article33572735.ece
