16 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Farmers, govt. to continue talks||The ninth round of talks between the Centre and the farmer unions on Friday failed to break the impasse over the demand to repeal the three contentious farm laws. It was, however, agreed to continue the direct dialogue in parallel with the Supreme Court-appointed panel’s proceedings on the same issue. The date for the 10th round of talks was set for January 19, the same day as the court-appointed panel is likely to hold its first meeting. The protesting unions have refused to participate in the proceedings of the court-appointed committee, but were apprehensive that the Centre would use the court’s order as an excuse to end the direct negotiation process. However, it has now been agreed that this process would continue. Speaking to presspersons after the meeting, Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said a solution could emerge from the Centre’s talks with the farmers as well as from the court-appointed panel’s deliberations. He emphasised that the Centre was fully committed to the Supreme Court’s order and would present its perspective to the court-appointed panel when invited to do so. He accepted that the unions wished to continue their own dialogue with the government alone, but emphasised that the court was the supreme authority in the country, and that its panel would also work in the interests of farmers’ welfare. Mr. Tomar expressed the hope that the talks would “reach a decisive stage” on January 19. On Friday, the unions again refused to consider the Centre’s suggestions for amendments to the laws, or for a clause-by-clause discussion by a smaller group. Near the end of the discussions, he asked the unions what exactly it would take for the protests to be called off.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/farmers-govt-to-continue-talks/article33584785.ece
16 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||World’s largest vaccination programme begins today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will flag off the first phase of the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive at 10.30 a.m. on Saturday during a videoconference. The world’s largest vaccination programme will begin at a total of 3,006 session sites across all the States and the Union Territories, which will be connected virtually throughout the exercise. Nearly 100 beneficiaries will receive the vaccine at each of the session sites on Saturday. Dedicated call centre A dedicated 24x7 call centre — 1075 — has been set up to address queries related to the pandemic and the vaccine roll-out, the Prime Minister’s Office said in a statement. Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Friday said adequate doses of both the vaccines — Covishield and Covaxin — had been delivered across the country. He reviewed the functioning of the CoWIN system, the online digital platform that will be used to drive the vaccination programme. The vaccination drive, where the beneficiaries currently will not have a choice between the two vaccines, has been planned in a phased manner after identifying the priority groups, the Ministry said. Healthcare workers, both in the government and private sectors, including Integrated Child Development Services workers, will receive the vaccine in the first phase. The Health Ministry has also issued a three page letter to the States/UTs regarding contraindications and factsheets for the vaccines, indicating that the jab be administered with caution in persons with a history of any bleeding disorder. The letter further added that persons with COVID-19 infection history and those with history of chronic illness are not contraindication for the vaccine. “Persons with immuno deficiency, HIV, patients on immuno-suprresion due to any condition — the response of COVID-19 vaccination may be less in these individuals,” the communication said. The CoWin platform will facilitate real time information of vaccine stocks, storage temperature and individualized tracking of beneficiaries for COVID-19 vaccine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/worlds-largest-vaccination-programme-begins-today/article33584769.ece
16 January 2021||GUNTUR,||Police see political conspiracy behind desecration of idols||The police have made a startling revelation that there is a conspiracy by the opposition parties to foment communal hatred among different communities by directly involving in desecration of temples’ across the State during the last one year. With the arrest of 15 persons belonging to the Telugu Desam Party (13) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (2), the police have claimed to have unravelled the mystery behind the attacks on temples and also unveiled a pattern of alleged conspiracy in spreading religious hatred with ‘malicious design to destabilise the State government’.  44 incidents In the year 2020 and 2021 so far, there were 44 incidents involving temples. In connection with them, 29 cases were registered and 84 persons arrested. Of the 44 incidents, 38 pertained to idol theft and desecration, two were related to chariot burning and four to digging of temple premises.  ‘Deliberate attempt’ “The police investigation has revealed that 21 persons belonging to different political parties were directly involved in nine cases so far. In every other case, the conspiracy of political parties was seen as a deliberate attempt to create religious hatred and disturb communal harmony,” Director General of Police Gautam Sawang told reporters. “We will not spare them. I am appealing to parties not to indulge in such acts and also not to spread rumours on social media,” Mr. Sawang told reporters here on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tdp-bjp-cadre-behind-desecration-say-ap-police/article33584764.ece
16 January 2021||GUNTUR,||CM takes part in Kamadhenu Utsavam||Coinciding with the Kanuma festival, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Friday took part in the ‘Kamadhenu Utsavam’ (worship of holy cow) at a programme organised by the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) at Narasaraopet. The TTD organised the event as part of its mission to protect cows. Dressed in the traditional dhoti and an upper garment, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy took part in the rituals and later presented silk robes, garlands and turmeric amid chanting of Vedic hymns to a cow brought on the dais. Religious fervour pervaded the stadium which was decorated with festoons. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy spent considerable time going round the stalls arranged there. Later, in a brief speech, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy wished all the families in the State a happy Sankranti. The TTD is organising the event in 2,679 temples across the State as part of its mission to propagate Hinduism. Minister for Endowments Velampalli Srinivasa Rao, Minister for Home Mekathoti Sucharita, Minister for Housing Ch. Ranganatha Raju, TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy, Deputy Speaker Kona Raghupati, Narsaraopet MP Lavu Krishnadevarayulu, MLA Gopireddy Srinivasa Reddy, Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar, Superintendent of Police Vishal Gunni, legislators and Members of Legislative Council were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-takes-part-in-kamadhenu-utsavam/article33584777.ece
16 January 2021||MANGALURU,||Machinery being deployed to extract sand against norms||Close on the heels of the visit of Mines and Geology Minister C.C. Patil to the district and his warning against illegal sand extraction last week, sand extractors in the coastal regulation zone (CRZ) Netravathi basin have resumed using machinery to extract sand from the riverbed and load sand onto trucks. The Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change as well as the National Green Tribunal have time and again reiterated sand from CRZ should not be extracted using machinery. They have also made it clear only sand dunes that obstruct movement of fishing boats should be extracted. However, sand extractors have been using large motorised boats to extract sand from the Netravathi riverbed, right from Jeppinamogaru near the city till Pudu village near Bantwal in the CRZ limits. They have also deployed earthmovers and bulldozers to load sand brought to Dhakkes (landing points) on the banks of the river onto trucks in clear violation of the stipulated rules. Sources in the Mines and Geology Department said that the department has been taking action against the use of machinery in sand extraction as well as loading. The department would again launch another operation to curb such illegalities, the sources said. On the other hand, sand extractors in the Phalguni (Gurupura) river on the northern side of the city, though use large steel boats, do not use motors to drive their boats. Sand loading onto trucks also takes place using manpower. Traditional fishermen had recently raised their voice against indiscriminate sand extraction from riverbeds in the CRZ and said that this has snatched their livelihood. Neither they were able to catch fish nor could they extract Maruvai (clam) from riverbeds as huge quantities of extracted sand make riverbeds deeper. The then Deputy Commissioner S. Sasikanth Senthil, as the chairman of the District Sand Monitoring Committee, had brought down the number of permits from over 400 to under 100, granting permits only to those who had been extracting sand for a long time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/machinery-being-deployed-to-extract-sand-against-norms/article33585291.ece
16 January 2021||Mangaluru,||Twin districts gear up for COVID-19 vaccination||As the process to immunise 52,381 healthcare workers against COVID-19 begins in Dakshina Kannada on Saturday in the first phase of vaccination, the district administration will compile the data of personnel from the Revenue, the police, the Rural Development and Panchayat Raj and local bodies departments for the second phase by January 20. Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra told reporters here immediately after the Prime Minister launches the immunisation programme at 10.30 a.m., similar processes will start at the State, the district, and taluk levels. On the first day, the programme will be held at six centres, Government District Wenlock Hospital, Mangaluru, urban health centre, Surathkal, and taluk general hospitals at Bantwal, Belthangady, Puttur, and Sullia, wherein one hundred healthcare workers each will be vaccinated. As many as 10,212 healthcare workers from 89 government institutions and 47,169 from private institutions have registered for vaccination in the district. The administration would open 89 centres at government establishments in nine places and 17 in private establishments, where there were more than one hundred enrollments, to administer the vaccine. The first phase should get completed within a week, he said. Dr. Rajendra said the second phase, involving personnel from the four departments as well as people aged beyond 50 with comorbidities, would start thereafter. The public would be administered the vaccine in the third phase, modalities of which were awaited from the Union government. Any adverse reaction to beneficiaries would immediately be attended to with kits and ambulances being kept ready to attend to emergencies. A centralised control room would be established at Mangalore Smart City Ltd.., control room to monitor vaccine administration, he said. District Health Officer Ramachandra Bairy was present. Udupi Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha said 22,230 healthcare workers have enrolled for vaccination drive in the first phase while the district has received 12,000 doses of vaccine as of now. The programme would be inaugurated at the district hospital in the city on Saturday while vaccination would be done at five other centres too on the first day covering 600 healthcare workers. Over 240 sessions were planned to immunise the enrolled healthcare workers at 74 government centres and 20 private centres during first phase. The process to list beneficiaries under the second phase was on, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/twin-districts-gear-up-for-covid-19-vaccination/article33585293.ece
16 January 2021||HYDERABAD,||4,100 sanitation workers to be vaccinated in State||About 4,100 sanitation workers will be given vaccine against COVID-19 at 139 centres across the State to mark the launch of the nationwide programme on Saturday. After Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s inaugural address in virtual mode at 10.30 a.m, 30 beneficiaries who registered themselves with CoWIN, a mobile app for Indians to get COVID vaccine, will be administered the doses at each centre on day one. The number of beneficiaries will be gradually increased from Monday and the centres will also go up to a maximum of 1,213 during the period, said Director of Medical Education K. Ramesh Reddy and Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao. They told a press conference on Friday that about 3.15 lakh public and private health workers, including doctors and nurses, will get the vaccine after the sanitation workers were inoculated. The second phase of the programme will be for people above 50 years of age and those suffering from co-morbidities. The vaccination will be only on Mondays, Tuesday, Thursdays and Fridays. Youth below 18 years, pregnant women, lactating mothers and people with anaphylactic reactions or blood clotting will not be given vaccine. Also, the present COVID positive patients and people with symptoms will be excluded. They will be eligible for vaccination after four to eight weeks from the time they tested negative or symptoms subsided. Dr. Ramesh Reddy said the history of beneficiaries will be enquired from them before they were allowed into the vaccination room. They will be asked to wait in observation rooms to check body reactions to the vaccine for 30 minutes. All the centres were equipped with facilities to treat reactions and ambulances placed at their disposal to shift beneficiaries to referral hospitals if they developed complications. As many as 57 teaching, district headquarter and area hospitals were geared up to treat Adverse Events Following Immunisation (AEFI). Ten beds were provided in intensive care units of such hospitals with oxygen lines, ventilators, anaesthetists and physicians to treat the cases. A duty roster was given to the staff at these hospitals exclusively for the purpose. The State has received 3.84 lakh doses of both Covishield and Covaxin, of which 55,270 doses were already despatched through cold chain points in temperatures ranging from two to eight deg C. In Hyderabad, the vaccination will be given at 13 centres, including Gandhi and Osmania General Hospitals, ENT Hospital, Chest Hospital, King Kothi, Nampally, Vanasthalipuram, Golconda and Kondapur Area Hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/4100-sanitation-staff-to-be-vaccinated/article33585088.ece
16 January 2021||HUBBALLI,||One day I may be branded anti-national for speaking out, says Vishwanath||Former Minister A.H. Vishwanath, MLC, who has taken exception to including C.P. Yogeshwar in the State Cabinet, has said that one day he might also be termed an “anti-national” for speaking out against injustice and questioning BJP leaders. Addressing presspersons here on Friday, Mr. Vishwanath, however, clarified that he was not questioning the party but was only raising his voice against the “questionable behaviour” of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. “But whenever someone questions such behaviour he is made a villain,” he said. The former Minister pointed out that he had raised his voice against the arrogance and questionable behaviour of leaders while he was in the Congress and Janata Dal (S) as well but had never questioned the party. “I have sought an appointment with Union Home Minister Amit Shah during his visit to Karnataka this weekend. If I get an appointment, I will discuss party issues with him and apprise him of certain developments.” ‘Bombay Days’ Mr. Vishwanath said there was a need to place facts before the public on what happened during the period that led to the disqualification of MLAs and subsequent formation of a BJP government in Karnataka. “There are a few chapters left. I will soon publish my book on the ‘Bombay Days,’” he said. On whether he too was indulging in blackmail tactics, Mr. Vishwanath said he was not but wanted to remind Mr. Yediyurappa about the talks they had in private. To another query, he said what was wrong in him seeking political power. “Seventy-eight-year-old Yediyurappa still has political ambitions. I am still 72 and why can’t I?,” he asked. Dynastic politics Mr. Vishwanath said that while Prime Minister Narendra Modi was against dynastic politics and power transfer in the family, the opposite was happening in Karnataka. “Mr. Modi has differences with Mr. Amit Shah’s son being chosen for the post of BCCI secretary. In Karnataka, Mr. Yediyurappa’s family, particularly his younger son Vijayendra has become the power centre,” he said. Referring to the ‘Bala Nagamma’ folk tale, he said that Mr. Yediyurappa was now in the grip of Mr. Vijayendra. He said Mr. Yediyurappa had weakened now and he was now a leader who had failed to fulfil the promise. Mr. Vishwanath, who defended his decision to quit JD(S) and join BJP, said that it was not a case of defection. He declined to comment on the inclusion of Arvind Limbavali and others into the Cabinet but said he was opposed to the inclusion of Mr. Yogeshwar, against whom several cases of serious fraud had been filed and there was just a temporary stay. “Why a person who is likely to be jailed has been chosen to be a Minister?” he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/one-day-i-may-be-branded-anti-national-for-speaking-out-says-vishwanath/article33585052.ece
16 January 2021||MADURAI,||Over 100 injured in jallikattu events in Madurai district||A total of 21 persons were injured in the jallikattu held at Palamedu in Madurai on Friday amid the COVID-19 pandemic. At least 80 participants were injured at Avaniapuram, where the first bull-taming contest of the Pongal season was held on Thursday. While eight of the injured players at Palamedu were referred to the Government Rajaji Hospital, officials said the injuries sustained by the participants at Avaniapuram were not serious. At both events, the COVID-19 safety protocols issued by the government were flouted. Officials said separate markings would be made in the spectators’ galleries to ensure physical distancing. At Palamedu, the galleries were packed with spectators. Compliance with physical distancing norms was poor; most of the spectators did not wear masks. There were no arrangements for thermal screening. Villagers thronged the arena along with the players for around 10 minutes after the inauguration. Karthick of Karuppayurani was adjudged the best bull tamer and awarded a car. A bull belonging to Jeyaraman of Palamedu was declared the winner. A total of 560 bull tamers were screened on Friday morning, of whom 545 were allowed to participate after they were declared medically fit. An official of the Health Department said none of the players tested positive for COVID-19. Minor scuffles broke out among the players, and the contestants who violated the rules were removed from the arena. The injured persons included 10 bull tamers, six spectators and five bull owners, the official said. Policemen regulated the crowd at the holding yard to ensure that only two persons accompanied each bull. At the collection yard, hundreds of youth tried to get hold of the bulls that exited the arena at a high speed. Policemen regulated the crowd at the collection point to avoid accidents. At Avaniapuram, Thirunavukarasu of Muthupatti and Vijayan of Avaniapuram were adjudged the best bull tamers after they tamed 26 bulls. A bull belonging to G.R. Karthick of Villapuram was adjudged the best. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi witnessed the event at Avaniapuram together with DMK youth wing leader Udhayanidhi Stalin. The jallikattu, he said, reflected the richness of the tradition of the people in this region and appreciated the large turnout of youth dressed in traditional attire. Since time immemorial, the culture of the Tamils had been widely respected, he said. Mr. Gandhi said he came down to witness the event because the Tamil culture, language and history were essential for India’s future and needed to be respected by everyone in the country.  At Palamedu, the galleries were packed with spectators. Compliance with physical distancing norms was poor; most of the spectators did not wear masks||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/over-100-injured-in-jallikattu-events-in-madurai-district/article33584989.ece
16 January 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi all set for first day of inoculation drive||From showering flower petals on vaccine boxes reaching the hospitals to posters reading “COVID-19 vaccine is safe” and a hand-picked list of 100 persons who would be administered the first dose at each of the 81 sites, Delhi is all geared up for Saturday, the first day of the vaccine roll-out. Vaccine doses have reached many of the hospitals and in some cases, the linked government facilities close to them. Directions have been given to inoculate only healthcare workers below 50 years of age on the first day. Officials played down apprehensions about the vaccine saying it’s “completely voluntary”. Earlier this week, vaccine vials from the airport had reached the central vaccine store at Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital (RGSSH). From there it went to the district vaccine stores, one in each of the 11 districts, and then to the 81 hospitals. Each vaccination site has three rooms: one for waiting, a second where the vaccination actually happens and an observation room where the people who have been vaccinated have to wait for 30 minutes to see if there is any adverse effect following immunisation (AEFI).  At 9.30 a.m. on Friday, red carpets were being laid at the vaccination site in RGSSH and the authorities were setting up a pre-waiting area outside the building to avoid crowding. When asked if healthcare workers are apprehensive, Namrata Makkar, Deputy Medical Superintendent of the hospital, said, “People are aware about the vaccine, but there is a little apprehension. But we trust our government and they have been hand-holding us since the beginning of the pandemic.” She said that the hospital has not issued any instructions to the 100 selected persons that they should take the vaccine on Saturday. “We didn’t even hold a meeting of these beneficiaries, so that they do not feel any pressure,” she said. But officials said that since the list of 100 beneficiaries have been chosen by hospitals for the first day and not randomly selected by the CoWIN platform, they expect not too many persons to back out on Saturday. At Lok Nayak Hospital, around 2.30 p.m. Medical Director Suresh Kumar and others showered flower petals on a blue-coloured cold box inside a van ferrying the first set of vaccine vials to the hospital. ‘We are thrilled’ “The last eight to nine months were a struggle with many of our staffers getting infected by the virus and three of our colleagues dying because of it. We are thrilled that the vaccination is starting,” he said. “In case of an AEFI, there is an entire medical team ready and they have been equipped with drugs, oxygen cylinders and a ventilator,” said Dr. Amit Gupta, the supervisor of the vaccination site. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and Health Minister Satyendar Jain are scheduled to inspect Lok Nayak Hospital at 12 p.m. on Saturday. The vaccination will take place four days a week from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/city-all-set-for-first-day-of-inoculation-drive/article33584968.ece
16 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Car passengers in back seat must wear seat belts, says Delhi Police||Four-wheeler passengers seated at the back must wear seat belts while drivers of two-wheelers must ensure they have rear-view mirrors and should use them while commuting. These are some of the safe-driving rules being shared by Delhi Traffic Police in its special awareness campaign that started in west Delhi from January 13. The drive will continue till January 23. Violation of these rules can result in a fine, and habitual traffic offenders can be penalised Rs. 500. Injuries, fatalities “It has been found that serious injuries and fatalities in an accident usually occur due to the absence of rear-view mirrors in two-wheelers or passengers not wearing seat belts in four-wheelers,” said Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic - Western Range) Prashant Gautam. An order issued by Mr. Gautam noted that a high number of two-wheeler riders have removed rear-view mirrors from their vehicle. Driving without a rear-view mirror is not only “irresponsible” but also “dangerous” since it blocks a significant viewing arc of the driver, causing collisions with faster moving vehicles coming from the rear, said the senior officer. “There is also very little compliance with the provisions for use of rear seat belts in cars. This is reflective of poor awareness among motorists about this crucial safety measure to prevent loss of life in case of a serious accident. There are already provisions under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, and Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989, for these issues,” Mr. Gautam added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/car-passengers-in-back-seat-must-wear-seat-belts-says-delhi-police/article33584969.ece
16 January 2021||Mumbai,||Top MVA leaders to attend farmers’ march||Prominent leaders of the Maha Vikas Aghadi will be taking part in the march to Raj Bhavan on January 25 to demand the repealing of the three farm laws, the Samyukta Shetkari Kamgar Morcha (SSKM) said on Friday. SSKM said the march will be led by Maharashtra chapters of All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, Trade Unions Joint Action Committee, Struggle Committee of Mass Movements, Nation for Farmers, and Hum Bharat Ke Log. Dr. Ashok Dhawale, president, All India Kisan Sabha, said Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar, State Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat, and State Environment Minister Aditya Thackeray agreed to join the march after an SSKM delegation met them on Thursday. The delegation requested the leaders to convene a special Assembly session to address the agrarian crisis, adopt a resolution urging the Centre to repeal the farm laws and four labour codes, and enact a law to fulfil demands such as MSP. Dr. Dhawale said, “On January 23, thousands of vehicles in the State will head to Mumbai. On January 24, farmers and workers will converge on Azad Maidan and begin a three-day sit-in. On January 25, a massive rally will be taken to Raj Bhavan to submit a memo to the Governor. And on January 26, there will be a flag hoisting at Azad Maidan.” Dr. Dhawale said from January 13 to 15, working class people made bonfires out of copies of the controversial laws. “On January 18, Mahila Kisan Day will be observed across the State,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/top-mva-leaders-to-attend-farmers-march/article33585315.ece
16 January 2021||LUCKNOW,||54 held in U.P. under unlawful conversion ordinance so far||At least 91 persons have been booked and 54 arrested so far, an overwhelming number of them Muslims, under the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020. The most number of arrests have been made in Etah (14) followed by Sitapur (13), Mau (8), Gautam Buddha Nagar (4), Azamgarh (3) and Firozabad (3). In a counter affidavit submitted before the Allahabad High Court on January 4, a copy of which has been seen byThe Hindu, the U.P. government said it had registered 16 cases under the new ordinance, booking 86 persons, of whom 54 had been arrested while 31 others were yet to be arrested. The FIRs were spread across 14 districts of six administrative zones of the State. The other districts are Moradabad, Muzaffarnagar, Saharanpur, Bareilly, Kannauj, Hardoi, Bijnor and Shahjahanpur. In addition to these cases, an FIR was registered in Shahjahanpur on January 3 against five persons, including two Christians from Tamil Nadu and two local Dalits, on charges of allegedly trying to allure a Bajrang Dal convener into conversion for jobs and free education for children. However, no arrests were made in the case. A look into these 17 cases shows that barring a Hindu driver in Sitapur, two Tamil Christians and three Hindus in Shahjahanpur, and seven persons with Hindu names accused of unlawful conversion in Gautam Buddha Nagar and Azamgarh, the rest of the accused are Muslims. Charges dropped On January 7, more than a month after booking a Haridwar-based Muslim labourer under the new ordinance for allegedly trying to coerce and allure a married Hindu woman from Muzaffarnagar to convert, the U.P. government told the Allahabad High Court that it found no evidence of unlawful conversion against him and had dropped the charges. However, the police filed a chargesheet under charges of criminal intimidation against him. The case had been connected to a petition filed in the High Court challenging the ordinance. Asked if there had been additions to the number of cases lodged under the ordinance since the filing of the counter affidavit on January 4, Additional Advocate General Manish Goyal said the counter reflected the status of the cases at the time it was filed. “Further progress might have taken place. Some other cases might have been filed after the filing of the counter,” he said, adding that he was unaware of any new cases. ‘Morally repugnant’ A petitioner, Saurabh Kumar of Prayagraj, had prayed for the ordinance to be declared ultra vires saying it was “both morally and constitutionally repugnant”. Following this, the Allahabad High Court had issued a notice to the government and sought its response.  In its reply, the State government in a counter affidavit filed through the Special Secretary-Home Department defended the ordinance and said it was safeguarding community interests. The matter will be heard next on January 18.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/54-held-in-up-under-unlawful-conversion-ordinance-so-far/article33584966.ece
16 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Green Line extends beyond Yelachenahalli||After nearly five years since work began in 2016, and many missed deadlines, the 6 km elevated extended metro line on Kanakapura Road from Yelachenahalli to Silk Institute opened for commercial operations on Friday morning. With this, the first to be opened under phase II of Namma Metro, Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation is likely to add 75,000 passengers to the ridership this year. “It was slated to open last year, but that did not happen. It is a big relief for residents in the locality,” said Vivek Krishnan, who rode the metro on the first day. The extension will not only help residents, but also college students to commute with ease, and reduce travel time. The BMRCL is planning to start commercial operations on another section from Mysuru Road station to Kengeri by June this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/green-line-extends-beyond-yelachenahalli/article33584807.ece
16 January 2021||Mumbai,||Schools to reopen for Classes V to VIII||Schools in Maharashtra will reopen for students of Classes V to VIII from January 27. Minister for School Education Varsha Gaikwad said on Friday that Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has given the go-ahead and guidelines will be issued soon. “The issue of restarting schools for Classes V to VIII was pending before the State government. We have now decided to open up the schools from January 27. We want to assure parents that all health guidelines will be followed before opening up the schools,” she added. The State government has already announced the reopening of schools from Classes VIII to XII. As per data from the State Education Department, over 80% classes are functioning, except in Mumbai. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has postponed the reopening of schools from January 16 till its next order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/schools-to-reopen-for-classes-v-to-viii/article33585314.ece
16 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||CM to launch vaccination drive today||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will launch the rollout of the vaccine for coronavirus at the Government General Hospital (GGH) here on Saturday (January 16). As part of the nation-wide roll-out of the vaccine, the government has identified 332 session sites across the State for the launch of the inoculation drive. In Krishna district, Collector A. Md. Imtiaz inspected the arrangements for the launch at the GGH on Friday. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Imtiaz said that after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address to the nation at 10.30 a.m., Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy would launch the immunisation drive at the GGH at 11.30 a.m. In Krishna district, the drive would be launched at 30 vaccine session sites, the Collector added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jagan-to-launch-vaccination-drive-today/article33585394.ece
16 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Attendance thin on first day in many colleges||Attendance remained thin on Friday as colleges reopened for offline classes for the first and second year under-graduate courses, post-graduate courses, and diploma courses. College managements anticipate attendance to pick up next week. Many principals, who spoke to The Hindu , attributed this to the Sankranti holiday followed by weekend. Many students, who did not attend classes on the first day, seemed to want to wait and watch before deciding to go to college. Priya (name changed), a student of a private degree college, said though she wanted to go to college and meet her friends, her parents were hesitant and anxious. “Though not mandatory, I took the RT-PCR test. I am yet to get the result. I will wait for the result and convince my parents to send me to college,” she said. Colleges and universities have also been cautious in implementing the SOPs (standard operating procedures), right from providing sanitisers to temperature checks at the gate. K.C. Mishra, principal of Sambhram Degree College, said that students have been cautioned against sitting close to each other and advised to maintain social distance at all times on the campus. “However, it is difficult to impose. There are no canteen facilities. Only the library is open,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/attendance-thin-on-first-day-in-many-colleges/article33584803.ece
16 January 2021||new delhi,||Goswami’s chats with ex-BARC chief revealed||In the supplementary chargesheet filed by the Mumbai police on TRP tampering by a few news channels, the alleged WhatsApp conversations between Republic TV Editor Arnab Goswami and recently arrested former Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) CEO Pratho Dasgupta point to a cosy relationship. The transcript of the WhatsApp messages, running into more than 1,000 pages and intercepted on Mr. Dasgupta’s phone, shows many instances of him asking Mr. Goswami to reach out to the government on his behalf. TRAI proposal In one such instance, on April 4, 2019, just days before the Lok Sabha election, Mr. Dasgupta asked Mr. Goswami to stall a proposal of the Telecom Regulatory Authority (TRAI) to make the BARC’s viewing data public instead of just supplying it to the channels. Mr. Dasgupta tells Mr. Goswami that if the data is made public, many channels could be blacked out by multi system operators (MSOs) and local cable operators (LCOs). “With public data, MSOs and LCOs will push you guys for more carriage,” Mr. Dasgupta tells Mr. Goswami. At this, Mr Goswami assures him that when the BJP government returns, the TRAI won’t have teeth. He also asks Mr. Dasgupta to send him points on how these reforms could politically hurt the government. “With channels getting blacked out, impact of messaging on TV will reach lesser people and hence diluted impact,” Mr. Dasgupta replied as per the transcript. Mr Dasgupta further added “Can you help by telling AS to tell TRAI to pipe down on BARC?”. The reference to “AS” is also made repeatedly in the transcript, with Mr. Goswami claiming to have a close relationship with him. The initials have not been spelt at any place in the transcript. Two days later, Mr Goswami responds that, “a strong message has been conveyed to TRAI”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/goswamis-chats-with-ex-barc-chief-revealed/article33585336.ece
16 January 2021||New Delhi,||Tractor parade: SC may pass orders on Monday||The Supreme Court is scheduled to hear the farmers’ protests case on Monday amid reports that one of the four members of its expert committee, set up on January 12 to negotiate between the government and the farmers, has recused himself. The case list on January 18 shows that the court is to pass orders/directions on a plea by the government to injunct protesters from holding tractor/trolley/vehicle marches to “disrupt” the Republic Day celebrations on January 26. There is also a change in the composition of judges on the Bench sitting on Monday. The Bench, though still headed by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde, will have Justices L. Nageswara Rao and Vineet Saran as puisne judges. The Bench on January 12 had Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian accompanying the CJI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tractor-parade-sc-may-pass-orders-on-monday/article33584782.ece
16 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Policy cloud delays Brazil vaccine flight||A special plane from Brazil to carry the first exports of Covishield, the India-made coronavirus vaccine, was delayed on Friday, amid confusion over clearance for the shipment, officials here said. The flight, due to leave Brazil on Thursday and return on Saturday with two million doses of the vaccine, was put off, the Brazilian Ministry of Health announced, citing logistical and licensing issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/policy-cloud-delays-brazil-vaccine-flight/article33584786.ece
16 January 2021||HYDERABAD,||Promised free water doesn’t come easy!||People expecting to avail themselves of the 20 kilo litres of free water, right from the day the Minister launched the scheme -- will be a disappointed lot as by the time the hurdles are cleared, several of them are likely to lose the enthusiasm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/promised-free-water-doesnt-come-easy/article33585092.ece
16 January 2021||MANGALURU,||Awareness programmes on pandemic to continue||Cautioning people not to take the COVID-19 pandemic lightly, Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra on Friday urged them to continue to maintain social distance and wear face masks. Taking serious note of reported violations of COVID-19 guidelines at several places, Dr. Rajendra said rather than booking cases, the administration would focus on creating awareness about continuing to follow the guidelines. Just because the number of cases have come down and there were no COVID-19 deaths since a fortnight in the district, people should not be oblivious to the pandemic, he said. Dr. Rajendra said while managements of public halls would be responsible to ensure those attending programmes follow the guidelines, officials from local bodies would visit private houses where programmes were held to ask organisers to follow the guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/awareness-programmes-on-pandemic-to-continue/article33585295.ece
16 January 2021||New Delhi,||Arnab’s chats with ex-BARC chief revealed in chargesheet||In the supplementary chargesheet filed by the Mumbai Police on Television Rating Points (TRP) tampering by a few news channels, the alleged WhatsApp conversations between Republic TV Editor Arnab Goswami and recently arrested former Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) CEO Pratho Dasgupta point to a cosy relationship. The transcript of the WhatsApp messages, running into more than 1,000 pages and intercepted on Mr. Dasgupta’s phone, shows many instances of him asking Mr. Goswami to reach out to the government on his behalf. In one such instance, on April 4, 2019, just days before the Lok Sabha election, Mr. Dasgupta asked Mr. Goswami to stall a proposal of the Telecom Regulatory Authority (TRAI) to make the BARC’s viewing data public instead of just supplying it to the channels. Mr. Dasgupta tells Mr. Goswami that if the data is made public, many channels could be blacked out by multi system operators (MSOs) and local cable operators (LCOs). “With public data, MSOs and LCOs will push you guys for more carriage,” Mr. Dasgupta tells Mr. Goswami. At this, Mr. Goswami assures him that when the BJP government returns, the TRAI won’t have teeth. He also asks Mr. Dasgupta to send him points on how these reforms could politically hurt the government. “With channels getting blacked out, impact of messaging on TV will reach lesser people and hence diluted impact,” Mr. Dasgupta replied as per the transcript.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/arnabs-chats-with-ex-barc-chief-revealed-in-chargesheet/article33585316.ece
16 January 2021||Lucknow,||Over 50 held in U.P. under conversion law||At least 91 people have been booked and 54 arrested so far, an overwhelming number of them Muslims, under the U.P. Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020. The most number of arrests have been made in Etah (14) followed by Sitapur (13), Mau (8), Gautam Buddha Nagar (4), Azamgarh (3) and Firozabad (3).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/over-50-held-in-up-under-conversion-law/article33585335.ece
16 January 2021||New Delhi,||Arnab’s chats with ex-Barc chief revealed||In the supplementary chargesheet filed by the Mumbai police on TRP tampering by a few news channels, the alleged WhatsApp conversations between Republic TV Editor Arnab Goswami and recently arrested former Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) CEO Pratho Dasgupta point to a cosy relationship. The transcript of the WhatsApp messages, running into more than 1,000 pages and intercepted on Mr. Dasgupta’s phone, shows many instances of him asking Mr. Goswami to reach out to the government on his behalf. In one such instance, on April 4, 2019, just days before the Lok Sabha election, Mr. Dasgupta asked Mr. Goswami to stall a proposal of the Telecom Regulatory Authority (TRAI) to make the BARC’s viewing data public instead of just supplying it to the channels. Mr. Dasgupta tells Mr. Goswami that if the data is made public, many channels could be blacked out by multi system operators (MSOs) and local cable operators (LCOs). “With public data, MSOs and LCOs will push you guys for more carriage,” Mr. Dasgupta tells Mr. Goswami. At this, Mr Goswami assures him that when the BJP government returns, the TRAI won’t have teeth. He also asks Mr. Dasgupta to send him points on how these reforms could politically hurt the government. “With channels getting blacked out, impact of messaging on TV will reach lesser people and hence diluted impact,” Mr. Dasgupta replied as per the transcript. Mr Dasgupta further added “Can you help by telling AS to tell TRAI to pipe down on BARC?”. The reference to “AS” is also made repeatedly in the transcript, with Mr Goswami claiming to have a close relationship with him. The initials have not been spelt at any place in the transcript. Two days later, Mr Goswami responds that, “a strong message has been conveyed to TRAI.” This is not the only instance of Mr. Dasgupta seeking Mr. Goswami’s help against TRAI. Mr. Dasgupta also at many places has complained about being under pressure from “vested interests”. He also says he is under pressure from various channels on viewership data. At one point he even asks Mr. Goswami to get him a job as “media advisor” in the Prime Minister’s Office. In other conversations, Mr. Goswami also complains about other news channels getting better ratings and Mr. Dasgupta assures him that necessary steps will be taken to “clean the data”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/arnabs-chats-with-ex-barc-chief-revealed-in-chargesheet/article33584783.ece
16 January 2021||January 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Tight hold||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tight-hold/article33584771.ece
16 January 2021||kolkata,||CBI arrests wife of Rose Valley group promoter||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Friday arrested Subhra Kundu, wife of promoter of Rose Valley group of companies Gautam Kundu in connection with the multi-crore chit fund scam. Mr. Kundu was arrested in December 2015. CBI sources said Ms. Kundu was arrested on charges of non-cooperation with the investigation, siphoning funds and complicity in the scam. The CBI will produce Ms. Kundu in court on Saturday and seek transit remand to Bhubaneshwar, where the case is registered. The Rose Valley group of companies is alleged to have illegally raised thousands of crores from the depositors and laundering it. The Enforcement Directorate also had issued a look-out notice in November 2019 for Ms. Kundu, who was running a jewellery chain, Adrija, which has been sealed since the investigation started.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cbi-arrests-wife-of-rose-valley-group-promoter/article33585253.ece
16 January 2021||CHENNAI,||‘Monsoon may withdraw around Jan. 19’||After turning this month into one of the wettest January for Tamil Nadu, the Northeast monsoon may withdraw from the State around January 19. Moderate rainfall may continue in a few places in south Tamil Nadu on Saturday and rain may begin to decrease from Sunday, according to the Meteorological Department. In the last 24 hours, ending 8.30 a.m. on Friday, several places received light to moderate rain. Some weather stations recorded heavy rainfall too. Nagapattinam and Echanviduthi in Thanjavur district received 9 cm each, the day’s highest amount of rainfall. Officials of the Meteorological Department said a cyclonic circulation that lies over southwest Bay of Bengal, off Tamil Nadu’s coast, would bring rainfall on Saturday. After dumping torrential rain over south Tamil Nadu, monsoon activity may begin to ease out from Sunday. Dry weather over northern parts may cover the entire State from Monday. There have been past instances when the Northeast monsoon spilled over to January. La Nina conditions prevailing over the Pacific Ocean were one of the reasons for the monsoon extending this year, the Department said. Rain that pounded several parts of south Tamil Nadu has pushed the State’s average monthly rainfall, so far, to 13.3 cm. This is nearly 1,072% in excess, than January’s normal share of 11.4 mm. Chennai is among the several districts that have received 19.4 cm of rainfall, which is far in excess than its average of 17 mm for January. The Meteorological Department has also forecast that Chennai will have a partly cloudy sky, and experience mist during the early morning hours during the weekend. Maximum temperatures will be around 30 degrees Celsius.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/northeast-monsoon-may-withdraw-around-jan-19-imd/article33584880.ece
16 January 2021||Bengaluru,||COVID-19 vaccine: Six of 243 centres to get Covaxin||Even as concerns over the lack of substantial efficacy data of Covaxin persist, 600 healthcare workers at six vaccine session sites of Karnataka will beadministered Covaxin on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-vaccine-six-of-243-centres-to-get-covaxin/article33584802.ece
16 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Aero India 2021 to be first hybrid defence exhibition||With a combination of both physical and virtual exhibition, the 13th edition of Aero India 2021 being held here from February 3 to 5 is being touted as the world’s first hybrid aerospace and defence exhibition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/aero-india-2021-to-be-first-hybrid-defence-exhibition/article33584805.ece
16 January 2021||Mumbai,||PIL seeks FIR against Munde for cheating||A PIL was filed in the Bombay High Court on Friday, alleging that State Social Justice Minister Dhananjay Munde violated provisions of the Representation of the People Act by submitting a nomination form concealing his second marriage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pil-seeks-fir-against-munde-for-cheating/article33585317.ece
16 January 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra records 3,500 more recoveries||Maharashtra on Friday reported 3,500 COVID-19 recoveries and 3,145 fresh cases as the active case tally dipped to 52,152. The death toll has touched 50,336, with 45 more fatalities. The State’s recovery rate is 94.78%, while the case fatality rate is 2.54%. Mumbai reported 574 new cases to take its tally to 3,01,655. Eight fatalities saw the toll reach 11,229. Pune reported over 550 new cases to take its tally to 3,81,204.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maharashtra-records-3500-more-recoveries/article33585318.ece
16 January 2021||MANGALURU,||DK, Udupi report 45 new COVID-19 cases||Dakshina Kannada reported 37 new COVID-19 cases on Friday. With 43 patients being discharged after treatment the active cases in the district stood at 417. The district administration has so far collected Rs. 24.9 lakh fine by registering 23,569 cases for not wearing mask. Udupi district reported eight new cases on the day and the district had 41 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dk-udupi-report-45-new-covid-19-cases/article33585294.ece
16 January 2021||Lucknow,||‘BSP will contest alone in U.P., Uttarakhand’||The Bahujan Samaj Party will not enter into any kind of pact with any party in the Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand in 2022. Speaking on her 65th birthday, party chief Mayawati said: “Our party will contest alone on its own strength in all Vidhan Sabha seats in these two States.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bsp-will-contest-alone-in-up-uttarakhand/article33585334.ece
16 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Three killed in fire at Delhi scrap shop||Three people, including a child, were killed in a fire at a scrap shop in west Delhi’s Kirti Nagar, the police said on Friday. The blaze was reported at 10.50 p.m. on Thursday and seven fire tenders were rushed to the spot. Small rooms built above the shop were also engulfed in the fire. DCP (West) Deepak Purohit said a short- circuit is suspected to have caused the fire.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/three-killed-in-fire-at-delhi-scrap-shop/article33585337.ece
16 January 2021||BENGALURU,||Shah to attend meeting of State core committee||Union Home Minister Amit Shah, who is arriving in Bengaluru on a two-day State visit on Saturday, is set to participate in a meeting of the State core committee members along with Ministers. The meeting, in Bengaluru on Saturday night, is expected to focus on improving the image of the party as well as the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/shah-to-attend-meeting-of-state-core-committee/article33585055.ece
16 January 2021||Belagavi,||Yatnal fumes over special security withdrawal||Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, Vijayapura MLA, alleged that B.S. Yediyurappa had ordered the withdrawal of his special police security cover owing to “personal vendetta”. Anupam Agarwal, Superintendent of Police, told reporters that Mr. Yatnal continued to enjoy the routine security cover given to legislators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/yatnal-fumes-over-special-security-withdrawal/article33585056.ece
16 January 2021||Lucknow,||‘BSP will contest alone in U.P., Uttarakhand’||The Bahujan Samaj Party will not enter into any kind of pact with any party in the Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand in 2022. Speaking on her 65th birthday, party chief Mayawati said: “Our party will contest alone on its own strength in all Vidhan Sabha seats in these two States.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bsp-will-contest-alone-in-up-uttarakhand/article33584964.ece
16 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Three killed in fire at Delhi scrap shop||Three people, including a child, were killed in a fire at a scrap shop in west Delhi’s Kirti Nagar, the police said on Friday. The blaze was reported at 10.50 p.m. on Thursday and seven fire tenders were rushed to the spot. Small rooms built above the shop were also engulfed in the fire. DCP (West) Deepak Purohit said a short circuit is suspected to have caused the fire.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/three-killed-in-fire-at-delhi-scrap-shop/article33584965.ece
16 January 2021||KOLKATA,||Disgruntled leaders keep Trinamool on tenterhooks||Speculation is rife over the political future of a number of Trinamool Congress (TMC) leaders, including MP Satabadi Roy, who, in the past few days, made her differences with the party public. On Friday, Ms. Roy told mediapersons that she would be visiting Delhi on Saturday. A number of Trinamool Congress leaders tried to reach out to the two-time Birbhum MP. TMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh rushed to meet Ms. Roy. According to reports, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) vice-president Mukul Roy also called the MP during the day.In the evening, Ms. Roy met Abhishek Banerjee, MP, at his office in the city and told journalists, “I had issues with the Trinamool Congress and I explained it to the party leadership. As far as my joining the BJP is concerned, these are mere speculations.” The BJP leadership has welcomed all dissident TMC leaders to join the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/disgruntled-leaders-keep-trinamool-on-tenterhooks/article33585252.ece
16 January 2021||CHENNAI,||T.N. reports 621 fresh cases of COVID-19||One district — Ariyalur — had no fresh case of COVID-19 and 18 districts recorded fewer than 10 cases on Friday as Tamil Nadu registered 621 cases. Chennai continued to report less than 200 cases as 180 persons tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-reports-621-fresh-cases-of-covid-19/article33584872.ece
16 January 2021||Chennai,||MNM gets ‘Battery Torch’ symbol||Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan on Friday said the Election Commission had reallotted the ‘Battery Torch’ symbol to his party. The MNM had fought the Lok Sabha poll on the symbol but was denied the same for the upcoming Assembly election. It had approached the Madras High Court seeking its intervention in the matter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mnm-reallotted-battery-torch-symbol/article33584873.ece
16 January 2021||Chennai,||TMC leader Gnanadesikan passes away at 71||B.S. Gnanadesikan, senior vice-president of the Tamil Maanila Congress and two-time Member of Parliament, died on Friday due to ill health. He was 71. Mr. Gnanadesikan had contracted COVID-19 in November, and had been admitted to Apollo hospital. A bulletin from the hospital is awaited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tmc-leader-gnanadesikan-passes-away-at-71/article33584874.ece
16 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Congress stages nationwide protests||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Friday alleged that the Narendra Modi government was being “remote controlled” by a handful of corporate houses and the three farm laws were an example of Mr. Modi trying to “hand over” what belongs to farmers. He said the Centre’s talks with farmers were “delaying tactics” to tire out the farmers as Mr. Modi did not respect farmers, but the government would have to repeal the laws. The Congress leader also took strong objection to farmers being referred to as “Khalistanis” by some leaders of the ruling party. An illusion Speaking to presspersons at Jantar Mantar, where Congress MPs from Punjab have been protesting for nearly 40 days now, Mr. Gandhi said the Supreme Court-appointed expert committee was a maya [illusion] and the myth would be busted soon. To coincide with the ninth round of talks between farmers’ unions and the Centre, the Congress observed ‘Kisan Adhikar Diwas’ (Farmers’ Rights Day) and took out nationwide protests, including marches to gherao the Raj Bhavans in State capitals. Party workers held protests in States, including Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal, Jharkhand, Odisha, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan. In Uttar Pradesh, the police detained party leaders when they attempted to take out a march to the Raj Bhavan in Lucknow. In Delhi, Mr. Gandhi led the protests organised by the State unit and was joined by other leaders, including party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. “These farm laws have been brought to finish off the farmers,” Mr. Gandhi said in his brief address to party workers who had gathered near the Chandgi Ram Akhada in north Delhi, close to the Raj Bhavan, the official residence of the Lieutenant Governor. Soon after, he shifted to the protest venue of Congress MPs at Jantar Mantar, where he addressed the media. “Narendra Modi does not have basic respect for farmers. He does not even care if over 100 farmers die. He thinks he has the power and the protesting farmers will tire out after some days but they will not relent,” he said, adding, “The talks are being held only to delay. PM Modi thinks he has the power and will tire the farmers out, but he is mistaken.” He said the farmers had maintained the country’s independence by ensuring food security and the day food security is lost, the country will lose its independence. “This is a financial issue, not a political issue. PM Modi wants to hand over everything that farmers have to three-four corporate leaders ... He is the country’s Prime Minister but the remote control is in the hands of three-four people,” Mr. Gandhi alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-stages-nationwide-protests/article33584724.ece
16 January 2021||New Delhi,||‘Pregnant women must not take vaccine now’||Pregnant and lactating women have not been a part of any COVID-19 vaccine clinical trial so far and should not receive the COVID-19 vaccine at this time, cautioned the Health Ministry in its note on precautions and contraindications for the vaccines. It added that vaccine-specific contraindications may apply as new information becomes available. Meanwhile, health experts feel the logistical challenges the COVID-19 vaccination process would encounter in India are expected to be tackled effectively by the healthcare system. However, Rajeev Jayadevan, past president of the Indian Medical Association, Kochi, said, “I would like to point out two potential problems that I foresee with the delivery of vaccines in India — the first is vaccine hesitancy and the second is fake news and anti-vaccine hoaxes.” He said, “We must take stringent measures to stop such rumours, perhaps even take pre-emptive legal measures to stop and discourage such activities under the Epidemic Act.” The total number of persons found positive with the U.K. strain of COVID-19 was 114 on Friday, said the Health Ministry. India in the past 24 hours has reported 191 COVID-19 case fatalities with six States and Union Territories accounting for 73.3% of new deaths, said data released by the Health Ministry on Friday. Maharashtra saw the most casualties (70), followed by Kerala (19) and West Bengal (17). India is reporting one new death per million population in the last seven days, with a case fatality rate of 1.44%. Deaths per million population in India are among the lowest in the world, said the Ministry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pregnant-women-must-not-take-vaccine-now/article33584729.ece
16 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Kerala budget promises 20 lakh jobs in 5 years||Creating “a new edition to the Kerala development model,” the 2021-2022 Budget of the Left Democratic Front government LDF government in poll-bound Kerala, presented by Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac on Friday, aims at a knowledge-based society with strides in new employment opportunities and industrial growth while consolidating the achievements made in the social sector. The Budget, which focusses on welfare measures, provides for additional expenditure of Rs. 1,164 crore and tax concessions of Rs. 191 crore against an additional revenue mobilisation of just Rs. 200 crore, leaving a cumulative deficit of Rs. 1,306.69 crore. In recognition of their role in COVID-19 management, ASHA workers' allowance would be hiked by Rs. 1,000. All welfare pensions had been enhanced to Rs. 1,600, 4,000 new posts would be created in the Health Department and local bodies will get an additional Rs. 1,000 crore. Anti-recession package As part of the biggest anti-recession infrastructure package being executed, projects worth Rs. 15,000 crore will be completed through the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) in 2021-2022. Describing the Budget as a blue print of the post-COVID development priorities and initiatives of Kerala, Dr. Isaac said 8,00,000 jobs — three lakh employment for the youth and five lakh for others — would be created in 2021-22. To address the mounting unemployment in the State, Dr. Isaac has come up with a scheme to provide employment to at least 20 lakh through digital platform in five years, the registration of which will begin from February. The government employees, teachers and pensioners would get new salary and pension from April 1, 2021, Dr. Isaac announced. In a boost to the real estate sector, the stamp duty on sale deed has been reduced from 8% to 4% and the registration fee from 2% to 1%. The Kerala Development and Innovation Strategic Council (K-DISC) would be registered as a society and Rs. 200 crore has been earmarked for it to take up skill training of the youth. A Skill Mission would be established under K-DISC to provide customised skill training to unemployed youth. As many as 30 centres of excellence would be set up in universities. An outlay of Rs. 2,000 crore for universities and Rs. 1,000 crore for affiliated colleges was announced. Dr. Isaac announced 500 post-doctoral fellowships to attract young scientists to work in State universities. The floor price of rubber was hiked to Rs. 170; paddy procurement price increased to Rs. 28 and that of coconut to Rs. 32. As many as 2,00,000 jobs would be created in the agricultural sector. The first phase of K-FON project would be completed in February.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-budget-promises-20-lakh-jobs-in-5-years/article33584696.ece
16 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Kerala financial institutions to be reorganised||A Council of State Financial Institutions will be set up with the Chief Minister as the chairperson. The council will define the purpose of the loans for entrepreneurship development and will be responsible for the review of their progress, Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac said in the Budget 2021-2022. Reorganisation of financial institutions like Power Finance Corporation, Kerala Transport Development Finance Corporation, Tourism Finance Corporation, Kerala Urban and Rural Finance Development Corporation and other corporations like Women’s Development Corporation will also be undertaken through an expert committee. Insurance dept. The State Insurance Department will be reorganised in 2021-22. Efforts towards modernisation and business expansion will be taken. Revenue, which was Rs. 411 crore in 2015-16, has increased to Rs. 658 crore in 2020-21. The Minister said the Insurance Department had Rs. 8,348 crore as fund balance from a limited operational area. “This fund balance will be increased significantly. For this, insurance activities will be extended to government-related sectors such as Kudumbashree, cooperative societies, employment guarantee, welfare funds,” he added. Financial institutions can play a crucial role in the development of the State and most significant among these are KIIFB and Kerala Bank. KIIFB projects worth Rs. 15,000 crore will be completed in 2021-22. Kerala Bank, with a deposit base of Rs. 61,000 crore, is the second largest bank in Kerala. As soon as approval for NRI deposits is received from the RBI, it will not be difficult to double the bank’s deposit base. On becoming part of the core banking, cooperative banks will be converted into bankers of local government institutions. While standing firmly by the cooperative principles and values, he said the Kerala Bank will abide by all the RBI guidelines also. KFC to be company The Kerala State Financial Corporation’s (KFC) non-performing assets that was 10.7% in 2015-16 could be reduced to 3.5% through imaginative financial restructuring. The Finance Minister said the KFC, functioning under the State Financial Corporation Act, 1951, will be reorganised as a company functioning under the regulations of the State government. With the approval of the RBI, it will be converted into a financial institution capable of mobilising deposits. Kerala State Financial Enterprises’ investment in KIIFB bonds through ‘Pravasi Chits’ will increase to Rs. 1000 crore in 2021-22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-financial-institutions-to-be-reorganised/article33585150.ece
16 January 2021||January 16 2021 00:00 IST,||‘In a crisis, scientists and regulatory authorities have to be innovative’||As India begins one of the world’s largest COVID vaccination drives, Samiran Panda , head of Epidemiology & Communicable Diseases Division with the Indian Council of Medical Research – National AIDS Research Institute, explains the various stages of vaccine development. He points to a March 2019 amendment in rules for new drugs and clinical trials in India that allows for accelerated drug approval.  How do you see the role of a vaccine when the number of cases are fast coming down in India? The COVID epidemic curve is on a decline but India is a huge country and there are some States where we are seeing second and third waves of the infection. Also there are places where the case fatality rate is still above the national average. Moreover, new mutants are making their appearances and we are yet to understand them fully. Look globally. Never before have scientists come up with a vaccine in such a short time. It was January 12, 2020, when scientists decoded the genomic make-up of the virus and so many vaccines were ready to enter the clinical trials in less than 10 months. We are, after all, dealing with a virus which is easily transmissible. And it leaves a devastating effect on people, especially those who are elderly and those who are suffering from chronic illness.  Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin has been approved before it completed its Phase-3 trials. How do you look at the decision?  We are struck by a pandemic. In such a crisis, scientists and regulatory authorities have to be innovative and find faster ways of assessment of a vaccine but certainly not at the cost of safety. Phase-I trials primarily test a vaccine for its safety. Phase-II trials test it for its immunogenicity while additional safety data is also obtained. In Phase-III, we give vaccines to one group and placebo to another and examine if the number of infections in the group to which placebo was given are significantly higher than the group vaccinated. This number should be significantly higher for us to know that the vaccine is protecting against the possibility of acquisition of the virus. The regulatory authority must have considered all these points before it approved Covaxin. To answer some critical questions, such as if we can wait for the Phase-III trial to be completed, the regulators have to look at various aspects of the pandemic — how it is impacting on lives, and how promising a particular vaccine candidate seems to be, based on the data available at hand.  Please explain the various stages of vaccine development in the context of Covaxin?  A vaccine is tested first in small animals such as mice, hamsters, and rabbits with a focus on efficacy and, particularly, potential toxicity. Following encouraging results, vaccines are then tested in larger animals such as rhesus monkeys as certain human diseases are mimicked in them. The vaccine, under scrutiny, is given to one group of animals which is then exposed to the virus, and a second group is exposed to the virus without being administered the vaccine. In the case of Covaxin, we found that the vaccinated animals were able to clear off the infection from their respiratory tract much faster. Histopathology revealed that all their tissues were normal, whereas in the animals which were not vaccinated, the tissue damage following a challenge with the virus (SARS-CoV-2) was extensive. After this, when the ICMR-Bharat Biotech vaccine was moved to Phase-I of human trials, to check for its safety in humans. The results, I must tell you, were highly impressive. You know, a vaccine is scrutinised on three critical parameters: the first is safety; the second, if it gives rise to adequate immune response (its immunogenicity), and the third, how long the immune system memorises the infection (the durability of the vaccine effect). Is there a provision to approve a vaccine before it completes its Phase-III trial? On March 19, 2019 (much before COVID-19 hit the world), a provision was added to the new drugs and clinical trial rules in India for drug approval process. Under this provision, in situations where there is a threat to life or danger of disability due to a disease and where we do not have a better treatment alternative, Phase-II clinical trial results, if remarkable, could help in facilitating an accelerated approval of a drug, which is yet undergoing a trial and yet unregistered. It is being said that Covaxin could be more effective in fighting the new mutant coronavirus variant. How? Post-vaccination immune status of an individual, which would counter the effects of a new mutant of the same virus on its host, is dependent on multiple factors. Although, some of them are yet incompletely understood, the inactivated whole virion used in the development of Covaxin is expected to achieve a wider antigenic presentation to our immune system resulting in a versatile spectrum of immunity. Worth noting in this regard is that the whole inactivated virus-induced immune response, in some experiments, have fared better compared to the subunit vaccines in case of influenza. Whether a similar phenomenon would hold true at population level for COVID-19, needs to be examined over the coming years. In the meantime, well-designed laboratory experiments could throw some light in this regard. It will not be inappropriate to mention here that some of the viruses, such as influenza, have evolved mechanisms to evade recognition by immune memory. Slight change in viral structural proteins, known as drifts, is one of these mechanisms, which cause local epidemics by avoiding recognition of the progeny virus by the poorly efficient immune system. On the other hand, when the influenza virus replaces one of its genes with a new one — a major change indeed — that is called shift and such radically different influenza viruses, sweeping through the world, are capable of causing pandemics.  New mutants are making their appearance, and we are yet to understand them fully||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/in-a-crisis-scientists-and-regulatory-authorities-have-to-be-innovative/article33584727.ece
16 January 2021||Chennai,||Scientists divided over Covaxin nod||Scientists and doctors are divided on the issue of restricted use approval granted to the Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, a COVID-19 vaccine, even as India prepares to vaccinate three crore people from Friday. In a tweet on January 14, the Health Ministry said Covishield and Covaxin approved for restricted use by the Indian regulator were safe. On Thursday, the Ministry released a statement by four dozen scientists and doctors to “collectively assure” the safety of the vaccines. The statement came on the same day as 12 other scientists issued a statement asking for efficacy data before vaccination. The statement comes after Gagandeep Kang, Professor of Microbiology at Christian Medical College, Vellore, told The Hindu that she would not take Covaxin in the absence of efficacy data. While acknowledging the safety and promising immunogenicity data of Covaxin, the 12 scientists say: “It is imperative that relevant data from the larger Phase-3 trial become available before administering the vaccine to large numbers of people.” They also add: “A greater degree of transparency prior to the start of the vaccination programme is essential. This is especially true for Covaxin, for which Phase-3 safety and efficacy data are not yet available.” ‘Robust response’ In the statement released by the Health Ministry, the scientists and doctors agree that efficacy data is not available for Covaxin. Ironically, lack of efficacy data is exactly what scientists who have been cautioning against using Covaxin for vaccinating people have been highlighting. “Once the regulator based on data has approved the vaccine then who are we to object it,” asks Dr. T.D. Dogra, former Director of AIIMS, New Delhi and one of the four dozen signatories of the statement. “They have the data and guidelines and have taken a decision accordingly. We should trust the regulator and the process of vaccine approval.” The scientists who have criticised those raising concerns about granting restricted use approval to Covaxin even in the absence of efficacy data, point out to animal and Phase-1 and Phase-2 human clinical trial data that shows the vaccine is safe and provides robust immune responses. Dr. Sunil Kumar Arora from the Department of Immunopathology at PGIMER, Chandigarh, and one of the scientists who signed the statement, told The Hindu that even robust immunogenicity data from Phase-2 cannot be used as a substitute for efficacy data from phase-3 trials. “In an emergency situation, the regulator is convinced that the data submitted is sufficient for approval. Who are we to question the regulator,” Dr. Dogra says. “Many drugs are regularly approved by the regulator. Why object only to this vaccine approval?” Professor of Physics and Biology at Ashoka University Dr. Gautam Menon, who is also co-author of COVID-19 modelling studies, said in an email, “Even robust immune response data from human participants cannot be a substitute to efficacy data collected during phase-3 trials.” To talk of the need for safety in a vaccination program where many hundreds of millions of healthy people will be vaccinated is not about“vested interests”, “defamation” and “irresponsible statements”, says Dr. Menon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/scientists-divided-over-covaxin-nod/article33584738.ece
16 January 2021||HUBBALLI,||11 killed in accident near Dharwad||A reunion plan at Goa turned tragic for old students of St. Paul’s School, Davangere, as their mini-bus collided with a tipper near Dharwad on Friday morning, killing 11 persons. Superintendent of Police, Dharwad, P. Krishnakant said that the accident occurred on Hubballi-Dharwad Bypass Road near Swarga Farmhouse at Itigatti village. The accident occurred when the tipper driver, who was allegedly over speeding, lost control while trying to overtake another vehicle proceeding to Hubballi and collided head-on with the mini-bus coming from the opposite direction. The police and rescue personnel had a tough time extricating the bodies from the mangled remains of the mini-bus and rescuing those who were trapped inside it. The rescued people were rushed to hospitals in Hubballi immediately. The schoolmates had left Davangere during early hours and were proceeding to Goa for a get-together. One of their distraught classmates, who visited the hospital in Hubballi, said they had planned a three-day trip to Goa for a reunion. They were to be joined by a few others who, however, cancelled at the last minute, she said. The names of the deceased were given as: Preeti Ravijumar, 46, Varshita Viresh, 47, Paramjyoti Shashidhar Hunchur, 47, Manjula Natesh G.B., 47, Rajeshwar Shivakumar Bandammanavar, 46, Dr. Veena Prakash Mattihallil, 47, Ksheera Sureshbabu Poral, 21, Hemalatha alias Manashi, 48, Yashmita alias Aishu, 20, all from Davangere, driver of the mini-bus Raju Somappa Gorabannavar, 38, and cleaner Mallikarjun Udagatti, 27, of Ranebennur. Those in the twenties among them were children of the schoolmates who were headed for the reunion. The injured are: Asha Jagadish Betur, 47, Veda Manjunath, 46, Usharani Ramesh, 46, Poornima Prakash, 46, all from Davangere, Praveena Prakash, 46, from Bengaluru and driver of the tipper Basavaraj Irappa Khadarolli, 25 of Ugarkhold in Kittur taluk of Belagavi district. They have been admitted to KIMS and a private hospital in Hubballi. The Dharwad Rural Police have registered a case against the driver of the tipper.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/11-killed-in-accident-near-dharwad/article33584701.ece
16 January 2021||New DelhI,||Nepal raises Kalapani boundary issue with India||Nepal has raised the Kalapani boundary dispute with India during the Joint Commission meeting, visiting Foreign Minister Pradeep Kumar Gyawali said here on Friday. The Minister said that the Indo-Nepal boundary dispute exists in “two segments” and Kathmandu wishes to find a solution to the matter urgently. Mr. Gyawali also took up Nepal’s requirement for vaccines to fight the COVID-19 pandemic as Kathmandu approved Serum Institute of India’s (SII) Covishield vaccine. Mapping of territory “We started the demarcation and mapping of the boundary since 1981. At that time, Joint Technical Committee was founded which had tenure till 2007. It produced 182 strip maps which depicts the border... but for various reasons [work on] two segments — Susta and Kalapani — were not completed. If we talk of the overall boundary between Nepal and India, it is a smaller segment. However, it is an unfinished work and that’s why we are talking of the need and urgency of finalising and finishing those segments as well,” said Minister Gyawali, addressing a gathering at the Indian Council of World Affairs (ICWA). This is the first time that the Foreign Minister of Nepal has presented the dispute on the boundary front from the Indian capital since the issue erupted in November 2019 prompting Nepal to unveil a new political map that showed the Kalapani-Lipulekh-Limpiyadhura region of Pithoragarh district as part of the country’s sovereign territory.  The Hindu had reported earlier citing informed sources that the Indian side was aware the Nepalese delegation would raise the boundary issue in Friday’s interaction but said that India will not discuss the matter at the Joint Commission level as the boundary dispute has a dedicated Foreign Secretary-level mechanism which is yet to meet. Addressing the bitterness that was witnessed in India-Nepal relations in 2020, Mr. Gyawali said there were “ups and downs” and there were differences on some issues. “But overall partnership and relation moved smoothly and we should take this momentum ahead by drawing lessons from that,” said Mr. Gyawali highlighting that Nepal Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli and Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi shared “very personal” ties. A statement issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Nepal said “boundary and border management” was part of the discussion. In contrast, a statement issued by the Ministry of External Affairs said “border management” was part of the discussion. The statement from Nepal said that both the teams “discussed the review of the Peace and Friendship Treaty of 1950”. It is understood that the review has been recommended by the Eminent Persons Group (EPG) constituted by Mr. Modi and Mr. Oli in 2016. The EPG report, which has been completed, is yet to be submitted to the Indian Prime Minister. The Nepalese statement said the issue of “submission” of the report was also raised during the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nepal-raises-kalapani-boundary-issue-with-india/article33584734.ece
16 January 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,||100 booby traps found in Telangana||The detection of around 100 booby traps by a joint squad of the local police and the CRPF personnel during a combing operation near Pusuguppa, a remote village in Charla mandal, bordering Chhattisgarh, on Thursday sparked tension in the forested border region. The police arrested two alleged Maoist militia members of Pusuguppa during a search operation in the area following the recovery of the booby traps near Pusuguppa the same day evening, police sources said. The incident comes at a time when the Bhadrachalam sub-division police ramped up anti-Maoist operations along the densely forested border with Chhattisgarh as part of a calibrated strategy to prevent the ultras from entering into the State. The police mounted extra vigil in the border areas to pre-empt attempts by the rebels from crossing over to the State from Chhattisgarh’s south Bastar division through the volatile inter-State border, sources said. A joint team of police and the CRPF men detected and removed as many as 100 booby traps with sharp metal spikes concealed in as many as 78 pits covered by grass adjacent to the Pusuguppa (Telangana) and Rampur (Chhattisgarh) route during a combing operation on Thursday morning, said Ashok, Circle Inspector of Police, Charla. Following instructions from the State leaders of the banned outfit, the local Maoist militia members laid the booby traps near the inter-State border in a clandestine manner targeting the police combing parties, he said. Two Maoist militia members, who were involved in setting up the booby traps, were arrested during a search operation subsequent to the recovery of the booby traps near Pusuguppa, the Inspector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/100-booby-traps-found-in-telangana/article33584707.ece
16 January 2021||new Delhi,||China got befitting reply: Army chief||The “unilateral conspiracy” by China to change the status quo along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Eastern Ladakh last year was given a “befitting reply”, and “no one should make the mistake of testing our patience”, the Chief of the Army Staff, General Manoj Naravane, said on Friday. In a first, during the Army Day parade, the Army carried out a live demonstration of “drone swarming” capability using 75 indigenously designed and developed drones, which executed an array of Artificial Intelligence (AI)-enabled simulated offensive missions and close-support tasks. Paying homage to the Army personnel who lost their lives in the violent clash at Galwan, Gen. Naravane said their sacrifice “will not go waste”. “We are committed to resolving disputes through dialogue and political process, but no one should make the mistake of testing our patience,” he  said in the customary address at the Parade Ground in Delhi Cantonment on Army Day. Gen. Naravane awarded 15 Sena Medals, five posthumously, for individual acts of gallantry, and 23 Chief of the Army Staff Unit Citations to various units. 38 deals On military modernisation, Gen. Naravane said 38 deals were made through “emergency and fast-track” route worth about Rs. 5,000 crore. In addition, capital procurements worth Rs. 13,000 crore were also concluded last year. The procurements included light machine guns, light special vehicles and protective gear for infantry, infantry combat vehicles for mechanised infantry and long-range vectors for artillery and also equipment for Engineers and Signals regiments. An Army statement said the demonstration was a recognition of the Army’s steady embrace of emerging and disruptive technologies to transform itself from a manpower-intensive to a technology-enabled force to meet future security challenges. The swarm drone technology was developed by an Indian start-up, NewSpace Research & Technologies. “The Army is investing heavily into AI, autonomous weapon systems, quantum technologies, robotics, cloud computing and algorithm warfare in order to achieve a convergence between the Army’s war fighting philosophies and military attributes of these technologies,” the statement said. On the situation along the Line of Control with Pakistan, Gen. Naravane said 300 to 400 terrorists were waiting at launch pads in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir to cross over. Stating that there had been a 40% increase in ceasefire violations, he said there had been attempts to smuggle weapons using drones and tunnels. On the northeast, he said over 600 insurgents surrendered last year and joint operations with Myanmar had been successful.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/china-got-befitting-reply-army-chief/article33584714.ece
16 January 2021||KHAMMAM,||Punters cross border to enjoy cockfights||The border checkpoints in the Sattupalli constituency in Khammam adjoining Andhra Pradesh witnessed a steady stream of vehicles mostly heading towards rooster fight venues in Krishna district of the neighbouring State for the third consecutive day on Friday. Despite ban, cockfights were reportedly held at various fruit orchards and farms in several villages of Krishna district coinciding with the Sankranti festivities, sources said. Scores of punters from various parts of the erstwhile undivided Khammam district reportedly participated in the cockfights held at various locations in the adjoining State by fielding their roosters by betting huge amounts of money. Police sources claimed that a strict vigil was maintained against cockfights in the entire Khammam district in the last three days. Additional police personnel were deployed at the checkpoints at K G Mallela, Duddipudi and Muthagudem in Vemsoor and other border mandals under the Kallur police sub-division limits in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/punters-cross-border-to-enjoy-cockfights-despite-ban/article33585136.ece
16 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||PM’s trusted official gets an elevation||Former bureaucrat A.K. Sharma’s nomination to the Uttar Pradesh Legislative Council by the BJP on Friday, a day after he joined the State unit of the party, has set off speculation that he may be made a Minister in the Yogi Adityanath government and given important infrastructure-related portfolios as the BJP wants to give a push to such projects in the run-up to the 2022 Assembly election. If these events come to pass, which they likely will, it will be one in a line of long careers that bureaucrats in the confidence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi have had since he came to power in Delhi. Mr. Sharma, who served in Mr. Modi’s PMO (Prime Minister’s Office) handling infrastructure-related projects, had been with him even in the Gujarat Chief Minister’s office. His move to Lucknow is a sign that when it comes to getting the job done to Mr. Modi’s satisfaction, the latter prefers his trusted bureaucrats, calling on skills of handling administration coupled with the nuances they have picked up in handling the roles of the very political offices they have served in. A similar example, though not exactly the same, is that of current Comptroller and Auditor-General (C&AG), G.C. Murmu, who had served as Principal Secretary to Mr. Modi while the latter was Chief Minister of Gujarat and had been appointed the first Lt. Governor of the newly reconstituted Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir. The trend of long careers in semi-political positions, even post retirement, for bureaucrats who have served Mr. Modi in the past during his tenure as Gujarat Chief Minister has now become quite common. K. Kailashnathan, who joined Mr. Modi’s CMO in Gandhinagar in 2006 as his Principal Secretary, has had an an uninterrupted stint there, even after retirement. He now serves as Chief Principal Secretary in the Gujarat CMO, having had six extensionssince he retired as Additional Chief Secretary in May 2013. A source in Gandhinagar terms Mr. Kailashnathan as the “keeper of the institutional memory” of Mr. Modi’s CMO.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pms-trusted-official-gets-an-elevation/article33584736.ece
16 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||All-time high share for tourism marketing||An amount of Rs. 100 crore has been allocated to the tourism sector badly hit by the COVID-19 pandemic. The sector will return to normalcy by 2021-22, Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac said in the Budget. An additional Rs. 25 crore would be provided for intensive marketing to achieve this end. Champions Boat League, which was suspended owing to the pandemic, would resume in 2021-22. For the IPL-modelled boat races, Rs. 20 crore has been given. The government has announced setting up of Kerala Tourism Workers Welfare Fund Board. Top priority is being given to Heritage Spice Route Project and Thiruvananthapuram and Kozhikode will also become part of it in 2021-22, in addition to Muziris, Alappuzha, and Thalassery heritage projects that have been given Rs. 40 crore. A special programme has been prepared for students to visit and learn about Muziris project locations and Rs. 5 crore has been earmarked to encourage such study tours. At of Munnar, Kerala Tourism will take steps to revive the train service. Dr. Isaac said discussions had been held with TATA estate and they had expressed willingness to relinquish the land. An amount of Rs. 117 crore has been allocated for the infrastructural development of existing tourism destinations. In addition to this, Rs. 25 crore for the renovation of tourism guest houses and Rs. 13 crore for preservation of heritage architecture in private sector and modern tourism products has been provided. The Budget has provided Rs. 10 crore each for tourism hospitality institutions and Kerala Tourism Development Corporation (KTDC), Rs. 3 crore for encouragement of modern tourism products, including eco-tourism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/all-time-high-share-for-tourism-marketing/article33585149.ece
16 January 2021||Srinagar,||Biden’s NEC pick sparks celebrations in Srinagar||The appointment on Thursday of Kashmiri-origin Sameera Fazili as Deputy Director of the U.S. National Economic Council (NEC) by President-elect Joe Biden sparked off celebrations among her extended family in Srinagar. Ms. Fazili’s aunt Mehmooda Fazili, in her 70s, is busy flipping through international news channels, at her home in Srinagar’s Hawal area. “Since the news broke, I am continuously watching CNN television channel to get her glimpse. I did talk to her mother yesterday. They are elated. But Sami is very busy. This is a great moment for the family. She has been extraordinary. She quit medical school to pursue her passion,” Ms. Mehmooda told The Hindu . ‘Proud moment’ Daughter of a Kashmir-born doctor couple, Muhammad Yusuf Fazili and Rafiqa Fazili, from the old city’s Gojwara area, Ms. Fazili started her career as a clinical lecturer at Yale Law School’s community and economic development clinic. “She did join (former President) Barack Obama’s regime and she was very popular. On demitting his office, Mr. Obama organised a separate farewell party for Ms. Fazili and her family,” said her cousin Shuja Durrani, a businessman. He described her appointment as “Kashmir’s proud moment”. According to the family, Ms. Fazili served as a senior adviser at the NEC and at the Treasury Department of the White House during the Obama administration. She later worked as Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta’s director of engagement for the community and economic development. Rabiya Durrani said Ms Fazili stands out for her “simplicity and connecting with the downtrodden”.  Once Mr. Biden formally takes over as President on January 20, Ms. Fazili will be part of the top team shaping up the post-COVID-19 economic policies of the U.S. Her focus, according to media reports, will be manufacturing, innovation and domestic competition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bidens-nec-pick-sparks-celebrations-in-srinagar/article33584720.ece
16 January 2021||New Delhi,||SC to consider pleas in EPF pension case||After 21 months, the Supreme Court will be considering the review petition filed by the EPFO (Employees Provident Fund Organisation) against the top court verdict on pension and the appeal filed by the Ministry of Labour and Employment. The three-judge Bench headed by Justice U.U. Lalit will consider the petitions on January 18. The pensioners are hoping that their long wait for pension in accordance to the salary would end with this verdict. Earlier, both the Kerala High Court and the Supreme Court had pronounced verdicts in their favour. The full pension was denied stating that the appeal of the Ministry of Labour and Employment and the review plea of the EPFO were pending. The SC had upheld the Kerala HC verdict on monthly pension from the Employees’ Pension Scheme on April 1, 2019. The Ministry of Labour then filed an appeal against the HC verdict despite the review petition filed by the EPFO. The Bench headed by the then Chief Justice Ranjan Gogoi ordered on July 12, 2019 to hear both petitions in the open court. However, no further action was taken. Meanwhile, the parliamentary standing committee sought an explanation on the matter last October.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-to-consider-review-plea-in-epf-pension-case/article33584721.ece
16 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Clouds mar annual temple phenomenon||Clouds played spoilsport on Thursday while citizens celebrated Sankranti and blocked the Sun’s rays from falling on the Shiva Linga at the Gavi Gangadhareshwara Temple in Gavipuram here. It is an annual phenomenon every Sankranti. The ancient cave temple, said to be renovated by Kempegowda I, is built in such a way that the Sun’s rays fall on the south-facing idol on Sankranti day, when the Sun begins to move northwards with respect to Earth. Somasundara Dixit, chief priest of the temple, said that though the Sun’s rays entered the cave temple premises at the expected late afternoon time on Thursday, clouds covered the Sun before the rays could fall on the idol. “In my experience of nearly 50 years at the temple, this is the first time that something like this has happened,” he said. C.S. Patil, Director, India Meteorological Department, Bengaluru, said that while the State usually enjoyed clear dry weather on Sankranti, this year Bengaluru had cloudy weather, which seemed to have disrupted the annual phenomenon at the temple. “There was cloud formation observed in the city area because of the impact of easterly winds. Sri Lanka and Kanyakumari region receive rain during this time of the year. This impacting Bengaluru is rare, but not that extraordinary,” he said. In fact, the IMD had on Wednesday forecast isolated spells of rain in south interior Karnataka and the coastal region due to a weather system near Maldives, 4.5 km above the mean sea level. The IMD has also forecast “fog and mist very likely over Bengaluru over the next four days.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/clouds-mar-annual-temple-phenomenon/article33584705.ece
16 January 2021||LUCKNOW,||President gives Rs. 5 lakh for Ram Mandir work||The trust set up to oversee the construction of a Ram Mandir in Ayodhya started a nationwide drive on Friday for collecting funds, with President Ram Nath Kovind making the first contribution of Rs. 5 lakh. Mr. Kovind, along with his family, donated a cheque for Rs. 5,00,100 to a delegation of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) and the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra at the Rashtrapati Bhavan in Delhi. The President donated in his personal capacity, said Alok Kumar, international working president of the VHP, which has been mandated to collect the funds for the temple. The target was to reach 65 crore people across the country, he told presspersons. In Rae Bareli district of Uttar Pradesh, Surendra Singh, who had contested the Assembly election, donated a sum of Rs. 1.11 crore. “I donated on the call of my aatma and it has been a tradition of my family to donate,” he said at the event attended by Champat Rai, the general secretary of the trust. Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan handed over a cheque for Rs. 1 lakh to the VHP delegation. “Not just a Ram Mandir, this is in reality a Rashtra Mandir. Ram is our existence,” Mr. Chouhan said in a tweet as he shared pictures of the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/president-gives-rs-5-lakh-for-ram-mandir-work/article33584717.ece
16 January 2021||January 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Cong. seeks probe into Yogeshwar’s ‘conspiracy’||The Karnataka Congress on Friday alleged that the newly sworn-in Minister C.P. Yogeshwar had hatched a conspiracy to topple the JD(S)–Congress government by spending Rs. 9 crore and demanded a judicial inquiry by a sitting judge of the High Court of Karnataka into the matter. At a press conference here, the former MP V.S. Ugrappa quoted a statement made by Major and Medium Irrigation Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi that Mr. Yogeshwar had spent this amount to install the BJP government in the State and that Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa had ensured justice to him by inducting him into the Cabinet. Mr. Ugrappa alleged that BJP leaders had indulged in a criminal conspiracy to topple the H.D. Kumaraswamy-led government in 2019 by bribing Congress and JD(S) legislators. He asked the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) to take up a suo motu case against the Ministers and BJP leaders on this. The Congress leader also demanded the Income Tax Department and the Enforcement Directorate to investigate the issue of money being involved in toppling the coalition government. Mr. Jarkiholi had said that Mr. Yogeshwar had spent Rs. 9 crore and even borrowed money to install Mr. Yediyurappa-led BJP government in the State. There were several criminal cases registered against Mr. Yogeshwar and he himself mentioned this in the election affidavit in 2018, Mr. Ugrappa said.  Refuses to retract Meanwhile, in Belagavi, Mr. Jarkiholi refused to retract his statement that Mr. Yogeshwar had taken loans to help the Opposition MLAs join the BJP. Earlier, he had also claimed that N. Nagaraju (MTB) had given some loans to Mr. Yogeshwar. Mr. Nagaraju, however, has denied this.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-seeks-probe-into-yogeshwars-conspiracy/article33584809.ece
16 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||BJP to keep up pressure on Trinamool Congress||The next few weeks will see frequent visits to poll-bound West Bengal by Union Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP president J.P. Nadda to keep up the momentum of its electoral charge against the Trinamool Congress government. State Forest Minister Rajib Banerjee is likely to join the BJP when Mr. Shah visits Bengal at the end of January. The frequent visits and schedules for the events were decided at a review meeting on Bengal held in New Delhi and attended by Mr. Shah, Mr. Nadda, BJP general secretary in charge of the State Kailash Vijaywargiya, State unit chief Dilip Ghosh and general secretary organisation in charge of the State, Shiv Prakash. “To keep up the momentum, frequent visits by these leaders will take place and some significant joinings will also happen,” said a senior leader present at the meeting. While there have been several crossovers from the Trinamool Congress to the BJP, the party is now taking a call on how many people will be accommodated after the big-ticket inclusion of Suvendu Adhikari last month. “Many MLAs have approached us and while it is a sign that the BJP is the main political force going up against the TMC, we are not interested in taking on the anti-incumbency of many of these. We feel that TMC itself will drop a large number of sitting MLAs from its list for this very reason...” said a BJP source. Trinamool MP Satabdi Roy had created a flutter on Friday after a Facebook post by her complaining about internal party matters. She was even slated to fly to New Delhi to meet BJP leaders. Sources said she was placated after a visit to Trinamool leader Abhishek Banerjee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-to-keep-up-pressure-on-trinamool/article33584722.ece
16 January 2021||New Delhi,||CBI books sub-inspector of SSB in LTC scam||The Central Bureau of Investigation has booked a sub-inspector (ministerial) of the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) and others for alleged forgery, cheating and conspiracy in fraudulent Leave Travel Concession claims made by over 750 officers and personnel of the force. Sub-inspector Milan Kherkatary has been accused of being instrumental in institutionalising the illegal practice, operating as a travel agent and providing fake air/train tickets, boarding passes and other documents. In its complaint, the SSB also raised security concerns stating that the beneficiaries travelled on edited tickets, but none of the agencies operating at airports, including airline staff and Central Industrial Security Force personnel, detected it. Such activities went on for about four years. The names of two Air India officials, Sunita Kumar and Kamal Kishore, beside travel agents at Port Blair and Havelock Island, have also surfaced. The main accused received commission for inflating the fare amounts by editing the tickets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-books-si-of-sashastra-seema-bal/article33584730.ece
16 January 2021||Mumbai,||HC extends protection to Arnab in TRP scam||The Bombay High Court on Friday extended the protection granted to Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami and other employees of ARG Outlier Media Private Limited from the Mumbai police till January 29 in the alleged Television Ratings Point (TRP) manipulation case. A status report on the ongoing investigation in the case was submitted by the police to a Division Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and Manish Pitale. Senior advocate Harish Salve, representing ARG, said all the allegations made by the Mumbai police of Mr. Goswami paying bribes to rig TRP numbers were “nonsensical”. Mr. Salve told the court that the Enforcement Directorate (ED) had also registered a money laundering case against the accused and urged the court to call for a status report on the ongoing probe in it. He said by doing so, the court would see that the case against ARG by Mumbai police was malafide.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-extends-protection-to-arnab-in-trp-scam/article33584732.ece
16 January 2021||January 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Largest vaccination drive begins today||The platform will facilitate real time information of vaccine stocks, storage temperature and individualized tracking of beneficiaries for COVID-19 vaccine. “This digital platform will assist programme managers across National, State, and District levels while conducting vaccination sessions. It will help them track beneficiary coverage, beneficiary dropouts, sessions planned v/s sessions held and vaccine utilization,” said the Ministry. The Minister, on Friday, also reviewed the beneficiary registration page for all non-prioritised groups on CoWIN and suggested pre-populating the software with beneficiaries by seeding it with an electoral database.. “India’s exercise to vaccinate its population shall be the largest immunisation drive of the world. Both the indigenously manufactured vaccines have proven safety and immunogenicity records and are the most important tools to contain the pandemic,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/largest-vaccination-drive-begins-today/article33584692.ece
16 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Hyperbole as usual, says Opposition leader||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala termed the Budget an election stunt. It smacked off a desperate political attempt to stave off sure defeat in the Assembly polls. Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac had attempted to pull the wool over the electorate’s eyes by peddling half-truths. Dr. Isaac had increased the base price of rubber, fixed at Rs. 150 by the United Democratic Front government in 2015, to Rs. 170 and claimed the nominal and belated increase to be a windfall for farmers. If he had a genuine concern for rubber growers, Dr. Isaac should have fixed the base price at Rs. 250 much earlier. As usual, hyperbole and unkept promises characterised Dr. Isaac’s latest Budget. The government’s promise in the previous Budget to give jobs to 25 lakh people remained on paper. Dr. Isaac had a history of coming up with flighty schemes. In an earlier Budget, he had proposed mining the deep sea for sand. Then he suggested launching three mobile phone factories in the public sector. Generating fuel from marine debris was another quixotic project that did not take form. Dr. Isaac’s budget was divorced from reality. He had once proposed the purchase or lease of vast tracts of land in Andhra Pradesh to cultivate raw nuts for the State’s cashew processing industry. Mr. Chennithala asked what had become of the Idukki, Kuttanad, and Wayanad development packages. The Rs. 3,000-crore coastal development package remained a chimaera. Mr. Chennithala said he could reel off hundreds of Budget promises that had come to nought. The Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) had fallen short of meeting its stated target of completing projects worth Rs. 60,000 crore. It could only complete works valued at Rs. 6,000 crore. Revenue deficit had increased despite Dr. Isaac’s claims to the contrary. The Budget lacked any concrete proposal to revitalise the State’s economy cratered by the COVID-19 pandemic. The government had announced a slew of projects with great fanfare. But, it was silent on the mechanism of funding the schemes. The State’s unchecked borrowing was sure to run the economy to ruin further. Kerala’s ease of doing business ranking had plummeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hyperbole-as-usual-says-opposition-leader/article33584697.ece
16 January 2021||January 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Arnab’s chats with ex-Barc chief revealed||In one such instance, on April 4, 2019, just days before the Lok Sabha poll, Mr. Dasgupta asked Mr. Goswami to stall a proposal of the Telecom Regulatory Authority (TRAI) to make the Barc’s viewing data public instead of just supplying it to the channels.  Mr. Dasgupta tells Mr. Goswami that if the data is made public, many channels could be blacked out by multi system operators (MSOs) and local cable operators (LCOs). “With public data, MSOs and LCOs will push you guys for more carriage,” Mr. Dasgupta tells Mr. Goswami. At this, Mr. Goswami assures him that when the BJP government returns, the TRAI won’t have teeth. He also asks Mr. Dasgupta to send him points on how these reforms could politically hurt the government. “With channels getting blacked out, impact of messaging on TV will reach lesser people and hence diluted impact,” Mr. Dasgupta replied as per the transcript. Mr. Dasgupta further added: “Can you help by telling AS to tell TRAI to pipe down on Barc?” The reference to “AS” is also made repeatedly in the transcript, with Mr. Goswami claiming to have a close relationship with him. The initials have not been spelt at any place in the transcript. Two days later, Mr. Goswami responds that, “a strong message has been conveyed to TRAI”. There are also many instances in the transcripts of Mr. Goswami boasting about his proximity to the “PMO” and the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting; he details his visits to Delhi to meet various Ministers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/arnabs-chats-with-ex-barc-chief-revealed/article33584708.ece
16 January 2021||Hyderabad,||AI’s Chicago-Hyderabad direct flight arrives||The first-ever non-stop service of Air India between Hyderabad and Chicago commenced with the maiden flight arriving at the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA) in the early hours of Friday. The flight, operating on Wednesdays, left Chicago at 21.30 hrs (local time) on Jan.13 and arrived at 1 a.m. The return flight AI-107 from Hyderabad to Chicago which operates once a week every Friday, departed from Hyderabad at 12.50 hrs to arrive in Chicago at 18.05 hrs local time on the same day with 226 passengers and 16 aircraft crew at around 12.50 hrs. amidst fanfare and a celebratory note at the airport. The AI flight will operate with a Boeing 777-200LR aircraft with a seating capacity of 238, including eight first class, 35 business class,195 economy class configuration besides four cockpit and 12 cabin crew. Total flight time on this route will be approximate 16 hours 45 minutes from Hyderabad to Chicago and approximate 15 hrs 40 minutes from Chicago to Hyderabad. The city being a gateway to South and Central India, will connect Air India’s direct flight from Chicago to Visakhapatnam, Vijayawada, Bengaluru and Chennai, informed an official spokesperson. GMR Hyderabad International Airport, AI officials and others were present at the terminal to see off the passengers and crew. A similar welcome and warm reception was also given to the arriving passengers which included a cake cutting ceremony, cultural events and photo opportunity with all sanitization and social distancing protocols adhered to. Airport CEO Pradeep Panicker said: “The launch of this route brings two destinations closer for our passengers waiting eagerly for a direct flight from Hyderabad to US. We are constantly working on linking more cities domestic and international with focus on high standards of safety to serve our passengers.” “On behalf of Mayor Lightfoot and the City of Chicago, I am proud to inaugurate the first-ever direct flight between US and Hyderabad, one of India’s fastest growing cities and a centre of innovation. This connection will generate an estimated $22 million per year in economic impact for Chicago, in addition to serving Chicago’s large South Asian population, the second-largest in U.S,” said Chicago Aviation Commissioner Jamie Rhee in a message. “A strong connectivity with India’s centre of innovation is not only exciting for business in Chicago, but will prove to be a fruitful asset for our partners who are conducting business throughout North America. Today’s announcement signals the momentum for a robust relationship between Hyderabad and our great city,” said Michael Fassnacht, Interim President and CEO at World Business Chicago. With AI being a Star Alliance member, passengers will get seamless connectivity to other interline destinations facilitating faster accessibility to cities in neighbouring states via short domestic flights. Passengers can log on to:www.airindia.inor call toll free number 1860 233 1407 for more details, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ais-chicago-hyderabad-direct-flight-arrives/article33584709.ece
16 January 2021||January 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Tractor parade: SC may pass orders on Monday||The Supreme Court is scheduled to hear the farmers’ protests case on Monday amid reports that one of the four members of its expert committee, set up on January 12 to negotiate between the government and the farmers, has recused himself. The case list on January 18 shows that the court is to pass orders/directions on a plea by the government to injunct protesters from holding tractor/trolley/vehicle marches to “disrupt” the Republic Day celebrations on January 26. There is also a change in the composition of judges on the Bench sitting on Monday. The Bench, though still headed by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde, will have Justices L. Nageswara Rao and Vineet Saran as puisne judges. The Bench on January 12 had Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian accompanying the CJI. It is to be seen whether the court on Monday will take note of the recusal of Bhupinder Singh Mann, national president, Bhartiya Kisan Union and All India Kisan Coordination Committee, from the expert panel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tractor-parade-sc-may-pass-orders-on-monday/article33584710.ece
16 January 2021||January 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Farmers, government to continue talks||“He asked us, ‘if any one demand is fulfilled, will you take your movement back?’ We said no, both demands are equally important to us, and the movement will continue until both demands are met,” said Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh spokesperson Abhimanyu Kohar. Both demands — for a legal guarantee for minimum support prices, and a full repeal of the three farm laws — will be on the agenda for the next meeting. Earlier, the farmer unions also raised allegations of government intimidation and harassment against their movement and its supporters. The Haryana government has filed FIRs against protestors there, while the National Intelligence Agency, which comes under the Union Home Ministry, has been interrogating Punjab transporters who provide logistics support to the farmers, said Rakesh Tikait, who heads one faction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union. The unions also explicitly clarified that their movement has nothing to do with the ‘Sikhs for Justice’ organisation, which has been making inflammatory statements. The meeting also discussed various provisions of the Essential Commodities Amendment Act, 2020, and the financial health of the Food Corporation of India, which has implications for government procurement of foodgrains for the public distribution system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farmers-government-to-continue-talks/article33584711.ece
16 January 2021||January 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Policy cloud delays vaccine export to Brazil||According to the officials, Brazilian authorities have now intimated them that the plane would leave Recife in Brazil on Saturday morning (IST), but only if it receives clearances from India. The MEA declined to comment specifically on the Brazilian shipment of vaccines, and whether the Brazilian plane would receive the necessary permissions in time. When asked on Thursday how soon India might release vaccines for export to other countries including those in the neighbourhood like Bangladesh, Nepal and Sri Lanka who have also put in requests, MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava had said that it was “too early” to tell. “As you know, the vaccination process is just starting in India,” Mr. Srivastava said, adding, “It is too early to give a specific response on the supplies to other countries..” However, Brazilian officials cited a statement made by Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan on January 5, saying in “absolutely clear” terms that there was no hold on exports of the vaccines. The Health Ministry did not respond to a question from The Hindu on whether its orders were at variance with the MEA’s statement. Brazil’s health regulator Anvisa is expected to meet on Sunday to clear the use of COVID vaccines, including Covishield, Covaxin, the other Indian-made Bharat Biotech manufactured vaccine, and the Chinese Sinovac, manufactured in Brazil’s Butantan Institute.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/policy-cloud-delays-vaccine-export-to-brazil/article33584712.ece
16 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Love affair no defence against a minor’s kidnapping’||A consensual love affair is not a defence against the criminal charge of kidnapping a minor girl under 18 years of age, the Supreme Court has held in a judgment. The law deems a minor incapable of giving lawful consent, a three-judge Bench led by Justice N.V. Ramana said. “Section 361 of the Indian Penal Code (kidnapping from lawful guardianship) bestows the ability to make crucial decisions regarding a minor’s physical safety upon his/her guardians. Therefore, a minor girl’s infatuation with her alleged kidnapper cannot by itself be allowed as a defence, for the same would amount to surreptitiously undermining the protective essence of the offence of kidnapping,” Justice Surya Kant observed in the judgment. The case relates to a young man found guilty of kidnapping a 15-year-old girl in 1998 in Gujarat. The man said they were in love and the girl had voluntarily run away with him. He was found guilty of rape by the trial court, but the Gujarat High Court, in 2009, acquitted him, and held him guilty of kidnapping her by enticing her.   However, the SC said the man himself was not older than 18 or 19 at the time of the crime, and it was admittedly a love affair. His was a “crime of passion”, the court said, and reduced the man’s quantum of sentence to the period of imprisonment already undergone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/love-affair-no-defence-against-a-minors-kidnapping/article33584715.ece
16 January 2021||PATNA,||Nitish miffed by queries on law and order||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar lost his cool on Friday and lashed out at presspersons for asking questions about the recent murder of a private airline executive in Patna. “Your questions are completely wrong and inappropriate. Don’t call it an apraadh . A murder has taken place and there is always a motive behind a murder. We need to find out the reason for the murder. The police are looking into it,” the Chief Minister said. IndiGo airline station manager Rupesh Kumar Singh was shot dead by unidentified persons outside the gates of his residence in Patna on January 12. On Friday, his family demanded a CBI inquiry into the murder. Mr. Kumar said the National Crime Records Bureau had placed Bihar in the 23rd position in law and order situation across the country. “If you have any clues please share, but don’t demoralise the police like this,” said the enraged Chief Minister. “What was happening before 2005?” said Mr. Kumar in an apparent reference to the RJD government led by Lalu Prasad and his wife Rabri Devi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nitish-miffed-by-queries-on-law-and-order/article33584725.ece
16 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Setting high targets for higher education||The State Budget provides thrust of transforming Kerala into a knowledge society through various means including improving quality of higher education, integrating new techniques, including digitisation across avenues. Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac proposed a six-point strategy. This involves increasing enrolment ratio by 75% (from the existing 37%) to accommodate 20,000 more students this year, filling 886 existing faculty posts and creating 150 more. Thirty autonomous inter-university centres and schools, which will be named after scholars such as M.G.K. Menon and E.C.G. Sudharshan, will also be established within universities. These ‘centres of excellence’ have been proposed to focus on translational research, digital transformation, disaster resilience, nanotechnology, data science, social entrepreneurship and other scientific disciplines. The Budget also moots transforming existing university centres, schools, and departments into centres of excellence. While a special aid of Rs. 100 crore has been earmarked for establishing such centres, an allocation of Rs. 500 crore has been made from the KIIFB to create infrastructure facilities in these new institutions. Post-doctoral A scheme will be introduced to provide 500 ‘Nava Kerala’ post-doctoral fellowships that range from Rs. 50,000 to Rs. 1 lakh per month. The sectors that will be given priority for research under the scheme include disciplines that relate to Ayurveda, agriculture, cyber physical digital technologies, genetics and genomics, climate change, and culture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/setting-high-targets-for-higher-education/article33585214.ece
16 January 2021||HYDERABAD,||DCGI nod for Phase 3 trial of Sputnik V||Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories has received the approval of the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) to conduct Phase-III clinical trial for Russia’s COVID-19 vaccine candidate, Sputnik V, in the country. The Phase-III trial will be conducted on 1,500 subjects as part of the randomised, double blind, parallel group, placebo controlled study in India, said the firm, which has its headquarters in Hyderabad. Dr. Reddy’s and Russian Direct Investment Fund had announced a partnership in September on clinical trials for Sputnik V and its distribution rights in India. “We expect to commence the Phase-III study within this month and will continue to fast-track our efforts to bringing in a safe and efficacious vaccine for the Indian population,” Dr. Reddy’s co-chairman and MD G.V. Prasad said in a statement on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dcgi-nod-for-phase-3-trial-of-sputnik-v/article33584766.ece
16 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||EC seeks protection for top officials||The Election Commission directed State and Union Territory governments on Friday to seek its approval before initiating disciplinary action against Chief Electoral Officers, and those up to the rank of Joint Chief Electoral Officer, stating that it had come across some instances of victimisation for political reasons. The EC, in a letter to the Union Cabinet Secretary, Secretary to the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) and Chief Secretaries of all the States and Union Territories, said they must seek its permission before acting against officials during their tenure and up to one year from its expiry. The Commission also directed the State/UT governments not to reduce facilities such as vehicles, security and other amenities provided to the office of the Chief Electoral Officers for proper discharge of their duties. The EC said many a time, political vendetta was behind disciplinary cases being filed against officials after the completion of their tenure. “An environment of fear is created to convey that the upright, steadfast and sincere officers can be taken to task at any time, on the flimsiest of grounds,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ec-seeks-protection-for-top-officials/article33584731.ece
16 January 2021||Hyderabad,||Intermediate exams may be delayed in Telangana||Intermediate exam schedule may be delayed this year as the government wants to run at least three months of classes to ensure that majority of students get enough time to get back into the groove of classroom learning. Though online classes have been on but their efficacy and their effectiveness in learning is not yet known as there are no exams conducted. Private colleges have exposed students to the exam systems through online but writing the exams sitting at home can in no way replace the actually experience. In this backdrop, the government may decided to conduct the exams in April last week or May first week giving enough time for classroom learning and preparations. “This is an idea that will be thrown up with senior officials. We don’t want students to get the fear of exams right from the day the colleges start,” an official of the Board of Intermediate Education (BIE) said. The biggest solace for students is that the burden of examinations will be eased this time with just 70% of the syllabus being considered. The remaining 30% will be part of the internal assessments after the classes open. At the same time, the BIE has already to decided to give more choices in the questions thus easing pressure. The choices may be double the number that are offered in the existing pattern. “Even those involved in preparing the question papers will be asked to go easy,” an official said. Since there will be fewer number of students in the class this time as the colleges with more than 300 students have to run in two shifts, officials feel teachers can concentrate bit more on individual students even in this short time. “We will be asking the lecturers to drive away the fear of exams constantly as we have been receiving more queries on the exams since we decided to reopen the colleges,” an official said.  Transport issues Meanwhile, parents are not so much worried about the conditions in schools and colleges as they are about the transport issues as nearly 75% of students depend on public transport. When lakhs of students are out on the roads, the buses would be overcrowded and nearly 90% of Intermediate students use the public transport. The parents have expressed their apprehensions in view of the fact that COVID-19 norms are thrown to winds in public places. Most parents cannot afford private transport and students are not allowed to drive vehicles two-wheelers as they are under-aged for getting a license. Parents are worried that travelling in crowded buses may lead to rapid spread of the virus. “Government should take this issue seriously and come out with some solution,” a parent said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/intermediate-exams-may-be-delayed/article33585089.ece
16 January 2021||LUCKNOW,||BSP will contest alone in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand: Mayawati||The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) will not enter into any kind of pact with any party in the Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh (U.P.) and Uttarakhand in 2022. Speaking on her 65th birthday, party chief Mayawati said, “Our party will contest alone on its own strength in all Vidhan Sabha seats in these two States with full preparation and force.” Ms. Mayawati, a four-time former Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh, last held power in 2007-2012. In 2012, the BSP secured 80 seats and claimed the second position behind the SP, but since the 2014 Lok Sabha election, in which the party could not win even a single seat, it has been on a downward slide and loss of vote percentage and seats. In the 2017 Assembly poll, the BSP could manage to win only 19 seats. In the 2019 Lok Sabha poll, the party won 10 seats, but that was as part of an alliance with the SP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bsp-will-contest-alone-in-uttar-pradesh-uttarakhand-mayawati/article33584718.ece
16 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Rs. 1,655 cr. for school sector||Recognising the flow of children to public schools in the past four years, courtesy the improvement in infrastructure facilities, an allocation of Rs. 120 crore has been made in the Budget presented on Friday. The allocation will be used for improvement of school infrastructure making use of Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) funds. The outlay for school education in the Budget is Rs. 1,655 crore. An amount of Rs. 73 crore has been set aside for enhancing the standard of education in public schools. Mid-day meal An amount of Rs. 30 crore has been earmarked for KITE for full utilisation of IT facilities deployed in schools. Besides Rs. 526 crore for mid-day meal distribution, there is an allocation of Rs. 105 crore for school uniform distribution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rs-1655-cr-for-school-sector/article33585213.ece
16 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Resignations of CM and Nirani sought||A. Alam Pasha, complainant in a case alleging corruption against Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and Minister Murugesh Nirani into which the High Court of Karnataka recently allowed a probe, demanded that both the leaders should immediately resign so that “they do not frustrate the investigation and criminal proceedings against them”. “They occupying powerful positions in the government will prove to be an impediment for a fair probe,” he said, addressing a press conference on Friday. Significantly, this comes within days of Mr. Nirani being sworn in as a Minister and before Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s scheduled inauguration of his sugar factory in Bagalkot district on January 17. Mr. Pasha alleged forgery and corruption in the process of withdrawal of 26 acres of industrial land allotted to him near Devanahalli when Mr. Nirani was Industries Minister in the previous BJP government. The Lokayukta police had filed a chargesheet in the case against the two leaders and other officers. However, the High Court had quashed criminal proceedings against them in 2013 on the grounds that there was no prior permission for prosecution. Mr. Pasha later filed a private complaint in the case in 2015, which was challenged by Mr. Yediyurappa. Mr. Yediyurappa’s petition was recently dismissed by the High Court saying there was no bar on the complainant to file a fresh complaint. Nirani hits back However, Mr. Nirani hit back at Mr. Pasha, and defended the government’s action of withdrawing the allotment of 26 acres of industrial land to him in 2011. “The allottee failed to pay Rs. 9.36 crore towards 20% of the cost of land allotted, despite several requests by the KIADB. The financial audit of the company revealed that the firm had no capacity to carry out the project and hence the allotment was cancelled,” Mr. Nirani said, adding there was no foul play in the case and they would fight the same legally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/denotification-case-complainant-demands-resignations-of-cm-nirani/article33584856.ece
16 January 2021||Hyderabad,||Stolen Bonsai tree recovered||A rare Bonsai tree, which was stolen from a retired IPS officer’s house five days ago, was traced by the Jubilee Hills police on Friday. A construction worker and his friend were booked for the theft. On a complaint from former Director General of Police V. Appa Rao’s wife on Monday, the police examined the footage of surveillance cameras in the area and found two bike-borne men stealing Saru (Casuarina chettee) early on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/stolen-bonsai-tree-recovered/article33584693.ece
16 January 2021||Belgavi,||Another round of expansion likely post ZP polls: Jarkiholi||More leaders will be inducted into the State Cabinet during the “bigger round of expansion” after the zilla panchayat elections, said Major and Medium Irrigation Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi on Friday. He, however, was quick to clarify that he was not making a categorical statement and that he was not the party high command. He was in Belagavi to review preparations for the BJP workers’ rally to be addressed by Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/another-round-of-expansion-likely-post-zp-polls-jarkiholi/article33584703.ece
16 January 2021||B. Tilak ChandarMadurai,TAMIL NADU||‘One cannot push aside Tamil language, culture: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, who witnessed the jallikattu at Avaniapuram in Madurai on Thursday, said that he had specifically come here because the Tamil culture, language and history were essential for the future of India and deserved respect from fellow countrymen. He watched the event with Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam youth wing leader Udhayanidhi Stalin. “I have a message to those people who think that they can run roughshod over Tamil people, who think they can push aside Tamil language and culture. I have received tremendous love and affection from the people of Tamil Nadu and it is my duty to stand with them and protect their history, their culture and their language,” he said.He thanked the organisers for inviting him to the event and said that he was witness to ‘Tamil culture and history in action.’ “I have come here also to learn about your culture, about your feelings and about your history. I would like to wish every one a happy Pongal and congratulate the youngsters (tamers) who did a tremendous job,” he said. He added: “I am happy to see that the jallikattu is being organised in a systematic and safe way so that both the bulls and the youngsters (tamers) are safe and everything is taken care of .” Mr. Udhayanidhi Stalin said this was his first visit to the jallikattu in Avaniapuram. He said that Madurai stood for veeram (valour) and jallikattu was one aspect of it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-cannot-push-aside-tamil-language-culture-rahul-gandhi/article33585015.ece
16 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||After 10 months, prisoners get to meet family, friends again||After 10 months, Central prisons in the State have resumed the provision of “interview time” for prisoners to meet their family and friends on the prison premises, with adequate precautions in place. Immediately after the outbreak of COVID-19 last March, the Prisons and Correctional Services Department had suspended interview time with family members for prisoners. Over 40,000 prisoners were released on bail, on orders of the courts, to reduce crowding, and sub jails near Central prisons were converted into quarantine centres. Prisoners were permitted to make video calls through smartphones supplied to the prisons. Sunil Kumar Singh, Director General of Police (DGP), Prisons and Correctional Services, told The Hindu , “After taking into consideration all factors, including the gradual and satisfactory decline in COVID-19 infections and the relaxed restrictions in the State, we have decided to resume interviews with relatives and friends for prisoners, with effect from Thursday, subject to certain precautionary measures. We have also issued a standard operating procedure (SOP) to all Superintendents of Prisons for conducting the interviews.” “Normally, interviews are not permitted to be held on government holidays, but an exception was made for Pongal, and interviews were allowed on the day to bring smiles among prisoners, during this difficult time. A total of 481 prisoners met their relatives in nine Central prisons and five special prisons for women on the first day,” he said. Special enclosures were erected so that visitors and prisoners could maintain 1 to 2 m of distance. Prisoners stood inside enclosures that were covered with mesh wire, while visitors stood inside another. A gap on 1 m was maintained between them. Interviews are permitted after advance bookings, only through the e-prison visitors’ management system or the telephone. Registrations should be done seven days prior to the date of interview. Inmates are allowed to have an interview with a family member once a month. The duration of interviews is only 15 minutes. SOP issued According to the SOP, visitors should arrive at least 30 minutes before the time of interview for verification. Thermal screening and sanitisation of visitors should be done at the main entrance and the visitors’ hall entrance. Visitors without masks will not be permitted inside the prison complex. Physical distancing norms should be strictly enforced. Staff on duty at the visitors’ registration hall and the interview room should wear masks, face shields and gloves, the SOP read. “As on today, no imprisoned convict is infected, and there are only four remand prisoners affected by the virus. We are continuously conducting tests on remand prisoners and staff,” Mr. Singh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/after-10-months-prisoners-get-to-meet-family-friends-again/article33584896.ece
16 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Opposition politicising farm laws, says Nadda||BJP president J.P. Nadda on Thursday accused the Opposition parties of seeking to politicise the issue of the farm laws by supporting those protesting against the measures. He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had the will and the courage to take bold decisions and was working for the welfare of the nation and the farmers. Speaking at a function to mark the 51st anniversary of Tamil magazine Tughlak here, Mr. Nadda said the Opposition parties had, in fact, promised in their election manifestos that the agriculture sector would be reformed. “You [the Opposition] speak and write in [your] manifestos that reforms will be brought in, that the APMC [Agricultural Produce Market Committee] needs to go, that the Essential Commodities Act is an age-old law that needs to be amended, farming and contract farming have to be legislated..., [but] you don’t have the political will, courage to take decisions. It is Mr. Modi who takes decisions,” he said. The BJP president said the Opposition parties were now trying to go back (on their promise) and “support the people who want to agitate”. He asked whether politics was so important that issues vital to the welfare of the nation needed to be compromised. According to Mr. Nadda, when the western world was struggling to control the spread of COVID-19 despite having better healthcare facilities, Mr. Modi had taken a strong decision to enforce a lockdown so as to save the 1.3 billion population of the country. He said that when COVID-19 struck, the country did not have the capacity to test even 5,000 samples but now it could test 5 lakh samples. Mr. Nadda said it was important to mainstream the BJP in Tamil Nadu, and he was confident that the party’s State unit would bring it off. He also took part in a Pongal event, ‘Namma Oor Pongal’, organised by the party at Maduravoyal. RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat took part in a Pongal event at Ponniammanmedu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/opposition-politicising-farm-laws-says-nadda/article33584914.ece
16 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. reports 621 fresh cases of COVID-19||One district — Ariyalur — had no fresh case of COVID-19 and 18 districts recorded fewer than 10 cases on Friday, as Tamil Nadu reported a total of 621 fresh infections. Chennai continued to report less than 200 cases as 180 persons tested positive. In fact, the city’s active cases fell below 2,000. At present, 1,971 persons are undergoing treatment, while 215 were discharged after treatment. There were 67 cases in Coimbatore, while the remaining districts had less than 30 cases each. These included Chengalpattu 25, Salem 24, Thanjavur 27, Tiruvallur 22, and Tiruppur 27. Among the fresh cases were seven returnees — five from Karnataka and two from Telangana. So far, 8,29,573 persons have tested positive in Tamil Nadu. A total of 6,299 persons are under treatment. Another 805 persons have been discharged. This took the total number of discharged persons to 8,11,023. Five more persons died — three at private hospitals and two at government hospitals. The toll stood at 12,251. Five fatalities Of the five fatalities, two persons each died in Chengalpattu and Chennai, and one in Salem. One of them did not have co-morbidities — a 56-year-old man from Chennai was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on January 13. He died the next day owing to COVID-19 pneumonia and respiratory failure. Two were aged 81. One of them, a woman from Chengalpattu who had diabetes, was admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Government Estate, on January 11 and died on January 14 owing to COVID-19 pneumonia, respiratory failure and acute respiratory distress syndrome. The number of samples tested in the last 24 hours stood at 55,847. So far, 1,51,24,787 samples have been tested. The number of testing facilities in the private sector went up to 183 with approval for two more laboratories — Karthic Medical Centre, Salem, and NG Hospital Private Limited Molecular Lab, Coimbatore. Now, there are 251 testing facilities. U.K. returnees A total of 269 persons returned from the U.K. between January 8 and 15. Of them, 175 were traced and tested. Two of them tested positive for COVID-19 and 163 were negative. The results of 10 passengers are awaited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-reports-621-fresh-cases-of-covid-19/article33584901.ece
16 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MNM gets back ‘Battery Torch’||Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan on Friday said the Election Commission had re-allotted the ‘Battery Torch’ symbol to the party. The party had contested the Lok Sabha poll on the ‘Battery Torch’ symbol but was denied the same for the upcoming Assembly election. It approached the Madras High Court seeking its intervention in the matter. In a short video message posted on his social media pages, Mr. Haasan said: “In 234 Assembly constituencies, Makkal Needhi Maiam has been allotted the ‘Battery Torch’ symbol.” Though the party polled around 3.72% votes in the Lok Sabha election, the symbol was allotted to the MGR Makkal Katchi in Tamil Nadu for the Assembly poll. However, in Puducherry, the party was given the ‘Battery Torch’ symbol.  Right time The news is a big relief for senior members in the party who were concerned whether they would be able to popularise the party’s newly allotted symbol. MNM vice-president R. Mahendran said the reallocation had come at the right time. “Natural justice has been done. It would have taken so much effort and time to popularise the new symbol. As you know, the ‘Battery Torch’ symbol is known to around 15 lakh people who voted for us. And also to other voters,” he said. He added that the party would start including the symbol in all its election campaigns from tomorrow.  Natural justice has been done. It would have taken so much effort and time to popularise the new symbol R. Mahendran, Vice-president, MNM||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/makkal-needhi-maiam-gets-back-battery-torch/article33584925.ece
16 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||A great duet recorded separately||Released almost six decades ago on the day of Pongal, the film Konjum Salangai marked another milestone for nagaswaram player Karukurichi P. Arunachalam, whose birth centenary begins this year. His rendition, along with playback singer S. Janaki, of the song Singaravelane Deva is celebrated as an example of the remarkable synchrony achieved between the nagaswaram and the human voice. However, Arunachalam, a student of T.N. Rajarathinam Pillai, and Janaki did not record the song together. In fact, Arunachalam played a different song, and the lyrics were rewritten later to suit the tune and were sung by Janaki. “Karukurichi Arunachalam actually rendered Manthiramavathu Neeru , the Thevaram song, to the tune set by T.A. Sambandamurthy Achari. He also played the swaras, and it was first recorded by music director S.M. Subbaiah Naidu,” says Vamanan, a historian of Tamil film music. The film was released on January 14, 1962. The thavil was played by Perumpallam P. Venkatesan, who had accompanied Arunachalam for 12 years. When the film crew wanted to create a duet scene, lyricist Ku. Ma. Balasubramanian penned a song to synchronise with the already rendered nagaswaram score. But the music director was not able to find a voice that could match the high pitch of the instrument. Many singers opted out. It was singer P. Leela who said Janaki could do justice to the song. “It will be surprising to know that we rendered the songs separately. I used a headphone and sang the song in tune with the sruthi and mellifluousnesses of the nagaswaram. People celebrate the duet but as the artistes of the song, we had not met each other,” Janaki had said in an interview to Tamil magazine Ananda Vikatan in 1964, a copy of which was obtained by writer Lalitharam. In the interview done after Arunachalam’s death in 1964, Janaki said though she had sung a lot of other songs, it was Singaravelane Deva that secured for her unprecedented fame and recognition. “I first met him in Shanmugananda Hall in Bombay almost one-and-a-half years after the song was recorded. It was also our last meeting. When I told him of the recognition, he said it was Lord Muruga’s grace. He also invited me and my husband to Tiruchendur temple. But we did not get a chance to visit,” she had recalled.  Konjum Salangai also featured Vallalar’s Arutpa, Orumaiyudan Ninathu , by Soolamangalam Rajalakshmi in the raga Bilahari. It was followed by Arunachalam on the nagaswaram.  Janaki said that though she had sung a lot of other songs, it was Singaravelane Deva that brought her unprecedented fame||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-great-duet-recorded-separately/article33584918.ece
16 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Saving Cooum: a citizen’s ambition||As far as ambition goes, K. Mugundhan, an ITES professional, is reaching for the stars. Not for personal or professional achievement, but to clean the Cooum. Mugundhan’s aim is to save the unpolluted stretches of the river as it meanders through Tiruvallur district before entering Chennai and flowing into its most polluted stretch. He shares a special bond with the river that flows behind his house at Anaikattucherry, a village near Pattabiram, where he played and caught fish in his childhood. But his worries started with the slow destruction of the river because of sand mining and pollution. Mr. Mugundhan’s first attempt to protect the river started five years ago when a local body in Thirumazhisai decided to lay a pipeline to let treated sewage into the clean portion. “This part of the river is healthy, and several families depend on the Cooum for drinking water and agriculture. We fought to divert the pipeline to the polluted stretch downstream near Thiruverkadu,” he said. But his fight continues as several individuals continue to litter the Cooum and try to release sewage. He started the Unpolluted Cooum River Protection Committee and campaigned through social media to ‘Save unpolluted part of Cooum’, and more recently ‘Let’s drink from Cooum’ to create awareness among people in other parts of the city. “A walk along the river bank for me is like returning to my grandmother’s unconditional love. Our ties with waterbodies have been cut off. I wanted to pass on this joy to children and help them build a healthy relationship with the river,” he said. In 2017, he, along with other villagers, started ‘Vetriyalar Pattarai’ to invoke interest among children in the conservation of waterbodies and other life skills through field trips. During weekends and on holidays, children get to enjoy the dawn by the scenic waterway, catch fish in the crystal-clear waters, plant saplings along the banks and learn about the threats to the river. The forum now has 150 children attending vocational classes at a concessional rate. Children would soon be engaged in planting of 500 saplings along the banks. “Our village got its name from storage structures or channels that were created earlier to divert water from the Cooum to fill 20 lakes. Many lakes are yet to fill up as these channels have been silted. We hold meetings in the village every month on the means of protecting waterbodies. I believe that we’ll be able to bring about a change together,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/saving-cooum-a-citizens-ambition/article33584911.ece
16 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Residents urge Metro to start work on IT expressway stretch||While the Chennai Metro has been busy chalking out plans for its phase II project, extending 118.9 km, and start operations, first on the stretch between Poonamallee and Power House, residents of OMR, also called the IT Expressway, feel it is important to focus on their stretch too at the earliest as traffic congestion has been a cause for concern for some time now. Among the three corridors in Metro’s phase II project, residents of OMR are looking forward to the one linking Madhavaram and SIPCOT via Adyar. K. Karthik, a professional residing in Shollinganallur, said Metro connectivity would help reduce travel time for residents along OMR. “If I were to travel to my office in Guindy, I have to leave home before 7.50 a.m., failing which, I will have to spend an lot of time stuck in traffic. The stretch between Madhya Kailash and all the way till Siruseri is flooded with vehicles during peak hours. Metro services will be helpful in cutting down travel time,” he said. Viji Arun, a Thoraipakkam resident, said she had been waiting for a long time for Metro services. “Some flyovers were promised 10 years ago, but those are yet to see the light of the day. Now, we hear there is going to be a delay in construction of Metro Rail. Our road [OMR] witnesses over 1.2 lakh vehicles in a day, and we lack grid road connectivity. If we get stuck in traffic, there is no way we can get out of it,” she said. Earlier, Chennai Metro planned to start operations between Madhavaram and Shollinganallur, via Adyar, and Madhavaram to CMBT first. The plan was then tweaked to first start services from Poonamallee to Power House. Before COVID-19, commuters who stepped out for work along the OMR during peak hours would spend an inordinate amount of time driving to and from their workplaces. According to officials of Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL), though they are starting construction first between Poonamallee and Power House, they are going to give equal importance to all stretches, carrying out construction in others as well simultaneously.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-urge-metro-to-start-work-on-it-expressway-stretch/article33584891.ece
16 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tasmac earns Rs. 417.18 crore in Pongal sales||The Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation Limited (Tasmac) earned revenue of around Rs. 417.18 crore this Pongal season. The data collected from Tasmac show that on January 13, when Bhogi was celebrated, the total collection was Rs. 147.75 crore. On the day of Pongal, the sales stood at Rs. 269.43 crore. “The sales will go up this weekend and on the day of Kaanum Pongal and surpass last year’s sales of Rs. 600 crore,” a source in Tasmac said. On January 15, liquor outlets downed their shutters on account of Thiruvalluvar Day. The source pointed out that this year, the Pongal sales were better than those on New Year’s Eve. On December 30 and 31, 2020, Tasmac clocked sales to the tune of Rs. 273 crore. The region-wise data that were collated show that on January 13 and 14, 2021, Chennai saw the maximum sales, at Rs. 93.55 crore, followed by Tiruchi with Rs. 85.62 crore. Sales in the Madurai region for the two days were Rs. 83.42 crore. In the Salem and Coimbatore zones, sales were to the tune of Rs. 79.9 crore and Rs. 74.69 crore respectively. Those tracking the liquor industry said the Rs. 2,500 cash gift doled out by the State government for the festival increased the purchasing power of people. Tasmac has over 5,338 shops across Tamil Nadu, and together they sell liquor worth Rs. 130 crore-Rs. 140 crore a day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tasmac-earns-rs-41718-crore-in-pongal-sales/article33584920.ece
16 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Centre gives permission to Tamil Nadu to borrow more||The Union government has given its approval for Tamil Nadu to borrow Rs. 4,813 crore additionally after its successful implementation of the One Nation One Ration Card (ONOR) scheme. The Centre made the announcement in a release issued on Friday. After the COVID-19 pandemic broke out early last year, the Centre decided in May to increase the States’ borrowing limit by 2% of their Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP). The relaxation is being allowed unconditionally for one half (1%) and conditionally for the other half. The stipulations fixed by the Department of Expenditure under the Union Finance Ministry pertain to the States’ implementation of four reforms — ONOR, ease of doing business, urban local body/utility reforms and power sector reforms, each having a score of 0.25% With Tamil Nadu fulfilling the conditions on ease of doing business and ONOR, its borrowing limit goes up by 0.5%. Even in respect of the urban local body reforms, the State should be regarded as having satisfied the condition in view of having the system of property tax for long, said an official of the Finance Department. At present, a committee of officials is going through all the issues of tax revision and rationalisation. The State has decided not to accept the power sector reforms, which essentially relate to the introduction of direct benefit transfer to all farmers in lieu of free electricity. Totally, Tamil Nadu’s borrowing limit during 2020-21 may go up by at least 1.5%, if not by 1.75%, in the event of the Centre agreeing with the State’s position on the local body reforms. The other States that have undertaken ONOR are Andhra Pradesh, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Telangana, Tripura and Uttar Pradesh. Of them, the details of the southern States that have been allowed to go for additional borrowings are Karnataka Rs. 4,509 crore; Andhra Pradesh Rs. 2,525 crore; Telangana Rs. 2,508 crore; and Kerala Rs. 2,261 crore. Totally, 11 States have been granted permission for borrowing Rs. 30,709 crore more. Inter-State portability The ONOR scheme facilitates inter-State portability of ration cards. As part of the scheme, the linking of beneficiaries, as enumerated in ration cards, should be done with their Aadhaar numbers, apart from the biometric authentication through the automation of all fair price shops with electronic point-of-sale devices. The other objectives are better targeting of beneficiaries and elimination of bogus or duplicate or ineligible card holders. According to the data put up on the website of the State Civil Supplies and Consumer Protection Department, there are 2,11,92,841 cards having 6,81,82,891 beneficiaries. As of now, the Aadhaar seeding has covered 6,76,86,425 beneficiaries.  Totally, Tamil Nadu’s borrowing limit during 2020-21 may go up by at least 1.5%, if not by 1.75%, in the event of the Centre agreeing with the State’s position on local body reforms||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centre-gives-permission-to-tamil-nadu-to-borrow-more/article33584906.ece
16 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Entry into parks, beaches prohibited during Kaanum Pongal||The city police said that entry to places such as the Guindy National Park and Marina, Elliot’s and Mamallapuram among other beaches would be prohibited on the day of Kaanum Pongal and appealed to the people not to gather in public places. The State government had issued an order stating that during Pongal holidays, there was a possibility of COVID-19 spreading in areas frequented by the people. Hence, to avoid the spread of infection, the places will be closed between January 15 and 17 for the people, the order said. Following orders from the government, the city police have made elaborate arrangements to prevent revellers from entering beaches. Approach roads have been blocked near the Marina and Elliot’s beaches, and police personnel with patrol vehicles deployed for bandobust duties. Wooden barricades have been erected on the beach sands in Neelankarai, Thiruvanmiyur, Palavakkam and Kanathur areas. Vigil has been tightened in these areas. City Police Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal urged the people to cooperate as they did during New Year’s eve. A special team has been formed to monitor and prevent gatherings on beaches, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/entry-into-parks-beaches-prohibited-during-kaanum-pongal/article33584888.ece
16 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai all set to begin COVID-19 immunisation drive||As many as 71,669 health workers were enlisted in the Chennai district on Friday for the COVID-19 immunisation drive. A total of 9,814 employees of the Greater Chennai Corporation, 22,373 staff of various government departments and 39,483 private employees in Chennai have submitted their identity cards and phone numbers for vaccination. The Corporation’s list includes all staff members of urban primary health centres, urban community health centres, dispensaries and laboratories. It also includes officials from the Ripon Buildings, three regional offices, the 15 zones and 200 wards of the civic body. ‘Vaccination optional’ All sanitary officers, sanitary inspectors, malaria workers, NULM labourers and burial ground employees have been advised to get vaccinated. Senior officials said the employees will not be forced to get immunisation for COVID-19. “It is optional. The employees can decide,” said an official. The immunisation drive is set to be launched by Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash, in Injambakkam on Saturday. Hundreds of employees will get vaccinated on the first day, at the urban community health centre in Injambakkam, in the Sholinganallur zone. Frontline workers will get immunisation at the urban community health centre on GNT Road in Puzhal, Madhavaram zone, on Saturday. The drive will also be launched at the urban community health centre in Porur, Valasaravakkam zone, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennai-all-set-to-begin-covid-19-immunisation-drive/article33584877.ece
16 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||ENT surgery restores man’s hearing ability||After nearly 15 years, a 45-year-old man’s hearing ability was restored after a novel surgery performed by a team of doctors at MGM Healthcare, a city-based super-specialty hospital. The patient, an auditor by profession, noticed a drop in his hearing ability 15 years ago, and the condition worsened since, despite rehabilitative measures such as use of hearing aids. He had a tough time communicating with others during the pandemic when the use of masks was mandated. On the novel surgery performed, Sanjeev Mohanty, head of the dpartment, Institute of ENT, Head and Neck Surgery, said a bilateral cochlear implantation surgery was performed, employing the hearing preservation surgical technique with wireless speech process technology. The challenge was preserving residual hearing, while fortifying the remaining non-functional portion of the nerve of hearing. According to a release, the combination surgery was among the novel procedures performed in the State. The patient, who was discharged in two days, will now be able to understand speech better.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ent-surgery-restores-mans-hearing-ability/article33584889.ece
16 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Gnanadesikan passes away||B.S. Gnanadesikan, senior vice-president of the Tamil Maanila Congress and two-time Member of Parliament, died on Friday due to ill- health. He was 71. Gnanadesikan had contracted COVID-19 in November, and had been admitted to Apollo Hospitals. A bulletin from the hospital is awaited. A native of Vathalakundu, Gnanadesikan had his schooling in Nagercoil, where his father B.S. Sivagurunathan was a district magistrate. After completing his law degree from the Madras Law College, he worked as a junior to N.C. Raghavachari, the advocate of late Chief Minister M.G. Ramachandran. “Gnanadesikan was the student union secretary of the Loyola College and successfully led an agitation to highlight various issues,” recalled Justice K. Chandru, his collegemate. A close associate of late G.K. Moopanar, Gnanadesikan was appointed the spokesperson of the Tamil Maanila Congress (TMC). The association was so strong between them that he quit the Tamil Nadu Congress Committee (TNCC) when Moopanar floated the Tamil Maanila Congress in 1996. He quit the post of TNCC president when Mr. Vasan revived the TMC again and joined hands with him. The ruling AIADMK’s co-coordinator and Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and coordinator-Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam, in a joint statement, condoled the death of the former parliamentarian. Personal loss “It is a very personal loss for me and the party. We share a very long association,” G.K. Vasan, TMC president, said. DMK president M.K. Stalin, TNCC president K.S. Alagiri, CPI (M) State Secretary K. Balakrishnan, PMK founder S. Ramadoss, MDMK general secretary Vaiko and AMMK leader T.T.V. Dhinakaran were among the leaders who expressed their condolences.  Gnanadesikan was the student union secretary of Loyola College and successfully led an agitation to highlight various issues K. Chandru,Former judge, Madras HC||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gnanadesikan-passes-away/article33584923.ece
16 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Japanese language courses to be held online||The Language School of the Indo-Japan Chamber of Commerce and Industry will commence classes for various levels of Japanese language proficiencies. Courses of spoken and written language for freshers will conducted online during weekends — Saturday, from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m., and Sundays, from 9 a.m. to 11 a.m. For other levels The course will commence from January 23. Other proficiency courses will also start shortly, according to a press release. For details contact: 044-24352020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/japanese-language-courses-to-be-held-online/article33584878.ece
16 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police organise Pongal celebrations in city||City Police Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal and other police officers on Friday celebrated a samathuva Pongal, with people from all walks of life in Namasivayapuram, Choolaimedu. Mr. Aggarwal began the celebrations by dropping jaggery and rice in a boiling pongal pot, surrounded by officers and transpersons. Folk dances and traditional martial arts were performed on the occasion. Pongal celebrations were held at the Rajarathinam Stadium, where constables recently joined the Armed Reserve Unit. In the Washermenpet police district, Mr. Aggarwal and other officers participated in a programme conducted by the police, with members of boys’ and girls’ clubs in north Chennai. On Thursday, the Adyar district police held Pongal celebrations with residents of Kannagi Nagar, drawing crowds. Mr. Aggarwal and other officers participated in a tug-of-war competition. Children from the boys’ and girls’ clubs took part in various competitions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-organise-pongal-celebrations-in-city/article33584894.ece
16 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK to hold meetings to mark MGR’s birth anniversary||The All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) will hold a series of public meetings across Tamil Nadu to mark the birth anniversary of its founder and former Chief Minister M.G. Ramachandran from January 17 to 19. On Sunday, Deputy Chief Minister and party coordinator O. Panneerselvam will address a meeting to be organised by the party’s unit looking after the suburban areas of Chennai. On Tuesday (January 19), Chief Minister and the ruling party’s co-coordinator, Edappadi K. Palaniswami, will speak at an event to be organised by the south Chennai-northwest unit of the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-to-hold-meetings-to-mark-mgrs-birth-anniversary/article33584912.ece
16 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Gokula Indira clarifies on reference to Sasikala||Former Minister and AIADMK organisation secretary Gokula Indira said her allusion to V.K. Sasikala, former interim general secretary of the party, during an agitation in Chennai, had “no political motive.” She was responding to a query from The Hindu whether her reference could be construed as an attempt to work for the coming together of the AIADMK, Sasikala and the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK). She replied in the negative. Stir over remarks Explaining that she held a stir in Anna Nagar against the reported observations of Udhayanidhi Stalin, DMK’s youth wing leader, about the conduct of Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami at the time of his election as legislature party leader four years ago, the former Minister pointed out that she did not mention Sasikala by name. “What I said was that she remained an aide of Amma [Jayalalithaa] who led a life of austerity.” The protest was meant to decry the “attitude” of the DMK functionary as his remarks sought to “denigrate” women.   What I said was that she remained an aide of Amma [Jayalalithaa], who led a life of austerity||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gokula-indira-clarifies-on-reference-to-sasikala/article33584915.ece
16 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ramadoss urges govt. to waive farm loans||PMK founder S. Ramadoss on Friday said farm loans should be waived as the compensation received by farmers affected by rain and floods was insufficient. In a statement, Dr. Ramadoss said all loans taken by farmers in co-operative banks should be waived without pre-conditions by the State government. “The funds required to do that will not be more than what was required to fund the ‘Pongal cash gift’ given by the State government to people.” “At the same time, it will wipe the tears of the gods that provide food. The Centre must provide a part of the funds required to the State government,” he said. Loss of crops While the State government has announced relief of Rs. 600 crore to farmers whose crops suffered due to the first round of rain in the Cauvery delta region, Dr. Ramadoss said the loss of crops due to rain subsequent to it had not been calculated. “The farmers who grow grains get a lot of preference while other farmers in regions such as Ariyalur and Perambalur districts haven’t been given importance,” Dr. Ramadoss said. “The losses faced by all farmers from all regions should be properly calculated and they must be compensated,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ramadoss-urges-govt-to-waive-farm-loans/article33584935.ece
16 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Guest lecturers to receive six months’ salary||The Higher Education Department has issued an order that six months’ salary due to guest lecturers be paid. The government order to this effect was released on Wednesday. As many as 1,661 guest lecturers in 59 government arts and science colleges will receive the salary dues from April 2020 to October 2020. The government has allocated Rs. 15,12,63,164 for the purpose. Each lecturer will be paid a consolidated amount of Rs. 15,000. The lecturers were appointed by the government for the academic year 2020-2021 for shift 2. The department has also sought details of the guest lecturers appointed from November 2020 to March 2021. The Directorate of College Education has asked arts and science colleges to submit the list of guest lecturers they have appointed in order to seek finance from the government. The colleges must send the details by January 19. The DCE’s format has sought details of the vacancy and the number of guest lecturers who have been appointed. The financial commitment towards salary would be Rs. 12,45,75,000. An amount of Rs. 14,77,636 has been allocated for non-teaching staff appointed on consolidated pay too. Guest lecturers are appointed on a temporary basis and each year their contract is renewed when the academic year begins. When the guest lecturers raised the issue of salary, the government said due to lockdown, the teachers were not working from colleges. However, the teachers were expected to have laptops, smartphones and internet connection to conduct online classes, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/guest-lecturers-to-receive-six-months-salary/article33584885.ece
16 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai police chief warns theatres over violations||City Police Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal on Thursday warned of cancellation of licences if theatres are found repeatedly violating COVID-19 norms laid down by the government. The State government has allowed theatres to screen films at 50% percent capacity, in view of the pandemic. With big-budget films hitting the screens, city theatres have been seen running shows at higher than the stipulated 50% capacity. Deputy Commissioners of Police have been conducting surprise checks in their jurisdictions, and cases have been booked against managements of theatres found violating the provisions. For the third consecutive day on Friday, crowding by fans was witnessed in some theatres. Responding to queries by reporters, Mr. Aggarwal said, “Theatres should follow norms laid down by the government and operate at only 50% occupancy. If anyone is found violating norms, action will be taken against them and their licence will be cancelled, in case of repeated violations.” As many as 25 cases were booked against threatre managements, by the police, for violations within city limits, until Thursday evening, under relevant provisions of the Indian Penal Code, the Disaster Management Act and the Epidemic Diseases Act, besides imposing a Rs. 5,000 fine on them. “Local DCs have been asked to conduct random checks. We are conducting surprise checks and booking cases. If they indulge in repeat offences, we will go for cancellation of licence,” Mr. Aggarwal warned.  We are conducting surprise checks and booking cases. If they indulge in repeat offences, we will go for cancellation of licence Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal Chennai Police Commissioner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/will-cancel-licences-if-theatres-flout-norms/article33584876.ece
16 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Insist on Covishield, TNGDA tells doctors||The Tamil Nadu Government Doctors Association (TNGDA) has recommended that doctors opt for vaccination against COVID-19 and insist on the Covishield vaccine till the third phase results of Covaxin are out. The vaccination is set to begin on Saturday, with healthcare providers to be covered in the first phase. The State received 5,36,500 doses of Covishield and 20,000 doses of Covaxin. As of now, 4.39 lakh healthcare professionals/workers have been registered for the vaccination. However, as some doctors expressed concerns about the safety of the vaccine and their unwillingness to get vaccinated, the TNGDA sought the opinion of three independent specialists on the safety, efficacy and choice of the vaccines offered and issued an advisory for members. A summary of the recommendations of the specialists was submitted to the State Executive Committee of the TNGDA on January 14, and it was discussed and adopted. TNGDA president K. Senthil said the office-bearers would take the vaccine on the first day. “We have asked the government to give priority to healthcare providers in the government sector and administer Covishield,” he said. As per the recommendations of the specialists, all doctors and healthcare providers are at a high risk of contracting COVID-19 in their daily routine of treating patients, and all doctors have been advised to take the vaccine permitted for emergency use, except those with contraindication. In a specific recommendation on the choice of vaccine, the specialists said all practising doctors could go for vaccination and insist on Covishield till the third phase results of Covaxin are out. Vector-based They recommended that as on date, the vector-based Covishield had been in use for 40 to 60 days, with no serious side effects and with good immunogenicity. The live attenuated method using the SARS-CoV-2 virus in Covaxin was yet to be used anywhere in the world. So it was better to opt for Covishield as of now, though Covaxin might be preferred later if the third phase results were better, according to the summary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/insist-on-covishield-tngda-tells-doctors/article33584904.ece
16 January 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Gold seized at airport, 1 arrested||A man was arrested by the Chennai Air Customs for attempting to smuggle 722 g of gold, worth Rs. 36.52 lakh, at the Chennai airport. Manikandan Shankar, who arrived from Dubai, had hidden three bundles of gold paste, according to a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gold-seized-at-airport/article33584883.ece
16 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Protection for resolution expert||The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT), Chennai, has allowed police protection to be provided to Subrata Monindranath Maity, a resolution professional (RP) in-charge of Bhatia Coke and Energy Ltd., after he alleged that he, along with his team and family members, were being threatened by erstwhile directors of the company. In 2019, NCLT had directed initiation of insolvency proceedings against Bhatia Coke for non-payment of dues of about Rs. 125.9 crore to a consortium of banks, in a case filed by the SBI. In his petition, Mr. Maity noted that the erstwhile directors had made allegations against him under provisions of the IPC and criminal prosecution had been initiated against him. An FIR had been filed in Madhya Pradesh, and another in Tamil Nadu. The police had commenced investigations. The NCLT said it was not going into the merits of the FIRs, but said since it was related to insolvency proceedings, it was imperative to protect the RP, his team and family members. For the lawful discharge of duty of a resolution professional, accelerating criminal charges and using the police to register complaints of criminal nature was not appropriate, when the erstwhile directors could have filed necessary applications with the tribunal, and registered a complaint with the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India, it said. If every RP is bombarded with criminal prosecution and police investigation, then no one will be able to conduct the corporate insolvency resolution process (CIRP) without fear and favour, the NCLT noted, permitting the RP to take necessary action for protection and steps to quash the FIRs. The police shall not take any action, like arrest, until the proceedings are disposed of by the tribunal, it noted.  If every RP is bombarded with criminal prosecution and police investigation, then no one will be able to conduct the corporate insolvency resolution process without fear and favour NCLT||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nclt-allows-police-protection-for-resolution-professional/article33584892.ece
16 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||We are not anti-Hindu, says Stalin||DMK president M.K. Stalin said there was no truth in the allegation that his party was anti-Hindu. “The BJP, the RSS and Hindu Munnani seek to portray the DMK as anti-Hindu. That is not the truth. In fact, there is no temple which is not visited by my wife. Many district secretaries of the DMK sport kumkum on their forehead and we do not criticise their faith,” he said, while participating in the Pongal festival in Konambedu in Thiruvallur district. He said the DMK always followed the dictum of ‘one god, one race’ propounded by party founder C.N. Annadurai. “Any smear campaign against the DMK will not cut ice with the people and it will be proved in the forthcoming Assembly election,” Mr. Stalin said. Reacting to CM Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s claim that he rose in politics gradually, Mr. Stalin said by making that statement he had insinuated that others had used family connections for their rise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-not-anti-hindu-says-party-chief-stalin/article33584928.ece
16 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tribunal cuts compensation by 40%||The Motor Accidents’ Claims Tribunal, Chennai, has cut the compensation awarded to a person injured in a road accident by 40%, after it was found that he did not hold a valid driving licence. In a petition, Dhanasekar, said on March 24, 2013, while riding his motorcycle near the Vanagaram Thermacol Company on the Maduravoyal Bypass Road, a car hit his vehicle when it was trying to overtake another car, without proper indication towards the left side. He sustained injuries. He said the driver of the car was responsible for the accident and sought compensation. Dinesh Babu, the owner of the car, and its insurer, the United India Insurance Co. Ltd, were named respondents. The tribunal concluded that the accident occurred due to the rash and negligent driving of the car driver and held that the insurance company had to pay compensation. But it said some factors leading to the accident, like not having a valid driving licence, were contributed by the petitioner. It directed the insurance firm to pay about Rs. 12.67 lakh to Mr. Dhanasekar, after deducting 40% from the total of Rs. 21.11 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/accidents-tribunal-cuts-compensation-by-40/article33584886.ece
16 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Offences cannot be compounded based on ‘unholy’ compromises: HC||In cases involving charges of impersonation and forgery of records, the offences can neither be compounded nor quashed if the accused and the victim had entered into a “unholy” compromise and decided to settle the matter among themselves, the Madras High Court has said. Impersonating sisters Justice P.N. Prakash observed so while dismissing a petition filed by a person to quash a criminal case booked against him for having allegedly made two women impersonate his sisters to sell one of the many immovable properties inherited by the siblings after their parents’ death. Though petitioner’s counsel contended that the property in question was actually allotted to his client in a family settlement and that one of his sisters had unnecessarily lodged a police complaint due to her greed for money, the judge said the lawyer was not seeing the wood for the trees. The court pointed out that the issue in question was not whether the petitioner, R. Amudhan, was entitled to sell the property or not, but whether he had two women Savitri and Suseela impersonate his sisters K. Sangeetha and Uma Balaji at the time of registration of the sale deed or not. Referring to overwhelming evidence collected by Vellore town police to prove that the impersonators had signed the sale deed and also affixed their thumb impressions at a Sub Registrar’s office in 2004, the court said: “The report of the finger print expert is available in black and white on record along with the chargesheet.” It went on to state that though both the sisters of the petitioner had been impersonated, only one, Ms. Balaji, residing in the United States, had chosen to lodge a police complaint after the offence came to her knowledge. “Somewhere down the line, Sangeetha and Amudhan had entered into a deal and settled the matter between themselves.” “In the opinion of this court, in a case of this nature where there has been impersonation and forgery of records, even if the accused and the victim enter into an unholy compromise, the offences can neither be compounded nor quashed on the ground that the siblings have settled the matter amongst themselves,” he concluded. Since the present quash petition had been pending in the High Court since 2017 when a stay had been granted for the trial court proceedings, the judge directed the petitioner to participate in the trial and not adopt any dilatory tactics. The petitioner was also warned of being remanded to judicial custody if he delayed the trial. The investigators were also given liberty to register a fresh First Information Report under Section 229A (failure by person released on bail or bond to appear in court whenever he/she is called upon to do so) of the Indian Penal Code if the petitioner absconds during the course of trial.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/offences-cannot-be-compounded-based-on-unholy-compromises-hc/article33584927.ece
16 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||All set for vaccination in Coimbatore, Tiruppur||Covishield vaccines will be administered to healthcare workers at four centres across Coimbatore district on Saturday. Deputy Director of Health Services (Coimbatore) G. Ramesh Kumar said on Friday that the vaccination centres are at Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, Government Hospital at Pollachi, Government Hospital at Mettupalayam and Primary Health Centre at Nallattipalayam near Kinathukadavu. Each centre will administer the vaccine to a maximum of 100 persons on Saturday. The Covishield vaccine vials were transported to the four centres from the Regional Vaccine Store in the DDHS office at Race Course Road. Vials were also transported to the respective District Vaccine Stores at Tiruppur, Erode, and the Nilgiris districts, Dr. Kumar said. A total of 56,128 healthcare workers comprising doctors, staff nurses, paramedical workers and technicians have registered in the CoWIN portal to receive the vaccine in Coimbatore district, he said. P. Vadivelan, Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine (officer on special duty), monitored the preparatory works in Coimbatore on Friday. Apart from these vaccination centres, 155 Covishield doses were transported to the Air Force Station, Sulur on Friday, Dr. Kumar said. The Tamil Nadu branch of Indian Medical Association issued a statement on Thursday urging all medical and paramedical professionals along with the other frontline workers to get vaccinated. The statement by IMA State president P. Ramakrishnan and secretary A.K. Ravikumar said there were no evidences of adverse reactions due to the vaccine. IMA members must spread awareness among the public on the vaccine. In Tiruppur district, Minister for Animal Husbandry Udumalai K. Radhakrishnan will inaugurate the vaccination drive on Saturday at the Government Hospital at Udumalpet. In addition to this hospital, the vaccination would be done at Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital, Government Hospital at Dharapuram and Primary Health Centre at Perumanallur near Avinashi, Deputy Director of Health Services (Tiruppur) K. Jegadeesh Kumar said. A total of 16,640 healthcare workers in the district would be vaccinated. Of them, 400 would be vaccinated on Saturday, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/all-set-for-vaccination-in-coimbatore-tiruppur/article33584950.ece
16 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Pongal celebrated at elephant camp||A total of 26 elephants participated in the Pongal celebrations organised by the Forest Department at Kozhikamuthi elephant camp in Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) on Friday. Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Coimbatore Circle) I. Anwardeen, ATR Assistant Conservator of Forests E. Prasanth and other forest officials participated in the celebrations. “Usually, we have [the Pongal celebrations] at Topslip, but due to COVID-19, we could not bring the elephants there,” Mr. Prasanth said. Though Kozhikamuthi camp has 28 elephants, two tuskers did not participate as they were in musth. Chinna Thambi, the crop-raider who was captured in 2019, and celebrity kumki Kaleem were among the elephants that took part in the celebrations, he said. The elephants were decorated and fed. Mahouts and residents of the tribal settlements within the ATR were honoured, Mr. Prasanth said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pongal-celebrated-at-elephant-camp/article33584941.ece
16 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||TNAU releases 11 crop varieties||Tamil Nadu Agricultural University has released 11 crop varieties this Pongal. A release from the university said six were agriculture crops, four in horticulture and one in forestry. The six new varieties of agriculture crops included three rice varieties – Co54 for sonavari / kar / kuruvai / navarai season, ADT55 for the kar / kuruvai / summer and TRY4 for saline soil in samba / taladi / late taladi season. In small millets, the university released Ragi ATL1, Varagu ATL1 for rain-fed and irrigated regions to enhance nutritional security and black gram Co7, which was resistant to yellow mosaic viral disease and released for both rain-fed and irrigated conditions, the release said. In horticulture crops, the university released brinjal VRM(Br)2, a spineless variety to replace spine variety VRM(Br)1 in northern districts, gum-less latex-free sweet jackfruit PLR3, kodampuli / Malabar tamarind PPI(K) and wood apple PKM1. In forestry, it released malai vemmbu MTP3 to be used in agro-forestry to increase farmers’ income. The variety had face veneer for plywood decoration. 854 crop varieties  Releasing the varieties at a Pongal function, Vice-Chancellor N. Kumar said the university had released 854 crop varieties in the past 100 years for varied agro-climate zones and to meet farmers’ demands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farm-varsity-releases-11-crop-varieties/article33584933.ece
16 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore records 67 new cases||Coimbatore district on Friday reported 67 new COVID-19 cases, taking the overall tally to 53,475. No deaths were reported in the district. Active cases According to the Health Department, as many as 52,188 persons have recovered so far. The number of active cases stood at 625 and 87 persons were discharged from various treatment centres in the district on Friday. Tiruppur district reported 27 fresh cases on Friday, and the tally rose to 17,506. No deaths were reported in the district. As many as 17,060 patients have recovered and 226 were active cases. On Friday, 24 persons were discharged from various treatment centres. In the Nilgiris, five persons tested positive for the disease on Friday, taking the overall tally to 8,095 cases. Seventy-six persons are under treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-records-67-new-cases/article33584952.ece
16 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Kamal releases agenda for industrial sector||Makkal Needhi Maiam president Kamal Haasan recently unveiled his party’s agenda for the industrial sector. At a press meet in Coimbatore, he said the MNM would set up a ‘Ministry of Possibilities’ if voted to power. “A Ministry of Possibilities will be established to cater to science and technology, start-ups, and innovation to give fillip to the industrial revolution 4.0.” The other promises in the agenda were an industry-integrated approach, encouragement to MSMEs, development of less developed regions in the State, strengthening unorganised labourers, skill development parks in every district and a new business facilitation model. The integrated approach aimed at organising a quarterly summit of government, industry, academia and civil society representatives to act as a think tank for the Chief Minister. The encouragement to MSMEs would ensure enough liquidity, development of lesser developed regions and would work towards incentivising big industries to set up offices in those regions and for the labour in the unorganised sector. He also promised pensions, insurance cover and job safety. Later, responding to questions, Mr. Haasan said he would definitely contest the election but was yet to decide on his constituency. Welcoming the Supreme Court stay on the Centre’s farm laws, he said though the farmers’ associations had refused to talk to the Court-constituted committee, at least a beginning had been made for dialogue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kamal-releases-agenda-for-industrial-sector/article33584921.ece
16 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||MDMK seeks white paper on COVID-19 expenses||MDMK’s State Youth Wing secretary V. Eswaran on Friday demanded the State government to publish a white paper on COVID-19 expenses, following a Right to Information (RTI) Act reply that said that the government had spent over Rs. 142 crore on procuring ventilators in four months. The reply from the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation (TNMSC) said that it placed orders for 2,205 ventilators worth Rs. 142,73,56,099.62 from February 1,2020 to May 21, 2020 to various government institutions in the State. Each ventilator was bought for Rs. 6.47 lakh, Mr. Eswaran said. He said that he filed the RTI application on June 2, 2020, while the reply was dated December 16, 2020. Apart from ventilators, the TNMSC had also placed orders for 15,45,700 RT-PCR kits worth Rs. 170.78 crore, 22,13,156 RNA extraction kits at Rs. 28.46 crore and 15,12,162 Viral Transport Medium kits worth Rs. 24.53 crore between February and May in 2020. A total of Rs. 265.73 crore was allocated to TNMSC under the State Disaster Response Fund, the RTI reply said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mdmk-seeks-white-paper-on-covid-19-expenses/article33584948.ece
16 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Tea Board issues notices for deviations||The Tea Board of India, Coonoor, has issued notice to 30 estate tea factories in the Nilgiris for various deviations. The board said in a press release that the factories had been asked to respond to the notices within a stipulated time. Executive Director of the Board M. Balaji said in the release that officials from the zonal office at Coonoor inspected 43 estate tea factories in the Nilgiris in November and December last year. Following this, the Board issued notices to 30 factories for deviations such as lack of quality leaf procurements, poor standards of hygiene, non-maintenance of statutory records, non-adherence to price sharing formula, tea purchase from other factories, and procurement of bought leaf beyond the permissible limits. The board conducts regular inspection of factories to ensure compliance with quality and hygiene standards, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tea-board-issues-notices-for-deviations/article33584946.ece
16 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore sees very high rainfall||Coimbatore has received the highest rainfall for January this year as compared to recent years. Data from the Agro Climate Research Centre at the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University show that the highest rainfall was on January 7 — 70 mm — and the number of rainy days was eight. Coimbatore will continue to witness rainfall for a few more days because of upper air circulation over the Bay of Bengal. Prof. S.P. Ramanathan, Centre head, said that this was the highest rainfall in January in recent years and it was an extension of the Northeast monsoon, which appeared to be a never ending monsoon. The continuing rain would impact paddy harvest in Delta districts and pulses harvest in Coimbatore and other districts as the moisture content could affect the price farmers get for their produce.  Though Coimbatore had been getting rain, there had been no impact on the water level in the Siruvani reservoir. As of January 15, the water level stood at 37.92 feet in the reservoir, whose full reservoir level is 49.5 feet. Sources in the civic body said the fall in water level was on account of the release of water through an ungated spillway. With this storage, it would be difficult to meet the city’s water needs in the coming months.  Coimbatore will continue to witness rainfall for a few more days because of upper air circulation over Bay of Bengal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-sees-very-high-rainfall-in-january/article33584936.ece
16 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Youth killed in road accident||T. Maheshwaran (22) was killed in a collision between two motorcycles near Valparai on Thursday. Police said that the accident took place on the Kottur to Aliyar Road. The motorcycle rode by Maheswaran, with his friend G. Gopal (21) on the pillion, collided with the motorcycle rode by C. Ajithkumar (21). Maheswaran died on the spot. The injured were hospitalised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-killed-in-road-accident/article33584951.ece
16 January 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||10,850 workers to be covered in first round||The first phase of vaccination will cover healthcare workers to be vaccinated in the six designated centres here on Saturday. Dharmapuri Government Medical College Hospital, District Headquarters Hospital in Pennagaram, Palacodde and Harur, and two upgraded primary health centres in Morappur and Karimangalam are the designated vaccination centres here. Vaccines brought In the first phase, 11,800 vaccines have been brought in carriers and stored in refrigerators in the centres. Frontline workers Frontline workers, primarily the healthcare system staff working in primary health centres, government hospitals, medical college hospital, paramedicals, and private healthcare workers, including ICDS and sanitation workers, are being covered in the vaccination programme. A total of 10,850 workers will be covered in the first round, with a targeted vaccination of 400 persons a day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/10850-workers-to-be-covered-in-first-round/article33585043.ece
16 January 2021||HOSUR,TAMIL NADU||Elephant injured||An elephant was left battling for life after being hit by a container truck on Hosur- Krishnagiri national highway near Perandappali on Friday night. The lone elephant was crossing the highway, when the speeding container truck rammed into him. At the time of reporting, a forest team was on its way to the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elephant-injured/article33585042.ece
16 January 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Seven centres set up in Krishnagiri||Seven vaccination centres have been prepped up ahead of the nationwide vaccination drive in the district. Krishnagiri Government Headquarters Hospital, ESI Hospital, Hosur Government Hospital, Uthangarai Government Hospital, upgraded primary health centre, Kaveripattinam, public health center, Seetharam Nagar, Hosur; and TCR Multi-Speciality Hospital are the seven designated centers here. Frontline workers, who are primary health care workers are being covered in the first round of vaccination. According to the administration, a total of 12,172 frontline workers, who had registered through the CO-WIN software are being vaccinated. The drive is being conducted as per the government vetted safety protocols. Each vaccination centre has been set up with three rooms, including a waiting room, vaccinating room and an observation room. The protocol envisions five staff as part of the vaccination line. The chain will include a police personnel to streamline the vaccine receivers; a data entry operator to vet the identity of the receiver; a medical officer, a vaccinator, and an observer. The cold chain point includes exclusive refrigerators in the vaccination centres for safe storage of the vaccines. Under observation Each vaccine receiver shall be kept under observation for not less than 30 minutes. Upon vaccination, the details will be updated in the CO-WIN software. According to the administration, all precautions have been put in place for the smooth conduct of the drive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seven-centres-set-up-in-krishnagiri/article33585041.ece
16 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Centre will be forced to take back farm laws’||The Central government would be forced to take back the three farm laws, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said on Thursday. Talking to reporters at Madurai airport, Mr. Gandhi said he would continue to support the farmers. The Centre was trying to destroy the farmers in order to benefit two or three of its friends. “Mark my words … these laws … the government will be forced to take back,” he said. The Centre wants to take the land and produce of the farmers to give them to their friends, he said. Stating that farmers were the backbone of the country, Mr. Gandhi said, “The country cannot prosper by suppressing them. When the farmer is weak, the country is weak,” he said. The Congress leader charged the Centre of not helping the common man during the COVID-19 pandemic. Now, it is suppressing the farmers to help some businesses. “Whose Prime Minister, are you? Are you the Prime Minister of the people of India or two-three businessmen?” he asked. He also questioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s silence on Chinese troops allegedly sitting in Indian territory. ‘Jallikattu is safe’ After watching the jallikattu at Avaniapuram, the bull taming event organised in connection with Pongal celebrations, Mr. Gandhi said he was given an impression that jallikattu was harmful to the bulls. “I am convinced that there is no chance for the bulls to get injured. If at all someone is injured, it is the young men (bull tamers),” he said. Some of the changes brought in for the conduct of the event had made it safer, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centre-will-be-forced-to-take-back-farm-laws/article33585013.ece
16 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Red Cross volunteers save lives of injured tamers||When the jallikattu at Palamedu was progressing well on Friday, there were whistles all of a sudden around 12.30 p.m. to temporarily suspend it. Immediately, a group of volunteers of the Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS) rushed into the arena with a stretcher to carry an injured bull tamer. The tamer, who was profusely bleeding due to an injury in his arm, was immediately rushed to the nearest health facility. Jallikattu is said to be one of the most dangerous sports, during which a large number of bull tamers get injured. During these moments, it is the volunteers from the IRCS who provide first aid to the injured tamers promptly to avoid any deaths. A team of 10 trained volunteers of IRCS provides first aid to the injured players during jallikattu events. District secretary of IRCS M. Gopalakrishnan says the main aim of the team is to provide first aid to the injured bull tamers as soon as possible. “Most bull tamers suffer deep wounds, leading to severe blood loss. So, our aim is to ensure that we arrest blood loss to save them,” he says. A Rajkumar, coordinator of the group, says that following the jallikattu protests of 2017, the judiciary laid emphasis on preventing fatalities during jallikattu. Hence, a team of volunteers was trained for the purpose, he adds. Earlier, there have been instances where accidentally mud or coconut coir had infected the wounds of the injured bull tamers, says P. Rajesh Kannan, who is part of the team. “Hence, a trained team is essential to avoid such accidents,” he adds. However, the presence of a large number of police personnel in front of the arena poses a hindrance for the volunteers to provide timely treatment. “This delays the time taken to treat the injured player. Similarly, spectators tend to block the area around the arena, delaying the time taken to reach the ambulance. These issues need to be sorted out,” a volunteer says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/red-cross-volunteers-save-lives-of-injured-tamers/article33585017.ece
16 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Bull rescued from trench||Fire and Rescue Services personnel deployed at Palamedu for the jallikattu on Friday rescued a bull which did not take part in the event from a trench in Manickampatti in Madurai district. The team also rescued a cow that fell into a well in Palamedu. A fire official said that they had stationed a 35-member team with different categories of rescue vehicles at the Palamedu jallikattu venue. “We placed an advertisement of ‘Thee,’ a mobile based application at the event in order to create awareness of it. More awareness was needed for the app,” he said. Two fire tenders - one near the arena and another at the nearby bus stand - were stationed at the venue. An emergency rescue tender near the bull collection point and a quick response vehicle were stationed. Ten commandos of a 35-member team were deployed to provide additional assistance to Indian Red Cross volunteers who were at hand to help the injured tamers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fire-services-personnel-rescue-bull-from-trench/article33584939.ece
16 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||CM in city||Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami arrived here on Friday night. He will flag off the jallikattu at Alanganallur at 8 a.m. on Saturday. After watching the event for sometime, the CM would return to the city where he is likely to inaugurate the COVID-19 vaccination programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-in-city/article33585282.ece
16 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Postal Dept. includes Tamil in recruitment examination||After objections raised by Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan, the Department of Posts has included Tamil for its examination for recruitment for the post of accountant. “This is a historical announcement that the Department of Posts is conducting its recruitment examination in a regional language,” he said on Friday. Responding to Mr. Venkatesan’s letter, Member (Personnel), Postal Services Board, Santosh Kumar Kamila, said that the Tamil Nadu Circle had issued a corrigendum making Tamil a notified language for writing de-centralised departmental examination. “This recruitment being for regional postings, providing an option of Tamil for the examination will provide equal opportunity for the local unemployed youth in getting a job in the public sector departments,” he said. “This announcement will open the gates for including Tamil in future recruitment to all Central government departments,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/postal-dept-includes-tamil-in-recruitment-examination/article33584905.ece
16 January 2021||Nagercoil,TAMIL NADU||Government thanked for rescuing injured fisherman||Thanking the Central and State governments for their timely involvement in rescuing an injured fisherman, the International Fishermen Development Trust (INFIDET) president Justin Antony said that a mechanised boat with 11 fishermen, who had ventured into the sea on January 5. When they were 122 nautical miles off Mangalore, the boat owner Thadeuse from Chinnathurai accidentally suffered burns.  Swift action After the fishermen on board informed the families through the satellite phone, the INFIDET took it up with the authorities, who swiftly acted and a naval ship rescued and brought him to the shore. The fisherman has been admitted to Mangalore Government Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-thanked-for-rescuing-fisherman/article33585019.ece
16 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. gears up for COVID-19 immunisation drive||The Union Territory is all set to roll out COVID-19 vaccination across the four regions of Puducherry, Karaikal, Mahe and Yanam on Saturday. In the first phase, the immunisation drive will cover health workers and, subsequently, frontline workers and patients aged over 50 and those with co-morbidities such as diabetes and hypertension. The Health Department had, on Wednesday, received its first consignment of 1,750 vials, consisting of 17,500 doses of vaccines. In Puducherry, Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy will launch the immunisation programme at the Rajiv Gandhi Government Women and Children Hospital at 10 a.m. While Puducherry will despatch vaccines to Karaikal, Mahe will be served by Kozhikode and Yanam by Kakinada. A second dose will be administered to volunteers after 28 days. In the first phase of the roll-out, vaccines will be given at the Indira Gandhi Government General Hospital and Post Graduate Institute, the Rajiv Gandhi Government Women and Children’s Hospital, IGMCRI, and the CHC in Karikalampakkam, in Puducherry, and the general hospitals in Karaikal and Mahe. Vaccines will be administered on Monday, Tuesday, Friday and Saturday next week. A press note from Raj Nivas said vaccines would be given to an estimated 19,000 health workers in Puducherry, 1,600 in Karaikal, 897 in Mahe and 323 in Yanam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-gears-up-for-covid-19-immunisation-drive/article33585393.ece
16 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||28 fresh COVID-19 cases, no deaths reported in Union Territory||The Union Territory recorded 28 COVID-19 cases while no deaths were reported on Friday. Of the new infections, which were detected while testing 1,691 samples, Puducherry recorded 16 cases and Mahe 12. No cases were reported from Karaikal and Yanam. With 32 patients discharged in the last 24 hours, the number of active cases in the Union Territory stood at 294. Of these, 118 were in hospitals and 176 in home isolation. The test positivity rate was 1.65%, case fatality rate 1.66% and recovery rate 97.58%. The overall tally is 640 deaths, 38,595 cases and 37,661 recoveries. The Health Department has tested an estimated 5.27 lakh samples till date, of which 4.84 lakh returned negative. Cuddalore reported 14 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Friday, taking the district’s tally to 24,840. While 24,486 persons have been discharged, the number of active cases in the district stands at 43. In Villupuram district, five persons tested positive, taking the total number of cases to 15,103. Kallakurichi district reported four positive cases, taking the overall tally to 10,852. Vellore district’s COVID-19 case tally has reached 20,536, with 17 fresh cases reported on Friday. While a total of 20,002 persons have been discharged, the number of active cases in the district stands at 190. The death toll is 344. In Ranipet district, four cases were reported, taking the total figure to 16,032. In Tirupathur district, the total number of cases stood at 7,530, with four infections reported on Friday. In Tiruvannamalai district, 10 new cases took the total figure to 19,282. Of these, 18,937 have been discharged. The number of active cases stands at 62.   The test positivity rate was 1.65%, case fatality rate 1.66% and recovery rate 97.58%||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/28-fresh-covid-19-cases-no-deaths-in-puducherry/article33584916.ece
16 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Medical scheme merged with Ayushman Bharat||The State government-level scheme to provide medical assistance to the poor has been merged with the Ayushman Bharat-Pradhan Mantri Jan Arokiya Yojana (AB-PMJAY). Puducherry Lieutenant-Governor Kiran Bedi has approved the merger with AB-PMJAY, one of the flagship programmes of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, with effect from Wednesday, a press release said. The merger, which has been effected on the advice of Union Home Minister Amit Shah, would help families living below the poverty line (BPL) in the Union Territory to avail themselves of cashless speciality treatment up to Rs. 5 lakh a year at any of the empanelled government or private hospitals by producing their identity cards, BPL ration cards and Aadhaar cards. The government would settle the hospital bill directly. Meanwhile, Ms. Bedi, along with top officials, took part in a virtual review of the implementation of the Central government’s flagship schemes in the Union Territory, hosted by the Ministry of Home Affairs. The Ministry of Home Affairs has asked Puducherry to expedite the establishment of an Affordable Housing in Partnership project within a month and invite bids without delay. Puducherry, as well the other Union Territories, have been directed to firm up timelines for completion of targets under PMAY-Urban. The Lt. Governor has been asked to ensure that targets are met in the next three to six months. As of January, the government has completed 32% of the target, constructing 4,706 houses against the target of 20,150 houses. It has requested that the target be reduced to 15,650 houses. As part of the privatisation of power distribution in Puducherry, Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu India LLP has been appointed the transaction adviser, and a draft transaction strategy has been submitted to the Puducherry Electricity Department. The proposal for appointing a nodal officer and an empowered committee has been submitted to the government, Ms. Bedi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/medical-scheme-merged-with-ayushman-bharat/article33585391.ece
16 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Cabinet meeting held||A Cabinet meeting was held at the Assembly on Friday to discuss, among other issues, the finalisation of the supplementary demand for grants (revised estimate for the financial year 2020-21) . The agenda for the meeting, chaired by Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy, included the demand for Statehood for the Union Territory, a discussion on the Vijayan Committee report on co-operative spinning mills and the implementation of the Swachh Bharat Mission (Grameen) phase-II, as directed by the Ministry of Jal Shakti. Also scheduled for discussion was the licensing of land belonging to the Directorate of Rural Development to the Director, Indian Bank Self Employment Training Institute, for setting up a training institute. Minister for Public Works A. Namassivayam, Minister for Revenue M.O.H.F. Shahjahan, Minister for Power R. Kamalakannan, Chief Secretary Ashwani Kumar and other senior officials attended the meeting. Minister for Health Malladi Krishna Rao was absent. His office said he was engaged in a family programme. Minister for Social Welfare M. Kandasamy took a break from his ongoing day-night agitation at the portico of the Assembly and attended the Cabinet meeting. He had launched the agitation on January 10, seeking an audience with Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi to discuss issues pertaining to his Ministry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cabinet-meeting-held/article33585386.ece
16 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Search committee appointed to select V-C for university||A search committee has been constituted to select a suitable person for the position of Vice-Chancellor of the Technological University. Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi has appointed V. Ramgopal Rao, Director, IIT-Delhi, as convener of the committee. V. Jagadeesh Kumar, professor, Department of Electrical Engineering, IIT-Madras, and the Secretary to the Government (Higher and Technical Education) will be the members of the committee, a release from her office said. The search committee is expected to submit its recommendation to the government as soon as possible, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/search-committee-appointed-to-select-v-c-for-university/article33585387.ece
16 January 2021||PUDUKOTTAI/CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vaccines to be administered at 166 centres across the State from today||COVID-19 vaccines will be administered through 166 centres across Tamil Nadu from Saturday, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said on Friday. Elaborate measures have been taken as per the Centre’s guidelines for administring the vaccines, he told reporters in Pudukottai after inspecting the arrangements made at the Government Medical College Hospital. Prime Minister Narendra Modi would inaugurate the nationwide exercise in the morning and Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami would be in Madurai for the launch, he said. Mr. Vijayabaskar said many doctors had expressed their willingness to get themselves vaccinated. Frontline workers had been enumerated; based on their willingness, the vaccines would be administered. He said 10 leading doctors in the State had volunteered to get themselves vaccinated, for which the Centre’s approval had been obtained. This would help to instil confidence in the public about the vaccines and dispel rumours. Initially, the vaccines would be administered to healthcare workers, and six lakh of them had been identified in the first phase. Frontline workers from other departments like the police would be identified and vaccinated in phases. The Minister said auto disable syringes had been manufactured exclusively for administering the vaccines and the syringes could be used only once. Adequate syringes had been made available across the country. Replying to a question, Mr. Vijayabaskar said frontline workers who had tested positive for COVID-19 earlier and turned negative after treatment could also get vaccinated. A manual in English and Tamil, containing information on who could get vaccinated and who could not, would be released to address the doubts of the public. To another question, the Minister said he was ready to get vaccinated, for which approval was yet to come. Private centres Of the 166 centres, two were in the private sector: MGM Healthcare and Apollo Hospitals in Chennai, according to officials of the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said the Covishield vaccine would be administered in 160 centres and Covaxin in six centres. “As of now, we have two private centres, considering the huge number of healthcare providers handling COVID-19 cases in the government sector. More private facilities will be included, depending on the supply of vaccines. The vaccines are being provided for free for healthcare workers and frontline workers,” he said. Approximately, 4.89 lakh healthcare providers were registered, and vaccination would depend on their willingness, he said. “With the available doses, we can cover 2.25 lakh healthcare workers. The Government of India has assured us a continuous supply of vaccines. This is the first tranche, and the additional supply will be received from time to time,” he said. Persons willing to take Covaxin would be provided with the vaccine. “The Health Minister and I are willing to take the vaccine but we do not fall in the immediate priority list. We would love to take the first dose. The Prime Minister has said it should reach the actual beneficiaries — healthcare workers. Once it is permitted, we will take the vaccine from the administration side,” he said.  Auto disable syringes have been manufactured exclusively for administering the vaccines and the syringes could be used only once||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccines-to-be-administered-at-166-centres-across-the-state-from-today/article33584903.ece
16 January 2021||Rajapalayam,TAMIL NADU||Family of three found dead in Rajapalayam||A family of three, who were living in Coimbatore, was found dead in a lodge in Rajapalayam on Thursday. The police identified the trio as T. Janardhanan (65), his wife, Kalavathi (45) and son Siddharth (17). The police said that the family had visited some of their relatives in the town before they checked into a lodge. Employees of the lodge found them lying unconscious and took them to the Government hospital here. However, doctors declared them brought dead. The police said that Janardhanan, who was employed in the Gulf, had returned home during the COVID-19 pandemic. He was frustrated after he could not find a job and decided to end his and his family’s lives by consuming poison. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/family-of-three-found-dead-in-rajapalayam/article33585011.ece
16 January 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||MLA stages protest||Former Minister in Edappadi K Palaniswamy's cabinet and sitting AIADMK MLA M. Manikandan staged a protest in front of his house, condemning the nonchalant attitude of the civic authorities, here on Friday. Despite complaints from residents that sewage water mixed with drinking water in many wards in the town and overflowed on the roads in low-lying areas, the municipal authorities had not taken any tangible steps to repair it, the reason why he decided to draw attention of the authorties by staging a protest, he said. After incessant rains over the last five days, many residential areas in the town had inundated. Stench emanated from the sewage mixed with water. Despite repeated pleas to the civic authorities by the residents, there was no response. So he called the authorities on Friday and sought action. He sat in front of his house in Ward 26 for over two hours overseeing the operation, a municipal staff said and claimed that many field staff were on leave due to Pongal holidays.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mla-stages-protest-over-civic-issue/article33585022.ece
16 January 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||All set for vaccine drive launch today||Arrangements for administering COVID-19 vaccine at various places here were reviewed on Friday. District Collector S.A. Raman reviewed the arrangements at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital. Mr. Raman checked the waiting, registration, vaccination and observation rooms and discussed the arrangements for administering the vaccine at the hospital from Saturday. Mr. Raman held discussions with P.V. Dhanapal, Medical Superintendent of the hospital, and City Health Officer K. Parthibhan on arrangements at the hospital and other centres here. Mr. Raman said that the vaccine would be administered at 12 centres in the district on Saturday and they are targeting to administer the vaccine to 100 persons on the day. R. Selvakumar, Deputy Director of Health Services said, “the vaccine would be administered at seven centres in Salem health district and at five centres in Attur health district. The numbers would be increased in the coming days.” Dr. Selvakumar added that there would a 10-member team at each centre and the second dose would be administered on the 28th day. In Namakkal, according to health officials, vaccine would be administered at three places - Namakkal Government Medical College Hospital, and at Rasipuram and Tiruchengode government hospitals. Officials said that a five-member team would be administering the vaccine at each place. According to officials, the details of healthcare workers have already been registered with the portal. Over 20,000 workers have registered in Salem and about 7,600 workers have registered in Namakkal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/all-set-for-vaccine-drive-launch-today/article33585045.ece
16 January 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Festival special train to Jabalpur from today||The Salem Division of the Southern Railway has announced festival special trains between Jabalpur and Coimbatore. According to a release, train no. 02198 Jabalpur – Coimbatore weekly superfast festival special train will depart from Jabalpur at 11 a.m. on Saturdays from January 16 to March 27 and reach Coimbatore at 4.05 a.m. on Mondays. Train no. 02197 Coimbatore – Jabalpur weekly super fast festival special train will depart from Coimbatore at 5.10 p.m. on Mondays from January 18 to March 29 and reach Jabalpur at 8 a.m on Wednesdays. The train will have one AC 2-tier, five AC 3-tier, nine sleeper class and two luggage-cum-brake van coaches. The train will stop at Narasinghpur, Gadarwara, Pipariya, Itarsi, Harda, Khandwa, Bhusaval, Nasik Road, Panvel, Roha, Khed, Chiplun, Ratnagiri, Kankavali, Kudal, Thivim, Madgaon, Karwar, Kumta, Mookambika Road Byndoor, Kundapura, Udupi, Mulki, Mangalore Junction. Kasaragod, Kannur, Kozhikode, Shoranur and Palakkad, it said. Advance reservations for the trains are open.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/festival-special-train-to-jabalpur-from-today/article33584945.ece
16 January 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||24 cases in Salem||Twenty-four COVID-19 positive cases were reported in Salem on Friday. According to health officials, 17 were indigenous including five in Salem Corporation limits. Seven patients have returned from other districts like Namakkal and Erode. As per the bulletin, a 72-year-old man died at a private hospital in Salem. In Namakkal, 12 cases were reported. Three patients have returned from Coimbatore and Salem. A total of 16 indigenous cases were reported in Erode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/24-cases-in-salem/article33585046.ece
16 January 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Collector inspects water works||District Collector S.A. Raman inspected the Mettur Surplus Water Scheme works recently. Mr. Raman along with senior officials inspected the progress of pipe-laying works. Under the cheme, 100 lakes in Sarbanga basin in four Assembly constituencies, Sankari, Edappadi, Mettur and Omalur would be filled with surplus water from Mettur Dam. The project is being implemented at a cost of Rs. 565 crore. Twelve lakes will be filled under the scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-inspects-water-works/article33585047.ece
16 January 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||‘Apply for water, UGD connections’||The Salem Corporation has advised residents and traders to apply for water and underground drainage connections before the roads are being redeveloped under various schemes. According to a release, the Salem Corporation will be redeveloping streets under various schemes like Smart Cities Mission, Integrated Urban Development Project, and Tamil Nadu Urban Road Infrastructure Project in all its four zones- Hasthampatti, Sooramangalam, Ammapet and Kondalampatti. Corporation Commissioner N. Ravichandran said that residents must apply for water and UGD connections at the respective zonal offices since it would not be able to provide new connections at least for three years to prevent damage to the roads.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/apply-for-water-ugd-connections/article33585048.ece
16 January 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Standing crops submerged||Overflowing of water from a lake near here has led to inundation of standing crops on around 500 acres. Heavy inflows into the Mamundi lake in Adhinampattu hamlet, near Vengaroyankudikadu, for the past few days resulted in overflowing of water from the lake. Bund eroded The rainwater that overflowed by eroding the top portion of the bund on the southern side of the lake inundated the standing crop on the fields in Adhinampattu and the nearby revenue villages, sources said. Meanwhile, standing crops on a few hundred acres at Vendaiyampatti near Budalur and at Pudur Nadupatti, near Ammapettai, have also been submerged in water due to the unseasonal rain that lashed this part of the district for the past few days, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/standing-crops-in-500-acres-submerged-as-water-overflows-from-lake-in-thanjavur-district/article33584932.ece
16 January 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Two die in wall collapse||A woman and her daughter died in a wall collapse near Paatukottai early on Friday, amidst continuous rains over the past few days. The victims, Mary (45) wife of Varaprasadam (50) and her daughter, Nivetha (18) were sleeping at their house on North Street, Veerakuruchi hamlet near Pattukottai when the incident took place. While Varaprasadam’s other daughter, Udhaya (20) who was also sleeping in the house sustained injuries in the wall collapse, Varaprasadam escaped unhurt. Preliminary inquiries reveal that the mud wall of the hut fell on them, after the wall of the next house collapsed and fell over Varaprasadam’s hut, police said. The Pattukottai Taluk police have registered a case based on a complaint filed by Varaprasadam, and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-die-in-wall-collapse/article33585010.ece
16 January 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Special pujas performed||Special pujas were performed to Nandhi idol at Brahadeeswarar Temple here on Friday for `Mattu Pongal.’ Prior to the special ‘pujas,’ anointment of the idol with sandal paste, milk and other materials took place and it was decorated with vegetables and flowers. ‘Ko puja’ for 108 cows was also performed. The special pujas to Nandhi culminated with a ‘maha arathi.’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-pujas-performed/article33585005.ece
16 January 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Pennycuick remembered||Hailing Colonel John Pennycuick, who was instrumental in the construction of Mullaperiyar reservoir, Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam said that the State government under the leadership of late Jayalalithaa had established a memorial for Pennycuick at Lower Camp in 2013 in recognition of his yeomen services to farmers in this region. Garlanding the life-size statue of Penycuick at the memorial established at Lower Camp on his 180th birth anniversary, he said the reservoir served farmers in the five districts of Theni, Dindigul, Madurai, Sivaganga and Ramanathapuram. By providing water for irrigation, a little over two lakh hectares of land continued to be fertile and farmers could engage themselves in agriculture activity for about seven months in a year. He recalled the struggles faced by the British Army engineer Pennycuick who raised resources on his own to complete the construction of the masonry dam. Many farmers and associations across southern districts celebrated Pennycuick’s birth anniversary as the Pongal day. Information and Public Relations Department organised events at the memorial. Following representations from the farmers, the furniture, including an easy chair used by Pennycuick in his house, was kept on display for the visitors. MP Raveendranath Kumar, MLA STK Jakkayan, Collector M. Pallavi Baldev and senior engineers from the PWD and other departments, farmers and members from the Water Users’ Associations garlanded the statue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pennycuick-remembered-on-his-180th-birth-anniversary/article33585024.ece
16 January 2021||Theni,TAMIL NADU||Tribal people get a surprise Pongal gift||For the tribal people of Chokanalai, a remote hamlet on the hills of Theni district - standing by the side of Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam, Collector M. Pallavi Baldev and other senior officials on Pongal eve was itself a memorable day. At the special camp conducted on Wednesday, they received assistance from the departments of Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare, Agriculture, Rural Development, and were promised civic infrastructure valued at Rs. 4.01 crore. Mr. Panneerselvam presided over the ‘bhoomi puja’ for construction of a health sub centre, a long pending demand of the people. An Amma Mini Clinic was also opened on the occasion. The tribal people had been demanding roads connecting their villages to the main road so that they could transport the produce to the towns, take their pregnant women to hospitals and children to schools easily. The district administration, through the District Rural Development Agency, has prepared a project for laying the roads. Speaking to The Hindu , Ms. Baldev said instead of the residents going all the way to the Collectorate and other offices in different parts of the district, officials from various departments visited the tribal areas at periodic intervals. So far, three camps had been conducted at Melaparavu and Kannakarai (Bodi taluk) and Velapparkoil (Andipatti taluk). After examining their requirements, which ranged from assistance for self-help groups, additional buildings for primary and middle schools, anganwadi centres, drinking water - source and distribution, street lights, kisan cards, the officials took decisions on the spot. Organising such camps helped the officials to get clarification/approval from the Forest Department to give the residents rights to collect minor forest produce (MFP) such as gooseberry and honey and take them to the market. Similarly, 32 people, whose houses built on ‘natham poramboke,’ required repairs or reconstruction inside the forest areas of Chokanalai, Pattur, Karumbarai and Kuruvankuzhi under the Forest Rights Act, the Collector said and added that the objective of such camps was to ensure all the eligible people had a house to live, a basic need. There were close to 2,000 tribal people spread over 19 villages in the district. In Ooradi and Oothukaadu hamlets near Sothuparai and at Kuravankuzhi in Agamalai panchayat in Bodi municipal limits, civic infrastructure such as street lights, drinking water tanks, construction of a high-rise culvert were given adminstrative sanction. Since 300 SHG members needed deposit money of Rs. 1,000 each for opening bank accounts and receiving loans, Mr. Panneerselvam volunteered to contribute the money for all.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tribal-people-get-a-surprise-pongal-gift/article33585027.ece
16 January 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Flood water slowly recedes||In Thoothukudi district, vehicular traffic along the Authoor Bridge on the Thoothukudi - Tiruchendur highway was restored on Friday morning after the flood receded. However, Punnaikaayal, the coastal hamlet close to the Tamirabharani estuary remained cut-off from nearby areas as water had entered the village. Subsequently, over 2,500 persons from the village have been moved to relief centers. Over 1,500 residents of Kongaraayakurichi, Alwarthoppu, Alwarthirunagari, Sivaramamangalam, Mukkaani, Pazhayakaayal and Authoor have been moved to the relief centres while the standing crops on a few thousand acres in Agaram, Muththaalankurichi, Kongarayakurichi, Thozhappanpannai, Senthilaampannai, Karunkulam, Mukkaani, Authoor, Eral and Kurumbur, mostly paddy and plantain, remain submerged. As flood has started receding, the officials expressed confidence that the situation would improve within next 48 hours if there was no significant rainfall. As stagnant rainwater in Chidambara Nagar, Bryant Nagar, Boldenpuram, Masillaamanipuram, Anna Nagar, Tooveypuram, Lourdhammalpuram, Poobalarayarpuram, St. Mary’s Colony, State Bank Colony, KTC Nagar, Housing Board Quarters, Rajiv Nagar, Muthammal Colony, Samuelpuram, Vetrivelpuram, Fatima Nagar and other areas is yet to drain, irked residents staged road roko at four places in the port town on Friday. After the officials assured the protestors of prompt action, the protests organised at two places in Bryant Nagar, Caldwell Colony, Housing Board Quarters and Kattabomman Nagar were withdrawn. Tirunelveli Flood situation in Tirunelveli improved a lot on Friday after influx of water into the Manimuthar and Papanasam dams dwindled substantially. After catchment areas of these two dams experienced heavy downpour since Monday last, Manimuthar dam, the largest reservoir of the district, reached its maximum capacity while over 20,000 cusecs of water had to be discharged from the already overflowing Papanasam dam. The quantum of water being discharged from these two dams and the Gadana dam in Tenkasi district had to be increased to over 60,000 cusecs at one stage, the highest ever after the 1992 floods, in the Tamirabharani. Consequently, the low-lying areas along the watercourse were marooned forcing the officials to move the affected population to the relief centres. In a few areas, the cattle and the people had to be rescued by the fire and rescue services personnel in the inflatable boats. After tormenting the people and officials for three days since Tuesday, water level in the Tamirabharani receded considerably on Friday. Subsequently, discharge of water from the dams came down blow 20,000 cusecs. However, the water stagnating in the already marooned areas is yet to drain, leaving the people in distress. After a year, Vadakku Pachchaiyar reached its maximum storage level of 49.20 feet on Thursday night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/flood-water-slowly-recedes-in-thoothukudi/article33585014.ece
16 January 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Woman electrocuted||A woman was electrocuted when she attempted to save her husband who suffered an electric shock on Friday. Police sources said that B. Karuppasamy, 30, of Muthu Nagar accidentally stepped on a live wire on Friday. He suffered an electric shock and swooned. When his wife Anusuya, 27, tried to save him, she was also electrocuted and the woman died on the spot. Karuppasamy has been admitted to the Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital. The police have registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-electrocuted/article33585018.ece
16 January 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Samba, thaladi crops hit by rain||The heavy and unseasonal rainfall this month has caused extensive damage to the samba and thaladi paddy crops in the Cauvery delta region, dampening the spirit of the harvest festival this year. The rain spells that have been continuing for almost a week now have caused severe water logging in the crops which were on the verge of harvest at many places. The crops have started sprouting on being submerged for more than two or three days, farmers complained. Although senior officials of the Agriculture Department are wary of putting a figure to the extent of damage, pending a detailed enumeration, initial estimates from the districts indicate that crop on nearly two lakh hectares have been inundated in the core delta districts, besides Pudukottai and Tiruchi. Severe yield loss is feared due to the inundation. According to preliminary estimates, paddy on about 51,000 hectares (ha) have been inundated in Tiruvarur district and 90,000 ha in Thanjavur district. In the combined Nagapattinam district (including Mayiladuthurai), crop on about 28,000 ha have lodged. In Pudukottai district, paddy on about 26,000 ha have been water logged. About 2,000 ha of paddy crop is estimated to have been submerged in Tiruchi as on Thursday, but the extent of inundation is likely to go up as the rain is continuing, officials said. It has been a torrid season of natural vagaries for farmers of the delta. Many farmers who managed to escape the fury of cyclone Burevi, have been affected now. Veteran farmers’ leader and general secretary, Cauvery Delta Farmers Welfare Association, Mannargudi S.Ranganathan said: “Right from the start, the monsoon has not been helpful at all. With the first of two cyclones (Nivar and Burevi), triggering fears of heavy rain, the Public Works Department stopped releasing water from Mettur reservoir. For over 15 days, we did not get adequate water for irrigation and the fields dried up. Just as we managed to complete transplantation, came cyclone Burevi drowning large extents of paddy fields. Now the harvest has been hit; we have been at the mercy of nature. I have not witnessed such rain in January in recent years but for such a rare occurrence in 1981.”  CM’s assurance Expressing satisfaction over Chief Minister Edappadi K.Palaniswami’s assurance on sanction of compensation for the crop damage, Mr. Ranganathan said the poor and helpless farmers were banking on relief. He suggested an aerial survey be conducted to assess the extent of water logging and deploying retired agricultural officers to complete the enumeration quickly. “Sanction of compensation under crop insurance scheme should also be done swiftly,” he said. “It is pathetic that farmers who toiled through the season could not harvest the fully grown crop. Farmers are at their wits end and the Pongal festival has lost its lustre,” said P.R. Pandian, president, Tamizhaga Cauvery Vivasayigal Sangam, calling for sanction of relief by the government and award of full compensation under crop insurance to the affected farmers before March.  Assessment under way A senior official of the Agriculture department said the extent of yield loss or damage would be known only after the water drains from the paddy fields. “A preliminary assessment is under way. Agriculture insurance companies have also been asked to expedite the crop cutting experiments for assessment of yield so that farmers would also be able to get due compensation at the earliest, besides the relief given by the government,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/samba-thaladi-crops-hit-by-rain-in-delta/article33584938.ece
16 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Follow COVID-19 norms even after vaccination’||The beneficiaries who are vaccinated for COVID-19 must continue to maintain social distance, wear masks and practise hand hygiene, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan has said. "The vaccination rollout is an important milestone in combating the viral infection, but is not compulsory and will not be forced upon anyone," he said as he addressed reporters in Tiruchi on Thursday. The Tamil Nadu government announced that the COVID-19 vaccine would be administered free for all in the State, and the public must make use of it, the Health Secretary said as he inspected the vaccination drive preparedness at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital. Mr. Radhakrishnan clarified that each registered individual will receive two doses of the vaccine, the second one after a 21-day interval. Each vaccination centre would only be administering 100 vaccine shots in a day. Stating that a sufficient number of vials has been procured for the first dosage in the State, Mr. Radhakrishnan said that more such consignments would be delivered from the suppliers. "There have been no flagged issues of safety of both Covishield and Covaxin during the clinical trials. The government would only give approval after careful deliberation of the same," he noted. The number of active COVID 19 cases in Tiruchi has fallen due to the efforts made to contain the spread by all stakeholders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/follow-covid-19-norms-even-after-vaccination/article33584995.ece
16 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||75 fresh cases; no deaths reported||The central districts recorded 75 fresh cases of COVID-19 and no death on Friday. According to the bulletin released by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, Thanjavur reported 27 fresh cases while Tiruchi reported 20 for the viral infection. Among them were primary contacts and patients with a history of respiratory illnesses. Meanwhile, three patients who were undergoing treatment at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital were discharged after recovering from the viral infection. All other districts in the region reported less than 10 new patients. Karur recorded 10 fresh cases while Tiruvarur reported seven. Among the patients who tested positive in Karur were residents of Bharathidasan Nagar, Pasupathipalayam and Shakthi Nagar. Interdistrict travellers also tested positive. Nagapattinam and Pudukottai both reported five fresh cases each. Among them were local index cases with no travel or contact history or patients with a history of influenza-like illnesses and their immediate contacts. No fresh cases were reported in Ariyalur district while in Perambalur, one new patient tested positive for COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/75-fresh-cases-no-deaths-reported/article33584996.ece
16 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Brisk sale of sugarcane raised by convicts||Brisk sale of sugarcane raised by a group of convicts on prison lands here was witnessed ahead of the Pongal festival. With the price of sugarcane offered by the Prison Department being cheaper than the ones sold in the open market, bulk sale was noticed with some buyers coming all the way from Chennai. The edible variety of sugarcane, known as senkarumbu, was raised on two acre land belonging to the Prison Department within the sprawling Central Prison campus by a group of 12 convicts. The harvest of sugarcane was done a few days before the Pongal festival. An official serving in the Central Prison here said 16,400 sugarcanes were sold to the public from January 12 to 14. The amount realised through the sale of sugarcane in a matter of three days was about Rs. 3 lakh. The price fixed for each sugarcane was Rs. 18 for those buying in bulk, while it was fixed at Rs. 18 per sugarcane for loose sale. The harvested sugarcanes were sold through the two Prison Bazaars functioning at the entrance of the Central Prison along the Tiruchi - Pudukottai national highway and at the Special Prison for Women at Gandhi Market area. Apart from these two places, they were also sold near K.K. Nagar bus stand and near Ponmalaipatti. The official said a group of small traders came all the way from Thiruverkadu, Poonamallee and Koyambedu in Chennai to buy sugarcanes raised by convicts. Some non-governmental organisations also purchased the sugarcanes for distribution free of cost to poor people. A portion of the amount realised through sale of sugarcanes would be given to convicts. Apart from sugarcane, the convicts also raise various types of vegetables including brinjal, carrot, pumpkin, greens, radish and tomato on about 22 acres of lands belonging to the Prison Department. The Prison Bazaar which is run and managed by the convicts sells sweets and savouries, variety rice and bakery items.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/brisk-sale-of-sugarcane-raised-by-convicts/article33584999.ece
16 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Continuous rain leads to postponement of jallikattu events||Jallikattu events to be held at Periya Suriyur village near Tiruchi and at Viralimalai in neighbouring Pudukottai district have been postponed due to continuous rains. The bull taming sport at Periya Suriyur was scheduled to be held on Friday and arrangements such as the installation of barricades were already completed by the organising committee members belonging to the village. Collector S. Sivarasu told The Hindu on Friday that the jallikattu has been postponed as rain has left the venue wet. The event would now be held on January 20, he added. It has been the customary practice of the villagers of Periya Suriyur to hold the event on the second day of the Tamil month Thai when Mattu Pongal is celebrated. The district administration had convened a meeting with the organisers of the event recently, putting forth the safety protocols to be followed in view of the pandemic situation. The Periya Suriyur jallikattu was the first event that was to have been held in Tiruchi district. The jallikattu at Viralimalai that was scheduled for January 17 has also been postponed as the rain has left the venue slushy. The fresh date for holding the event is yet to be finalised. The event was to be held at Ammankulam thidal for which preliminary arrangements had begun. Case booked Meanwhile, the Illupur Police in Pudukottai district have registered a case against a group of persons for organising a jallikattu without permission at a mandhai at Raapoosal village on Thursday. By the time police rushed to the spot after receiving information, the group had left the spot. A case has been booked under IPC sections including 143 (unlawful assembly), 336 (endangering life or personal safety of others) and under section 7 of the Tamil Nadu Regulation of Jallikattu Act. A case has also been booked at Annavasal police station in Pudukottai district against some persons for conducting a similar event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/continuous-rain-leads-to-postponement-of-jallikattu-events/article33585003.ece
16 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Elderly woman hit by football dies||M. Pappayee (85) of Kallarai Mettu Street who was undergoing treatment after being hit by a football in Woraiyur area here succumbed recently. She was watching from the road youth playing football on a ground on Mettu Street when the ball hit her. She lost her balance, fell and sustained injuries. She was taken to a private hospital from where she was referred to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital but died. Woraiyur police registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elderly-woman-hit-by-football-dies/article33584997.ece
16 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||PWD takes up repair on Mukkombu shutter||The Public Works Department has taken up repair works on a shutter at the barrage across the Cauvery River at Upper Anicut (Mukkombu) near Tiruchi. According to sources in the PWD, the weigh balance, made of Reinforced Cement Concrete, had developed cracks or were damaged in a few of the shutters on the barrage due to wear and tear over the years. After obtaining permission from higher authorities, the PWD officials here have begun replacing the damaged weigh balance on one of the shutters now. The RCC weigh balance is to be replaced with steel ones. The work will go on for three or four days. The officials have also planned to replace the weigh balances in three other shutters in a phased manner in the coming days. A proposal is also being sent to the government to replace the RCC weigh balances with steel ones in all the 41 shutters during the Mettur closure period, the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pwd-takes-up-repair-on-mukkombu-shutter/article33585000.ece
16 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mattu Pongal celebrated||The rain gods showered their blessings on cattle this Mattu Pongal, a festival to thank the animals for their service in agricultural activities. Cowherds and farmers across districts bathed and dressed up their cattle before offering specially made dishes and prayers for their well-being. Cattle across Perambalur district were decorated after a bath at nearby ponds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mattu-pongal-celebrated/article33585007.ece
16 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Varsity plans to publish results of odd-semester exam by month-end||Bharathidasan University is on the verge of completing evaluation of answer scripts of the odd semester exams, and is looking forward to publishing results of UG and PG programs by this month-end. The valuation work was carried out in the respective colleges under the supervision of the principals. The process went of well, Vice-Chancellor P.Manisankar said. For this specific purpose, the university designated the principals as Superintendents. The University issued circulars periodically to guide principals to conduct the exams and evaluation. “The teachers have, so far, uploaded marks for 80 % of the answer scripts. The remaining papers would be evaluated after the Pongal festival well in time for publication of results during the last week of this month,” Controller of Examinations (in-charge), Srinivasa Raghavan, said. The last semester exams that were conducted online caused some technical difficulties for the university. Students from interior rural parts could not upload their answer scripts in the PDF format due to poor Internet connectivity. The students were also given the option of submitting their answer scripts at the nearest affiliated colleges. Centralised valuation was conducted at three locations for valuation of the the paper scripts and at the University Informatics Centre for System-based evaluation. Yet, the university faced a tough time to set things in order. That was the reason why the university insisted on students submitting the answer scripts at their respective colleges after completion of the exam, Prof. Srinivasa Raghavan said. For all practical purposes, the valuation at the colleges was carried as per due procedures. The remuneration for evaluation is being paid to the teachers as was done for centralised valuation. The college heads cooperated very well for the exam process, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/varsity-plans-to-publish-results-of-odd-semester-exam-by-month-end/article33585418.ece
16 January 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level at the Mettur dam stood at 105.53 feet on Friday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 2,507 cusecs and the discharge 500 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article33585008.ece
16 January 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||They battled a raging river, pitch darkness and lashing rain to save a family of five||In a daring operation that took place in pitch darkness, lashing rain and a dangerously flowing Tamirabharani, a team of fire and rescue services personnel saved a family from near death. When a paddy harvester driver, Aravind, 28, living with his wife Muthumari, 25, children - Suresh, 7, and Baby, 5, - and his mother Ramalakshmi, 60 at his house near a temple at Pottal Colony near Ariyanayagipuram, received an alert around 3 p.m. on Wednesday that Tamirabharani would be in spate due to huge discharge of water from Papanasam and Manimuthar dams, he dismissed it. However, around 5 p.m. he realised he was wrong. “With the water level increasing menacingly, the river started coming towards our house forcing us to move out around 7 p.m. As the temple is situated in an elevated area, we went there and I constructed a ‘paran’ (an elevated platform usually built in the fields to monitor the invading cattle) with poles, wooden planks and sarees. Since I had sent an SOS through my mobile phone, the officials were constantly in touch with me,” Mr. Aravind recalls. Meanwhile, Collector V. Vishnu and Superintendent of Police N. Manivannan held immediate discussion with the Fire and Rescue Services officials, including District Fire Officer Sathyakumar, Station Officer, Ambasamudram, B. Subramanian, who have 35-years of experience in rescue operations. With Albert Raja, a fire and service personnel, manoeuvring the inflatable boat in pitch darkness, Mr. Subramanian and his colleagues Thirumalaikumar, Ramesh, Murugan and Kombaiah and a youth from Pottal Colony started the rescue operation. When the 5-member rescue team boarded the boat, they found that they had only five life jackets, 58-year-old Mr. Subramanian, gave his life jacket to the local youth. After multiple attempts, the rescue team managed to reach the ‘paran’ at around 1 a.m. “The gap between the ‘paran’ and the river was just 5-feet when the rescue team arrived. It’s a second birth for my family,” says Mr. Aravind, who is now in his brother-in-law’s house at Thiruppanikarisalkulam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/they-battled-a-raging-river-pitch-darkness-and-lashing-rain-to-save-a-family-of-five/article33585422.ece
16 January 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Alagumalai jallikattu to be held on January 31||Jallikattu at Alagumalai village in Tiruppur district will be held on January 31, the Alagumalai Jallikattu Bulls Welfare Association announced on Friday.  Inaugural ceremony Association president S. Palanisamy said the kaal kol vizha or the inaugural ceremony will be held on Saturday. Palladam MLA Karaipudur A. Natarajan will participate in the ceremony, he said. The number of tamers and bulls as well as the COVID-19 precautionary measures will be finalised on Saturday, according to Mr. Palanisamy. Sources in the Department of Animal Husbandry said the Tiruppur district administration would soon convene a meeting to finalise the arrangements for the event. Tamers could register for the event only after producing COVID-19 negative certificates. Thejallikattu on February 2 last year saw the participation of nearly 750 bulls and 600 tamers. The number of tamers might be restricted this year due to the pandemic, the sources said. Seating arrangements for spectators would be done as per the physical distancing norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/alagumalai-jallikattu-to-be-held-on-january-31/article33584944.ece
16 January 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Student sets up cyber security service company||A Plus Two student of Mannargudi was appreciated by Tiruvarur district police for successfully setting up a cyber security service company at Mannargudi. G.S. Pragadeesh, son of Gurumoorthy and Selvi of Singaraveludaiyar Street, Mannargudi, studying at a private school in Mannargudi, developed interest in cyber security concepts and started reading articles and books relating to cyber security two years ago. Subsequently, he expressed his wish to set up a cyber security company as a start-up venture at Mannargudi to his father who had extended full support to his son to get his ambition fulfilled. In April 2020, Pragadeesh set up his company – Dark Fort Private Limited at Mannargudi and had offered cyber security solutions to more than 27 companies so far. On coming to know about Pragadeesh’s company and his service to check cyber crime attacks, the Tiruvarur district police decided to honour the young IT-sector entrepreneur. Pragadheesh was invited to the district police headquarters at Tiruvarur on Friday where the Superintendent of Police, M.Durai congratulated him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/student-sets-up-cyber-security-service-company/article33584994.ece
16 January 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Tourists throng the Nilgiris despite rain, poor visibility||More than 8,000 tourists braved steady rain and very poor visibility to visit the Nilgiris during the Pongal holidays. Horticulture department officials said that around 4,000 visitors had come to the Government Botanical Garden on Thursday, and an equal number on Friday. The numbers are expected to rise during the weekend. Most roads in Udhagamandalam and Coonoor towns witnessed huge crowds and heavy traffic, and the situation worsened with poor visibility caused by heavy fog. Police personnel were posted at busy intersections in Udhagamandalam, Coonoor and Kotagiri and at many accident-prone spots in the district. Traffic along the Kalhatti Ghat Road, leading into the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) was regulated, and vehicles from outside the Nilgiris were stopped from descending into the Sigur plateau using the road. Instead, they were asked to proceed to MTR via Gudalur to minimise accidents. Rainfall According to the district administration, an average rainfall of 12.90 mm was recorded in the Nilgiris, with Udhagamandalam town receiving 20 mm in 24 hours till Friday morning. Other parts of the Nilgiris, such as Avalanche, Ketti, Kotagiri and Kodanad too received heavy rain till Friday morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tourists-throng-the-nilgiris-despite-rain-poor-visibility/article33584943.ece
16 January 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Army Day celebrated||The 73rd Army Day was celebrated by the Madras Regimental Centre (MRC) at Wellington on Friday. A press release from the MRC said that the day was marked with a wreath laying ceremony at the war memorial. “Army Day is celebrated each year on January 15 in recognition of Field Marshal K.M. Cariappa taking over as the first Commander-in-Chief of the Indian Army from General Sir Francis Butcher, the last British Commander-in-Chief of India on the same day in 1948.” The Officiating Commandant of MRC, Colonel N.K. Dhas laid the wreath and paid homage to the bravehearts, the press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/73rd-army-day-celebrated-at-mrc/article33584954.ece
16 January 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore prisoners meet kin after 10 months||Emotion ran high at the Vellore Central Prison on Thursday, as prisoners met their family members and friends after a gap of over 10 months. With beaming smiles and tear-filled eyes, prisoners and their families stood at either side of a grill partition. A total of 60 persons met the prisoners in the Vellore Central Prison and Special Prison for Women on the day of Pongal. “Normally, interviews [meetings] are not permitted on government holidays. Thursday being a Pongal day, the meeting between the prisoners and their families were allowed so that they could share their special feelings,” said Director General of Prisons and Correctional Services, Sunil Kumar Singh.  75 registered A total of 75 persons registered for interviews at the Central Prison and 59 attended. One person attended the interview at the Special Prison for Women, he said. “We had stopped these interviews ever since the lockdown began,” he added. The decision was taken after studying the practices at other prisons. “During the interviews, all COVID-19 Standard Operating Procedures were followed. Interviews are permitted through the E-Prison Visitors Management System or via phone calls and such meetings will be permitted only once a month,” a prison official noted. The official said the meeting timing had been reduced to 15 minutes from 30 minutes. “During the lockdown, the prisoners spoke to their family members through video call. They were very happy,” Mr. Sunil Kumar Singh claimed.  Thursday being Pongal day, the meeting between the prisoners and their families were allowed so that they could share their special feelings||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/prisoners-meet-kin-after-10-months/article33585037.ece
16 January 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Surgery gives race bull a new lease of life||Shenbagathoppu Don, a race bull, got a fresh lease of life on Pongal after doctors at the Vellore Government Veterinary Polyclinic performed a series of surgeries, including one to put in steel plates to replace fractured ribs, that lasted for seven hours. The bull, worth Rs. 50 lakh, which has taken part in many races in the past, is owned by Annamalai of Kavalur, near Alangayam. It was bought to Anaicut for ‘Eruthuvidum Vizha’ (bull race) on Thursday. “The owner’s intention was to familiarise the bull with the street before the competition. When it was running at a good speed, a vehicle came from the opposite direction and hit the animal,” said Ravi Shankar, a veterinary assistant surgeon, who performed the surgery. Don was brought to the hospital, and Dr. Ravi Shankar and his colleague Aresh examined it. They found two rib bones fractured and the abdomen torn. “It was bleeding profusely. After first aid, we decided to do an emergency orthopaedic and abdominal surgery together to save the animal,” he said. Long procedure The surgery started at 11 a.m. and went on till 6 p.m. “We placed plates and screws for the fractured thoracic ribs and sutured the abdominal muscles and rumen. The bull is fine now,” Dr. Ravi Shankar said. He said cases of torn abdomen were common at the hospital. “They happen when one bull attacks another. But this is the first time we are fixing steel plates and screws in the place of ribs for a bull. In such cases, the owners send the bulls to slaughterhouses, but Mr. Annamalai was fond of his bull and brought it for treatment,” Dr. Ravi Shankar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/surgery-gives-race-bull-don-a-new-lease-of-life/article33585035.ece
16 January 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Arrangements in place in Cuddalore and Villupuram districts||The Health Department has made all arrangements for the first phase of the COVID-19 vaccination drive in Villupuram, Cuddalore and Kallakurichi districts, scheduled to start on Saturday. Cuddalore, one of the 10 Regional Vaccine Stores in the State, has received 25,500 doses. Cuddalore district has been allotted 7,800 doses of the vaccine, while Villupuram and Kallakurichi districts have received 11,500 and 6,200 doses respectively. S. Senthil Kumar, Deputy Director of Health Services, Villupuram district, said that vaccination would be done at the Government Villupuram Medical College and Hospital (GVMCH), Villupuram Government Hospital and taluk hospitals at Radhapuram and Siruvanthadu on January 16. “A full-fledged action plan is ready for the vaccination drive. While health personnel would be administered vaccine in the first phase, the second phase includes frontline workers. The third phase will cover those above 50 years of age, and those with co-morbid conditions.” All arrangements have been made to administer the vaccine to 100 persons a day at each centre. As many as 10,688 persons have registered for the vaccination drive in Villupuram district, he said. All centres will have a waiting area, vaccination room and observation room as per the guidelines and the department has ensured the availability of staff, Dr. Kumar added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/arrangements-in-place-in-cuddalore-and-villupuram-districts/article33585388.ece
16 January 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||‘Mattu’ Pongal celebrated||After incessant drizzle and intermittent rain spoilt the traditional way of making Pongal on Thursday, farmers managed to celebrate ‘Mattu Pongal’ in the cowsheds. The rain that has been lashing across the district for the last few days, drenched all the palmyrah leaves and firewood. “Besides, it was raining heavily in Rajapalayam, Aruppukottai and other areas since morning on Pongal day. Most of us had to make pongal with gas stoves inside our houses,” said farmer, N.A. Ramachandra Raja. However, farmers made pongal in the cowsheds that were given fresh coat of whitewash as part of ‘Mattu Pongal’ celebrations on Saturday. “Since, it was raining heavily for the past several days, we could not give a regular wash to our cows, but gave a good wet wipe,” said another farmer, R. Jayachandran of Kariapatti. The horns were painted and cows garlanded. After making rice pongal, the farmers offered pongal with bananas and coconut pieces.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mattu-pongal-celebrated/article33585021.ece
16 January 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||All set for COVID-19 vaccination in Virudhunagar||The stage is set for commencement of COVID-19 vaccination at nine centres across Virudhunagar district on Saturday. The district has got 9,720 dosages of Covishield vaccine. Virudhunagar Collector R. Kannan, who would inspect the vaccination programme that begins at 9 a.m. on Saturday, said that vaccination is purely voluntary. “As of now, only volunteers among the healthcare workers would be given the shots,” he said. Stating that those who have comorbidities and who are above 50 years of age would not be given the vaccination in the first phase. Joint Director, Health Services, R. Manoharan, said that the vaccines have been stocked in two places – one in Virudhunagar and other in Sivakasi. “Only the number of dosages required for the day would be taken from the stocking point. Vaccine carriers that maintain the temperature between 2 degree Celsius and 8 degree Celsius were already available with the Health Department,” he added. Each of the multi-dosage vial contains 5 ml of vaccine and each beneficiary would get 0.5 ml of injection in the first phase. Doctors, nurses, pharmacist and other staff would get the vaccine on Saturday. “All our employees are anxious about taking the vaccination. We will come to know how many of the registered beneficiaries turn up for the vaccination only tomorrow,” said an employee in the Department of Health. The vaccinations would be done at Government Medical College Hospital in Virudhunagar, Aruppukottai Government Hospital, M. Reddiyapatti Primary Health Centre (PHC), Sivakasi GH, M. Pudupatti, Cunnoor PHCs and Rajapalayam GH.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/all-set-for-covid-19-vaccination-in-virudhunagar/article33585028.ece
16 January 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Water release stepped up following rain||With widespread rainfall continuing in Virudhunagar district, Public Works Department officials have stepped up water release from Periyar dam. Even as the water level in the dam has been over 200 metres for the last few days and stood at 201 metres (204.50 metres), the discharge has been increased to 1,003 cusecs as the dam was receiving 695 cusecs. Similarly, the entire inflow of 550 cusecs was being released from Sastha Koil dam as it had water to its full capacity of 103.40 metres. Kovilar dam was getting 77 cusecs of water and its level stood at 209 metres as against its maximum level of 212 metres. Rainfall: Sattur recorded the highest rainfall of 26 mm followed by Vembakottai 25.90 mm, Rajapalayam 21, Tiruchuli 13, Kariyapatti 12.60, Aruppukottai and Kovilankulam 10 mm, Pilavakkal 7, Sivakasi 6, Srivilliputtur 5 and Virudhunagar 4.4 mm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-release-stepped-up-following-rain/article33585025.ece
16 January 2021||January 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Flood-hit Tirunelveli sees zero fatality||Meticulous plans and preparations and diligent execution of these by the district administration under hostile conditions ensured ‘zero casualty’ though the district faced widespread downpour and heavy flood in the Tamirabharani with the floodgates of major reservoirs of the district opened. The officials, led by District Collector V. Vishnu and the Superintendent of Police N. Manivannan, moved operations to top gear once prediction of heavy rain was given. The long Pongal weekend became one of the most testing periods for them as they were literally on the streets round-the-clock for three days since Tuesday. Mr. Vishnu and Mr. Manivannan were seen movingbetween Tirunelveli and Papanasam, the most vulnerable area. From Tuesday, they visited all affected areas so as to expedite the relief operations. Navy pitches in Even though two NDRF teams had arrived to bolster the relief and rescue operations, Mr. Vishnu requested Navy’s INS Kattabomman to deploy its well-trained team with hi-tech gadgets at Papanasam, Vickramasingapuram and Ambasamudram, all close to Papansam dam, to launch operations to avert any casualty due to floods. When places above the overflowing Manimuthar Dam, which was receiving over 15,000 cusecs of water, experienced landslips at several places including Maanjolai, NDRF teams were rushed to clear the rocks that had fallen on the ghat roads at several places. The Collector’s announcements on social media about the quantum of water released from the Papanasam, Manimuthar, Gadana and Ramanadhi dams for every two hours effectively scotched rumours spread by miscreants to trigger panic among the public. “When Tamirabharani carried over 2 lakh cusecs of water following a cyclone-triggered downpour on November 14, 1992, the flood claimed 17 lives in Thiruvalluvar Nagar near Vickramasingapuram. With this incident reverberating in my mind, we were working with the objective of saving everyone from flooding. The team effort paid desirable results,” Mr. Vishnu said. Pat for Collector, SP After chairing a meeting at the Collectorate on Thursday evening to review the flood situation, Minister for Revenue R. B. Udhayakumar and Minister for Information Kadambur C. Raju personally commended Mr. Vishnu and Mr. Manivanann for the efforts taken to avert fatalities in the district. According to Mr. Vishnu, ensuring distribution of drinking water to the residents would be the immediate challenge as all infiltration wells in Tamirabharani that supply drinking water were now submerged. “The water available is being distributed to residents in lorries and mini tankers until the situation improves,” Mr. Vishnu said. Stranded family rescued When the Collector and the Superintendent of Police simultaneously received information about five members of a family from Pottal Colony near Ariyanayagipuram close to Mukkoodal, who were stranded in the flood on Wednesday night, they rushed to the spot with fire and rescue services personnel to rescue them. The family members, which included a 60-year-old lady, were brought to safety in an inflated boat after an hour-long struggle.  We were working with the objective of saving everyone from flood. The team effort has paid desirable results V. Vishnu Collector||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tirunelveli-sees-zero-fatality-as-floodgates-of-major-reservoirs-opened/article33584930.ece
16 January 2021||January 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Over 100 injured in jallikattu events||At both events, the COVID-19 safety protocols issued by the government were flouted. Officials said separate markings would be made in the spectators’ galleries to ensure physical distancing. At Palamedu, the galleries were packed with spectators. Compliance with physical distancing norms was poor; most of the spectators did not wear masks. There were no arrangements for thermal screening. Villagers thronged the arena along with the players for around 10 minutes after the inauguration. Karthick of Karuppayurani was adjudged the best bull tamer and awarded a car. A bull belonging to Jeyaraman of Palamedu was declared the winner. A total of 560 bull tamers were screened on Friday morning, of whom 545 were allowed to participate after they were declared medically fit. An official of the Health Department said none of the players tested positive for COVID-19. Minor scuffles broke out among the players, and the contestants who violated the rules were removed from the arena. The injured persons included 10 bull tamers, six spectators and five bull owners, the official said. Policemen regulated the crowd at the holding yard to ensure that only two persons accompanied each bull. At the collection yard, hundreds of youth tried to get hold of the bulls that exited the arena at a high speed. Policemen regulated the crowd at the collection point to avoid accidents. At Avaniapuram, Thirunavukarasu of Muthupatti and Vijayan of Avaniapuram were adjudged the best bull tamers after they tamed 26 bulls. A bull belonging to G.R. Karthick of Villapuram was adjudged the best.  Congress leader Rahul Gandhi witnessed the event at Avaniapuram with DMK youth wing leader Udhayanidhi Stalin. The jallikattu, he said, reflected the richness of the tradition of the people in this region; he appreciated the large turnout of youth dressed in traditional attire. Since time immemorial, the culture of the Tamils had been widely respected, he said. The Congress leader said he came down to witness the event because Tamil culture, language and history were essential for India’s future and needed to be respected by everyone in the country. Case booked The Illupur police in Pudukottai district registered a case against a group of persons for organising a jallikattu without permission at Raapoosal village on Thursday. By the time the police arrived at the spot, the group had left. A case was booked under several Sections, including 143 (unlawful assembly), 336 (endangering life or personal safety of others) of the IPC and Section 7 of the Tamil Nadu Regulation of Jallikattu Act. A case was also booked at Annavasal police station in Pudukottai district against some persons for conducting a similar event.  A total of 560 bull tamers were screened on Friday morning, of whom 545 were allowed to participate after they were declared medically fit||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-100-injured-in-jallikattu-events-in-madurai-district/article33584907.ece
16 January 2021||January 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Eyesome||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eyesome/article33585002.ece
16 January 2021||January 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||16-01-21-city-cinema||MUSIC DANCE DRAMA  ABBAS CULTURAL 29th Year - 9 Day Mega Annual Art Festival " SHRIRAM PROPERTIES-KALAI VIZHA 2021” powered by APOLLO HOSPITALS (Dedicated In Memory of Dr S.P.BALASUBRAHMANYAM) till 17th Jan 2021 at Vani Mahal, T.Nagar. Partly in Aid of LAKSHMI PAIN & PALLIATIVE CARE TRUST. Today- 4.00pm Grand Fusion Concert by RAJHESH VAIDYA, 7.00pm-Krishna-The Lord of Rhythm "Musical Discourse by Kalaimamani VISHAKHA HARI. Tomorrow 4.00pm-SPOORTHI, 7.00pm -SID SRIRAM. Supported by: DINAMALAR, INDIAN BANK,TAMILNADU TOURISM, TNAGAR LKS GOLD HOUSE, BESTEN PUMPS, METAL PRODUCTS,INDIAN OIL,TVS MOTOR CO., ONLINE BOOKING: abbascultural.com Tickets @ Hall : 9710 633 633.  Sreedhar's Navrags 9840197093 Tomorrow morning 9 am & 8 pm in DD Podhigai Dr MGR hits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/16-01-21-city-cinema/article33584882.ece
16 January 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Satish Jarkiholi slams BJP’s mega rally in Belagavi||Satish Jarkiholi, KPCC working president, has opposed the BJP’s plans to hold a mega rally in Belagavi in which Amit Shah, Union Home Minister, is scheduled to speak on Sunday. “BJP leaders have said that around 3 to 4 lakh people will attend the rally. What does it mean? Does the BJP plan to violate the COVID-19 safety protocols set by its own government at the Centre and the State?,” Mr. Jarkiholi said. He told journalists that the district stadium on the Jawahar Lal Nehru Medical College premises, has a seating capacity of around 40,000 to 50,000 people. “If COVID-19 protocols and social distancing norms are followed, only around 10,000 people can be seated. But trying to bring in 3 to 4 lakh people to the rally will be disastrous. The government should not permit such gatherings,” he said. “The State government is yet to open temples like Saundatti Yallamma where the congregation is less than that of such mega rallies. BJP leaders have one rule for themselves and another for others,” he said. The Congress will approach the courts, if need be, to ban such rallies, he said. Laxman Savadi, Deputy CM, denied that the party was flouting rules or safety protocols. “We have taken all measures to see that every attendee wears a mask. The State government is not favouring the BJP. We will allow any party to hold rallies if they follow COVID-19 protocols,” he said. The city police have made all preparations for the smooth conduct of Mr. Shah’s rally. Traffic will be diverted in the Central Business District around Rani Chennamma Circle and the DC office. All shops on Dr. Ambedkar Road from Rani Chennamma circle to Kolhapur Circle will be closed for a day as Mr. Shah will be staying at a private hotel on the road. Additional police force will be deployed in the city on Saturday and Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/satish-jarkiholi-slams-bjps-mega-rally-in-belagavi/article33585064.ece
16 January 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Farmers’ organisations invite Amit Shah for talks||Farmers’ organisations in Belagavi have invited Union Home Minister Amit Shah for talks on the new farm laws or warned that he would face a protest in Belagavi during his visit to the city on Sunday. Leaders Choonappa Pujari, Jayashree Gurannanavar, Prakash Naik, and Raghavendra N. addressing presspersons on Friday, said that farmers would organise a rasta roko and gherao protest, if Mr. Shah did not address their concerns about the farm laws. “We will submit a memorandum to Prime Minister Narendra Modi through Mr. Shah. We expect that he gives us an assurance that the new farm laws will be repealed immediately. If that does not happen, we will organise a protest in Belagavi,” they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmers-organisations-invite-amit-shah-for-talks/article33585067.ece
16 January 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Yatnal fumes over special security being withdrawn||Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, Vijayapura MLA who has gone hammer and tongs on the Chief Minister after Cabinet expansion, alleged that B.S. Yediyurappa had ordered the withdrawal of his special police security cover owing to “personal vendetta”. Anupam Agarwal, Superintendent of Police, told reporters that Mr. Yatnal continued to enjoy the routine security cover given to legislators. However, special features such as escort vehicle service had been stopped. Mr. Yatnal has written to the Chief Minister condemning this act and warning that if any thing happened to him, the government would be responsible. “I know that you have asked officers to withdraw my security cover as I have begun to criticise your actions,” he said, calling it “revenge politics”. Mr. Yatnal said that he had been given special security by the district police following intelligence inputs that some “anti-Hindu and fascist” forces were planning to attack him. “That was because I have been at the forefront of Hindutva agitations. But now you have withdrawn my special security cover. However, my Hinduva agitations will not stop just because I no longer enjoy special security cover,” he said in the letter. “If anything untoward happens to me or any inconvenience is caused to me, you and your government will be responsible for it. I condemn your despicable style of working and revenge politics,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/yatnal-fumes-over-special-security-being-withdrawn/article33584870.ece
16 January 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Shah visiting Belagavi||Amit Shah, Union Home Minister, will inaugurate the advanced simulation centre and skill laboratory in KLE society’s Jawahar Lal Nehru Medical college in Belagavi on Sunday. Mr. Shah will also address a party workers’ rally in the district stadium on Kolhapur Road. He will hold a meeting of the BJP core committee at Sankam Hotel on Sunday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shah-visiting-belagavi/article33585068.ece
16 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Namma Metro stretches Green Line up to Silk Institute||The launch of Namma Metro’s extended Green Line on Kanakapura Road on Friday has come as a huge relief for residents who have been waiting for years for commercial operations to begin. Commuters are hoping that last-mile connectivity will be smooth. Prabhu Dev, a resident who travelled from Yelachenahalli to Silk Institute, said, “People living beyond Yelachenahalli now have a safer and faster mode of travel. However, addressing last-mile connectivity is very crucial. Providing parking facilities for more vehicles would have helped us.” “Now we can travel to Majestic faster. There should be more buses from the terminal station towards Anjanapura,” said Vinutha K., who travelled with her children. The opening of the line will also help students travel to their colleges on public transport, now that most institutes have opened their campuses for physical classes. “Earlier, we were travelling by bus to reach the college, and it would take us more than one hour. Now, we can reach the college in 35 minutes,” said Pranathi R., who took a metro to her college near Thalaghattapura station. Pandemic safeguards But despite the excitement, ridership remained low on day one as residents remained cautious on account of COVID-19. Standard Operating Procedure (SOP), that is in place on other lines, was followed in all the newly opened stations in accordance with central and State guidelines. People were allowed entry after screening and sanitising their hands. Due to fewer people on board, social distancing rules were maintained, and commuters wore masks. BMRCL MD Ajay Seth said that around 5,000 people travelled on the metro on the newly opened extension. As per the schedule fixed by the Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. (BMRCL), during peak hours on working days, trains will be operated with a frequency of 10 minutes from Silk Institute to Nagasandra, and of five minutes from Yelachenahalli to Nagasandra. During non-peak hours, the frequency of trains from Silk Institute to Nagasandra will be 15 minutes. To facilitate use of common mobility card “One Nation One Card’ in the coming days, the BMRCL has installed Automatic Fare Collection (AFC) System, which supports travel using open loop common mobility cards in all the five stations. The BMRCL had started construction of the line in May 2016. In the past, it had fixed several deadlines, but missed them for various reasons. This is the first line opened under Phase II of Namma Metro. With commissioning of the southern extension, the total operational length of the Green Line is 30 km from Silk Institute to Nagasandra. On Thursday evening, the 6-km line from Yelachenahalli to Silk Institute was inaugurated by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. Union Minister of State for Housing and Urban Affairs Hardeep Singh Puri had participated in the event from New Delhi through video-conferencing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/namma-metro-stretches-green-line-up-to-silk-institute/article33584817.ece
16 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Colleges reopen to low attendance, enrolment||Though colleges reopened on Friday, campuses wore a deserted look with hardly 40% students attending classes. What has college authorities more worried is the drop in admissions. At Ashoka Polytechnic, Kammagondahalli, there were hardly any students in classes. Principal Krishnamurthy said that though offline classes have now become mandatory, the attendance was still very poor. “There are hardly 15 students in each class. Just around 50% students attended online classes,” he said. He added that admissions had dropped by 30% while readmission for second and third year had also seen a decrease. This, he said, had come as a major setback to many polytechnic and diploma colleges in the city. K.C. Mishra, principal of Sambhram Degree College, M.S. Palya, told The Hindu that attendance was less than 50%. Though the examinations are to be held in March, many students are yet to register for the same. “Several students have not paid the fees and have sought more time,” he said. He said that online classes would be stopped completely and attendance in offline classes had been made mandatory, as per directions of Bangalore University. “We are, however, awaiting directions from the university on percentage of attendance that is mandatory,” he added. A teacher in the Government First Grade College, Peenya, said that classes for final year degree students have been conducted successfully since mid-November. “We are following the SOP (standard operating procedure) issued by the government. However, the actual attendance of students of first and second year will stabilise only after a couple of weeks. The parents and students have to gain confidence about attending classes physically,” she said. R. Parvathi, principal of V.E.T. First Grade College in J.P. Nagar, said that there was 80% attendance of students in the final year. “We are hoping that attendance for the first and second year will come to that level over the next week,” she said and added that the college had been sharing e-content with students. Nearly 25% students did not attend even online classes. As per University Grants Commission (UGC) guidelines, 75% attendance is mandatory, whether online or offline, she said. Meanwhile, in Mysuru, offline classes for students of intermediate semesters of both UG and PG courses did not commence. The colleges plan to resume classroom sessions from January 19. Vice Chancellor of University of Mysore G. Hemantha Kumar has convened a meeting on January 18 of college principals from Mysuru, Mandya, Hassan and Chamarajnagar districts. “From January 19, classes for intermediate semesters will resume. The principals will be informed about the precautions to be taken,” Prof. Kumar told The Hindu . Some PU colleges in Mysuru resumed classes for first year PU students. The classes for final year degree and PG students had begun a few weeks ago. Classes for second year PU students had commenced on January 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/colleges-reopen-to-low-attendance-enrolment/article33584834.ece
16 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 vaccine: Six out of 243 centres to get Covaxin||Even as concerns over the lack of substantial efficacy data of Covaxin persist, 600 healthcare workers at six vaccine session sites of Karnataka will be administered Covaxin on Saturday. Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar said Covaxin will be administered at vaccine sites set up in district hospitals of Chikkamagaluru, Hassan, Ballari, Shivamogga, Chamarajanagar and Davangere. He was speaking to presspersons after holding a video conference with DCs, ZP CEOs and district health officers regarding the vaccination drive. The drive will be inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi at 243 centres of the State at 10.30 a.m. on Saturday. Of these, two sites - Victoria Hospital, BMCRI, and Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences, Hubballi, - have been selected for the virtual launch of the campaign by the Prime Minister. All the 243 centres will have a live webcast link with national vaccine launch. These include 18 district hospitals, 13 government medical colleges, five private medical colleges, six private hospitals, 145 taluka hospitals, 27 Primary Health Centres (PHC) and 19 Urban PHCs. “We have received 20,000 doses of Covaxin manufactured by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech. We will use this in six centres while Covishield will be used in the remaining 237 centres,” said Mr. Sudhakar. Health Commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey said the healthcare workers will not have an option to choose the vaccine. “We have chosen the six district hospital centres for Covaxin as the number of beneficiaries there match with the number of doses that we have received,” he said. The 20,000 doses received so far will be used for both the doses in a gap of 28 days, he said. Allaying concerns over lack of efficacy data, the Commissioner said there have been enough number of trials and no adverse effects have been reported. Both the vaccines - Covishield and Covaxin - have been approved by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) and both are safe vaccines, he said. Asserting that the COVID-19 vaccination programme is the country’s most well- planned exercise, the Commissioner said the programme will be carried out in a systematic manner similar to an election. He said there will be five personnel deployed in each vaccine session site including a vaccinator.  Adverse events Utmost care will be taken to record adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) if any. Specialist doctors will be available to monitor and manage AEFI. Besides, extensive AEFI management training has been given to vaccinators, said the Commissioner. He said the plan is to complete vaccinating all the registered healthcare workers by January end. During mid-February, the Prime Minister will have another round of interaction with Chief Ministers of various States to take a call on the roll out of vaccination for other groups. M.K. Sudarshan, chairman, State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC), who will be one among those who will be vaccinated on Saturday, said he will take whichever vaccine he will be administered. “There is no need to have any doubts about any vaccine. The DCGI has approved them after a lot of research has proved them safe. On assessment, the benefit of vaccination outweighs the risk of COVID-19 infection,” he said.  There is no need to have any doubts about any vaccine. The DCGI has approved them after a lot of research has proved them safe. On assessment, the benefit of vaccination outweighs the risk of COVID-19 infection.    M.K. Sudarshan  chairman, State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-vaccine-six-out-of-243-centres-to-get-covaxin/article33584821.ece
16 January 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Shah to attend meeting of State core committee and Ministers today||Union Home Minister and Bharatiya Janata Party key leader Amit Shah, who is arriving in Bengaluru on a two-day State visit on Saturday, is set to participate in a meeting of the State core committee members along with Ministers. The meeting, being held in Bengaluru on Saturday night, is expected to focus on improving the image of the party as well as the government in the wake of allegations that the government is yet to take off. Unlike his previous visits when his focus was completely on winning electoral battles, Mr. Shah has the task of boosting the image of the party and its government this time. Differences This is in the context of differences within the party organisation increasing, with several disgruntled leaders indulging in mudslinging in public, particularly after the ministerial expansion. This is evident with disgruntled leader and former Union Minister Basanagouda Patil Yatnal alleging that some persons have managed to get ministerial berths by blackmailing Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa with CDs with information that could embarrass him. However, a senior leader of the party maintained that such issues were unlikely to be discussed at a large meeting in which nearly 40 leaders would be participating. But the possibility of Mr. Shah making general observations during the meeting or issuing instructions on the sidelines of the meeting cannot be ruled out, observes another prominent leader. Some of the disgruntled leaders are keen to meet Mr. Shah to pour out their woes against Mr. Yediyurappa, particularly about the alleged interference in administration by the Chief Minister’s son B.Y. Vijayendra. However, it is not clear whether they would get an opportunity to meet him. The central leadership is said to be concerned about speeding up the pace of implementation of various development works in the State, with only a little over two years left for the next Assembly elections. Also, the public attention is now shifting towards development with COVID-19 pandemic now under control, observes a key leader of the State unit. Mr. Shah is attending various official programmes too and is also visiting Belagavi on Sunday to inaugurate ethanol production unit of Minister Murugesh Nirani’s firm besides participating in a ‘Jan Sevak’ public meeting of newly elected village panchayat members backed by the BJP before returning to Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shah-to-attend-meeting-of-state-core-committee-and-ministers-today/article33584858.ece
16 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC notice to govt. on plea of flat owners’ association||The Karnataka High Court has ordered issue of notice to the State government on a PIL petition seeking direction to stop registration of Deed of Declaration with or without bylaws for apartments without amending the relevant laws. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum passed the order the petition filed by the Bangalore City Flat Owners’ Welfare Association. The petitioner has contended that the procedure followed at present is not the one recognised under the provisions of the Karnataka Ownership Flats (Regulation of the Promotion of Construction, Sale, Management and Transfer) Act, 1972, which clearly specifies method of conveying the interest and the title of the land to organisations of persons and how the promoters shall register the association of the apartment owners, etc. Failure to amend the provisions of the Registration Act, 1908, before allowing registration of Deed of Declaration has created chaos among homebuyers, the petitioner claimed while contending that homebuyers have no remedy against collusive strategies by the government authorities, promoters/builders, and associations formed by them. The present illegal procedure has led to promoters and builders committing an unscrupulous act of mortgaging the title of land, after registering the Deed of Declaration, to secure loan from banks, the petitioner alleged. The documents maintained in the office of the sub-register on registering the Deed of Declaration is without any authority under the Registration Act, 1908, the petitioner claimed while contending that the associations of flat owners formed by registering the Deed of Declaration with bylaws are illegal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-notice-to-govt-on-plea-of-flat-owners-association/article33584864.ece
16 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Poultry farmers in Karnataka demand increase in minimum price||After more than a week of disruption in chicken trade over a dispute over increasing minimum price for poultry farmers, supply in the State is stabilising even as chicken price is expected to go up marginally in the coming days. The poultry farmers, who have a contract with poultry companies as “integrated poultry farmers” had refused to lift new hatchings and had disallowed the companies to lift birds for supply to the market, are demanding an increase in minimum price from around Rs. 4 to Rs. 12 a kg. However, after a mediation by the Animal Husbandry Department officials where an interim rise of Rs. 7.5 per kg was accepted, the supply is being normalised. A committee comprising breeders, farmers, and officials will now look into enhancement of minimum price. The dispute over the minimum price, which is a sort of compensation for poultry farmers when the food conversion ratio (the weight gained by the chicken against the feed consumed) decreases, arose after a few thousand farmers demanded a stable minimum price. “The minimum price ranges from zero to Rs. 4 per kg depending on the company, and we have been asking for revision of price, which was fixed more than five years ago. Expenses have gone up for farmers but the price has remained the same,” Bengaluru District Poultry Farmers’ Association president N. Nagaraj said. In the contract, which is called “integration system”, the company provides chicks, medicines, veterinary services, feed, and buys back the grown bird at an agreed rate while the farmers’ expenses come on the poultry shed, its maintenance, including power and water connections, labour, and heating facility for the chicks among others. While the Karnataka Poultry Farmers’ and Breeders’ Association (KPFBA) maintains that the problem arises when good poultry management practises are not implemented and feed is diverted, farmers argue that climate variation and diseases among others bring down the food conversion ratio (FCR). “If the FCR is removed for the purpose of paying farmers, then there could be quality issues. The price of chicken is fixed considering the production cost and all other variables. It also works on the basis of price in neighbouring markets. We have to match the rate and it has to be balanced. The price is dynamic in nature in a saturated market,” said Inayath Ulla Khan, Chief Executive Officer of KPFBA. He said practically it is impossible to pay Rs. 12 per kg as minimum price to farmers. Manjesh Kumar Jadav, chairman of Broiler Coordination Committee in KPFBA, said the industry works on a very thin margin and makes about Rs. 1 to Rs. 1.5 per kg on an yearly average. He further said: “We have not accepted Rs. 7.5 per kg as minimum price as a permanent feature. It was done to allow lifting of birds. It may come down when the committee sits to decide on the minimum price.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/poultry-farmers-in-karnataka-demand-increase-in-minimum-price/article33585085.ece
16 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Tiny worms can make complex travel decisions when hitch-hiking’||When using public transport we often weigh the merits of jumping onto a crowded train or bus to be on time for a meeting, or wait for an empty bus to pull up so that we can travel in comfort but arrive a little later than planned. There are trade-offs to be made at every stage, and the decisions we take affects the outcome. Tiny organisms, too, appear to be able to engage in such complex decision-making processes that belie their size. This was one of the key findings by two researchers from the Centre for Ecological Sciences (CES) at the Indian Institute of Science who studied how microscopic worms called nematodes that live in fig trees hitch a ride on fig wasps so that they can move from one tree to another. Third factor A fig tree depends on a fig wasp for pollination, and in return the wasp has a place to lay its eggs and reproduce. This mutualistic association goes back millions of years, but there’s a third factor in this relationship: the hitch-hiking nematodes. Young nematodes enter the abdomen of the wasp which they use as a vehicle. But it’s not as simple as jumping onto the first fig wasp they meet. The nematodes have to assess whether the pollinator wasp they choose to hitch a hike on is the right vehicle. Is it too crowded with other organisms? Are the organisms of the same species? Does that affect the outcome? Finding a mate The researchers found that nematodes generally tend to choose wasps that have less crowded guts, and are already carrying other worms of their own species. “Travelling with members of their own species can boost their chances of finding a mate when they reach their destination,” stated IISc. in a press release. The findings were published in the Journal of Animal Ecology . “The main take-home message is that even very tiny organisms such as nematodes have complex decision-making processes,” Renee Borges, Professor at CES and senior author of the paper said in the release. “This kind of decision-making is exactly what we humans may do when we are making choices about which mode of transport we may use. We wouldn’t want to get on to an overcrowded bus unless there was no other bus available.” Satyajeet Gupta, research associate at CES is first author of the study. Chemical cues The nematodes, too, tend to select wasps with a fewer passengers. “They check for this using chemical cues by sniffing out volatile compounds that the wasps emit by standing on their tails and waving their heads around. When the researchers offered the worms a choice between compounds emitted by a wasp carrying either fewer or more passengers, the worms selected the former,” said the release. Earlier study In an earlier study where the researchers conducted controlled experiments, they found that if “there were too many worms boarding a wasp, they turn into parasites and affect not just the wasp but also the tree they reach”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tiny-worms-can-make-complex-travel-decisions-when-hitch-hiking/article33584826.ece
16 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Questions raised over sanitation, group ‘D’ workers being vaccinated first||Questions have been raised over the government’s decision to vaccinate sanitation and group ‘D’ workers first in every vaccine session site on Saturday. “Why cannot elected representatives be the first to get the vaccine? Why are the group ‘D’ workers, who are always considered at the last in all other aspects being made to get it first. This is unfair,” said an activist. However, Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar said it was the Prime Minister’s gesture to recognise the hard work put in by sanitation workers all through during the pandemic. “Politicians would have been given the vaccine in the first phase, but sanitation workers are the health warriors in the true sense. In all the 243 centres, sanitation workers will be the first to get the jab,” he said. As many as 23,400 of the total 7.17 registered healthcare workers will get vaccinated on Saturday. The State has a stock of 8,14,500 doses of vaccine (including 20,000 doses of Covaxin) and the initial phase is expected to be completed within a week, he said. Calling upon people not to believe rumours and misinformation about adverse events of vaccination, the Minister said: “People should not be misled by rumours on social media. Only information provided on official government handles is authentic.” Lactating mothers, pregnant women and those allergic to vaccines will not be vaccinated, he added. BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad inspected the eight vaccine sites in the city to review the preparedness. “BBMP has been allocated 1,05,000 doses of Covishield vaccine and the same has been distributed to the eight centres. As many as 100 beneficiaries in each vaccine site will be vaccinated on Saturday. From January 18, vaccination will begin in all the 760 centres that come under BBMP limits and all arrangements have been made,” he said. Co-WIN portal The Commissioner said the Chief Secretary has directed that beneficiary registration on Co-WIN portal that had been stopped on January 12 can be resumed from January 24. “After the second phase registrations, the date of vaccination will be fixed. The second phase will include staff of BBMP, BWSS, Police, Revenue and other allied departments. To avoid any Internet connectivity issues, all centres have been provided with two or three Internet connections.  Centres in BBMP limits  Victoria Hospital  K.C. General Hospital  C.V. Raman Nagar General Hospital  Jayanagar General Hospital  Yelahanka General Hospital  St John’s Medical College  Mallasandra Primary Health Centre  East Point Medical College||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/questions-raised-over-sanitation-group-d-workers-being-vaccinated-first/article33584822.ece
16 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||15,000 persons will be allowed in exhibition||A maximum of 15,000 persons will be allowed in the exhibition area while a maximum of 3,000 persons will be allowed in the air display visual area in this edition of the biennial Aero India show, as part of the precautions in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. Brochures and literature will be predominantly in digital format, contactless experience for registration and booth visits. So far, 576 exhibitors and more than 35 foreign delegations have confirmed their participation in this edition of the event, which begins on February 3 at Yelahanka Air Force Station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/15000-persons-will-be-allowed-in-exhibition/article33584830.ece
16 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Runway to a billion opportunities’||The theme of Aero India 2021 is ‘Runway to a billion opportunities’ in keeping with Prime Minister Narendra Modi's vision for Atmanirbhar Bharat, the PIB release said. Indigenous technological and logistic prowess will be showcased, and the event will embolden India’s aerospace and defence industry, start-ups, MSMEs to forge partnerships with foreign OEMs keen to attend the event, said the release. On Friday, the Defence Minister launched the Aero India 2021 mobile app, which will be a handy interactive interface for all issues related to the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/runway-to-a-billion-opportunities/article33584831.ece
16 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||13 highway projects assured for North Karnataka||As many as 13 national highways in North Karnataka region will be developed at a cost of Rs. 21,000 crore, Union Minister for Road Transport, Highways and MSME Nitin Gadkari said on Friday. Speaking after laying foundation stone for the elevated corridor at Rani Chennamma Circle, Hubballi, and construction of bridge over Bedthi channel in Kalghatagi taluk, Mr. Gadkari said: “The Centre is committed to development of highways in Karnataka. There are as many as 13 projects, including construction of four-lane road in Hubballi-Dharwad bypass and four-lane ring road in Belagavi.” The ongoing projects in North Karnataka, including Hubballi-Hospet highway, will be completed shortly, he added. Chief Minister B.S. Yeddyurappa appreciated the Centre’s measure to invest Rs. 1.6 lakh crore for development of highways in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/13-highway-projects-assured-for-north-karnataka/article33584866.ece
16 January 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Artworks by people with disability on APD premises||Youths benefited by various services from Association of People With Disability have been displaying their artworks on APD premises. APD, in a release, said that these paintings have been done with creativity and imagination. Social concern, benefits of inclusive education and building up of disabled-friendly environment are highlighted. The exhibition, which commenced in December 2020, will be on till the first week of February 2021 at APD premises, on 6th Cross, Hutchins Road, off Hennur Road, Lingarajapuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/artworks-by-people-with-disability-on-apd-premises/article33584829.ece
16 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Applications invited for post of Director||The Department of Sainik Welfare and Resettlement, Karnataka, has invited applications from retired or re-employed/serving (about to retire), Permanent Regular Commissioned (PRC) officers of the Rank of Brigadier and Colonel (Selection) grade or their equivalents in the Navy and Air Force for the post of Director. The last date to submit an application is February 5, 2021. For more details, contact The Director, Department of Sainik Welfare and Resettlement, Field Marshal K.M. Cariappa Bhavan, No. 58 Field Marshal K.M. Cariappa Road, Bengaluru-560025.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/applications-invited-for-post-of-director/article33584862.ece
16 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Results announced||The Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board (KSEEB) (other exams) has announced the results of special music, dance, and talavadya examinations conducted by it during November 2020. The results can be obtained fromwww.kseeb.kar.nic.in, according to a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/results-announced/article33584861.ece
16 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Belagavi land: Dy.CM makes request to Rajnath Singh||Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan on Friday requested Defence Minister Rajnath Singh to let the State government utilise 750 acres in Belagavi for the development of an IT park. The full extent of 10,639 acres given by the State government to the Defence Ministry is not being used, and the IT park could result in employment opportunities to about six million, the Deputy Chief Minister, who also hold the IT portfolio, informed the Defence Minister during his meeting at Yelahanka air base. Job opportunity He said that the IT park would be a big employment opportunity to students coming out of KLE society and IIT Dharwad. A petition also said that the land is adjacent to national highway 4, and the IT-BT vision group and IT Department officials have opined that it is the best suited location. A note from Dr. Narayan’s office said Mr. Singh had responded positively to the plea, and has assured to look into the matter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/belagavi-land-dy-cm-makes-request-to-rajnath-singh/article33584865.ece
16 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Aero India: First hybrid defence exhibition||With a combination of both physical and virtual exhibition, the 13th edition of Aero India 2021 being held here from February 3 to 5 is being touted as the world’s first hybrid aerospace and defence exhibition. This edition of Aero India is being held only as a business event as the five-day event has been cut short to three days and two public days have been given a go-by due to COVID-19 norms. Aero India 2021 will be held simultaneously as a physical exhibition and virtual exhibition with stalls being provided in both realms. A note from the Press Information Bureau said that this will result in greater engagement and exhibitors will experience a greater outreach to cater to those who could not join the event physically. The attendees joining the event virtually can participate in seminars, interact with exhibitors and representatives, hold B2B meetings, and can view product details and supporting videos, it added. On Friday, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh chaired the apex committee meeting to oversee arrangement of Aero India in which Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, Secretary, Department of Defence Production Raj Kumar and Karnataka Chief Secretary P. Ravikumar were also present. On his part, Mr. Yeddyurappa assured full cooperation from the State to make the event a success. An MoU was signed by the Union and the State governments for active participation, shared responsibility and synchronised efforts since Aero India is one of the major international aerospace and defence exhibitions. Driverless train The Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Friday unveiled India’s first indigenously developed driverless metro car during his visit to BEML manufacturing facility here. “I am proud of the good work the team of engineers and technicians are doing at BEML. They are the real warriors of Atmanirbhar Bharat, taking India ahead,” the minister tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/aero-india-2021-will-be-first-hybrid-defence-exhibition/article33584828.ece
16 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bitcoins worth Rs. 9 crore seized||The CCB police, probing hacker Sri Krishna, arrested in a drug peddling case in November 2020, have recovered 31 bitcoins valued at Rs. 9 crore from him. Investigations revealed that he and his associates allegedly hacked three bitcoin exchanges, 10 poker websites, four other sites including the Karnataka State e-procurement one. The CCB will write to all these firms through Interpol alerting them that they were hacked. Sri Krishna allegedly hacked bitcoin accounts to steal the currency. He would then transfer them to a bitcoin trader, identified as Robin Khandelwal, from whose associates he used to get equivalent amounts of money through benami bank accounts and hawala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bitcoins-worth-rs-9-crore-seized-from-hacker/article33584825.ece
16 January 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Amit Shah to lay foundation for new campus of RAF||Union Minister Amit Shah will lay the foundation stone for a new campus of Rapid Action Force (RAF) at Bhadravati in Shivamogga district on Saturday. He will also address a gathering on the occasion. The campus will come upon 50 acres of land in the town. It includes quarters for the staff, a school, a hospital and other amenities. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai and others will accompany Mr. Shah. Shivamogga Lok Sabha member B.Y. Raghavendra has said more than 10,000 people would attend a rally organised to mark the occasion. “The campus is close to the national highway connecting Bengaluru,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/amit-shah-to-lay-foundation-for-new-campus-of-raf/article33585075.ece
16 January 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Attendance poor in degree colleges||The attendance of first-year students in the degree colleges was poor on Friday when the colleges were reopened for all students. One of the reasons for the poor turnout was the absence of hostel facility for fresh students. The Departments of Social Welfare and Backward Classes Welfare have not begun the process to admit fresh students for the hostels. The government has allowed only renewal of admission of those in the second and final year of the course. An officer of the Social Welfare Department said the government had not yet allowed fresh admissions, given the restrictions due to COVID-19. Of the total 7,436 students in the first year of the undergraduate course in Shivamogga district, around 2,300 attended class on the first day. However, the turnout in the second and third-year classes was slightly better. The colleges have been instructed to follow COVID-19 guidelines while allowing students inside the campus. In Hassan, hundreds of engineering students appeared for semester examinations at Malnad College of Engineering with masks and hand gloves.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/attendance-poor-in-degree-colleges/article33585323.ece
16 January 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Consignments arrive||The consignment carrying 45,000 doses of COVID-19 vaccine reached Shivamogga on Friday. A vehicle carrying the vaccine reached the city around 12.30 p.m. The staff members of Health and Family Welfare received the consignment and offered pooja as well. Rajesh Suragihalli, District Health Officer, told media that the district administration had set up 91 booths at 52 centres for vaccination in the district. “On the first day, we will provide the vaccine for 100 beneficiaries each in nine centres in the district. Group D employees of the department would be the first beneficiaries.” Similarly, 10,500 doses of vaccine reached Hassan on Thursday. The officers of the Health and Family Welfare Department welcomed the vehicle, said K.M. Sathish Kumar, District Health Officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/consignments-arrive/article33585324.ece
16 January 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||‘Disappointed’||Expressing disappointment over recent developments in the BJP State unit, Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj K.S. Eshwarappa has said the party could take disciplinary action against some legislators. He said in Shivamogga on Friday, “Is this the BJP we are all part of? Genuine workers of the party are totally disappointed.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/disappointed/article33585321.ece
16 January 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Take soft loans for Central Road Fund projects, Gadkari tells Yediyurappa||Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari on Friday suggested that Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa take soft loans to the tune of Rs. 3,000 crore to Rs. 4,000 crore for executing the projects sanctioned under the Central Road Fund (CRF). He was addressing a gathering through video link after symbolically initiating the bhoomi puja for two highway projects in and around Hubballi worth Rs. 323 crore, including the pending elevated corridor project at Kittur Chennamma Circle in Hubballi aimed at easing the traffic congestion at the busy junction. Listing out the various projects sanctioned under CRF, Mr. Gadkari said that as Karnataka was a progressive State, the Union government had sanctioned various projects in order to facilitate the growth of several tier-2 and tier-3 cities. From the development point of view it was expected that the State government ensured early execution and completion of the projects, he said and suggested Mr. Yediyurappa [who also took part via video link] take soft loans. The Union Minister also promised to release the funds gradually in the next 10 years. Emphasising the need for developing Belekeri port in Uttara Kannada district, Mr. Gadkari asked the Chief Minister to get the detailed project report done and said he would extend necessary help in getting the project sanctioned. On the need for tapping Karnataka’s potential in ethanol production, Mr. Gadkari elaborated on how the sugarcane belt of Karnataka would benefit from ethanol production as more vehicles could use the fuel. The Union Minister also promised to come up with a integrated development project for the traffic problems of Bengaluru and said that a meeting with the Chief Minister will be held in New Delhi over the issue. The Union Minister praised his Cabinet colleague and Dharwad MP, Pralhad Joshi, for succeeding in getting several projects sanctioned to Karnataka particularly north Karnataka. He also announced 10 projects, worth Rs. 21,000 crore for the region, and said that they planned to initiate the projects within the year with the cooperation of the State government. Responding to his suggestion, Mr. Yediyurappa said that soft loans would be raised to meet the fund requirements under the CRF products and also promised to extend necessary help to the projects under CRF by completing the land acquisition process at the earliest. Thanking Mr. Gadkari, Mr. Joshi said that in the last six years 7,752 kilometres of national highways in Karnataka had been developed. Union Minister D.V. Sadananda Gowda and Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar thanked Mr. Gadkari for sanctioning various projects to Karnataka and explained things had changed under Mr. Gadkari.  Subsequently at Kittur Chennamma Circle, Mr. Joshi, Mr. Shettar, former Minister Basavaraj Horatti, and various elected representatives performed the bhoomi puja.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/take-soft-loans-for-central-road-fund-projects-gadkari-tells-yediyurappa/article33585066.ece
16 January 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Karnatak University urged to postpone degree examinations||Taking exception to the decision of Karnatak University, Dharwad, to hold degree examinations from February 1, student organisations recently held demonstrations and submitted memoranda seeking postponement of the examinations. Delegations of All-India Democratic Students Organisation (AIDSO) and Students Federation of India (SFI) met the Vice-Chancellor of the university in Dharwad recently seeking postponement of examinations. SFI members also staged a demonstration in front of Karnatak College. In a circular issued on December 28, 2020, Karnatak University said that January 31 would be the last day for semesters and examinations would be held from February 1. The delegation of Dharwad district committee of AIDSO led by district unit president Mahanthesh Bilur, secretary Ranajit Dhoopad and joint secretary Shashikala Meti met Vice-Chancellor K.B. Gudasi and conveyed to him about the anxiety among students about the examinations as many of them were not able to attend online classes due to technical issues. They urged the Vice-Chancellor to conduct offline classes at least for two months before conducting examinations. The Vice-Chancellor told the delegation that the examinations would be conducted taking into consideration the issues raised by the students. The delegation also urged the Vice-Chancellor not to collect examination fee as the last year’s examination fee was still pending with the university. It said that fee collected from third and fifth semester students should be reimbursed.  The members of SFI led by office-bearers of the Dharwad district unit staged the demonstration in front of Karnatak College on the same issue and submitted a memoranda to Prof. Gudasi and Registrar K.T. Hanumanthappa at the university in Dharwad. SFI members also held a demonstration in Haveri. Staging the protest in front of Karnatak College in Dharwad , the SFI office-bearers said that without the appointment of guest lecturers, without holding classes and printing textbooks, the university had unilaterally decided to conduct examinations for degree classes. Led by State committee member Ganesh Rathod, Basavaraj Bhovi and others, the protestors urged the university to hold annual examinations instead of semester examinations. Despite being aware of various problems students are facing, the university had unilaterally announced the examinations, they said. They also demanded reimbursement of fees paid by students for the current semester.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karnatak-university-urged-to-postpone-degree-examinations/article33585074.ece
16 January 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Rajyotsava awardee passes away||Rajyotsava awardee and journalist Hanumanth Hugar passed away in Hubballi at his residence on Friday following a cardiac arrest. He was 74. A native of Hubballi, Mr. Hugar had served in publications like Netaji , Vishal Karnataka , Pravartaka , Kutumba , and Vishwavani for over four decades. Mr. Hugar had served as the president of the Dharwad District Union of Working Journalists (DDUWJ) and was elected to the Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Council once. The State government honoured him with the Karnataka Rajyotsava Award in 2015 and the DDUWJ had recently honoured him with its lifetime achievement award. Union Minister Pralhad Joshi, Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar, former Ministers Basavaraj Horatti, and H.K. Patil, office-bearers of DDUWJ, and others have mourned his demise. Scores of journalists paid their last respects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rajyotsava-awardee-passes-away/article33585078.ece
16 January 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Sharnbaswappa Appa donates cheque of Rs. 25 lakh for Ram Mandir||The eighth peetadhipathi of Sharnabasaveshwar Samsthan Sharnbaswappa Appa has made a contribution of Rs. 25 lakh towards the Shree Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust for the construction of Ram Temple at Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh. Handing over the cheque to the trust members at Dasoha Mahamane here on Friday, Dr. Appa has appealed to the people to join hands and donate for the cause.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sharnbaswappa-appa-donates-cheque-of-rs-25-lakh-for-ram-mandir/article33585063.ece
16 January 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Brothers hacked to death||Two brothers were hacked to death allegedly by a six-member gang at Tadakal village of Kamalapur taluk in Kalaburagi district on Friday. The deceased were identified as Neelesh, 34, and Rajashekar, 28. According to reports, the victims were intercepted by the gang on the outskirts of the village. Though they tried to escape, they were chased down, and murdered.  The police suspect an old rivalry to be the reason behind the crime. A case has been registered at Mahagaon police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/brothers-hacked-to-death/article33585061.ece
16 January 2021||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||SBI loan utsav||State Bank of India (SBI) will hold its annual ‘SBI Home Loan Utsav’ at Kannada Bhavan in Kalaburagi city on January 16 and 17. Pradeep P., Regional Manager of SBI, in a release stated that the utsav will provide a loan for renovation and repair of an existing property. One can apply for a subsidised home loan under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) Scheme. Interested people can contact Mubeen Shaikh (9611117067) or Kartik (9742570615) for further details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sbi-loan-utsav/article33585072.ece
16 January 2021||KALABURAGI/Bidar/Yadgir,KARNATAKA||Vaccine reaches Kalaburagi, Bidar, Yadgir||The first consignment of Covaxin reached Kalaburagi district on Thursday. The vaccine stock has been preserved at the District Health and Family Welfare Office building. DHO Rajshekar Mali briefing presspersons said that the district had received 12,000 vials in the first phase against the required 24,000 vials. The remaining 12,000 vials are expected to reach the district in the second phase, he added. Of the total 21,774 health workers registered to get a vaccination, around 800 health workers, hundred each at Kalaburagi district hospital, six taluk hospitals, and Gobbur(B) primary health centres, will be administered on the first day drive on Saturday. The district had already created a database of healthcare and front-line workers for the first phase of vaccination and will be enrolling people through a door-to-door survey for the next phases, Dr. Mali said. In all, 137 centres have been identified across the district for administering vaccines. In the first phase, around 12,000 healthcare and frontline workers will be administered the first dose. Dr. Mali said that 155 teams of over 775 staff have been formed for the vaccination drive. In Bidar, around 5,500 vials of the vaccine reached Bidar. The Bidar District Health and Family Welfare have registered 10,240 frontline and health workers for the first phase. Of the total 10,240, around 600 workers, hundred each at Bidar district Hospital, Aurad (B), Humnabad, Bhalki, Basakalyan taluk hospital, and Anadur primary health centre, will be administered the vaccine on Saturday, District Health Officer V.G. Reddy said. As many as 72 vaccination centres have been set up across the district, he added. Yadgir received 3,000 vials of the vaccine on Thursday. Deputy Commissioner R. Ragapriya, Chief Executive Officer Shilpa Sharma received the vials.. The district has 6,000 health workers and vaccine will be administered to 3,000 of them in the first phase at 53 centres, Dr. Ragapriya said. In a release, Minister for Animal Husbandry and district in charge Prabhu Chavan stated that vaccine will be distributed next to the police and Revenue Department staff as the next round will arrive in next week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vaccine-reaches-kalaburagi-bidar-yadgir/article33585071.ece
16 January 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Kateel: BJP won’t yield to pressure tactics||State president of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Nalin Kumar Kateel said here on Friday the party will not yield to any pressure tactics from people to become Ministers and to get rewarded with positions in the government. Addressing party workers at the district office after felicitating six-term MLA S. Anagara on being accommodated in the State Cabinet, Mr. Kateel said that one will have to work sincerely for strengthening the party and the “organisation” to get rewarded. There is no short-cut to get positions. The State president said that the party is capable of silencing those within the party and who have been speaking on the party matters in the open platform. He said that Mr. Angara has been made the Minister as per the wishes of many party workers who were looking for it. With this the aspirations of party workers and people have been fulfilled. Mr. Kateel said that ever since he headed the State unit of the party, he was feeling that Mr. Angara should get justice as Mr. Angara is a sincere party worker and stuck to the principles of the RSS. With being accommodated in the Cabinet he has got justice now. In his address, Mr. Angara said that he would live up to the expectations of party workers and people. He will not tarnish the image of the party and its workers. The Minister said that he would handle the responsibility given to him with confidence and would ensure that those who have reposed faith on him are not disappointed. Mr. Angara said that he is aware that people in the district, especially in Sullia, have high hopes on him now. The Minister said that he has been associated with the RSS since class 7. Before getting elected as a MLA, he had worked as a daily wager in Sullia taluk. If he would not have accepted the post, the party workers in Sullia who have been working for his victory for six times would have been disappointed, Mr. Angara added. Kota Srinivasa Poojary, Minister in-charge of Dakshina Kannada, was conspicuous by his absence in the function. D. Vedavyasa Kamath and Sanjeeva Matandoor, MLAs, K. Prathap Simha Nayak, MLC, Diwakar, Mayor, Sudarshan Moodbidri, president of the district unit of the party and others were present. Earlier, Mr. Angara visited the RSS office at Mannagudda, Kadri Manjunatha temple in the city. Later he called on RSS leader Kalladkka Prabhakara Bhat, former MLA K. Rama Bhat and visited Mahalingeshwara temple at Puttur. He was given a warm welcome at Sullia in the evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kateel-bjp-wont-yield-to-pressure-tactics/article33585302.ece
16 January 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Will curb use of machinery in sand extraction, says DC||Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra on Friday said the district administration will not allow use of machinery, including motorised boats, for extracting sand from rivers in coastal regulation zones (CRZ) in the district. He said the administration will get high-resolution closed-circuit television cameras with night vision at Dhakkes (sand landing points) shortly and the permit holder would be responsible for its maintenance. If the cameras were damaged, the permit holder would face the action. There was no shortage of sand in the district as being alleged, Dr. Rajendra said, adding he personally spoke to several builders and contractors who said sand was available. CRZ sand may not be required at all when silt is removed from the backwaters of three dams, Adyapadi, Shambur and Thumbe, the DC said. While tenders were being finalised for Adyapadi and Shambur dams where the Karnataka State Minerals Corporation Ltd., (KSMCL) would extract sand, tenders would be invited for Thumbe shortly, Dr. Rajendra said. On laterite stone mining from patta (own) lands in the district, Dr. Rajendra said from one permit earlier, the administration has now received nearly 300 applications after it announced regularising irregular quarries. Officials from the departments concerned would visit every site and permits would be issued by Monday. The administration would also ensure that the sites were properly filled after quarrying activity was over.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/will-curb-use-of-machinery-in-sand-extraction-says-dc/article33585299.ece
16 January 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Police stop SDPI activists as they try to take out march||Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) activists tried to take out a march to the office of the Dakshina Kannada Superintendent of Police at Pandeshwar but were stopped by police in the city on Friday. The SDPI had planned to take out the march from the Clock Tower to Pandeshwar to oppose the arrest of its three workers by police on charges of shouting pro-Pakistan slogans during the counting of votes cast in the gram panchayat elections, outside a counting centre in Ujire recently. The party has urged the police to release them by claiming that they were innocent. It has alleged that it was an act by Sangh Parivar activists. The police stopped the activists at the Clock Tower by putting up barricades. After police stopped them the activists sat on the road between the Clock Tower and the Government Wenlock Hospital and protested. They withdrew their protest after the Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar who arrived at the spot received a memorandum from the party addressed to the Inspector General of Police (Western Range). A party spokesperson said that the party leaders will meet the IGP (Western Range) shortly to pursue the matter further. Police had tightened the security in Pandeshwar and Hampankatta areas to prevent any untoward incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-stop-sdpi-activists-as-they-try-to-take-out-march/article33585306.ece
16 January 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘If anyone has CD against CM, they can present it to high command’||State president of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Nalin Kumar Kateel said here on Friday that if any leaders of the party had any CD relating to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, they can present it to the party high command. Replying to questions by presspersons, Mr. Kateel said the Chief Minister had already said that leaders having the CD on him can show it to the high command. “Let them show it [CD] to the high command if they have any,” Mr. Kateel said. ‘Committee to take a call’ The State president, who is also the Member of Parliament from Dakshina Kannada, reiterated that the central disciplinary committee of the party had been apprised of the matter relating to party MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal who has been repeatedly making statements on party matters in open platform. The committee would take a call on it, he said. Continuing his tirade against Mr. Yediyurappa, Mr. Yatnal has said that there are two CDs relating to the Chief Minister. Mr. Kateel said that some are pained that they have not been accommodated in the Cabinet. “But it is not correct to speak on the same on the street,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/if-anyone-has-cd-against-cm-they-can-present-it-to-high-command/article33584860.ece
16 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Services of festival special train further extended||The Railways has extended the periodicity of operation of Jabalpur Jn.-Coimbatore Jn.-Jabalpur Jn. Weekly Superfast Festival Special till March-end. Train No 02198 Jabalpur Jn.-Coimbatore Jn. Weekly Superfast Festival Special will leave Jabalpur Jn. at 11 a.m. on Saturdays from January 16 to March 27 to reach Coimbatore Jn. at 2.50 a.m. on the third day, a release from Konkan Railway Corporation here said. Train No 02197 Coimbatore Jn.-Jabalpur Jn. Weekly Superfast Festival Special will leave Coimbatore Jn. at 6 p.m. on Mondays from January 18 to March 29 to reach Jabalpur Jn. at 8 am on the third day. The train will halt at Narsinghpur, Gadarwara, Pipariya, Itarsi Jn., Harda, Khandwa, Bhusaval Jn., Nasik Road, Panvel, Roha, Khed, Chiplun, Ratnagiri, Kankavali, Kudal, Thivim, Madgaon, Karwar, Kumta, Mookambika Road Byndoor, Kundapur, Udupi, Mulki, Mangaluru Jn., Kasaragod, Kanhangad, Payyanur, Kannur, Tellichhery, Vadakara, Kozhikode, Tirur, Shoranur Jn. and Palakkad stations. It would have 17 coaches, two tier AC-1, three tier AC-5, Sleeper-nine and SLR-two coaches. The Jabalpur-Coimbatore service will leave Karwar at 1.42 p.m., Kumta at 2.22 p.m., Byndoor at 3.22 p.m., Kundapur at 4.28 p.m., Udupi at 5.12 p.m. and Mulki at 5.52 p.m. The Coimbatore-Jabalpur service will leave Mulki at 3.02 a.m., Udupi at 3.30 a.m., Kundapur at 3.52 a.m., Byndoor at 4.22 a.m., Kumta at 5.06 a.m. and Karwar at 6.14 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/services-of-festival-special-train-further-extended/article33585308.ece
16 January 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Gold seized at airport||Customs officials at Mangaluru International Airport seized 2.15 kg of smuggled gold worth Rs. 1.09 crore and have arrested two passengers from Kerala on Thursday. They arrived by Air India flight IX 1384 from Sharjah, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gold-seized-at-airport/article33585322.ece
16 January 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Customs officials seize 2.15 kg gold in Mangaluru||Customs officials at Mangaluru International Airport have seized 2.15 kg of smuggled gold worth Rs. 1.09 crore and have arrested two passengers from Kerala in this connection. A customs release said here on Friday that Faizal Thotty Melparamba, 37, and Mohammad Shuhaib Mugu, 31, from Kasaragod district were arrested in this connection on Thursday. They arrived by Air India flight IX 1384 from Sharjah on Thursday, the release said. They were intercepted based on intelligence inputs and profiling of passengers. “On personal search both passengers found to have concealed gold in paste form in their underwear,” the release said. Commissioner of Customs, Mangaluru, Imamuddin Ahmed and Joint Commissioner Joannes George have congratulated the team for preventing the smuggling. The team was lead by Praveen Kandi, Deputy Commissioner, Shrikanth K., Subhendu Ranjan Behera, Naveen Kumar, Superintendents, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/customs-officials-seize-215-kg-gold-in-mangaluru/article33585076.ece
16 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Blood collection drive launched in Mangaluru||Deputy Commissioner of Dakshina Kannada K.V. Rajendra launched a four-day mobile blood collection drive in the city recently. Dakshina Kannada unit of the Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS) and Dakshina Kannada Union of Working Journalists (DKUWJ) have jointly initiated the drive in which four persons can donate blood at a time on a mobile bus. Flagging off the van near Mangaluru Press Club, Mr. Rajendra said that blood collection in the district has come down in view of COVID-19. Now, the IRCS has taken up the initiative to meet the shortage by collecting blood from donors on a vehicle. The bus collected 17 units of blood till noon. According to Mr. Shetty, the IRCS collects 250 units to 300 units of blood every month and gives them to the Government Lady Goschen Hospital. Rotary Club, Mangaluru, has donated the van to the IRCS for blood collection.  Those who want to donate blood can contact IRCS co-ordinator Praveen Kumar on Ph: 9916262459.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/blood-collection-drive-launched-in-mangaluru/article33585297.ece
16 January 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Panambur goods shed to work 24 hours||The Palakkad Railway Division of Southern Railway on Friday said it has decided to facilitate round-the-clock functioning of Panambur Railway goods shed to allow loading to and unloading from covered wagons. At present, 24-hour loading and unloading was in existence at the mechanised loading/unloading in open wagons, a release from the division said, adding the covered wagon loading/ unloading facility was functional between 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. so far. The idea behind facilitating round-the-clock loading and unloading activities for covered wagons was to speed up goods movement. The shed mainly handles coal and fertilizer and an average of 800 wagons were handled a month.   A release from Konkan Railway Corporation here said Southern Railway has decided to augment three coaches on permanent basis on Train No. 06338/06337 Ernakulam Junction-Okha-Ernakulam Junction bi-Weekly Festival Special Express.  Train No. 06388 Ernakulam Junction-Okha bi-Weekly Festival Special has commenced services from January 15 while Train No. 06387 Okha-Ernakulam Junction bi-Weekly Festival Special would commence services from Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/panambur-goods-shed-to-work-24-hours/article33585300.ece
16 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||MAHE opens BioNEST to nurture start-ups in BT||The Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council (BIRAC) under the Union Department of Biotechnology has approved setting up of a BioNEST at Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE), Manipal campus, under the “Bio incubators Nurturing Entrepreneurship for Scaling Technologies” (Bio-NEST) programme. The approval was aimed at catering to the need of incubating innovative Biotechnology enterprises and to promote entire biotechnology innovation ecosystem in the country, said a release. MAHE’s initiative to BIRAC to augment facilities by establishing BioNEST was granted at the existing Manipal-Government of Karnataka Bio incubator, supported by Karnataka Innovation and Technology Society (KITS) and MAHE. BioNEST facilities are equipped with state-of-the-art instrumentation for innovation and technology development and are connected with the global network of start-up enablers and funding agencies. Bio-NEST provides incubation space to start-ups and entrepreneurs to test their ideas, run their business operations with access to resources and facilities of MAHE to enable the efficient exchange of knowledge as well as to facilitate technical and business mentorship. The facility can accommodate 30 entrepreneurs at any given time with world-class facilities, infrastructure and services for the incubation of the start-ups in key domains—as biopharma, biomedical devices, dental innovation, biotechnology, healthcare, and diagnostics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mahe-opens-bionest-to-nurture-start-ups-in-bt/article33585307.ece
16 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Briefly||Department of Health and Family Welfare in association with private medical colleges will conduct special health check-up camps for endosulfan victims in Dakshina Kannada. The camps will be conducted in Panaje on January 16, at Kaniyor in Belthangady taluk, at Koila, at Uppinangady, and at Bellare on January 19, at Kokkada on January 20.     The government employees’ Dakshina Kannada district-level sports meet will be conducted in Mangala stadium here on February 2. The district- level cultural competitions will be organised on February 3 in government employees’ association hall at Hampankatta. For details call 2425444.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/briefly/article33585303.ece
16 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Stage set for mega vaccination drive in Mysuru district||The Mysuru district administration has said that it is fully prepared for the launch of first phase of vaccination against COVID-19 from Saturday with the health authorities receiving the consignment of Covishield vaccine vials for immunisation across the district. The consignment that was shipped to Mysuru on Thursday from Bengaluru would be administered to nearly 34,000 healthcare workers already registered for the inoculation in the next few days. The district had received about 20,500 doses of vaccine in an airconditioned truck on Thursday night and the vaccine was thereafter shifted to the district vaccine depot located on the premises of district Health Department office. The top government officials had an interaction through videoconferencing with the Deputy Commissioners in the State, including the DC of Mysuru, Rohini Sindhuri, ahead of the mega vaccination drive following the shipment of vaccine to the State. Superintendent of Police C.B. Ryshyanth, MCC Commissioner Gurudatta Hegde, Mysore Medical College and Research Institute Dean and Director C.P. Nanjaraj and other senior officials were present during the session here. National Health Mission Managing Director Arundhati and Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Javed Akhtar gave directions to all the districts during the video conferencing on the dos and don’ts ahead of giving the jabs to the healthcare workers. The Trauma Care Centre on PKTB Hospital campus on KRS Road, JSS Hospital, Mysuru, the taluk hospitals at T.Narsipur, K.R. Nagar, H.D. Kote, Hunsur, Periyapatna, and Nanjangud, and Rangasamudra health care centre had been identified as the vaccination sites. On the first day of vaccination on Saturday, the vaccine would be administered to 60 healthcare workers at Rangasamudra and 100 each at all the taluk hospitals. The teams in charge of vaccination at the respective sites, including the vaccination officers, had been instructed to comply with the guidelines issued by the government and the precautions to be taken after the person was administered the vaccine. All protocols demonstrated during vaccine dry runs recently had to be complied with and necessary steps to be taken in case of any health complications after getting the jab. The vaccinated person has to remain at the vaccination site for 30 minutes before leaving the premises. This protocol is mandatory and the vaccinated person has to be under observation. L Ravi, the officer in charge of vaccination and COVID-19 Nodal Officer, said the beneficiaries already registered on the CoWIN App among the health workers had been communicated on the date, time and venue of vaccination besides other details on their registered mobile numbers. The staff entrusted with the task of administering the vaccine, who had received training ahead of the launch and during the dry run, had been briefed about the protocols to be followed. The vaccination sites had been supplied with all items including the syringes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/stage-set-for-mega-vaccination-drive-in-mysuru-district/article33585310.ece
16 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Cheating: Seven arrested||The city police have nabbed an inter-State gang of cheats who would dupe people of their money by promising to procure gold at cheap prices. The police recovered Rs. 15 lakh from the accused besides gold biscuits, two cars, a two-wheeler and five mobile phones used in the crime. The accused were named as Mustafa alias Yusuf, Abdul Hakim, Kunjiraman, Mohammad Shafi, Gurucharan, Karthik and Samiullah. While Mustafa, Kunjiraman and Shafi are from Kerala, Abdul Hakim, Gurucharan and Karthik are from Kodagu and Samiullah is from Mysuru. A special team was constituted to track down the gang after two cases of cheating were reported in the city. Based on a tip off, the police zeroed in on Mustafa which led to the arrest of six others. While Mustafa, Kunjuraman and Abdul Karim were nabbed on Monday, the remaining were taken into custody on Wednesday. The police said preliminary interrogation revealed that the gang wanted to lead a life of luxury and resorted to crime and cheating to fund their lifestyle. Their arrest has led to solving of two cheating cases reported from Narasimharaja Police station limits and V.V. Puram Police station limits. The Commissioner of Police Chandragupta complimented Deputy Commissioner of Police Geetha Prasanna and her team for cracking the two cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cheating-seven-persons-arrested/article33585083.ece
16 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Classes for intermediate semesters of PG, UG courses from January 19||Offline classes for the students of intermediate semesters of undergraduate courses are expected to begin from January 19 as the University of Mysore has convened a meeting of principals of all first grade colleges in Mysuru, Hassan, Mandya and Chamarajanagar districts on January 18 ahead of the resumption of classes after a long gap. The admissions for the first-year PG courses would be concluding on January 21 and thereafter the classes for those students would be commencing. Vice-Chancellor G. Hemantha Kumar told The Hindu that the University had received an order from the government for resuming classes for the first and second year undergraduate students and the first-year PG students. “The colleges are in the process of making preparations for resuming the classes besides making arrangements for complying with the SOPs. In this connection, the meeting of all colleges coming under the jurisdiction of the University has been convened to communicate the government’s directions. From Tuesday onwards, the offline classes will commence,” Prof. Kumar said. The V-C said steps had been taken for the reopening of the University hostels in Manasagangotri campus and also at the PG centres in Mandya, Hassan and Chamarajanagar districts to accommodate the students reporting to their respective classes. “The hostels run by the Department of Social Welfare are also expected to reopen as some of our students stay there,” he replied.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/classes-for-intermediate-semesters-of-pg-ug-courses-from-january-19/article33585326.ece
16 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Asian Paints to establish new unit to provide jobs to farmers||Asian Paints, whose automated plant near Nanjangud has been shut for the last few days owing to agitations by farmers seeking employment in lieu of land procured from them, has agreed to meet the farmers’ demands. A statement from Asian Paints said the company plans to end all disputes at their Mysuru plant by setting up an additional facility for any alternate product manufacturing on the same plot for the land sellers. “With tremendous respect for the land sellers and the Government of Karnataka, Asian Paints is acting beyond the lines of the terms and conditions agreed upon initially,” it added. The company was in continuous talks with the Government of Karnataka and had offered few additional proposals regarding the employment of land sellers. The government has now accepted the proposal and the land sellers have also given their nod for employment in a separate set up within the plot, as per the statement. The employment offered shall be commensurate with the skill sets and qualification of the land sellers. In addition to the above proposal, Asian Paints will also provide training to eligible land sellers for a period of six months along with a suitable stipend. The Karnataka Industrial Area Development Board (KIADB) has also agreed to provide the final list of eligible land sellers to Asian Paints by January 18, the statement added. Badagalpura Nagendra, of KRRS, said it was a prolonged struggle and the move augurs well for all stakeholders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/asian-paints-to-establish-new-unit-to-provide-jobs-to-farmers/article33584823.ece
16 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||CSIR-CFTRI gets new chief||Senior scientist Sridevi A. Singh(in picture)has taken over as director of the Mysuru-based CSIR-Central Food Technological Research Institute (CFTRI), a premier R&D institute, this month. After passing out from CSIR-CFTRI with M.Sc. (Food Technology) in 1988, Dr. Sridevi, after working in Bengaluru for a short stint, returned to her alma mater in 1991. She grew to the position of Chief Scientist and Head of Department of Protein Chemistry and Technology before moving to the position of director. Three decades In a career spanning over three decades, she worked extensively on both basic and applied aspects of food science. Some of the technologies that were transferred to the industry include amylase rich energy food, soy protein hydrolysates, heat-resistant sesame seeds, and supplementary food for severely malnourished children, and so on. Over 40 entrepreneurs have taken these technologies so far, a release said. A pilot-level malnutrition intervention study was undertaken with the participation of over 200 anganwadi children to assess the efficacy of supplementary foods developed by CFTRI. She has published over 50 manuscripts in peer-reviewed journals and holds 11 patents, including five U.S. patents. Currently, she is focusing on alternate and unconventional sources of protein and micronutrients to combat malnutrition and development of novel food ingredients for health benefits. Dr. Sridevi is member of various government-appointed committees and institutes, including the National Agri Biotechnology Institute (Mohali), and the expert committee on Public Health and Nutrition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/csir-cftri-gets-new-chief/article33584868.ece
16 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Kodagu gets 4,000 vaccine doses||Kodagu has received 4,000 doses of Covishield for Saturday’s rollout of vaccination. Deputy Commissioner (in-charge) Bhanwar Singh Meena said the vaccination drive will be launched around 10.30 a.m. The District Hospital in Madikeri, the taluk hospitals at Somwarpet and Virajpet, and St. Michael’s School in Madikeri had been identified as the sites where 100 persons each would be vaccinated and 75 persons at the Kakotuvarambu PHC. In total, 474 would get the jab. A total of 6,560 healthcare workers had been registered to receive the vaccine, said DHO K. Mohan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kodagu-gets-4000-vaccine-doses/article33585327.ece
16 January 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Educationist to be feted on 73rd birthday||Educationist Parasamal Sukhani will be felicitated on his 73rd birthday on Sunday, Basappa Tippareddy, honorary president of the felicitating committee, said at a press conference in Raichur on Friday. Contribution of Mr Sukhani to the education sector and society is commendable. Therefore, it is decided to felicitate and release a congratulatory book written about him during the event, he said. Mr. Sukhani, an industrialist, has been encouraging the youth from poor families to get educated in his institution and has been extending financial help. He also had entered politics and became the chairman of CMC and Hutti Gold Mines. The seer of Gavisiddeshwara Mutt will release the book through a video conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/educationist-to-be-feted-on-73rd-birthday/article33585069.ece
16 January 2021||January 16 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Identify more crops for value addition, say farmers||The government’s proposal to promote value addition for banana cultivated in Mysuru under One District One Product (ODOP) has raised concern over its long-term impact on crop diversity. ODOP is backed by Pradhan Mantri Formalisation of Micro food processing Enterprise (PF FME) Scheme announced by the Centre. While Mysuru has been identified for banana, turmeric has been identified for value addition in Chamarajanagar and jaggery in Mandya district. The concern of a section of farmers stems from the slew of benefits that will be available for the entrepreneurs including 35 percent credit-linked capital subsidy for ramping up infrastructure for value addition. Vivek Cariappa, an organic farmer from Sargur region said this could drive demand for banana and result in a large-scale shift from other crops to plantains in the long run. Citing the example of ginger, Mr. Cariappa said it was initially taken up under contract farming by entrepreneurs from Kerala and local farmers leased their land for ginger cultivation. When the farmers realised that ginger cultivation was more profitable, there was a large-scale shift from other crops to ginger which led to a glut in the market and the prices collapsed as the supply exceeded demand. Now the ginger farmers are in dire straits and banana planters too could face the same situation, said Mr. Cariappa. However, senior officials in the Agriculture Department allayed such fears and said the ODOP was only for value addition to what is being cultivated and for perishable crops only. They said banana plantation will not be encouraged to the exclusion of other crops. Besides, it is not part of any agricultural policy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/identify-more-crops-for-value-addition-farmers/article33585079.ece
16 January 2021||January 16 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||One more U.K. returnee tests positive||One more U.K. returnee has tested positive for the new strain of COVID-19 taking the total number of new strain cases to 14 in Karnataka. The patient is from Bengaluru Rural district. A total of 47 U.K. returnees and 26 primary contacts have tested RT-PCR positive. The State on Friday reported 708 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total number to 9,30,668. With three deaths, the toll rose to 12,158. This is apart from 19 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 643 persons were discharged on Friday, taking the total number of recoveries to 9,09,701. Of the remaining 8,790 active patients, 183 were being monitored in ICUs. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.83%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 0.42%. Bengaluru Urban reported 399 cases, taking its tally to 3,94,213. With two deaths reported from Bengaluru, the toll in this district rose to 4,357. Active cases in Bengaluru reduced to 5,710.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/one-more-uk-returnee-tests-positive/article33584819.ece
16 January 2021||January 16 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘There is demand to start offline classes for first PU’||Principals of various colleges in Karnataka have sought permission to start offline classes for first PUC students, claiming pressure and demand from students and parents alike. At a meeting chaired by Minister for Primary and Secondary Education S. Suresh Kumar to review the progress of second PUC classes in Bengaluru Urban, Rural and Ramanagaram districts on Friday, the principals demanded resumption of offline classes for first PUC in the interest of students. Many principals, who attended the meeting, stated that they were getting calls from parents with regard to resuming first PUC classes. They said that if two students are made to sit on each bench and instructed to bring food and water from home, offline classes for first PUC may be started. According to a press release, the Minister said he would seek the opinion of the Technical Advisory Committee on starting classes for first PUC. He also said there is demand to start classes for standards eight and nine. “Students want to be promoted to higher standards only after writing examinations. This was the opinion of many students I spoke to during my inspection of schools across Karnataka,” he said and instructed teachers and principals to devote more time to completing the syllabus. Given the shortage in teaching staff, a proposal had been sent to the Finance Department with regard to regularising guest teachers. He said teachers, who had retired from service and wanted to teach for free in the interest of students, would be given a chance to do so in colleges near them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/there-is-demand-to-start-offline-classes-for-first-pu/article33584832.ece
16 January 2021||January 16 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Fee revision meeting: Schools submit proposals||The issue of revision of school fees and the conflict between parents and private school managements remains unresolved. A consensus could not be reached in the meeting between the Education Department, managements’ associations and parents’ associations on Friday. At the end of detailed discussions, it was decided that Commissioner of Public Instruction V. Anbu Kumar would submit a report to the government on the issue. The final decision is likely to be taken by the State government. Recently, parents of children enrolled in a private school tried to draw the attention of Minister for Primary and Secondary Education S. Suresh Kumar to the issue of payment of fees by sweeping the road in front of his house. Parents have been protesting against private school managements for allegedly forcing them to pay fees, failing which their children are not allowed to attend online classes. At the meeting, parents’ associations demanded that apart from tuition fees, schools should not collect any other fees. They also said that if a school has 100 to 250 children, there should be a 15% deduction in fees, 25% deduction if there are 250 to 500 children, 50% deduction if there are 500 to 1,000 children, and only 25% to be collected if there are more than 1,000 children. However, the school managements’ associations pointed out that they were also struggling since the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. Each association presented a formula for fee revision. The Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka (KAMS) sought a uniform deduction of around 2025% irrespective of the number of children in a school while the Karnataka Unaided School Managements’ Association (KUSMA) was agreeable to a 30% deduction in fees. The Recognised Unaided Private Schools Association (RUPSA) did not want any deduction where the total fees is no more than Rs. 15,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fee-revision-meeting-schools-submit-proposals/article33584813.ece
16 January 2021||January 16 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Strength in numbers||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/strength-in-numbers/article33585082.ece
16 January 2021||January 16 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Engagements||Mangaluru  Father Muller Medical College: Graduation Day, P.S. Yadapadithaya, Vice-Chancellor, Mangalore University, guest, Peter Paul Saldanha, Bishop, Mangaluru Diocese, presides, Father Muller Convention Centre, Kankanady, 10.30 a.m.   Udupi   District administration:  Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha launches COVID-19 vaccination drive, district government hospital, Ajjarakadu, 10.30 a.m.  Sri Krishna Mutt: Paryaya Pancha Shatamanotsava programme, release of Kannada book ‘Dinakkondu Bhagavamruta Bindugalu’, launch of handicraft mela, Rajangana, 3 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/engagements/article33585304.ece
16 January 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Rs. 112-cr. allocation for coir sector||The coir sector has received a major thrust in the State Budget for 2021-22. Presenting the Budget on Friday, Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac said that coir production in the State would soon touch 50,000 tonnes. “The production in the coir industry has increased to 30,000 tonnes from 7,000 tonnes in 2015-16. This will rise to 50,000 tonnes in 2021-22. At least 10,000 additional jobs will be generated. Coir workers in the State are getting Rs. 300 a day with the assistance of Income Support Scheme and the same will be increased to an average of Rs. 500 without any subsidy,” Dr. Isaac said. An amount of Rs. 112 crore is allocated for the coir sector in 2021-22. This includes Rs. 41 crore for mechanisation and Rs. 38 crore as price fluctuation fund. Rs. 50 for cluster formation In addition to this, Rs. 50 crore from Coir Board for cluster formation and Rs. 100 crore from the National Cooperative Development Corporation will be made available for the industry. The Budget proposes to set up an extensive coir cluster on 10 acres of land at the Industrial Growth Centre, Pallippuram. A factory for the commercial production of coir binder-less boards will be set up at Kanichukulangara. Besides, 10 mechanised cooperative production factories will be started in 2021-22. A special scheme for the renovation of small-scale production units will be formulated. For this, Rs. 20 crore is specially earmarked. Dr. Isaac said that total mechanisation was progressing in the sector. The number of coir mills is set to increase to 300, automatic spinning machines to 4,000 and automatic looms to 200. He said that efforts to identify new markets needed to be intensified. With the aim of expanding the market for geo-textiles, a coir fair will be organised digitally in Alappuzha in February. “It is going to be first of its kind in the country at the time of COVID-19,” the Minister said. P.V. Sathyanesan, general secretary, Kerala State Coir Thozhilali Federation (AITUC), said that the Budget had failed to ensure the welfare of traditional coir workers. Shortage of husk “The Budget gives a lot of thrust to mechanisation. But at the same time, no measures have been announced to deal with the shortage of coconut husk, the basic raw material for coir production, and its procurement,” Mr. Sathyanesan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rs-112-cr-allocation-for-coir-sector/article33585263.ece
16 January 2021||Alappuzha,KERALA||Epidemic insurance scheme a relief to duck farmers||The announcement of an epidemic insurance scheme for duck farmers in the State Budget 2021-22 is seen as a major relief for the sector devastated by recurring bird flu outbreaks. For setting up a duck hatchery, which was announced in the last Budget, an amount of Rs. 7 crore has been earmarked. A sum of Rs. 10 crore is additionally earmarked towards a public campaign for cleaning lakes as part of the Kuttanad Package being implemented for ecological restoration and social infrastructure improvement of the region. Finance Minister Thomas Isaac said that Rs. 160 crore had already been sanctioned from the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board for protecting outer bunds by widening them with clay bricks made from clay extracted from backwater swamps with the aid of machines. The work would begin this summer in ‘Pazhanila Kayals’ and in selected paddy fields. Renovation of canals Employment guarantee scheme would also be utilised extensively for the renovation of 420 km of drains and canals as part of the Rs. 2,400 crore Kuttanad Package, he said. According to the Minister, flood-control projects to ensure smooth flow of water in the Pampa and Achencoil rivers, deepening of leading channels and improvement in the functioning of the Thottappally spillway are in the final phase of implementation. Work on the second and third reaches of the Alappuzha-Changanassery canal would be taken up. A sum of Rs. 39 crore is earmarked for the Irrigation Department and another Rs. 20 crore for the Agriculture Department for various other projects in Kuttanad. AC Road renovation The Minister said that the reconstruction of the Alappuzha-Changanassery (AC) Road as a semi-elevated highway would be undertaken in 2021-22. The reconstruction of the EMS Stadium in Alappuzha would begin soon. The Budget also proposes to renovate the Cherthala Taluk Hospital and the KSRTC bus stand at Kayamkulam. A sum of Rs. 2 crore has been allocated for a global painting exhibition in Alappuzha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/epidemic-insurance-scheme-a-relief-to-duck-farmers/article33585268.ece
16 January 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Vaccination at nine centres in Alappuzha||The COVID-19 vaccination drive will begin in the district on Saturday. COVID-19 vaccine vials for vaccinating people on the first day of the drive have been made available at the respective centres from the District Vaccine store, officials said. A total of nine centres have been set up in the district to inoculate the people in the first phase of the vaccination drive. The centres are arranged at Government Medical College Hospital, Alappuzha; General Hospital, Alappuzha; District Hospital, Chengannur; District Hospital, Mavelikara; Taluk Hospital, Kayamkulam; RHTC, Chettikkad; Primary Health Centre, Purakkad; Community Health Centre, Chempumpuram; and Sacred Heart Hospital, Cherthala. In the first phase, health workers will be offered the vaccine. Among those set to get the jab in the district on Saturday includes District Medical Officer L. Anithakumari, District Programme Manager (NHM) K.R. Radhakrishnan, District Mass Media Officer Suja P.S., District Nursing Officer Geetha and so on. 900 today District Collector A. Alexander said that a total of 900 people in the district would be administered Covishield vaccine on the first day of the inoculation drive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vaccination-at-nine-centres-in-alappuzha/article33585269.ece
16 January 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Green signal for heritage train hopes||The prospects of a heritage train chugging along the Munnar tea gardens has become brighter with a Budget proposal for exploring its tourism potential. Munnar had a monorail known as Kundala Valley Light Railway launched by the British. It was totally destroyed in the devastating floods in 1924 (Great Flood 99). Though efforts were made to restore the facility, it was abandoned as the damage was irreparable. Visitors to the KDHP (Kanan Devan Hills Plantation) Tea Museum in Munnar can see a wheel of the train in addition to pieces of the rail kept on gates of some historical buildings. A feasibility study for relaunching the rail project was done in 2019. It was aimed to construct the railway on the lines of the Kundala Valley Light Railway in the public-private partnership mode. An official of the District Tourism Promotion Council said it would become a prestigious itinerary for tourists to enjoy the hill station. At present, there were many heritage buildings and structures that attracted foreign tourists to the hill station. A Facets of Hundred Years of Planting , an in-house publication of Tata-Finlay Ltd, had vivid descriptions of the early life in Munnar, the railway system, and a few rare pictures of it. Though Idukki is not connected to the rail network, it was in Munnar that the British implemented one of the early editions of the light railway nearly a century ago. The train was introduced for moving tea leaves and staff of the parent company. Earlier, there was a ropeway connecting Munnar with Top Station for moving tea leaves. The permission of Railways is needed for introducing the heritage train service for tourists. The proposal has rejuvenated hopes for a heritage railway in Munnar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/green-signal-for-heritage-train-hopes/article33585271.ece
16 January 2021||Kalpetta,KERALA||Budget brings cheers to coffee growers||Coffee farmer organisations have welcomed the budgetary provisions for supporting coffee farmers in Wayanad district, a major Robusta coffee growing area in the country. Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac in his budget speech on Friday increased the minimum support price (MSP) for a kg of raw Robusta coffee to Rs. 90. “At a time when coffee growers in the district are reeling under severe crisis owing to the low price of the produce and and higher input cost, we welcome the announcement’, Prasanth Rajesh, president, Wayanad Coffee Growers Association, told The Hindu . The market price of the produce on Friday in Wayanad was Rs. 64 a kg as against Rs. 72 a kg last year. The announcement would give a fillip to the industry but, the MSP was nowhere near the recommendations of the M.S. Swaminathan Commission, Mr. Rajesh said. “Wayanad district has been producing more than 90,000 tons of Robusta raw cherry a year,” Mr. Rajesh said adding that if the government procured a substantial share of it at the MSP, it would be of great help for the farming community.  “We welcome the announcement of Dr. Isaac to fix MSP and a financial assistance to Brahmagiri project, a people initiative, to set up a coffee processing unit,” K.J. Devasia, president, South Indian Coffee Growers’ Association, said. Opening kiosks under Kudumbashree units for selling value-added coffee products under the brand name of ‘Wayanad Coffee’ would also rejuvenate the industry, Mr. Devasia are dependent on the sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/budget-brings-cheers-to-coffee-growers/article33585171.ece
16 January 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||12,010 health workers to get vaccine in Wayanad||All arrangements have been made for the COVID-19 vaccination in Wayanad district. The vaccine would be administered to 4,315 selected health workers, including physicians, nurses, paramedical staff and Asha workers in the district in the first phase from Saturday, R. Renuka, District Medical Officer, said. “As many as 12,010 health workers have been registered for the drive so far in the district,” Dr. Renuka said, adding that 9,590 doses of Covishield vaccine had been brought to the district for the purpose. “Two doses of the vaccine will be administered to each health worker. The second dose will be given 28 days after the first dose,” she said. As many as nine health centres have been identified for the drive, including the District Hospital, Mananthavady; taluk hospitals in Sulthan Bathery and Vythiri; family health centres at Appappara and Pozhuthana; community health centre at Pulpally; primary health centres at Varadoor and Kurukkan Moola and D.M.WIMS at Meppadi. The vaccine would be administered to 100 persons a day and five vaccination officers had been appointed to each vaccination centre, Dr. Renuka said. 241 new cases Meanwhile, 241 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad district on Friday, taking the total number of active cases to 2,862. Of the new cases, 240 patients, including four health workers, were infected through local contact and a person had returned from abroad. As many as 207 people recovered on the day. The district has so far reported 19,782 COVID-19 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/12010-health-workers-to-get-vaccine-in-wayanad/article33585167.ece
16 January 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||CM inaugurates construction of Parapram regulator||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday said that the Parapram regulator-cum-bridge project at Pinarayi Paraprath across the Ancharakandy river would prevent salt water ingress into over 1,200 acres of land in the area. Mr. Vijayan was speaking after inaugurating the construction of the project through video conferencing. Currently, salt water flooded the agricultural lands in Pinarayi, Vengadu, Ancharakandy, and Peralassery panchayats. Mr. Vijayan said that once the project was completed, the problem would be resolved and it would prove beneficial to the agriculture sector. It would also help in ensuring supply of water to the Kerala Water Authority’s pumping station at Keezhallur, which supplied drinking water to Thalassery and Mahe municipalities, and Dharmadam panchayat. The project would also lead to an increase in the groundwater availability in the area, he said. The Parapram regulator is being constructed by connecting Pinarayi and Peralassery panchayats in the Dharmadam constituency. The target is to complete the project in 18 months with an allocation of Rs. 44.49 crore from Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board. The length of the regulator-cum-bridge is 99.6 metres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-inaugurates-construction-of-parapram-regulator/article33585157.ece
16 January 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Rs. 1.10 lakh aid for injured volleyball player||The Department of Sports has decided to hand over Rs. 1.10 lakh for the treatment of volleyball player N.B. Anjitha, who was injured during training. The financial assistance from the government comes as a relief at a time when she is hoping to return to the court. The aid for the treatment will be provided from the Sports Development Fund. Ms. Anjitha hails from Iritty in Kannur district. She represented Kerala in National School Games and junior category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rs-110-lakh-aid-for-injured-volleyball-player/article33585180.ece
16 January 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Solar power plant to be inaugurated||As part of the government’s plan to strengthen the renewable energy sector, Kasaragod district will have the largest solar power project in the State. The second phase of the project would be inaugurated by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on January 23, said Augustine Thomas, CEO, Renewable Power Corporation of Kerala Limited (RPCKL), here. He said that the second phase, which would generate 50 MW of power, was established on 250 acres at Kommangala in Paivalike in the district. The project was being implemented as part of the Jawaharlal Nehru National Solar Mission, a Central project aimed at maximising generation of renewable energy to meet the growing demand for electricity. The project envisaged a third stage with another solar power plant being established by utilising the space in the paddy fields in the area, he said. The entire project was aimed at generating 105 MW. The first phase generating 50 MW was inaugurated at Ambalathara last year. The second phase was in Paivalike while the third phase would produce 5 MW. Preliminary steps for this were in progress, Mr. Thomas said. Renewable Power Corporation of Kerala Limited, a public sector undertaking with an equal partnership between the KSEB and the Solar Energy Corporation of India, oversees the operation of the solar park. With the realisation of the Paivalike project, there would be a big improvement in the power supply situation in the district. The project would also give an impetus to the industrial sector in the district, Mr. Thomas said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/solar-power-plant-to-be-inaugurated/article33585160.ece
16 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Key road projects find place in budget||Mayor M. Anil Kumar was elated at the fact that key road and allied infrastructure projects submitted by the Kochi Corporation, including the one to hew out an elevated corridor parallel to Pandit Karuppan Road, found mention in Friday’s State Budget. “The detailed project report [DPR] for the elevated corridor that is slated to cost approximately Rs. 300 crore was readied by a team led by Metroman E. Sreedharan. The budget has also included a cluster of four road corridors that were crying for development — Goshree-Mamangalam Road, K.P. Vallon Road, Palluruthy parallel road, and the approach stretch to Madura Company-Kannangat Bridge Road. A DPR will have to be readied for each,” he said. The concerted demand to decongest Pandit Karuppan Road that links Thevara on M.G. Road and the Kundannoor-Alexander Parambithara Bridge stretch, grew louder in 2018, after traffic snarls became the norm in the busy but narrow and heavily-encroached upon road. K.P. Vallon Road that runs south from Kadavanthra Junction too faces a similar predicament. Most parts of the Goshree-Mamangalam Road, which runs parallel to Banerjee Road, are bottlenecked. The budget has also included important canal-cleaning and development projects in West Kochi, Mr. Anil Kumar said. KIIFB funds With the PWD, which recently took over the Thammanam-Pullepady Road from the Kochi Corporation, to extend it up to M.G. Road and the NH Bypass and also widen it into a four-lane stretch, is banking on funds from the Rs. 15,000 crore that is expected to raised by Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) for road projects in the State. Preliminary estimates put the cost to acquire land and to develop the stretch at around Rs. 300 crore. KIIFB had earlier sanctioned funds to develop yet another crucial road project — the airport extension of the Seaport-Airport Road. Land acquisition “The State government had earlier sanctioned funds to extend the HMT-NAD stretch. While private lands on the stretch were acquired, that owned by HMT and NAD has to be taken over. KIIFB funds will be needed to extend the stretch further from NAD,” said sources in the Roads and Bridges Development Corporation of Kerala (RBDCK). Heritage conservation Meanwhile, Antony Kureethara, Opposition Leader in the Kochi Corporation Council, said there were no definite allocations in the budget for conservation of heritage in Kochi. “There have also not been any specific allotments to deal with the city’s waterlogging problems,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/key-road-projects-find-place-in-budget/article33585219.ece
16 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Kakkanad extension to cost Rs. 1,957 crore||The 2-km extension of the Kochi metro from Pettah to Thripunithura will be completed in 2021-22, Finance Minister Dr. Thomas Isaac said in his budget speech. Resource mobilisation for the project has been ensured. The construction of the 11-km extension of the metro, from Jawaharlal Nehru International Stadium up to the IT hub in Kakkanad too will be carried out at an expenditure of Rs. 1,957 crore, he added. French lending agency AFD had agreed to extend a soft loan to Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) for the Kakkanad extension. While the Thripunithura extension is being carried out using State funds, part funding of the Kakkanad extension by the Centre will be crucial to take it ahead. Apart from funds, the Centre’s sanction too is awaited for the extension. Yet another important project that featured in the budget was the long-overdue project to relocate the KSRTC bus station to Karikamuri. A commercial multi-rise building will come up there after the existing dilapidated bus station building is demolished. Over the past two decades, the KSRTC had invited much flak for the horrendous condition of the station premises, owing to slack upkeep and frequent flooding. A Rs. 2-crore modern garage that was readied a couple of years ago on the southern side developed severe cracks and fell into disuse even before it was commissioned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kakkanad-extension-to-cost-rs-1957-crore/article33585231.ece
16 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Innovative tech for durable roads||Aimed at ensuring durable and designed roads that can brave the elements, the government has in the Budget specifically mentioned a slew of measures to overcome teething issues that necessitate frequent repair works. Techniques such as full-depth reclamation, cold recycling, thin white-topping, geotextiles, bitumen- plastic-rubber mixture etc., will be extensively used. “We must also stop the tendency to wait until the roads get damaged for maintenance works,” Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac said pointing to the necessity of preventive-maintenance of roads. A total of 8,383 km roads will be completed in the 2021-22 fiscal. One-fourth of this will be KIIFB-Rebuild (Kerala) designed roads, public works, including KIIFB, Rebuild (Kerala), KSTP and annuity schemes worth around Rs.25,000 crore are progressing under various schemes. In 2021-22, works worth Rs. 10,000 crore will be completed. An amount of Rs. 910 crore is earmarked from Plan (funds). A total of Rs. 1,123 crore is earmarked as non-Plan (expenditure) for maintenance and clearing old bills, the budget says. Rural roads A timely step has been taken to ensure quality of rural roads as well, with sharing of funds on ward basis being cited as an undesirable trend. The remedy is to prepare a plan for roads for five years. Plans can thus be taken on a priority basis, ensuring development in every ward.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/innovative-tech-for-durable-roads/article33585183.ece
16 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Food security figures prominently in Budget||With the pandemic taking a huge toll on the economic prospects and livelihoods of people, allocations for food subsidy, food security, and market interventions to rein in prices figured prominently in the State Budget. While the government has decided to continue with the distribution of food kits against the backdrop of increasing COVID-19 cases, the budget announced the allocation of an additional 10 kg of rice at Rs. 15 to 50 lakh families with blue and white ration cards. Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac also announced a scheme for official rating of hotels, provision stores, and supermarkets to enhance the quality of their services. An allocation of Rs. 1,060 crore has been made for food subsidy and Rs. 230 crore for market intervention. The budget allocated Rs. 40 crore for the implementation of the Food Security Act and Rs. 25 crore for modernising the Civil Supplies Department including SupplyCo. Dr. Isaac claimed that the government had spent Rs. 10,697 crore for strengthening the Public Distribution System as against Rs. 5,242 crore by the previous government. The prices of select food items at Maveli stores have not been raised since 2015-16. Yet, the average monthly inflation in Kerala was only 6.13% as against the national average of 6.70% till last September. Around 15 lakh deserving families were included in the Red Card category by excluding the undeserving from the beneficiary list prepared by the previous government. Quoting data from the Economics and Statistics Department, Dr. Isaac claimed that market intervention measures by the government had helped reduce the price of rice and vegetables during the Onam season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/food-security-figures-prominently-in-budget/article33585233.ece
16 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||1,200 health workers to be vaccinated today||The district is a all set to administer the Covishield vaccine to 1,200 health workers on Saturday. Vaccination will take place at 12 centres, beginning at 10 a.m. on the first day. Vials of the vaccine, which were stored at the vaccine store at the Ernakulam General Hospital, have been transported to the 12 centres. A dry run was completed at these centres on Friday. A total of 63,000 health workers have registered for vaccination in the district. With the consignment of vaccines that arrived recently containing 73,000 doses, around 32,000 people can be vaccinated, District Collector S. Suhas said at a press briefing. Other centres would begin functioning soon, he said. A total of 260 vaccination centres had been identified so far. Of them, 125 were private centres and 129 in the government sector. A two-way communication centre has been set up at the Ernakulam General Hospital for health officials to interact with vaccinators and recipients of the vaccine. The staff at the Government Medical College, which had been a COVID-19 treatment facility for several months, and the Ernakulam General Hospital, which had borne the non-COVID patient load, had been prioritised for vaccination. This would be followed by staff at the taluk hospitals, the Collector said. Dr. Sivadas M.G., who is the nodal officer for the vaccination, said that the Ernakulam General Hospital had the maximum number of health workers registered for vaccination among government facilities, while the Amrita Institute had the most number of health workers registered among private ones. 799 new cases Meanwhile, the district recorded 799 new COVID-19 cases and 537 recoveries on Friday. Four health workers tested positive on the day. Thuravoor recorded 26 cases, Thrikkakara 23, and Koothattukulam and Thripunithura 20 each. One police official was also infected. A total of 22,525 people are in quarantine. The district’s active case load is 9,669.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1200-health-workers-to-be-vaccinated-today/article33585225.ece
16 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Ports, water transport get a big boost||The construction of a major harbour at Azheekal will begin in 2021-22, according to the State Budget. The project is seen in the backdrop of efforts to promote coastal shipping and revive the highly energy-efficient and eco-friendly water transport. Being a riverine harbour, a company named Malabar International Port was registered to construct an outer harbour with 14.50 metres depth at a cost of Rs. 3,698 crore. It will be constructed in three phases. The company will prepare a detailed project report (DPR) and a plan for fund mobilisation. Funds to develop Kollam and Beypore ports are intended to be mobilised from the Centre’s Sagarmala project. A total of Rs. 80 crore has been allocated for all other ports. Vizhinjam port The pandemic and natural calamities affected the construction of the Vizhinjam International Seaport. Despite that, all components, except breakwater construction and land reclamation, are almost complete. Construction work worth Rs. 2,000 crore is expected to be taken up in 2021-22. The allocation for inland navigation includes Rs. 28 crore for the State Water Transport Department (SWTD). The lion’s share of the allocation will be set apart for the purchase of new ferries and renovation of old ones. Similarly, Rs. 9 crore has been allocated for the Kerala Shipping and Inland Navigation Corporation (KSINC). The inauguration of the first phase of the west coast canal network will be held in February. New canals are being dredged on the 26-km stretch between Mahi and Valapattanam. The above projects and canal-widening activities will be completed in 2021-22. Besides, over 1,000 km of feeder canals will be developed. In addition to the Rs. 1,000 crore KIIFB fund, Rs. 107 crore has been earmarked for the project. Water Metro As many as 19 boat jetties of the Rs. 682-crore Water Metro project for the Greater Kochi area (aided by German agency KfW) will be inaugurated by the end of January. The construction of another 19 jetties will be completed in 2021-22. A total of 78 air conditioned ferries will be introduced under the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/major-harbour-at-azheekal-mooted/article33585141.ece
16 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Welfare measures draw praise||Dr. Azad Moopen, founder chairman and managing director of Aster DM Healthcare, commended the welfare measures in the budget for the weaker sections and the announcements in healthcare and for non-resident Keralites. He applauded the announcement to create employment opportunities for over 8 lakh people in various sectors and welcomed the decision to make COVID-19 vaccine available to all for free. “The health sector has been provided with an allotment of Rs. 2,341 crore, which underlines the importance the government has placed on this. The health infrastructure has been allotted a massive amount of Rs. 3,122 crore through KIIFB,” he said, also welcoming the continuation of the Karunya scheme. K. Harikumar, president of the Cochin Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said recommendations by the chamber such as revival of sick MSMEs, promotion of innovation with a larger role for K-DISC, support for status, reduction of VAT on CNG and LNG to 5% and support for the plantation sector found place in the budget proposals. “The decision to invest Rs. 50,000 crore for three industrial corridors, with Kochi as one of the major hubs for activities, definitely deserves appreciation,” he said. However, Kerala Merchants Chamber of Commerce rued that traders were ignored in the budget. Besides giving concession in registration fee of land for industrial purposes, there was nothing else for the business community, chamber president G. Karthikeyan and general secretary K.M. Vipin said. “Increased allocation of funds and thrust on development of digital economy, knowledge society, innovation society, and start-ups are appreciated,” said Deepak L. Aswani, co-chair, FICCI Kerala State Council.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/welfare-measures-draw-praise/article33585228.ece
16 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||No major allocation for electronic park||Hopes of the Amballoor electronic hardware park getting a boost in the budget received a jolt, as there was no specific allocation for speeding up the much-delayed project. Except for a mention that the construction of the park would be intensified, there were no details on sanctioning funds for land acquisition. “The project had hit a roadblock after the land acquisition process got delayed indefinitely. The authorities could acquire land belonging to a few persons only,” said Manoj Kumar P.K., former vice president, Amballoor grama panchayat. Senior officials of the Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation (nodal agency) said it had purchased nearly 12 acres of the total 100 acres identified for the project. “The documentation for purchasing the remaining land is at various stages of processing. The presence of waterbodies had posed hurdles for the smooth acquisition of land,” they added. Previous estimates had shown that around Rs. 300 crore would be required to acquire 100 acres. Mr. Manoj Kumar said the project was conceived during the tenure of the LDF government under V.S. Achuthanandan between 2006-11. “Land reclamation remains a bottleneck, as the region is marshy and comprises canals and waterbodies,” he added. The government had showcased the project at the Global Investors Meet last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-major-allocation-for-electronic-park/article33585235.ece
16 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Canal to get facelift||The Rameswaram-Kalvathy canal has been included among the urban canals to be rejuvenated in the State under a special scheme proposed in the budget. The budget document said urban canals had turned into carriers of sewage. New technologies need to be exploited to restore the canals to their original state along with ensuring the participation of local communities. Funds required for the project will be sourced from the World Bank-aided sanitation project, Kerala Infrastructure Investment Board (KIIFB), and the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) project, it said. T.K. Ashraf, councillor representing Kalvathy Division in the Kochi Corporation, said any project for rejuvenating the canal would not be possible without the earnest support of local residents. “The canal had turned into a dumping ground, and it is filled with waste and sewage. The width of the canal had narrowed in various spots owing to increased human interference,” he added. K.J. Sohan, former Mayor, said the ecosystem had been badly affected by the illegal discharge of sewage into the canal. “It is a low-lying region, and septage flows out of septic tanks into the canal. Its restoration requires considerable funding, and a long-term plan is necessary to ensure its ecological condition,” he added. The special scheme proposed is expected to include major canals under various corporations. Besides the Rameswaram-Kalvathy canal, other waterbodies listed in the document include Amayizhanchan thodu in Thiruvananthapuram and Kappithodu in Alappuzha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/canal-to-get-facelift/article33585237.ece
16 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Deceased sailor’s family alleges medical negligence||The Harbour police have registered a case of unnatural death following allegations of medical negligence by the family of a sailor who died at the naval hospital INS Sanjivani on Thursday night. The deceased was identified as a senior sailor from Malayankeezhu in Thiruvananthapuram based at the Southern Naval Command, Kochi. It is learned that the victim developed breathlessness and distress after a medical procedure was done to remove accumulated excess fluid around his lungs shortly after which he suffered a cardiac arrest. The case was registered after the father of the deceased alleged medical negligence and lack of proper care. The police said that he was undergoing treatment at the hospital where he was admitted reportedly with chest infection on January 9. A police team visited the hospital and collected details about the death. “He was initially taken to a private hospital in the city but was later admitted to the naval hospital. We have registered a case for unnatural death under Section 174 of CrPC. The post mortem report and chemical analysis report of bodily organs and fluids are being awaited only after which any firm conclusion can be reached,” said an officer associated with the probe. Samples have been given to the Regional Analytical Laboratory at Kakkanad and the forensic lab at Thripunithura for scientific analysis. The police said that usually, the report would take upwards of a month. Meanwhile, the Naval authorities categorically ruled out any medical negligence but dubbed it an unfortunate death despite the best efforts of the medical team at the naval hospital. “None of the procedures were overlooked and all the protocols were followed. Proper care was also given the moment the patient was admitted in the intensive care unit. Even specialist doctors outside the hospital were consulted. We have already submitted a medico-legal report to the police. An internal inquiry is under way the findings of which will be forwarded to the highest medical authorities of the Armed Forces in Delhi,” said a Navy spokesperson.  An internal inquiry is under way the findings of which will be forwarded to the highest medical authorities of the Armed Forces A Navy spokesperson||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/deceased-sailors-family-alleges-medical-negligence/article33585240.ece
16 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Post-production centre at Kadavanthra||The city’s growing stature as the hub of Malayalam film industry received a boost with the proposed film post-production centre at Kadavanthra figuring in the budget. The State Chalachithra Academy will take the lead in setting up the new complex on the land owned by the Greater Cochin Development Authority (GCDA). The five-storey building will have two floors dedicated to indoor shooting. The focus area of the post-production centre will be the provision of modern facilities for dubbing, editing, and colour grading, according to senior officials of the Department of Culture. With a major chunk of film shooting and post-production work getting shifted to Kochi, the department hopes that the centre will attract the attention of filmmakers and technicians. A section of outdoor equipment at the Chitranjali studio in Thiruvananthapuram will be shifted to the proposed centre. It will be given on rent for film production, the officials said. Meanwhile, the Kochi Biennale Foundation (KBF) welcomed the Rs. 7-crore allocation for the Kochi Biennale. KBF treasurer Bonny Thomas said the fifth edition of the Biennale could not be held in December owing to the pandemic crisis. “We now hope that it could be held in November this year. The Biennale will be a major boost to the State’s cultural and tourism sectors,” he added. Museum The budget earmarked Rs. 50 lakh for elevating the 175-year-old headquarters of Chavara Elias Kuriakose at Koonammavu into a museum.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/post-production-centre-at-kadavanthra/article33585222.ece
16 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Children’s poems, paintings give colour to drab figures||“No fish injures the sea/ No bird wing picks holes over the sky/ No burden is left by the butterfly as it kisses the flower/ Yet, the human being destroys the earth like this,” the lines written by Afra Maryam, a class VIII student of KHMHSS Valakkulam in Malappuram district, made Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac stress that the adults lack the ecological sensibility possessed by young students. He quoted from Maryam’s poem to describe the ecological approach that characterised the projects mentioned in the Budget. If the overarching theme, content and design of last year’s Budget hinged on a quest for social and gender justice, resilience and hope for a better future captured through poems penned by school students marked this year’s. Of a new dawn Dr. Isaac opened and closed his speech with lines alluding to ‘a refreshing new dawn’. The opening lines, from a poem by K. Sneha, a Class VIII student of GHS, Kuzhalmannam, smacked of the resolve to beat the coronavirus and restore the joy-filled mornings. Sneha says she wrote it to beat the lockdown blues and since everyone was putting up a fight, “I wanted to instil hope in them.” Dr. Isaac also quoted K.H. Alakananda, a class X student of HSS Kaniyambetta, who spoke of the world war unleashed from a ‘protein cover’ as a great lesson in survival for humanity. She had penned a few poems during the floods and “the way the State shielded the people from the scourge of the pandemic” inspired her to write the poem. One of the most evocative poems mentioned in connection with the plight of women was of Arundhathi Jayakumar, in Class XI of Rajiv Gandhi Memorial HSS, Mokeri, who drew the picture of a woman losing her life, “like an old cloth that fails to shine even after repeated washing”, in countless domestic chores. A Class I artist A poem by K.P. Amal of GTHS Kannampady, on the clarion call of a new era, wrapped up the speech. Colourful pictures by children are on the covers of the budget documents. On both sides of the budget speech and Gender and Child Budget are pictures drawn by V. Jeevan, a Class I student of PALPS Iryanni. K. Anvar Sadath, Chief Executive Officer, Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education, says the poems were written by the students during the COVID lockdown for ‘Akshara Vruksham’ on the Schoolwiki. Other than the COVID-related pictures, the vividly vibrant ones were sourced from children after a bit of research, says Anand Godfrey, who assisted his father Godfrey Das in designing the covers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/childrens-poems-paintings-give-colour-to-drab-figures/article33585199.ece
16 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Artificial Intelligence to power virtual police stations||How about a kiosk at a metro station or some other public place serving as a virtual police station using which will be tantamount to walking into a real police station? With Artificial Intelligence (AI) being increasingly used in all fields of life, including policing, it may not be a far-fetched idea any longer. Realising this, the State Budget has allocated Rs. 5 crore towards setting up virtual police stations. Advanced levels The proposal was probably triggered by the pandemic-related restrictions whereby complainants are encouraged to avoid visits to police stations and fall back on online services. “Initially, they may be restricted to basic stuff such as registering complaints and other policing services. But those virtual police stations can be scaled up to advanced levels in due course whereby AI-driven tools can be used in criminal investigation, including evidence collection, filing of chargesheets etc.,” said Manoj Abraham, ADGP Headquarters, and nodal officer of Kerala Police Cyberdome. Nandakishore Harikumar, who runs a cybersecurity start-up and is actively associated with the Cyberdome, said that AI can be a game changer in investigating cybercrime if used for processing complaints and evidence collection. “Cybercrime — and all crimes have a cyber aspect to it these days — offer only a very small window for gathering evidence after which it will be lost for good and that is a big handicap in their investigation now. AI tools can be a potential solution to tide over this problem,” he said. The Budget in total has allocated Rs. 143 crore to the police, including Rs. 53 crore for construction activities and Rs. 45 crore from Centrally sponsored schemes for police modernisation. Proposals for new police quarters and renovating the old ones are likely. Many newly opened police stations, with makeshift working arrangements, will be able to shift to own buildings. “It may also help constructions required for the already announced sixth battalion of the Armed Reserve Police at Nadapuram. With superior infrastructure compared to other States, Kerala often has to seek exemptions for utilising funds allocated from Centrally sponsored schemes as they are often meant for infrastructure development whereas our needs are more advanced,” said C.R. Biju, general secretary, Kerala Police Officers Association. Modernising jails The Budget has also allocated Rs. 18 crore for jail modernisation and Rs. 9 crore for Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/artificial-intelligence-to-power-virtual-police-stations/article33585211.ece
16 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC: pact for bridge work subject to plea outcome||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court has made it clear that the agreement executed between the Kerala Road Fund Board Project Management Unit(KRFB-PMU) and Uralungal Labour Contract Cooperative Society Limited for the construction of the Perumbalam-Panavally bridge in Alappuzha would be subject to the outcome of an appeal filed against a single judge’s verdict in the case. The single judge has upheld the State government decision to award the contract for the construction of the bridge to Uralungal Labour Contract Cooperative Society. The appeal was filed by Cheriyan Varkey Construction Company.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-pact-for-bridge-work-subject-to-plea-outcome/article33585264.ece
16 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Shot in the arm for Fire and Rescue Services||The Fire and Rescue Services Department is elated over the retention of the same budgetary allocation of Rs. 69 crore for its modernisation as in the previous budget. Senior department sources said that the allocation would go a long way in going ahead with modernisation proposals like replacement of the old fleet of vehicles with technically advanced ones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shot-in-the-arm-for-fire-and-rescue-services/article33585415.ece
16 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Two youths killed in road accident||Two youngsters were killed almost instantaneously after they were hurled from their motorcycle that slipped on the road at Palarivattom on Friday around 2.30 a.m. The deceased were identified as Mohammed Aslam and Mohammed Muhasin, 20-year-old friends from Mattancherry. They were riding towards Ernakulam from Edappally when Muhasin, who was riding, lost control of the motorcycle. They suffered serious head injuries, probably in the impact of hitting the road in full force. It is not clear whether the victims were wearing helmets or not. The police could not find helmets from the accident scene. Why the two youngsters were out on the road during such odd hours was not immediately known. Though they were rushed to a nearby hospital, they were declared brought dead. The police have registered a case in this regard. The bodies were handed over to the families after conducting the post mortem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-youths-killed-in-road-accident/article33585223.ece
16 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Cusat to have forensic science school||A fully autonomous School of Forensic Science for Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat) and a library complex for Union Christian College at Aluva on its centenary year figure among key announcements for the higher education sector in Ernakulam in the budget. The School of Forensic Science will give a boost to Cusat’s ongoing efforts to develop PG programmes and expand research in the field. The budget earmarked Rs. 5 crore for a library complex at Union Christian College, Aluva, to be built in memory of Communist leaders P.K. Vasudevan Nair and P. Govinda Pillai. B. Manoj Kumar, Registrar, Kerala University of Fisheries and Ocean Studies, said the budget had sanctioned Rs. 33.5 crore of projects worth Rs. 39.5 crore the varsity had presented before the Finance Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cusat-to-have-forensic-science-school/article33585226.ece
16 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Mayor, MP inspect Smart City work||The city needed a street-vending policy so that unauthorised vendors and others who encroached on public spaces could be removed and rehabilitated if need be, Mayor M. Anil Kumar said on Friday. A meeting would be held with stakeholders in this regard. Officials of the town planning and health wings of the Kochi Corporation would do a joint inspection of roads to identify such encroachments, he said, after a joint inspection, along with Hibi Eden, MP, of arterial roads which are being developed by CSML as smart roads and also the Marine Drive walkway, to get a first-hand account of such works that are slated for completion in March. Projects must be reviewed every fortnight. People’s cooperation was must to ensure clean and green open spaces, he said and lauded the pedestrianisation and bicycling initiatives of CSML. Efforts would be made to elevate arterial roads as model roads, the Mayor said. The civic body has convened a meeting on January 19 to solve problems created by overhead cables dangling at many places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mayor-mp-inspect-smart-city-work/article33585220.ece
16 January 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Proposals draw mixed response from cashew sector||Kerala Budget 2021 has generated mixed response from various quarters in the cashew sector with private processors complaining they were offered a raw deal. While an outlay of Rs. 40 crore has been set aside for Cashew Board, Rs. 63 crore goes into the disbursal of gratuity arrears and Rs. 10.5 crore has been earmarked for the modernisation of factories run by the Kerala State Cashew Development Corporation (KSCDC) and the Kerala State Cashew Workers Apex Industrial Cooperative Society (Capex). Since maximising domestic production is an important goal, Rs. 5.5 crore has been sanctioned for the extension of cashew cultivation. “The crisis-ridden industry had to face another blow in the form of COVID-19 and we were expecting a comprehensive revival package benefiting the industry as a whole. More than 90% of skilled labourers working in the sector are attached to private processing units and the government has turned a blind eye to them,” says D. Mathewkutty, president, Cashew Industry Protection Council. Banks non-cooperative Though the previous three Budgets allocated a total outlay Rs. 65 crore for providing interest subsidy for private processors, many of them could not resume operations due to the non-cooperation of banks and the difficulty in getting their loans restructured. “Unless the government facilitates any such process, it will be very hard for the sector to stay afloat. What we need is strong intervention since there are several technical issues involved. The Budget failed to meet our expectations as it provides no solution to fix this,” says Nizamudeen I., president, Federation of Cashew Processors and Exporters. He also points out that though a solid amount was set aside for the purpose, disbursement has been minimal. “We agree that it offered us some relief and a number of processors benefited from it. At the same time more than 370 accounts have been declared non-performing assets (NPAs) and around 560 factories are still lying closed.” Gratuity arrears Meanwhile, the public sector has welcomed the Budget as it ensures more working days and allocates a substantial outlay to clear the huge backlog of gratuity arrears. “The KSCDC and Capex had inducted 5,000 labourers in the previous financial year and this time 2,000 more persons will be provided jobs at government-run factories. With Cashew Board procuring 30,000 tonnes of raw cashew nut (RCN), we can also guarantee around 300 working days at our factories,” says KSCDC chairman S. Jayamohan. He adds that the Budget allocates enough funds to disburse the gratuity arrears of labourers till date, a major feat and a first in the history of the State. “The government has spent Rs. 52 crore to disburse the arrears till 2014 and with the new allocation we will be clearing the entire amount. The consistent allocation to promote cashew farming will stimulate long-term growth.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/proposals-draw-mixed-response-from-cashew-sector/article33585273.ece
16 January 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam registers 468 more cases||The district reported 468 new COVID-19 cases and 237 recoveries on Friday. Those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 include three NRIs, 361 contact cases, one person with no known source and three health-care workers. The district currently has 11,207 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 6,54,599. While 979 persons completed home quarantine on Friday, the Health Department has traced 1,50,748 primary and 13,579 secondary contacts of the patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kollam-registers-468-more-cases/article33585276.ece
16 January 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Arrangements in place in Kollam||All arrangements are in place for the COVID-19 vaccination drive in Kollam. Minister for Fisheries J. Mercykutty Amma will inaugurate the district-level rollout of the vaccine at Government Victoria Hospital here. The consignment for the first phase of vaccination arrived in the district on Thursday from the Regional Vaccine Store in Thiruvananthapuram. Currently the district has 25,960 doses of Covishield vaccine and vaccination will be held at nine centres. In the first phase registered health-care workers in government and private sectors will be administered the vaccine. While frontline workers in COVID-19 prevention will be vaccinated in the second phase, persons above the age of 50 will be administered Covishield in the third phase. A total of 100 persons will be vaccinated in each centre and it is mandatory to take the next dose within 28 days. The department has urged the public not to spread misinformation about the vaccine and stay alert since it will take some time to complete the vaccination following all protocols. Centres The vaccinations centres in Kollam include Government Medical College, Kollam, Government Victoria Hospital, District Ayurveda Hospital, Medicity Medical College (Palathara block), Punalur Taluk Hospital, Karunagapally Taluk Hospital, Chavara Community Health Centre, Nedumankav Community Health Centre and Chithara Mangode Family Health Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/arrangements-in-place-in-kollam/article33585274.ece
16 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Environmentalists see bid to reopen banned quarries||Environmental activists in the district have accused quarry operators of attempting to influence Revenue officials to convert high-hazard zones into low-hazard zones for resuming the operations of granite quarries in environmentally sensitive areas. They also alleged that more than three quarries in Kannur district had already been listed under the low-hazard zone category subsequent to the wrong zonation and mapping process initiated by the authorities. An environmental activist from Mukkom alleged corruption on the part of officials and said many quarries which were denied environmental clearance could be reopened with the unscientific mapping process. He said a petition had already been submitted to the Chief Minister in this regard. “An investigation led by the Principal Secretary of the Revenue Department is likely to be conducted into the complaint. The Disaster Management Authority will be answerable, if there are any suspected irregularities in the process,” he said. The main concern raised by greens was the possibility of reopening a number of previously closed granite quarries in Kozhikode district with the new mapping process. According to them, there were efforts on the part of a section of quarry operators to list the previously closed projects in Kakkadampoyil under low-hazard zones and resume large-scale operations. Some of the local environmental action committee leaders said many of them were unaware of the ongoing mapping process and its impact on nature. They said the picture would be clear only with the release of the latest data by the Disaster management Authority after the completion of the mapping process. When contacted, a Revenue Department official said the mapping process was undertaken with an aim to mitigate natural disasters and to adopt advanced preparatory measures at the local level. He claimed that it would in no way help resume the functioning of banned quarries in environmentally sensitive areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/environmentalists-see-bid-to-reopen-banned-quarries/article33585154.ece
16 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode’s infrastructure gets a major boost in State Budget||Unlike the previous years, the State Budget presented by Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac in the Assembly on Friday gave prominence to infrastructure development in Kozhikode district. A whopping allocation of Rs. 700 crore has been proposed for the development of 10 roads in the city and suburbs. This was in connection with the second phase of the city road improvement scheme. However, the budget, like last time, ignored the widening of the 8-km stretch of the Mananchira- Vellimadukunnu road. The roads that will be developed are Mananchira-Pavangad (7 km); Mankkavu-Patheerankkavu (6.38 km); Kalluthankkadavu-Meenchanda (4.99 km); Karikkamkulam-Civil Station-Kootuli (4.15 km); Moozhikkal-Kalandithazham (1.65 km); Malikkadavu-Thaneerpandal (1.47 km); Minibypass-Panathuthazham (1.47 km); Arayidathupalam-Cherootty Nagar (900 m); CWRDM- Peringalam (900 m); and Koothipalam-Chakkumkkadavu (500 m). Light metro The budget has also proposed revision of the Detailed Project Report of Kozhikode Light Metro based on the revised criteria by the Centre. This apart, a sum of Rs. 12 crore has been earmarked for Kozhikode Cyberpark. Out of the total of Rs. 401 crore for major industrial development agencies, Kozhikode KSIDC will get a share of the amount. An amount of Rs. 5 crore has been allocated for setting up a memorial for socialist leader M.P. Veerendra Kumar in Kozhikode. The budget also mentioned the proposed tunnel road, an alternative to Thamarassery Ghat pass that connects Kozhikode and Wayanad. The proposed Anakkampoyil- Kalladi-Meppadi road would benefit thousands of people as the distance from Kozhikode to Wayanad will be reduced to 54 km from the existing 85 km. However, the project has to get environmental clearance from the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change. About Rs. 50 crore has been given for the development of roads in hill regions including Kooderanji, Nellikkampoyil, Karassery, and Mukkom. Á sum of Rs. 5 crore has been allotted to beautify Thiruvambady town.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kozhikodes-infrastructure-gets-a-major-boost-in-state-budget/article33585169.ece
16 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode to be first fully Niramaya covered district in country soon||Efforts are on to bring all persons with intellectual disabilities in the district under the cover of Niramaya insurance scheme. A mass insurance drive is being held in the district under the aegis of the district administration with the help of the National Trust District Committee, District Social Justice Office, and Women and Child Development Unit. National Trust district convenor P.Sikanader said that the drive would benefit everyone who came under the National Trust Act such as those with autism, cerebral palsy, mental retardation, and multiple disabilities. The application for the insurance is filed online along with scanned copies of the medical board certificate, Aadhaar card, ration card, bank passbook, and a photograph of the person to be covered under the policy. The insurance covers medical expenses up to Rs. 1 lakh as well as the cost of training. The insurance is completely free as the premium is paid by the government. The drive is being carried out with the help of the Child Development Programme Officers, ICDS supervisors and anganwadi workers in the district. For details, contact 0495-4040800, 8137999990 or 9447084722. Based on a census in 2015, there are around 20,000 persons who come under the National Trust Act in Kozhikode district. The drive will cover all of them. “This will make Kozhikode the first district in the country to be a completely Niramaya Health insurance beneficiary district,” Mr. Sikander said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kozhikode-to-be-first-fully-niramaya-covered-district-in-country-soon/article33585179.ece
16 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Vaccine to be administered at 11 centres from today||The administration of the COVID vaccine in the district will begin on Saturday at 11 centres. The vaccine will be administrated to health workers in the first phase. So far 33,799 health workers, including those in private hospitals, have registered for vaccination. The vaccination centres in the district are: Government Medical College, Kozhikode, General Hospital at beach, Ayurveda hospital, ESI Hospital in Feroke, taluk hospitals in Perambra, Nadapuram and Koyilandy, family health centre at Panangad, community health centres in Narikkuni and Mukkam and Aster MIMS Hospital at Govindapuram. Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran, M.K. Raghavan, MP, and A. Pradeep Kumar, MLA, will take part in the programme through online conferencing at various centres. Mayor Beena Philip will take part in the vaccine administration function at the General Hospital while District Collector S.Sambasiva Rao and District Panchayat President Kanathil Jameela will take part in the event at the Government Medical College. Other people’s representatives will monitor the event in other centres. Each centre will have a vaccinator and four vaccination officers. All arrangements will be made to solve any issues related to vaccination or after-effects. Each centre will cater to 100 people a day. Thus, 1,100 people will be vaccinated a day in the district. The vaccine will not be administered to pregnant women, children and COVID-19 patients. COVID-19 protocol will be followed at the vaccination centres. Only one person may enter the vaccination room at a time. After the vaccination, the person has to be under observation for 30 minutes. 660 new cases Meanwhile, the district recorded 660 new COVID-19 cases on Friday of which four were people who had come from abroad and two from other States. There are 18 cases in which the source was unknown. There are 636 cases of local transmission. A total of 518 people were discharged from various COVID treatment centres in the district on Friday. At present, there are 6,307 COVID patients in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vaccine-to-be-administered-at-11-centres-from-today/article33585165.ece
16 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Town police station bags ISO certification||The Kozhikode Town Police Station has bagged the prestigious ISO 9001:2015 certification for the successful implementation of the child-friendly police station project along with community policing schemes. An official announcement of the certification will be done by Minister for Excise and Labour T.P. Ramakrishnan at the station on Saturday. Station House Officer A. Umesh said it was the first time that a police station in India was getting ISO certification for ensuring a child-friendly ambiance. The Town station was also the first police station in Kerala to get ISO 9001:2008 certification in 2011 for its overall facilities and service, he said. Mr. Umesh said the child-friendly police station project was implemented primarily by initiating stringent actions against attacks on children. This was apart from the special projects initiated to improve the academic activities of children and prevention of crime among them. The policemen at the station had also been trained to ensure better treatment of children and their issues. Separate seating arrangements had been made at the station for greeting them and their parents. A children’s park and a library too had been set up. One of the major initiatives was the counselling support given to children for reducing the suicide tendency among juvenile delinquents. As part of community policing schemes, the station had adopted a number of welfare initiatives for the rehabilitation of rough sleepers during the COVID-19 outbreak. Over 600 such persons had been provided with safe shelters with the support of the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/town-police-station-bags-iso-certification/article33585159.ece
16 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Land acquisition procedure for NH widening over||Kozhikode district has completed the procedure for land acquisition for National Highway widening much ahead of the scheduled time, said Special Deputy Collector E. Anitha Kumari, who was in charge of the procedure. The detailed report, including the extent of land to be acquired and the compensation to be given to the land owners were submitted to the National Highways Authority on January 9, she said in a press release. As part of National Highway development, land acquisition has been completed for Azhiyur bypass and the work is in progress. The work of Moorad-Palolippalam is also in progress. As for the six-laning of the Azhiyur-Vengalam stretch, 121.7697 hectare of land need to be acquired. A new road is being constructed from Chegottukavu to Nandi for 11 km. The 400-metre stretch that comes under Malappuram district is also part of the Ramanattukara-Vengalam stretch that is also being six-laned. Based on the report, land acquisition for these four projects would cost Rs. 1,732.87 crore of which Rs. 712.61 crores has been sanctioned. The land owners will get 100% of the compensation amount and an additional 12% as interest since the notification was published. Of the total expense, 75% is being borne by the Central government while 25% is by the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/land-acquisition-procedure-for-nh-widening-over/article33585178.ece
16 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Mananchira-Vellimadukunnu road widening ignored, says MP||Congress leader M.K. Raghavan, MP, has flayed the State Budget presented by Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac for not offering solutions to the ‘needs’ of Kozhikode. He said that the budget had totally ignored the Mananchira- Vellimadukunnu road widening project in the second phase of the Kozhikode City Road Improvement Scheme. Previously, the government had assured that a sum of Rs. 184 crore would be made available for the project this year fiscal. Mr. Raghavan said that the budget made no mention about the development of Calicut International Airport. Land has to be acquired for the expansion of the airport. After the Air India Express accident in August last year, the government had promised to take up the issue, he said. He said that the proposed mobility hub for Kozhikode city, flyovers at Mankkavu-Cheruvannur and Pavangad had no allocation in the budget. Further, the development of the coastal highway and a flyover project at Eranhipalam had been ignored in the budget, Mr. Raghavan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mananchira-vellimadukunnu-road-widening-ignored-says-mp/article33585170.ece
16 January 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||1.5 lakh more houses under LIFE Mission||LIFE Mission will construct 1.5 lakh more houses in 2021- 22, including 60,000 houses for scheduled categories and fishermen. This announcement by Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac in his Budget speech in the Assembly on Friday is seen as the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government’s expression of commitment to LIFE Mission, one of its flagship programmes aimed at providing housing to all homeless families. The Minister said priority would be given to 1.35 lakh landless and homeless families. As of now 20,000 of them were already provided with land. While the construction of 26 flat complexes for the landless is going on, work for constructing 21 flat complexes will start in 2021-22. A total of Rs. 6,000 crore was required for LIFE project, the Minister said announcing that Rs. 1,000 crore was earmarked in the Budget. Excluding the share of local government institutions, the rest will be borrowed through Kerala Urban and Rural Development Finance Corporation Ltd.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/15-lakh-more-houses-under-life-mission/article33585187.ece
16 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Notice served on 61 polluting establishments||The district administration has served notice on 61 establishments in the city that discharge their sewage to either Conolly Canal or the Kalli river. The action came after a squad comprising officials from the State Pollution Control Board and Kozhikode Municipal Corporation inspected 101 establishments that are located near the two water bodies. Among the identified pollutants, 16 that were found to be polluting the water bodies the most were asked to construct sewage treatment plants of their own immediately while the others that have received notice have been given three months’ time to do so. Meanwhile, District Collector S.Sambasiva Rao said that strict action would be taken against those who discard waste in public places and in drains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/notice-served-on-61-polluting-establishments/article33585163.ece
16 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Vimukthi scheme gets Rs. 18 cr. to reach more patients||The special projects under the Excise Department’s de-addiction scheme, Vimukthi, are likely to benefit more people with the State government’s latest budget allocation of Rs. 18 crore for the department. Of the total allocation, Rs. 7 crore will be exclusively used for the scheme. The fund will be mainly used for setting up more counselling centres, de-addiction centres, anti-drug clubs and supportive helplines. Intensive field-level awareness campaigns are also under consideration. Now, the Vimukthi Mission is offering its support to all the districts under three zones. De-addiction support is now given to needy persons, mostly youngsters, with the support of qualified doctors including psychiatrists. According to Excise Department officials, all the 14 de-addiction centres in the State are offering excellent treatment support to patients. The centres are directly under the supervision of district medical offices. Patients get OP service, detoxification support, pharmacotherapy, counselling, recreational facility, yoga, and withdrawal management support. Major proposal One of the major proposals under consideration is the setting up of a State-level de-addiction centre with improved facilities to accommodate patients. Search is on to find a suitable land for the purpose. Kozhikode district is likely to be the destination for implementing the mega project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vimukthi-scheme-to-reach-more-patients/article33585161.ece
16 January 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||New director for IISR||J. Rema, principal scientist in horticulture, has been appointed the new director of the Indian Institute of Spices Research (IISR), Kozhikode. She assumes charge with over 36 years of research experience. She had been serving as the head of the Division of Crop Improvement and Biotechnology at the IISR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-director-for-iisr/article33585156.ece
16 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||‘Anganwadi workers will get pension benefits on time’||The anganwadi workers in the State will now get their pension benefits on time, thanks to P. Geetha, a former anganwadi worker in Perambra, who approached the State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) with her plight. Ms. Geetha had worked as an anganwadi worker for 40 years and retired a few years ago. But she had to wait for more than a year to get her pension. When the issue was raised, the Chief Executive Officer of the Anganwadi Workers’ Welfare Fund Board informed the SHRC that pension and other benefits of anganwadi workers would be disbursed on time henceforth. The CEO’s report also stated that the monthly pension of the workers had been raised from Rs. 1,000 to Rs. 2,000 and that of helpers from Rs. 600 to Rs. 1,200.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/anganwadi-workers-will-get-pension-benefits-on-time/article33585162.ece
16 January 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||United World’s soccer team begins training||The United World Group’s first Indian football club began functioning on Friday when former Indian player I.M. Vijayan kicked off the practice session of the Kerala United FC at Edavanna, near Manjeri. Kerala United FC is the fourth football team launched by the United World Group, the owner of Premier League club Sheffield United. Owned by Abdullah Al-Ghamdi, United World Group is based in Geneva, Switzerland. It has a chain of sports clubs in Europe and Asia. Former Kerala captain T. Asif Zaheer handed over the practice jersey to Kerala United FC captain Arjun Jayaraj. Kerala United FC managing director Sakariyya Wayanad and chief executive officer Shabeer Mannaril said the team would engage in rigorous practice every day starting 7 a.m. They said the team would play the Kerala Premier League in the first phase, and the I-League and ISL Championship in the second phase. Apart from Sheffield United, the United World Group owns Belgian club Beerschot and Dubai-based UAE second division club Al-Hilal United.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/united-worlds-soccer-team-begins-training/article33585147.ece
16 January 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||State Budget Utopian, says Kunhalikutty||Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) national general secretary P.K. Kunhalikutty, MP, described the Kerala Budget 2021 as an “utopian first budget of the LDF (Left Democratic Front) government.” Mr. Kunhalikutty said here on Friday that Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac made bombastic claims that “even a first-timer would not have dared to make.” The League leader said Dr. Isaac had forgotten all the “hollow promises” his government made in the last four budgets. “Dr. Isaac has tried to theorise a lot rather than putting forth anything in a practical manner. “The Budget is nothing but an inflated promise with an eye on the upcoming Assembly election,” Mr. Kunhalikutty said, adding that the Budget was far from reality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-budget-utopian-says-kunhalikutty/article33585181.ece
16 January 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Drugs seized; two youths held||An excise team seized narcotic drugs valued at several lakhs of rupees from two youngsters here on Friday. The cache included 63.12 gm of MDMA (Methylenedioxymethamphetamine) in 232 packets, eight LSD (Lysergic acid diethylamide) stamps, and 11 gm of hashish oil.  The arrest of Salman Faris, 24, and Mohammed Noushin, 23, were made on the basis of a tip-off. Salman was from Malappuram and Noushin from Koottilangadi.  Excise sources said that the drugs were brought from Goa and Bangaluru for sale in Kochi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/drugs-seized-two-youths-held/article33585166.ece
16 January 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||IIT project for innovation||The Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Palakkad, is set to launch an ambitious project named Technology Innovation Foundation of IIT Palakkad (TECHIN) as a vehicle for innovation, incubation and start-up activities. Infosys co-founder Kris Gopalakrishnan will inaugurate the TECHIN at 8.30 a.m. on Wednesday. The launch will also mark the opening of a six-day innovation camp titled ‘Innodeate Bootcamp’ organised by the CSquare Innovation Centre, IIT Palakkad. The camp will be for students who have completed at least the first year of engineering. Rajesh M. Nair, Professor of Practice at Asia Business School, Malaysia, and a serial entrepreneur and former student of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), USA, will lead the boot camp. IIT Palakkad Director P.B. Sunil Kumar said that the camp would be an online, interactive and hands-on programme with ideation kits being couriered to the participants. Eminent speakers from industry will lead different sessions. Apart from Mr. Gopalakrishnan, Jairam Varadaraj, managing director of ELGI Equipment; Sujatha Srinivasan from R2D2 Lab, IIT Madras; Rajesh P., chief executive officer and co-founder of Rapid Value Solutions; L.S. Ganesh from DOMS, IIT Madras; Gaurav Tripathi from Superpro.ai; Srikanth Sundararajan from VenturEast; and Vipin Sondhi, managing director of Ashok Leyland; will address the Innodeate Bootcamp. Collaborative entity Prof. Sunil Kumar said that TECHIN was being set up as a collaborative entity with institutes and industry to create an impactful innovation ecosystem, discover disruptive technologies, and enable entrepreneurs and start-ups. “We will have the mentoring capabilities of the faculty, industry personnel and the IIT alumni network. The industry collaborators have already given us proof of concept and product-based projects which will provide a launching pad for the ideas with a ready go-to-market,” he said. Prof. Sunil Kumar said that nurturing and training the incubates and providing a safety net for them to scale would give the incubatees the much needed boost. Multiple centres of excellence are emerging under this company to address various domains ranging from water sanitation and hygiene (WASH) and biomedical devices (Biomed). “Our technology innovation centre will take care of all the training, innovation and incubation for the startups across domains,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/iit-novel-project-for-innovation/article33585148.ece
16 January 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Yuva Morcha burns Budget copy||The Bharatiya Janata Party has said that the Budget is a big disappointment for the State. BJP’s youth wing Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) protested against the “hollow Budget” by burning a copy of it here on Friday. “The government that promised employment for 25 lakh people could give Kerala Public Service Commission appointments to only one lakh people in five years. The 20 lakh job opportunities offered in the Budget is nothing but a hollow promise,” said BJYM district president, inaugurating the protest. BJP State general secretary C. Krishnakumar said here that the Budget had disappointed the agricultural, educational, and industrial sectors in the district. He said the district did not get anything other than the Central government’s industrial corridor project. He accused Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac of offering projects with new names without implementing the proposals in the last Budget. “The rice park announced earlier has now become the rice technology park. There is nothing in the Budget to give a new life to the shattered industrial zone of Kanjikode. The Budget has totally ignored Palakkad,” Mr. Krishnakumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/yuva-morcha-burns-budget-copy/article33585375.ece
16 January 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Discriminatory, says Shafi||Youth Congress State president Shafi Parambil, MLA, said the State Budget had disappointed people and was discriminatory in considering proposals. MParambil said the Budget had turned down most of the proposals given by him for Palakkad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/discriminatory-says-shafi/article33585376.ece
16 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State sets its sights on a knowledge society||The Budget presented by Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac on Friday has a plan for creation of a knowledge society. For this, the Minister has identified the presence of a robust digital infrastructure and increase in accessibility to these as one of the pre-conditions. This project for the transformation of the State into a digital economy includes everything from the Kerala Fibre Optic Network (K-FON) to a scheme to ensure at least one laptop in every household. The first phase of the K-FON project will be completed in February. This will include a Network Operating Centre, 14 district nodes and 600 associated offices. The project is expected to be completed in July. Free Net for BPL families Once K-FON becomes a reality, internet with speed ranging from 10 MBPS to 1 GBPS will be provided free of cost to BPL families. Government institutions will be connected by high-speed intranet giving a shot in the arm for the State's e-governance system. Laptop scheme As the next step in making digital capabilities universal, Dr. Isaac proposed to expand the laptop distribution programme. Laptops will be distributed at half the cost to children hailing from fisherfolk, scheduled communities and Antyodaya households. Other Below Poverty Live (BPL) families will get 25% subsidy. The cost will be borne jointly by the departments and local bodies concerned. Laptops will be made available in the months of February, March and April to all who join the Kerala State Financial Enterprises Micro Chit Fund through Kudumbashree. The government will bear the cost of interest for this.  No digital divide “Digital capabilities should be made available to everyone. The digital divide should be eliminated. Innovations should be interwoven into all avenues, leveraging the rich experiences of people from all sectors, including agriculture. In such a society, knowledge will be recreated perpetually," said Dr. Isaac. Major e-governance projects of Kerala such as State Data Centre, Kerala State Wide Area Network, Secretariat Wide Area Network and digital services are being implemented through Kerala State Information Technology Mission, for which a total of Rs. 125 crore has been earmarked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-sets-its-sights-on-a-knowledge-society/article33585207.ece
16 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||A push for decentralised IT parks||Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac laid out a plan for development of decentralised IT parks and work near home centres. Taking forward the work near home scheme, which was implemented as a stopgap measure during the pandemic period by converting resorts to work stations, he said buildings of at least 5,000 sq ft at the block or municipal level could be converted to such work stations on a permanent basis. An amount of Rs. 20 crore was earmarked for this. Opportunities will be created for companies to recruit employees for centralised or decentralised jobs. Details of such professionals and trained persons will be made available on a digital platform. The government will provide loans to selected candidates for purchase of computer and peripherals for their job. In case of job loss, they need to repay the amount only after securing the next job. Any possible losses to financial institutions on account of this will be compensated by the government. Bigger IT parks Even as the budget emphasised the importance of decentralised IT parks, it set aside funds for the development of bigger parks, with allocations of Rs. 22 crore for the development of Technopark, Rs. 36 crore for Infopark, and Rs. 12 crore for Cyber Park. Dr. Isaac said eight new companies were newly started at Technopark providing employment to around 2,000 IT professionals. Quantiphi, a multinational company, would start operations in the first quarter of 2021. Forty companies providing employment to 2,000 people were started in Infopark. Most prominent among them is Ortho Effects, a dental company based in the United States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-push-for-decentralised-it-parks/article33585209.ece
16 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Cultural sector gets a colourful share in State Budget||In allocations for the cultural sector in the Budget, Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac has set aside funds for academies, cultural centres, museums and memorials for cultural figures. A total of Rs. 157 crore has been earmarked for the sector. One of the significant allocations is the Rs. 3 crore earmarked for encouraging women filmmakers and Rs. 2 crore for filmmakers from scheduled categories, with a maximum individual assistance of Rs. 50 lakh. An amount of Rs. 3 crore is earmarked for encouraging amateur drama, with a maximum of Rs. 5 lakh for a single drama, and Rs. 2 crore is allocated for professional drama. An amount of Rs. 1 crore is earmarked for a permanent stage for exhibiting KPAC’s historical dramas. An amount of Rs. 4 crore is additionally earmarked for Malayalam Mission. A scheme will be launched for digitalisation and preservation of archaeological documents. An amount of Rs. 2 crore has been allocated for the establishment of a museum and audio-visual collection of Malayalam poems at the ancestral home of poet Sugathakumari at Aranmula, which will be a protected monument. An amount of Rs. 5 crore is earmarked for installing a memorial for socialist leader M.P. Veerendra Kumar in Kozhikode. An amount of Rs. 50 lakh is allocated to convert the 175-year-old headquarters of Chavara Kuriakose Elias at Koonammavu into a museum. Art hubs Rural Art Hubs will be set up to promote artists’ talents and also to link them to the international art market. The popular scheme to provide fellowships to 1,000 young artists will continue. A literary museum will be set up in Kottayam in connection with the platinum jubilee of the Sahithya Pravarthaka Sahakarana Sangam. An artist square will be constructed in memory of Raja Ravi Varma at Kilimanoor. An amount of Rs. 25 lakh each will be allocated for constructing memorials for Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe renaissance leaders. Allowance of librarians under State Library Council has been increased by Rs. 1,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/culture-gets-a-significant-share/article33585266.ece
16 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Nothing new for Health in Budget||The State Budget 2021-22 presented by Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac on Friday has nothing new for the Health sector. Free COVID-19 vaccination for all, an announcement earlier made by the Chief Minister, has been reiterated by Dr. Isaac and is the biggest promise offered from the side of public health in this Budget. 4,000 new posts Dr. Isaac also makes a mention of new 4,000 posts to be created in the Health Department in 2021-22 for running all 221 Family Health Centres and for fully utilising the new facilities created in hospitals using KIIFB funds. However, he says later in the Budget that the new medical colleges at Konni, Idukki, Wayanad and Kasaragod will get priority when it comes to these additional posts. The total Budget allocation for the health sector is Rs. 2,341 crore, however, this is inclusive of the Rs. 811 crore the State expects as contribution from the National Health Mission. As in the previous year’s Budget, Dr. Isaac announced that Karunya Benevolent Fund (KBF) will continue for those families who are not the beneficiaries of the Karunya Arogya Suraksha Padhati, the State’s financial protection scheme integrated with the Centre’s health insurance scheme, Ayushman Bharat.  Nursing colleges Dr. Isaac said that the Kochi Cancer Centre will be completed by 2021-22. Nursing colleges will be started in Paripally and Manjeri medical colleges. E-health will be upgraded as an agency for availing of all IT-based services of the Health Department for which an amount of Rs. 25 crore has been earmarked. Dr. Isaac has increased the honorarium of Accredited Social Health Activists by Rs. 1000. ‘Karunya at Home’ will be implemented under the aegis of Kerala Medical Service Corporation Limited, under which elderly patients with chronic illnesses will be delivered their medicines at the door step, at an additional discount of 1%. The proposal in last year’s Budget, to start geriatric clubs in every ward, will be revived in 2021-22||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nothing-new-for-health-in-budget/article33585184.ece
16 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||5,624 cases, 4,603 recoveries||Kerala’s COVID-19 curve remains unrelenting nearly three months after it hit the plateau, with the State reporting 5,624 new cases on Friday when 62,934 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The test positivity (TPR) remained steady at 8.94%. The cumulative case burden of the State rose to 8,36,883 cases, while the active case pool has also been inching up slowly and now stands at 67,496 cases. A total of 4,603 persons are reported to have recovered from their disease, and the cumulative recoveries recorded in the State till date has risen to 7,65,757 cases. Twenty three new deaths have been added to the official list of COVID fatalities. Thiruvananthapuram reported five deaths, Kozhikode four, Ernakulam three, two each at Malappuram, Thrissur, Alappuzha and Kollam while Kottayam, Kannur and Kasaragode reported one death each. The number of critically ill COVID-19 patients in the State who are currently being treated in ICUs in various hospitals in the State was 764 on Friday. Of the 5,624 new cases reported on the day, in 58 cases, the Health Department has reported a history of travel outside the State while 5,566 are locally acquired infections. Of this, 394 cases have their source of infection untraced. Among districts, Ernakulam reported the highest number of cases with 799 cases, Kozhikode 660, Kottayam 567, Thrissur 499, Malappuram 478, Kollam 468, Pathanamthitta 443, Alappuzha 353, Thiruvananthapuram 301, Iddukki 290, Wayanad 241, Kannur 219, Palakkad 209 and Kasaragod 97 cases. Samples of nine people came from the UK have been found to have the presence of B.1.1.7, the virus variant first reported in the UK.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/5624-cases-4603-recoveries/article33585176.ece
16 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Isaac leans on welfarism with polls in view||Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac has presented the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government’s final Budget with a seemingly unflinching eye on the impending Assembly elections. “It is not an election manifesto. But it clearly lays the path to the future. The Budget was politically discussed and finalised,” Dr. Isaac said. The election year’s fiscal plan seemed firmly moored to welfarism and structured to suit the developmental hopes and aspirational needs of a demographically youthful Kerala eager to overcome the inertia of the COVID-19 pandemic. It seemed to march in lockstep with the LDF's move to harness youth power to win the Assembly polls.  Innovation key Dr. Isaac described the Budget as “a new edition to the Kerala development model.’’ It laid down a road map to accelerate development by creating a knowledge-based economy centred on innovation. He quoted Sree Narayana Guru, King Solomon and the Koran to stress the importance of knowledge as a powerful tool for social and economic emancipation. The Budget viewed unemployment as Kerala's development challenge and posited ways and means to surmount the hurdle. Notably, the Budget promised succour for farmers and outlined sweeping aid and social security benefits for needy families. The LDF hoped to replicate its "local body poll win" in the Assembly polls. It felt a populist Budget was the perfect foil for the "recriminatory" campaign unleashed by the Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party. Dr. Isaac hiked the base price of rubber (Rs. 170) and enhanced the procurement cost of paddy (Rs. 28) and coconut (Rs. 32). He increased welfare pensions to Rs. 1,600 and promised eight lakh new jobs, emphasising women employment. Importantly, the government pledged to eradicate "absolute poverty" by direct cash transfer to below poverty line families that make up an estimated 11.3% of the population. Many promises Dr. Isaac has promised the urban needy an expanded employment guarantee scheme, free nutrition, modern housing, piped drinking water, affordable internet connectivity, and subsidised laptops for students. A State-wide network of "fair-price" hotels, a robust public distribution system and responsive market intervention to curb price rise would form the backbone of the "Hunger-Free Kerala" pledge. The Budget also promised a compassionate welfare safety net for the elderly and specially abled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/isaac-leans-on-welfarism-with-polls-in-view/article33585190.ece
16 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Steps to curb mafia, protect livelihood of lottery sellers||Asserting that the government will use its “power and rights in all sense” to prevent the entry of other State lotteries in Kerala, Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac has announced measures to outmatch them and to protect the livelihood of the State’s one lakh-odd lottery sellers. Other State lotteries will not be allowed to plunder the people of Kerala through middlemen. The Centre should amend the Central Lottery Regulation Rules by giving the powers to the State government for regulating other State lotteries, Dr. Isaac said. “The intention of the government is not to raise the profit from lotteries, but to preserve the livelihoods of lottery sellers by restricting the lottery mafia,” Dr. Isaac said. The share of prices of Kerala State Lottery which was 40% four years ago has become 58.5%. The prize share is increased by another 1.5% of the sale income enabling 11,000 more prizes. Hike in agent’s prize The agent’s prize given for prizes worth Rs. 100 will be enhanced to Rs. 20 from Rs. 10. and that for all other prizes had been enhanced to 12%. Discount in all slabs will go up by 0.5% each. “LIFE Bumper Lottery will be conducted for giving housing aid to lottery sellers who are members of welfare fund. The draw will be in next March. If the agent dies, the tickets will be guaranteed for the nominee. Agents will be given bumper tickets on bank guarantee.” He said software modification needed for this had been completed. A system to remit GST online will be rolled out. Welfare benefits of sellers have been increased. Marriage aid has gone up to Rs. 25,000, maternity benefit to Rs. 10,000, special treatment aid to Rs. 50,000 and treatment aid to Rs. 5,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/steps-to-curb-mafia-protect-livelihood-of-lottery-sellers/article33585205.ece
16 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Budget treats capital well||The city had much to cheer for in the State Budget for the year 2021-22 presented by Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac on Friday. Under the Capital City Regional Development Programme, one of the three industrial corridors announced in the State, a massive network of knowledge hubs, industrial parks, amusement centres, and townships are set to be located in 10,000 acres of land on both sides of the six-lane road to be constructed along the 78 kilometres from Vizhinjam to Navayikulam, along the eastern side of the city. The expected investment of this scheme is Rs. 25,000 crore. As seed money for Capital City Development Company, Rs. 100 crore is earmarked in the Budget. The capital city will also get special importance under the 14th Five-Year Plan to be prepared soon. Some of the major projects under this are the second phase of City Road Improvement Scheme at a cost of Rs. 864 crore, total public works projects worth Rs. 900 crore under KIIFB, the Neyyar–Aruvikkara drinking water projects at Rs. 635 crore, total sanitation programme and completion of sewage lines atRs. 525 crore, and a Rs. 900 crore project for turning the city into an education–health Hub. An amount of Rs. 50 crores has been allocated to the Institute of Advanced Virology at Thonnakkal. Technopark gets an allocation of Rs. 22 crores for developmental activities. The Regional Cancer Centre (RCC) gets an allocation of Rs. 71 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/budget-treats-capital-well/article33585412.ece
16 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||All set for vaccination drive across the State||The State is fully prepared to launch the vaccination drive against COVID-19, along with the rest of the country on Saturday, and all arrangements have been finalised at the 133 vaccination sites across districts, Health Minister K.K. Shylaja has said. The Health Department is assisted by other departments as well as agencies like UNICEF and WHO, UNDP in this massive operation. Direct webcasting facilities have been arranged in all vaccination sites. Also, two-way communication facility has been arranged for the launch day at two sites—Ernakulam district hospital and Parassala taluk hospital. Ms. Shylaja is expected to visit Kannur district hospital. Statement issued by the office of the Health Minister has said the Prime Minister would interact with the healthcare workers at Ernakulam district hospital. The 4,33,500 doses of COVISHIELD vaccine received from the Centre has been reached to all district vaccine stores. Each beneficiary will be administered 0.5 ml of COVISHIELD intramuscularly and each person will be observed for 30 minutes after vaccine administration for any allergic reactions or adverse events. A doctor will be present at every site and each site has been equipped with anaphylaxis/AEFI kits as well as ambulance facility in case anyone requires hospitalisation. A second dose will be administered after 28 days. Each site will handle 100 beneficiaries in a day. A high-level meeting of all senior Health officials and administrators was convened by Ms. Shylaja on Friday evening for a last minute review of arrangements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/all-set-for-vaccination-drive-across-the-state/article33585177.ece
16 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Rs. 100 cr. for expatriate employment scheme||The Budget envisages an integrated expatriate employment scheme for protecting NoRK (non-resident Keralites) returnees who lost their jobs due to the changing labour laws in the Gulf countries and the COVID-19 pandemic. An outlay of Rs. 100 crore is earmarked for the scheme. In his Budget speech, Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac said priority would be given to the expatriate returnees in four schemes, namely Digital Employment Scheme for the Educated, Loan based Entrepreneurial Development Programmes, Service Providing Societies, and Marketing Network. Skill development training would be provided to the returnees so as to help them go abroad again, he noted. The Minister said pravasi online meets would be organised in July by all panchayats and municipalities. The list and needs of both returnees and those who intended to return would be compiled and it would be converted into action plans at the district level. The Budget also allocated Rs. 9 crore for the Pravasi Welfare Fund. The welfare fund contribution for those abroad was increased to Rs. 350 and their pension to Rs. 3,500. The welfare fund contribution of the returnees was enhanced to Rs. 200 and their pension to Rs. 3,000. Promising a 10% interest rate for the expatriates who invest in the Pravasi Dividend Scheme, he said this amount would be invested in KIIFB bonds. Though KIIFB had slashed interest rates, investors would not be affected, he said noting that the additional expenditure on account of the interest would be met by the government as a welfare measure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rs-100-cr-for-expatriate-employment-scheme/article33585189.ece
16 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Cut in stamp duty, registration fee||Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac used the Budget speech on Friday to lay out a road map for improving the State's position in the ‘ease of doing business’ rankings. The construction of three industrial corridors with a capital investment of around Rs. 50,000 crore will start in 2021-22. The cut in Value Added Tax on CNG/LNG from 14.5% to 5% brings cheers not just to PSUs such as FACT and BPCL, but also to domestic consumers of city gas projects. The stamp duty on sale deed has been reduced from 8% to 4% and the registration fee from 2% to 1%. The cut in VAT and duty would lead to a total revenue loss of Rs. 191 crore. This revenue loss at a time when the finances were battered by COVID-19 showed the government’s intent in attracting fresh investments and creating jobs. The 10% duty on power consumption has been exempted for new industrial investments for the first five years. Dr. Isaac said the production in PSUs had increased from Rs. 2,799 crore in 2015-16 to Rs. 3,148 crore in 2019-20. an amount of Rs. 250 crore is allocated for PSUs for modernisation. A special park for cancer medicines with funds of Rs. 150 crore from the KIIFB will become a reality in 2020-21. Six medicines having market value of Rs. 250 and essential for organ transplant patients will be marketed at Rs. 40 on commercial basis in February. As part of the three industrial corridors, the Kochi-Palakkad corridor will have an investment of Rs. 10,000 crore and provide 22,000 direct job. The master plan for the Kochi-Mangaluru corridor has been prepared. The Capital City Regional Development Programme will establish a network of knowledge hubs, industrial parks and townships in the eastern side of the city, connected to the Vizhinjam port. The expected investment of this scheme is Rs. 25,000 crore and 2.5 lakh jobs. A total of Rs. 401 crore is provided for major industrial development agencies such as KSIDC and KINFRA. Kerala Rubber Limited will be established with 26% government share for setting up a hub for rubber based industries, including tyres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cut-in-stamp-duty-registration-fee/article33585194.ece
16 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State witnessing developmental surge||There is a surge in development in the State despite the fiscal crisis in the past few years due to Nipah, two massive floods, Goods and Service Tax (GST) implementation, and COVID-19, Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac has said. Presenting the 2021-2022 Budget, the Minister said all these had a huge impact on the financial position of the State. But none of these could hinder the State’s development surge. The economic growth during 2011-12 /2015-16 was 4.9%. Excluding the COVID-19 year 2020-21, the average economic growth during this government’s term has been 5.9%, in spite of the havoc caused by the floods. While Rs. 9,011 crore was disbursed as pension during the tenure of the previous government, the present LDF government has so far disbursed Rs. 32,034 crore as pension. The beneficiaries of social security pensions, which was 34 lakh in 2015-16, has now been raised to 48.6 lakh. There are 59.5 lakh pensioners, including welfare pensioners. Rs. 10,697 for PDS The previous government had spent Rs. 5,242 crore for strengthening the Public Distribution System. The present government had spent Rs. 10,697 crore so far. As many as 15 lakh deserving families were included in the ‘red’ card category. This could be achieved by excluding the undeserving from the beneficiary list prepared during the period of previous government. During the UDF government, Rs. 503 crore was spent from the Chief Minister’s Disaster Relief Fund. During the tenure of this government, Rs. 1,703 crore had been expended. Apart from this, Rs. 3,729 crore had been spent for flood disaster relief. In 2011-16, 7,780 km roads were either renovated or modernised by the Public Works Department. During 2016-21, 11,580 km roads were completed. Dr. Isaac said the renovation of 4,530 km would be completed soon.  11.02 lakh new water connections The water authority that provided 4.9 lakh drinking water connections during the UDF regime had been able to give 11.02 lakh connections. Total electrification had been achieved by providing 17.14 lakh connections. The number of people who used the public health system had declined to 38% at one stage. In 2019 it became 48%. The infant mortality rate, which was 12, had come down to 7. The membership in the pravasi welfare fund had increased from 1.1 lakh to 5.06 lakh. Production under public sector undertakings, which was Rs. 2,799 crore in 2015-16, had increased to Rs. 3,148 crore in 2019-20. Cumulative loss of Rs. 213 crore in 2015-16 had turned into a cumulative profit of Rs. 102 crore. The number of micro- small- medium enterprises has increased from 82,000 in 2015-16 to 1.4 lakh in 2020-21. The number of startups has gone up from 300 under the UDF regime to 3,900 under the LDF and 32,000 people got placement, the Minister said. During 2016-21, 6.79 lakh children had been additionally enrolled from Class 2 to 10 in public education institutions. During the tenure of the previous government, there was a drop of 4.99 lakh students.  The LDF government has so far disbursed Rs. 32,034 cr. as pension||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-witnessing-developmental-surge/article33585195.ece
16 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Green buildings, electric vehicles get tax sops||Tax concessions on environmental-friendly buildings, reducing Value Added Tax (VAT) on Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) and Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) from 14.5% to 5%, and a reduction of 50% in motor vehicle tax for newly registered electric vehicles for five years have been mooted in the 2021-2022 Budget. In a bid to attract investors to the State, the 10% electricity duty on electricity charges will be exempted for new industrial investments for five years. Stamp duty cut The stamp duty on sale deed and registration fee for industrial parks run by KSIDC, KINFRA, SIDCO, DIC, other special purpose vehicles formed by the government for development of industries has been reduced to 4% and 1% respectively. A revenue loss of Rs. 25 crore is expected. The amnesty scheme implemented last year for VAT arrears will this year also. The scheme will be applicable for tax arrears under KVAT, CST, luxury tax, arrears under Surcharge Act and Kerala Agriculture Income Tax Act. On a par with T.N. If the arrears under this scheme are paid in lumpsum, 40% reduction in tax will be allowed. For those who opt to pay in instalments, the reduction will be 30%. Options shall be filed before August 31, 2021. The Minister said the present 14.5% VAT on CNG/LNG is an impediment to new investment. Reducing VAT to 5% on a par with Tamil Nadu will be beneficial to the City Gas projects and domestic consumers. A revenue loss of Rs. 166 crore is expected, Dr. Isaac said. Digital moneylending The Minister said complaints had arisen of digital moneylending platforms, including mobile apps, charging exorbitant interest. To curb these activities, the Kerala Money Lenders Act, 1958 will be amended. The motor vehicle tax on vehicles registered in the name of institutions engaged in palliative care and used exclusively for palliative care will be exempted based on recommendations of the District Collector. Motor cabs and tourist motor cabs registered from April 1, 2014 and had remitted the five-year tax in lieu of 15-year one-time tax based on orders of High Court have to remit the balance tax and interest. Dr. Isaac said these arrears will be permitted to be remitted in ten bi-monthly instalments before March 31, 2021.  Flood cess on GST The Minister said GST, though implemented with great expectations, had not yielded the desired revenue growth. The Kerala Flood Cess levied at 1% on GST implemented in the backdrop of the 2018 floods will be over by July 2021 and it will not be levied further.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/green-buildings-electric-vehicles-get-tax-sops/article33585201.ece
16 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KSRTC to get Rs. 1,800 cr.||The crisis-ridden Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) will get Rs. 1,800 crore as assistance from the State government during 2021-2022. “The assistance includes Rs. 1,000 crore earmarked for salary, pension, and loan repayment,” Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac said. An amount of Rs. 25 crore can be saved a month on fuel expenditure by converting 3,000 buses to eco-friendly CNG/ LNG engines. For this conversion to environment friendly fuel, Rs. 50 crore has been allocated in the Budget. An amount of Rs. 225 crore had been allocated for disbursing arrears and the amount deducted from salaries. The KSRTC and KIIFB will construct a 2-lakh-sq ft building complex on 2.89 acres of land at the Vikas Bhavan depot in the capital. The two-km extension of Kochi Metro from Pettah to Thripunithura will be completed in 2021-22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksrtc-to-get-rs-1800-cr/article33585203.ece
16 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KU allotments in phased manner||A week after its centralised spot allotment process spiralled out of control and violated COVID-19 protocol, Kerala University has scheduled allotments to its vacant UG seats in a phased manner and separately for the Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam regions from January 16 to 20. The allotments will be held in the University Engineering College, Karyavattom, and SN College, Kollam, for students from Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam. While allotments for BSc. and BCom will be held on Saturday and January 18, the vacant seats in BA courses will be filled up on January 19 and 20. The candidates have been advised to visit the admission portal to ascertain their opted courses, allotment date and time, and fees. Only candidates would be permitted entry in the allotment halls, according to an official release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ku-allotments-in-a-phased-manner/article33585175.ece
16 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||More thrust on innovation, start-ups||A slew of measures aimed at boosting innovation and integrating them across sectors found place in the Budget. A four-point action plan for creating an environment to nurture innovation has been mooted. The government will create a platform to enable any person, who could find solutions to problems in agriculture, industry, service and business of their locality, to upload their innovation. While K-DISC will evaluate such ideas with the help of experts, Startup Mission and Kerala Digital Transformation Mission will facilitate their mentoring and financial assistance to develop them into products. An allocation of Rs. 40 crore has been made for Kerala Innovation Challenge that will seek to generate solutions to problems across 20 sectors. The government will provide technical and financial backing to transform prototypes into products. Half a percent of development fund will be set apart of ‘SB Sen Innovation Fund’ for which Rs. 35 crore have been earmarked. A six-point programme will also be introduced to promote start-ups. As many as 2,500 start-ups that provide employment to 20,000 people will be launched this year. Venture capital fund The proposed strategy involves creating a venture capital fund jointly by Kerala Bank, KSIDC, KFC and KSFE to invest in start-ups that manage to find external investments. If any start-ups have already been provided with seed fund, the investment can be converted into share capital. The government will shoulder up to 50% of losses incurred by start-ups that have availed loans from KSIDC, KFC and Kerala Bank. ‘The Kerala Fund for Technology Products’ implemented by Kerala Startup Mission will be expanded with Rs. 20 crore to attract external venture capital funds to the State. Up to 90% of the work order of start-ups, subject to a maximum of Rs. 10 crore, will be made available at an interest rate of 10%.  2500 start-ups that provide employment to 20,000 people will be launched||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/increased-thrust-on-innovation-start-ups/article33585265.ece
16 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||301 persons test positive||The number of confirmed COVID-19 cases went up by 301 in the district on Friday when 5,281 people were subjected to testing during the last 24 hours, thereby registering a test positivity rate (TPR) of 5.69. While 321 people recovered from the illness, the active number of COVID-19 cases stood at 3,527. While there were seven imported cases, all other cases have been attributed to local transmission of the infection. Nine healthcare workers have also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The source of infection in 96 cases were unknown. The death toll currently stood at 693. The district administration placed 1,690 people under quarantine. With this, the total number of people being monitored for COVID-19 symptoms has gone up to 20,305 in houses and 76 in institutions. As many as 1,315 people were excluded from the quarantine list.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/301-persons-test-positive/article33585406.ece
16 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||City gets ready for COVID vaccination||The first round of COVID-19 vaccination in the district will begin on Tuesday. The vaccination will be carried out through 11 centres. District Collector Navjot Khosa said all facilities had been arranged for the purpose. The vaccination centres are the Government Women And Children’s Hospital at Thycaud, District Hospital Nedumangad, Taluk Hospital Parassala, Taluk Hospital Vithura, Community Health Centre Mamaboor, District Ayurveda Hospital Varkala, Sree Gokulam Medical College, KIMS Hospital, NIMS Medicity, and the PHCs at Poozhanad and Pangappara. There will be three separate rooms in each vaccination centre—waiting room, vaccination room and observation room. Five vaccination officers will be deployed in each centre for vaccination. The identity cards will be checked before entering the waiting room. Two officers will handle the awareness session at the observation room and take care of the Adverse Events Following Immunisation kits. For each person, 0.5 ml of vaccine will be given. The second dose will be given 28 days later. On the first day, 100 persons will be vaccinated at each centre between 9 a.m and 5 p.m. TIming The respective vaccination centre and timing will be informed to the applicant through SMS. The vaccination of each person is expected to take 4 to 5 minutes. Thirty minutes of observation is mandatory after the vaccination for checking adverse events. The services of a doctor will be available at the vaccination centre. At the district level, a task force and district control room headed by the District Collector and a block task force and block control room at the block level headed by the District Medical Officer have been readied.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/city-gets-ready-for-covid-vaccination/article33585407.ece
16 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||12 lakh houses to get tap connection||The State Budget presented on Friday places emphasis on improving drinking water supply and kick-starting small-scale irrigation schemes in 2021-22 in addition to rejuvenating several disrupted Jalanidhi schemes. A sum of Rs. 1,300 crore will be spent in 2021-22 on providing tap connections to 12 lakh rural households under the Centrally assisted Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM). Of this, the State’s share would be Rs. 400 crore, while local government institutions and beneficiaries would contribute Rs. 250 crore and Rs. 130 crore, Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac said. The 2021-22 Budget earmarked Rs. 285 crore for the drinking water schemes of the Kerala Water Authority. The government also set aside Rs. 635 crore for the Neyyar and the Aruvikkara water supply projects. Sixty drinking water schemes worth Rs. 4,046 crore with KIIFB assistance were under various stages of construction. The State would spend Rs. 30 crore on rejuvenating Jalanidhi projects that have partly or completely ceased to function. In addition to this, Rs. 10 crore was allocated for groundwater recharging and rainwater harvesting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/12-lakh-houses-to-get-tap-connection/article33585408.ece
16 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Wayanad Coffee from February||The production of branded Wayanad Coffee will start next month and Rs. 90 a kg has been fixed as the base price for procurement of coffee bean, Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac said. The Brahmagiri coffee plant will be utilised in the initial stages of the project. The budget has provided an emergency assistance of Rs. 5 crore to the Brahmagiri society in this regard. Vending machines in 500 offices and 100 kiosks for Wayanad Coffee will be launched through Kudumbashree. The Coffee Park in Wayanad will be set up in 2021-22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wayanad-coffee-from-february/article33585185.ece
16 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||556 crore for Kazhakuttam||Projects worth Rs. 556 crore have been allocated for the Kazhakuttam constituency in the Budget, Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran has said. A sum of Rs. 150 crore has been allocated for Akkulam and Veli development. Projects in the Budget would help development of Vattiyurkavu, V.K. Prasanth, MLA said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/556-crore-for-kazhakuttam/article33585413.ece
16 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Care for environment gets good focus||The 2021-22 Budget lays emphasis on environment rejuvenation initiatives and measures to switch to clean energy options. The section ‘Environmental Consideration’ in Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac’s Budget speech covers e-vehicle and energy efficiency initiatives, forest conservation programmes, and district-specific initiatives for Kuttanad, Wayanad and Idukki. The Budget provides Rs. 200 crore for forest conservation and the rejuvenation of forest land. An additional amount of Rs. 36 crore is expected from Centrally sponsored schemes in this regard. Rs. 52 crore has been set apart for digitising and recording forest boundaries and fostering buffer zones. The Budget has earmarked Rs. 22 crore for reducing human-animal conflict and Rs. 14 crore for biodiversity conservation. The implementation of a package for ecological restoration and social infrastructure improvement is under way in Kuttanad, Dr. Isaac has said. The Budget has provided Rs. 10 crore for a public campaign for cleaning lakes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/care-for-environment-gets-good-focus/article33585414.ece
16 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Budget will push Kerala into debt trap: BJP||The Pinarayi Vijayan government’s final Budget will push Kerala into an inescapable debt trap, BJP State president K. Surendran has said. Finance Minister Thomas Isaac had struck a perilous course that would cause Kerala’s public debt to shoot up from the current Rs. 3 lakh crore to Rs. 5 lakh crore and more, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/budget-will-push-kerala-into-debt-trap-bjp/article33585277.ece
16 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Rs. 1,500 cr. for fisheries sector||The State government will spend Rs. 1,500 crore in 2021-22 for the development of the fisheries sector, Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac has said. Presenting the State Budget on Friday, he said that Rs. 209 crore was earmarked in the annual plan for coastal development. In addition to this, Rs. 676 crore would be spent through the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rs-1500-cr-for-fisheries-sector/article33585186.ece
16 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||2 women held with ganja||The City police have arrested two women with alleged possession of 8kg of ganja. The Poonthura police arrested Shanthi, 49, of Muttathara and Ani, 48, of Arthunkal in a joint operation with the District Anti-Narcotics Special Action Force (DANSAF).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2-women-held-with-ganja/article33585405.ece
16 January 2021||THIRVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Jobs for educated unemployed a key focus||Taking a serious note on the high level of unemployment in the State, the Budget seeks to create job opportunities, especially for women, through a slew of measures, including sops for companies. Pointing out that the unemployment of the educated was the biggest developmental challenge faced by the State, Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac said the existing employment schemes were inadequate to resolve the crisis. Focus on women To ensure financial independence of women, the Budget proposes a scheme to provide employment to at least 20 lakh women within five years. They will be registered for the scheme from February through a digital platform. Companies will also be encouraged to recruit employees for centralised or decentralised jobs. Besides providing the details of professionals and trained persons on a digital platform, the government will extend assistance to companies that select such job seekers. Work station facility will be provided to them on concessional rent if required and the employer’s contribution of the provident fund (PF) will be remitted by the government. The government will shoulder the insurance premium for termination benefit payable on retirement if PF is not preferred. Over-the-counter loans will also be provided by the Kerala Bank and other State-run financial institutions for purchasing computer and other peripherals for the jobs. Digital platforms The Budget promises a comprehensive job scheme which will explore the untapped and emerging openings for about 20 lakh unemployed youth in the digital platforms. To begin with, the Kerala Development Innovation Strategy Council (K-DISC) will be restructured as a registered society with the Chief Minister as its chairperson. An amount of Rs. 200 crore has been earmarked for K-DISC. The registration process for starting the placement initiatives will begin in February. It will be made through a digital platform. Aspiring professionals will be classified into three different categories based on their education and experience. Those who need training before placement support will be included in the third category for proper attention. Formation of a skill mission is also under the consideration with an allocation of Rs. 10 crore. An amount of Rs. 215 crore has been earmarked for technical education.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/jobs-for-educated-unemployed-a-key-focus/article33585192.ece
16 January 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Budget cheer to Thrissur||The State Budget provides hope for the district in various sectors. It gives good news for the Kerala University of Health Sciences (KUHS). Fulfilling a long-pending demand, the Government Medical College, Thrissur, will be transformed into a constituent college of the university. With this, KUHS will be expanded into a university with its own departments and research. “This will improve the quality of the university. It can conduct research. The quality of the college and teaching will also improve. Overall, it is a huge achievement,” said KUHS Vice Chancellor Mohanan Kunnummal. The first school of epidemiological studies, which will be established here, will be named after Dr. Palpu. An amount of Rs. 30 crore is earmarked for the Kerala Institute of Local Administration (KILA). Of this, Rs. 19 crore is for the training and allied activities of people’s representatives and employees. An international seminar intended to be held in December as a prelude to the 25th anniversary celebrations of People’s Plan will be held in 2021. The KILA will publish 25 books in English and Malayalam on the experiences of decentralisation. An amount of Rs. 3 crore is specially provided for this. Child-friendly model grama panchayats will be encouraged. Criteria regarding this have been prepared by KILA.  Muziris allocation  An amount of Rs. 40 crore allocated for the heritage project will be beneficial for the Muziris project. A special programme has been prepared for students to visit the project locations and Rs. 5 crore is earmarked to encourage such study tours. An amount of Rs. 50 lakh has been allocated to Hyderali Kathakali Academy in Thrissur. Another Rs. 25 lakh is allocated to Sree Ramakrishna Mutt at Puranattukara for installing the statue of Swami Vivekananda. Thrissur will get the benefit of the City Road Improvement Project. The Finance Minister appreciated the functioning of the Kerala State Financial Enterprises. “It has deposited Rs. 8,000 crore in the Treasury. Investment in KIIFB bonds through ‘Pravasi Chits’ will increase to Rs. 1,000 crore in 2021-22. Vidhyasree Laptop Scheme is another effective intervention of KSFE in the development of Kerala. The turnover of KSFE in 2015-16 was Rs. 28,960 crore,” he said. The Mangalapuram-Kochi and Kochi-Palakkad industrial corridors will benefit the district too. The allocated for coastal-belt development and Life Mission is good news for the district. Ayurveda sector has been allocated Rs. 78 crore. Theatre practitioners are happy with the fund allotted for the sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/budget-cheer-to-thrissur/article33585372.ece
16 January 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||499 new cases in Thrissur||A total of 499 COVID-19 cases were reported in the district on Friday while 426 people recovered from the pandemic. There are 5,135 active cases in Thrissur and 81 people from the district are undergoing treatment at hospitals in other districts. So far, 80,821 COVID-19 cases have been reported from here and 75,123 people have recovered. According to official statistics, 489 people, including six health workers, contracted the disease through local contact on Friday. In all, 3,684 people are in home care. In all, 127 people were admitted to hospitals for treatment on Friday. A total of 5,889 samples were collected for tests on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/499-new-cases-in-thrissur/article33585417.ece
16 January 2021||January 16 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Ways and means||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ways-and-means/article33585197.ece
16 January 2021||January 16 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Devoted crowd||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/devoted-crowd/article33585410.ece
16 January 2021||ANTARVEDI (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||New chariot equipped with hydraulic brake system||Backward Classes Welfare Minister Ch. Venu Gopala Krishna on Friday said the new chariot of Sri Lakshmi Narasmiha Swamy temple at Antarvedi village in East Godavari has hydraulic brake system and it prevents any damage to the structure during processions. The wooden chariot, built by spending Rs. 90 lakh, will be commissioned in the ensuing annual ‘kalyanotsav’ scheduled to be held in February. It may be recalled that the chariot was gutted in October last. Test conducted Speaking to newsmen at the temple, Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna said the brake system was found to be working well during the test conducted on Friday. “Given the height of the chariot, it needs some protection system to withstand the heavy pressure during processions,” said Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-chariot-equipped-with-hydraulic-brake-system/article33585365.ece
16 January 2021||B. Madhu Gopal,ANDHRA PRADESH||Don’t neglect wearing masks, say experts||The steep decline in COVID-19 cases seems to have developed a sense of complacency among people. One can find people moving in public places without masks, without any care for their own safety as also that of others. They seem to be under the impression that the pandemic threat has gone. Medical experts, however, warn that the threat is far from over and advise wearing masks, observing social distance and other COVID-19 protocols for at least three more months. “I have seen about 75% of visitors on Beach Road are not wearing masks, while 15% are wearing it improperly on their necks and only 10% are wearing them correctly,” says P.V. Sudhakar, Principal, Andhra Medical College. The drop in the sales of masks and personal protective equipment is also an indication of the discontinuation of the usage of masks. Cloth masks used to be sold at most street corners and beside the National Highway in the city but they seem to be hardly any such street vendors now. “The sale of masks, sanitisers and hand gloves has dropped drastically during the last two months. We used to sell over 1,000 surgical masks and over 200 N 95 masks, a month till November, but the sale dropped drastically,” says Yuvraj of Think Safe, a personal protective equipment dealer, at Sheelanagar. “Those going to the airport to travel abroad make it a point to buy masks as they will be denied entry without masks. Only a few local students and residents of Sheelanagar continue to come to us to buy masks,” he says. “There are hardly any sales of masks during the past few months. We depend only on orders from hospitals,” says K. Subba Rao, proprietor of Kiran Surgicals, located at Collectorate junction. “The wearing of masks should be continued for at least three to four months. This is because even after administration of vaccine, one should be careful for 42 days and even after that a booster dose may be required. It is therefore inevitable to wear masks even after taking the vaccine, for some more time,” says K. Rambabu, State COVID-19 coordinator. “The second dose of the vaccine has to be administered, 28 days after the first dose. It will take another two weeks for the recipient to develop immunity. In the meantime, if the person stops using a mask in public places, he/she will blame the vaccine, if they develop COVID-19 again,” says Dr. Sudhakar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dont-neglect-wearing-masks-say-experts/article33585428.ece
16 January 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman reunited with family||Since five years, a woman in her middle age begging in the vicinity of the police station at Punganur was a common sight for the denizens as well as the police personnel. However, in a surprise development, she was reunited with her family members in Anantapur district on Friday after the police traced her whereabouts. The woman used to go around the shopping zone pleading for alms and after getting enough, she was staying in a corner abutting the compound wall of the police station. On a number of occasions, many tried in vain to make her reveal her whereabouts. When lockdown was clamped in the wake of COVID-19 in March last, the woman’s movements were strictly confined to the corner in front of the police station. She used to satiate her hunger with the food supplied by local youth as part of humanitarian activity during the period, while the police too extended their helping hand. During the five-year period, the only person to whom she was speaking once in a while was a constable in the station --Mohan Rao. However, she never revealed anything about her family. But, a few days ago, she made a slip of the tongue and mentioned her native place as Peddavaduguru of Anantapur district. Identified, at last Immediately, the constable took a picture of her in the mobile and flashed it to his batch-mates in Peddavaduguru mandal. As the picture went viral, on Thursday evening, the woman was identified as one Nagaratnamma (47). Five years ago, she left home after having a petty quarrel with her husband. Though the family made a frantic search for her, they did not give a police complaint. On Friday morning, the family members came to Punganur and the woman was reunited with them. Sub-Inspector Umamaheswara Rao and the staff gave a send off to Nagaratnamma.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-reunited-with-family/article33585364.ece
16 January 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||TNSTC buses seized for not possessing valid documents||The road transport officials of Puttur division on Friday seized as many as ten buses of Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation(TNSTC) on the outskirts of Puttur and Satyavedu, bordering with TN. According to the officials, the inspections and seizures were done following information that the vehicles had no valid documents. This development created a flutter in the district, causing inconvenience to passengers on the inter-State routes. A team of officials from TN were said to be having talks with the RTO personnel here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tnstc-buses-seized-for-not-possessing-valid-documents/article33584787.ece
16 January 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Prabhalu’ celebrated in style in Konaseema||Villagers turned up in large numbers to participate in ‘Prabhalu’ — a ritual in which Lord Shiva is taken out on a procession through paddy fields — in the Konaseema region of East Godavari district on Friday. The Prabha is a chariot carrying Lord Shiva and decorated with bamboo poles and flowers. Each village brings their own Prabha to the designated site, where the Prabhalu are then put on display to mark their participation in the festival. Jagganna Thota remains the largest gathering site in Ambajipeta, located in the heart of the Konaseema region. This year, at least 20 Prabhalu have been brought to the Jagganna Thota site alone, drawing hundreds of visitors till sundown. Villagers carry the Prabha on their shoulders throughout the way by crossing irrigation canals and fields, right from the village all the way to the exhibition site, from where it will be later taken back to the respective village for a further procession through the entire night. People from all walks of life thronged to the exhibition sites on Friday to experience the ritual, which is an integral part of the cultural life in the Godavari delta. This year, the procession was conducted amid tight security with restrictions on firecrackers and gatherings in fields, due to the threat of COVID-19. Police told reporters that the evening procession was completed peacefully with some minor restrictions on the celebration of the festival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/prabhalu-celebrated-in-style-in-konaseema/article33584789.ece
16 January 2021||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mallika Garg assumes charge as Addl. SP||A 2015 batch IPS officer, Mallika Garg, took charge as Additional Superintendent of Police (ASP-Administration), Krishna district, at the district police headquarters here on Friday. A native of New Delhi, Mallika Garg served as Rapid Action Force (RAF) Deputy Commandant and in other cadres in West Bengal, before joining in AP cadre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mallika-garg-assumes-charge-as-asp/article33584796.ece
16 January 2021||MUDINEPALLI (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Infant found abandoned, critical||An eleven-month-old girl, with cut injuries on the limbs, was found abandoned at Korreguntapadu in Krishna district in the early hours on Friday. Locals, who noticed the infant crying on the roadside, informed the authorities. A local Anganwadi worker and grama mahila samrakshana karyadarshi shifted the girl to Machilipatnam Government Hospital, where the doctors referred her to the Guntur Government General Hospital for better treatment. “Doctors said the condition of the baby is critical. We are inquiring if anyone attempted to kill the girl, or if any animal had attacked her,” said Mandavalli Child Development Project Officer (CDPO) Deepthi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/infant-found-abandoned-critical/article33584795.ece
16 January 2021||Nivedita Ganguly,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fifth generation kite makers keep the tradition flying high||Holding a white string, Farzana Shiek measures it to tie it carefully into the holes on either side of a colourful kite. It has been a long day for her as she waits for buyers at her stall at Beach Road. Farzana belongs to the traditional kite makers family from Visakhapatnam. Decades ago, her father-in-law and his family were the first to get handmade paper kites flying in the skies of the city. After making paper kites for over 80 years, for the first time the traditional kite makers had to replace paper with plastic. “Due to the pandemic-induced transport restrictions last year, the paper that we normally procure from Kolkata for making kites could not be delivered. We had no option but to make plastic kites,” rues Farzana. About 18 years ago, her father-in-law Shiek Subhan Khan along with Farzana’s husband Shiek Farid started A F Kites. “We are the fifth generation of kite makers in the city. Back then, we had two small rooms full of paper and kites in our house in Chinna Waltair. We would make paper kites all round the year and bring it to Beach Road in a small box to sell,” reminisces Farzana. Over a period of time, the kite makers expanded their stalls from one to four at Beach Road. “We have now shifted to Anakapalle and have a team of four kite makers who assist us,” says Farzana. Last year has been tough on the traditional kite makers. “Kite making is a laborious work. It takes a lot of time, effort and expertise to make a perfect kite. This time we could make about 16,000 kites, much lesser than a normal year and the sales has dwindled too,” she says. Moreover, many small stalls have come up along Beach Road, but all of them source kites from Gujarat. As the Sankranti festive spirit picks up, Farzana along with her husband come to Beach Road at 8 a.m. every day and stay back till 9 p.m. for selling kites. They have kites from Rs. 20 to Rs. 1,000 range. Their kite making enterprise also supports a group of 25 children in a Madrasa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fifth-generation-kite-makers-keep-the-tradition-flying-high/article33585443.ece
16 January 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ongole bulls steal the show at Kanuma celebrations||The majestic Ongole bulls hogged the limelight as Kanuma was celebrated with enthusiasm on the third day of the Makara Sankranti festival across Prakasam district on Friday. Farmers from far and near brought the decorated Ongole bulls for friendly competitions organised to exhibit their strength during ‘Uttarayana Punyakalam'. It has always been their cattle wealth which came to their rescue when agriculture failed for reasons like droughts and floods, a farmer P. Srinivasa Rao recalled on the sidelines of a bull racing competition held at Annambotlavaripalem, a village near Parchur for the 33rd year in succession. The bovine beasts pulled big boulders at ease. Racing competitions were organised also at Kothapatnam, Markapur and Chinnaganjam to display the draught animal power of the docile bulls which attain maximum strength in view of the congenial climatic condition in the district. Ram fight was also organised to kindle interest in shepherds to maintain goats and sheep, the main economic activity in rural Prakasam. Gangireddu troupes went round the town with colourfully-decorated bulls. People honoured the bull tamers, who performed a variety of tricks and got in return cash, new clothes, cash affectionately given to them. Farmers also organised protests against the farm laws. “We fear the three pieces of legislation will accentuate the agrarian crisis with big corporate agri-marketing price knocking away our produce at a throw-away price,” All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee Prakasam District Convenor Ch.Ranga Rao after putting copies of the farm Acts in fire in Venkatadripalem village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ongole-bulls-steal-the-show-at-kanuma-celebrations/article33584792.ece
16 January 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||All set for vaccination rollout in South Coastal Andhra||The stage is set for the much-awaited rollout of vaccine for COVID-19 from 48 session sites in south coastal Andhra Pradesh on Saturday. As many as 100 selected beneficiaries each will be vaccinated at 26 session sites in SPSR Nellore district and 22 session sites in Prakasam district on the first day. Committees have been constituted in each of the session sites for the smooth conduct of the vaccination programme by monitoring the health of vaccinated persons and shift the needy to designated hospitals in the event of adversity, said Prakasam District Collector P. Bhaskar while overseeing the arrangements at the GGH session site. “We have received 31,000 doses of the vaccine for inoculating 24,100 selected health workers in the first phase,” explained Prakasam Medical and Health Officer P.Ratnavalli. In SPSR Nellore district, 29,104 persons have been selected for vaccination. Specialist doctors are posted in each of the 26 session sites to monitor the health condition of each of the beneficiaries. Ambulances are kept ready outside the session sites, said SPSR Nellore DMHO S.Rajyalakshmi overseeing the arrangements at GGH. New cases Meanwhile, only three new COVID-19 cases, two in Prakasam district and one in SPSR Nellore district, were reported in the last 24 hours. The number of active cases came down to 418, 351 in SPSR Nellore district and 67 in Prakasam district. As many as 1,23,053 of the 1,24,357 patients have recovered from the disease in the two districts so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/all-set-for-vaccination-rollout-in-south-coastal-andhra/article33584794.ece
16 January 2021||PALAKOL (WEST GODAVARI DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Cockfights draw huge crowds in Krishna, Godavari districts||Cockfights drew thousands of spectators in the villages of Krishna, East and West Godavari districts over the three-day Sankranti festival, with many villagers betting large sums of money on the illegal bloodsport. Large crowds threw COVID-19 norms to the winds as they made a beeline for the cockfight arenas. A festive atmosphere prevailed as people of all ages, from children to newly-weds and elderly people, lined up to witness the games. Many VIPs, including public representatives, actors, traders, software professionals, NRIs and realtors, were seen at the venues near Avanigadda, Kankipadu, Kalidindi, Gudiwada, I. Bhimavaram, Palakoderu, Dindi, Jangareddygudem, Razole and other places on Bhogi, Sankranti and Kanuma. Women take the lead Women organised rooster fights at Mandalaparru village of Nidamarru mandal in West Godavari district. Punters bought fowls for Rs. 50,000 and above “As women participated in big numbers and invested huge amounts in betting during cockfights, we arranged a seperate venue for women and their families. Women from Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Puducherry, Tamil Nadu and abroad came to witness the cockfights in Mandalaparru,” said Ramu, an organiser. Hundreds of cockfight arenas were seen at Elamanchili, Mogalturu, Bhimavaram, Kalla, Undi, Akiveedu, Palakol, Vempa, Marteru, Achanta, Narsapuram, Veeravasaram, Dwaraka Tirumala, Mudinepalli, Kaikalur, Bantumilli, Amalapuram, P. Gannavaram, Koduru and other places in the last three days. Rooster fights were held under floodlights and huge tents were erected in paddy fields, coconut and mango orchards. Organisers arranged hotels, fast food centres, ice cream parlours, soft drink and pan outlets at the venues. “We came all the way from Warangal to enjoy the cockfights. My children are very keen on watching the games. We lost Rs. 60,000 in two games but won Rs. 1.4 lakh in three fights,” said a woman named Ketha Sai Swetha, at a venue in Mogalturu. Sankranti fervour “Rooster fights are a part and parcel of Sankranti. We arrange family get-togethers, kite-flying, gambling and other indoor games like housie and musical chairs. We also cook traditional delicacies and enjoy the harvest festival at our native village in Veeravarasaram,” said a software employee named R. Prakasa Rao, who works in Bengaluru. “There was a huge demand for the meat of roosters that were killed in the fights. This year, we sold the meat at Rs. 2,000 and above per kg,” said M. Satyaveni, another organiser. Many students and youth witnessed the cockfights under floodlights at Pulapalli, Narsapuram, Sakinetipalli, Ravulapalem and other areas. Traffic was jammed on some approach roads near the cockfight venues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cockfights-draw-huge-crowds-in-krishna-godavari-districts/article33585355.ece
16 January 2021||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||Row erupts over ownership of Waltair Club’s land||Waltair Club seems to be entering into a legal battle with the State government. The Special Investigation Team, formed to probe the alleged land scams in the district, took up the case pertaining to the ownership of the club’s land, based on a complaint filed by a third party. The club that is located on 15 acres of land, was primarily leased from one Chetty family, on perpetual basis in the year 1900. But according to the SIT officials, the lease agreement though was registered, the authenticated copy is yet to be made available to the SIT and it was not renewed after 1999. The Waltair Club claims that the club got patta issued in 1951 under the Estate Abolition Act and by virtue of which they claim to be the owner of the land. But according to the documents available with the SIT, they claim that even the copy supplied by the District Collector does not satisfy the registration criteria, stated supra. “We have told both the parties — the original owners (the Chetty family) and as well as the club authorities — to provide the registered copy, if they have,” said SIT Chairman Vijay Kumar. Things have changed after the 1948 Estates Abolition Act had come into force. The club management claims that in 1951, they got patta issued by the Assistant Settlement Officer of Anakapalle. But the SIT say that the 1951 order was flawed, as it was not confirmed by the statuary Appellate Authority, Commissioner of Survey and Settlement of the State. Moreover, the Chetty family who got themselves impleaded in this case before SIT by giving a representation on January 12, claimed that they got the 1951 order cancelled. Earlier Writs Two notices were earlier issued to the club by the competent official authorities and the club had obtained an interim order against both in 2013. One order was against VUDA and the second was against the showcause notice issued by the government as to why the lease should not be cancelled. SIT had called the club management on Tuesday and took up the issue. It is learnt that the next hearing is scheduled on January 20 and both the parties have been told to bring all the documents, including the family tree of the Chetty family and authenticated evidence in favour of their claim as legal heirs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/row-erupts-over-ownership-of-waltair-clubs-land/article33585434.ece
16 January 2021||TIRUMALA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mock hunting marks Kanuma at Tirumala||Mock hunting was organised at the sacred town of Tirumala as part of the Kanuma festival.  Religious formalities The processional deity, dressed in the robes of king hunter and equipped with ‘panchayudhas’ like sankhu, chakra, khadga, bana, and gada, was taken out in a grand procession along with Lord Krishna on a separate palanquin to the ‘parvetu mandapam’ on the banks of Gogarbham dam situated amid the thick forests about two km from the town. After observing certain religious formalities, the priests enacted the mock hunting event much to the delight of thousands of devotees who congregated at the venue to catch a rare glimpse of the divine festival. While the temple priest ran ahead with a golden spear and symbolically hunted down a couple of wild animals tied in the nearby bushes, the staff carrying the deity mounted atop the golden palanquin, ran behind him. Later, the deities were again brought back to the main temple in a grand procession.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mock-hunting-marks-kanuma-at-tirumala/article33585367.ece
16 January 2021||TIRUMALA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Suprabhata seva resumes at Tirumala||Suprabhata seva was resumed at the hill temple of Tirumala on Friday. The ritual, which is observed daily in the awakening of the presiding deity, was temporarily discontinued on December 17 with the advent of the month-long Dhanurmasam festival. It was replaced with the singing of ‘pasurams’ from the sacred Thiruppavai – a set of poems sung by goddess Andal in the praise of Lord. With the Dhanurmasam climaxing with the annual Makara Sankranti on Thursday, the Suprabhatam was resumed at the hill temple. The traditional ‘Kaka Bali’ was performed at the hill temple soon after the completion of Suprabhatam around 3.30 a.m. on Friday wherein cooked rice mixed with turmeric and vermilion was offered to Sri Vaimana Venkateswara situated on the golden Ananda Nilaya gopuram. Later, the sacred garlands of goddess Goda Devi specially brought from the temple of Sri Govindaraja Swamy temple were ceremoniously adorned to the main deity as part of the celebrations relating to Goda Devi parinayotsavam. Earlier, the garlands, as is customary, were brought to Peda Jeeyar Mutt and later were taken out in a grand procession to the temple and handed over to the chief priest inside the sanctum sanctorum. Sri Pedda Jeeyar along with his junior Sri Chinna Jeeyarwere present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/suprabhata-seva-resumes-at-tirumala/article33585368.ece
16 January 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Goda Kalyanam, a visual treat to devout||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) management conducted ‘Goda Kalyanam’, the celestial wedding of Sri Andal Ammavaru with Sri Krishna, at the sprawling ground behind its administrative building on Thursday evening. This is the first time that the TTD has chosen to perform ‘Goda Kalyanam’ for the benefit of the denizens and the visiting devotees as well. Conducted under the aegis of the TTD’s Hindu Dharma Prachara Parishat, its secretary K. Rajagopalan anchored the proceedings. The entire event is believed to be a replication of the wedding performed originally 5,000 years ago and is revered on a par with Padmavathi Parinayam in ‘kaliyuga’. Dr. Rajagopalan said the divine episode was conducted on the auspicious occasion of Makara Sankranti, which marked the end of Dhanurmasam, the month-long penance observed by goddess Goda Devi to wed Maha Vishnu. Adorned with some of the finest jewels and bright silk attire, the deities of Sri Andal and Sri Krishna Swamy were seated on a special platform on the stage, which turned out to be a visual feast to the devout. Archakas (priests) performed the ‘kalyanam’ in a ceremonial manner amid chanting of Vedic hymns and by reading out the ‘gotra namas’ of the deities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/goda-kalyanam-a-visual-treat-to-devout/article33585370.ece
16 January 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||SVU gets closer to getting patent for prickly pear juice||Prickly pear may not be a familiar fruit ready for consumption today, but its juice is all set to be known as the most-preferred fruit beverage soon. National Biodiversity Authority (NBA) has approved the application of Sri Venkateswara University’s Department of Science and Technology – Promotion of University Research and Scientific Excellence (DST-PURSE) Centre for the process of manufacturing blended fruit squash with prickly pear. With this, the varsity has inched closer to getting the Intellectual Property Right (IPR), which facilitates the product’s commercialisation. The centre had applied for it the same way in 2014, with its coordinator and professor D.V.R. Sai Gopal as the mentor, associate professor in Home Science K.V. Sucharitha as the supervisor and research scholar S. Chennakesava Reddy as the inventor. A member of the cactus family, prickly pear is pervasive in the arid regions across the globe. “This can be easily grown in deserts, high ranges and any uncultivated land. It is safe from animal grazing, thanks to its thorny body, and there is no need for pesticides. Flowering also happens fast”, Prof. Sai Gopal told The Hindu . Challenges ahead The twin challenges ahead of the team include ensuring large-scale production of the plant that is currently believed to have no commercial value and the need to educate the public and promote the nutrition-packed fruit as a traditional, endemic and sustainable alternative to the foreign fruits that have flooded the market. “Prickly pear is an under-utilised fruit, notwithstanding its availability. It will become a hit just like kiwi and other fruits which were not popular till a decade back,” points out Dr. Chennakesava Reddy, who is a faculty member at Indian Institution of Plantation Management, Bengaluru. The team has grand plans for commercialisation once the patent is sanctioned. This, the team expects, would change the facade of the arid lands and the cropping choices of farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/svu-gets-closer-to-getting-patent-for-prickly-pear-juice/article33585353.ece
16 January 2021||Tirupati,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ex-Minister Subbaiah dead||Former Minister and three-time TDP MLA Patnam Subbaiah died of cardiac arrest at his native Kothapalle village of Irala mandal in Chittoor district on Friday. A medical practitioner, Subbaiah had responded to the call given by TDP founder N.T. Rama Rao to professionals and joined the party. Subbaiah was elected from the Palamaneru Assembly constituency during 1985-1999, and had served as Minister for Civil Supplies and Health in the combined State of Andhra Pradesh. After the change of guard in the TDP, N. Chandrababu Naidu, who was known for his penchant for experimenting with new faces, had preferred Lalitha Kumari to Dr. Subbaiah in the 1999 elections, which marked the end of the Dalit leader’s active political career. Known as the man of masses and a leader accessible to his constituents, Subbaiah had spent the life of a common man during his last days. Naidu mourns Meanwhile, Mr. Naidu expressed shock over the death of Subbaiah, and conveyed his condolences to the bereaved family. In a statement, he said Subbaiah had rendered great service to the people as a doctor, MLA and as a Minister. The former Minister had striven for the well being of the weaker sections of society, Mr. Naidu said. In a separate statement, TDP general secretary N. Lokesh condoled the death of Subbaiah.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/former-minister-p-subbaiah-dead/article33584694.ece
16 January 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special train to clear rush||The South Central Railway(SCR) has announced to run a Sankranti special train from Tirupati to Secunderabad on January 17, to clear the festive rush. Train 07456 Tirupati – Secunderabad Sankranti special train will depart from Tirupati at 5 p.m. on January 17 and arrive at Secunderabad at 5.40 a.m. the next day. The train will stop at Renigunta, Srikalahasti, Gudur, Nellore, Ongole, Chirala, Tenali, Vijayawada, Khammam, Warangal and Kazipet stations. The special train consists of AC II tier, AC III tier, sleeper class and second seating coaches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/special-train-to-clear-rush/article33585371.ece
16 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan to launch COVID-19 vaccination drive today||The COVID-19 vaccine will be rolled out in the presence of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy at the Government General Hospital (GGH) here on Saturday (January 16). As part of the nation-wide roll-out of the vaccine, 332 vaccine session sites have been identified in the State for the launch of the inoculation drive. Krishna District Collector A. Md. Imtiaz, who inspected the arrangements at the GGH on Friday, said after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address to the nation at 10.30 a.m., Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy would launch the immunisation drive here at 11.30 a.m. In Krishna district, the drive would be launched from 30 vaccine session sites covering more than 36,000 healthcare workers and other frontline warriors, he said. After the initial launch from 332 locations in the State, the vaccination drive will gradually be replicated across the State. As per the plan, all healthcare workers in the State will be vaccinated in the next 15 days and after a gap of 28 days, they will be administered the second dose. Other frontline workers, who included personnel from the Police, Municipal and Revenue departments and those who were in the forefront when the pandemic was at its peak, will be vaccinated in the next phase. The State has received 4.7 lakh doses of Covishield (Serum Institute of India) and 20,000 doses of Covaxin (Bharat Biotech). The Covishield doses have reached the 332 designated locations. At each of these locations, a six-member team will work to vaccinate 100 beneficiaries every day. A total of 2,324 staff members will be involved in inoculation of a maximum of 33,200 healthcare workers every day and each team will be supervised by a doctor. People identified as beneficiaries will receive SMS a day before their vaccination informing about the venue and timing of the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-to-launch-vaccination-drive-from-ggh-today/article33584780.ece
16 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State’s lone death registered in Krishna||The State reported one more COVID-19 death and 94 infections in the 24 hours ending Friday morning. It was the lowest single-day tally and the only double-digit tally in the past eight months, and the positivity rate of the samples tested during the period too was lowest in over eight months. However, the number of samples tested in the one day day was only 31,696, and the total number of samples tested so far increased to 1.25 crore, with an overall positivity rate of 7.08%. The tally increased to 8,85,710 and the toll went up to 7,139. In the last two days, five persons succumbed to the virus in the State and the death rate was at 0.81%. The number of recoveries came down to 2,199 and the recovery rate increased to 98.95 with the total recoveries of 8,76,372. In the one day, 232 patients recovered. The lone death was reported in Krishna district. East Godavari reported the highest single-day infections of 15. It was followed by Guntur (14), Kadapa (13), Krishna (12), Visakhapatnam (12), Chittoor (10), Srikakulam (5), West Godavari (5), Vizianagaram (3), Prakasam (2), Anantapur (1), Kurnool (1) and Nellore (1). The overall district-wise tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,24,042), West Godavari (94,088), Chittoor (86,709), Guntur (75,257), Anantapur (67,550), Nellore (62,248), Prakasam (62,109), Kurnool (60,715), Visakhapatnam (59,497), Kadapa (55,156), Krishna (48,297), Srikakulam (46,047) and Vizianagaram (41,100).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/states-lone-death-registered-in-krishna/article33585351.ece
16 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Maintenance of LED street lights entrusted to village secretariats||The government has directed the Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Department (PR&RDD) to take steps for strengthening the LED street lighting programme – ‘Jagananna Palle Velugu’ – in coordination with the Energy Department. It has entrusted the repairs and maintenance of the LED street lights to the village secretariats to ensure that the non-glowing ones are restored in 48 hours of the receipt of complaint, according to an official release. About 2.60 lakh village volunteers are being involved in the exercise with the cooperation of the Andhra Pradesh State Energy Efficiency Development Corporation (APSEEDCO). The PR&RDD has requested the Energy Department to spare the energy assistants to attend to the complaints and instructed the village secretariats to engage private technicians in case of non- availability of energy assistants for rectifying the defunct lights with the stipulated time. Meanwhile, in a review meeting, Panchayat Raj Minister P. Ramachandra Reddy said successful maintenance of the LED street lights was one of the government’s top priorities. Spare parts He stated that spare parts required for attending to complaints would be supplied by the Energy Efficiency Services Limited (EESL) and distributed by the APSEEDCO at the village secretariat level. Energy Secretary N. Srikant, PR Commissioner M. Girija Shankar and Principal Secretary (housing) Ajay Jain were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/maintenance-of-led-street-lights-entrusted-to-village-secretariats/article33585360.ece
16 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Need to educate women on consumer rights’||“There is an increasing necessity to educate and motivate the consumer to be wary of the quality of the products and also the possible deficiencies in the services of the growing sector of public utilities,” said Karambir Kaur, who was appointed State president of the women’s wing of Advocates’ Association for Social Responsibility and Awareness (AASRA) at a meeting held here. Ms. Kaur said she was happy to take up the social responsibility of empowering the consumers on their rights and equip them to be vigilant with a discerning eye to be able to protect themselves from wrongful act on the part of the trader. Legal remedies “Besides evolving legal remedies, we need to give them access to adequate information,” she said. Chief patron of AASRA and an advocate in the state High Court Habeeb Sultan Ali said Ms. Kaur’s role would entail educating women on consumer rights AASRA is an NGO established at the national-level by a group of advocates. Its main office is in Delhi, the corporate offices at Hyderabad, Visakhapatnam and Bhubaneswar. In AP, AASRA has been active since last year, trying to bring momentum to the Consumer Movement. The Association’s national executive member Ravi Srinivasulu and State executive member Madhu Koneru were also present at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karambir-kaur-appointed-aasras-womens-wing-chief/article33584800.ece
16 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Final rolls see marginal rise in electors in State||Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) K. Vijayanand said that there is an increase of 0.90% over the draft electoral roll published on November 16, 2020 under the Special Summary Revision (SSR)- 2021 of electoral rolls. The final electoral rolls were published on Friday. In a statement on Friday, the CEO said that the total general electors in the draft rolls were 4,00,79,025. However, as part of the SSR exercise, 4,25,860 inclusions (1.06%) and 63,507 deletions (0.16%) had taken place, resulting in a net increase of 3,62,353 electors, constituting 0.90%, over the draft electoral rolls, he said. The CEO said the District Election Officers (DEOs) had taken up a rationalisation exercise before the publication of the draft rolls which led to creation of 84 new polling stations besides merger of three with other polling stations. Thus their number increased to 45,917 from 45,836. Accordingly, the draft rolls were published and claims and objections were received till December 15. After disposal of the claims and objections, the final electoral rolls were published on January 15, he said. Among the electors 1,99,66,737 were men, 2,04,71,506 women and 4,135 third gender taking the total to 4,04,41,378. The number of service electors was 66,844. The copies of the final electoral rolls would be supplied to the district units of political parties by the DEOs/EROs. They were also posted on CEO website www.ceoandhra.nic.in, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/marginal-rise-in-voters-in-ap-says-ceo/article33584698.ece
16 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Actor Vishal visits Dokiparru temple||Actor Vishal visited Sri Bhoo sameta Sri Venkateswara Swamy temple at Dokiparru in Krishna district on Friday. On the occasion, he launched a new year diary and calendar. He said that he had been planning to visit the temple for quite some time. Temple priests and Vedic scholars blessed him. Temple trustees PV Krishna Reddy, Sudha and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/actor-vishal-visits-dokiparru-temple/article33584798.ece
16 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM using ‘gopuja’ for political mileage: TDP||TDP State president K. Atchannaidu has advised the government not to use the most sacred ‘gopuja’ (worship of the cow) programme for deriving political mileage. In a statement on Friday, Mr. Atchannaidu wondered how Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and the Ministers could participate in the programme at places of worship when they were “spearheading the attacks on temples.” The programme was part of the Chief Minister’s to combine religion with politics, he alleged. “Right from the Vedic period, the cow is considered the hallmark of the Hindu way of life. In the recent times, many cows at the ‘gosalas’ died because of lack of fodder and proper care. Instead of resolving such matters, the CM has started a drama in the name of ‘gopuja’ at temples,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-using-gopuja-for-political-mileage-tdp/article33585357.ece
16 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Somu to meet Mudragada today||BJP State president Somu Veerraju will be meeting Kapu leader Mudragada Padmanabham at Kirlampudi in East Godavari district on January 16, according to a press release. As part of efforts to strengthen the party in the State, the BJP is inviting politicians and film personalities into the party to give a fillip to its plan to emerge as a strong alternative to the ruling YSRCP and the opposition TDP. On Saturday, Mr. Veerraju will also meet a couple of former Ministers. He recently met actress Vani Viswanath and requested her to consider joining the BJP. The party is focussing on the by-election for the Tirupati Lok Sabha seat, which had fallen vacant following the death of YSRCP MP Balli Durga Prasada Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-bjp-president-to-meet-mudragada-today/article33585138.ece
16 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||JSP condemns police action||Jana Sena Party (JSP) political affairs committee chairman Nadendla Manohar took strong objection to a search allegedly conducted by the police in the residence of his party leader Bolisetti Satyanarayana on January 13 night. ‘Political pressure’ Mr. Manohar stated in a press release that the policemen searched Mr. Satyanarayana's house without any warrant due to political pressure. It was because Mr. Satyanarayana was questioning the government's failures and its various policy decisions that landed the people in deep trouble. JSP president Pawan Kalyan took note of the matter and promised to stand by his party leaders who were targeted for their issue-based anti-government stand, Mr. Manohar added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jsp-condemns-police-action/article33585426.ece
16 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Veligonda: works on first tunnel completed||The works on the first tunnel of the Poola Subbaiah Veligonda project were completed on Friday. Megha Engineering and Infrastructure Limited (MEIL), which is executing the works, in a statement, said it took 18 years to dig the 18-km tunnel. Of this, 3.5-km length was excavated by the MEIL in two-and-a-half years.  Biggest conveyer belt “Biggest conveyer belt in Asia is used in the Veligonda project,” the MEIL said in the release. A 36-km conveyor belt was required to go into and come out of the tunnel. Former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy had launched the works taken up using the Tunnel Boaring Machine (TBM). The machine came out of the tunnel after 12 years, the MEIL officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/veligonda-tunnel-works-through/article33585137.ece
16 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP faults DGP statement||BJP State general secretary S. Vishnuvardhan Reddy on Friday condemned the statement purportedly made by DGP D. Gautam Sawang that four BJP activists were suspected to be involved in the recent attacks on temples. Terming it a “false propaganda” made under pressure from the ruling party, Mr. Vishnuvardhan Reddy, in a press release, said that the police were apparently acting at the behest of the YSRCP and trying to cover-up the failures of the government. If the police were convinced that there were some elements in the BJP creating trouble through social media, they should brace to book cases on lakhs of YSRCP who were making a mischievous campaign on various issues, he stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-faults-dgp-statement/article33585358.ece
16 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||32,000 health workers to be vaccinated in first phase||Despite being festival time, health care workers and the district administration have been working overtime to get things ready for the inauguration of the vaccine drive, which is scheduled to begin on Saturday. It is a nation-wide drive and the PHC at Chinna Waltair has been geared up for the nation-wide inauguration by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. It has been connected to the national feeder for the PM’s two-way communication and the process will begin at 9 a.m. The first batch of 46,720 Covishield vaccines from Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), has reached the city on Wednesday and over 32,000 healthcare workers will be vaccinated in the first phase. The vaccines have been stored in the specially built freezers, which will maintain a temperature from 2° to 8° Celsius and to begin with 32 sessions sites or vaccination centres will go operational from Saturday. Over a period of couple of days, the sessions sites will be increased to over 220 across the district. Narsipatnam Sub Collector N. Mourya said that all arrangements have been completed for the administration of COVID-19 vaccine in Narsipatnam Division from Saturday. The Sub Collector visited the Nathavaram PHC on Friday as Special Officer for the Narsipatnam Area Hospital and the Nathavaram PHC in Narsipatnam constituency. She said that the vaccine would be administered to healthcare workers in the first phase. The vaccine would be administered to 100 persons a day. The vaccination will begin at 9 a.m. and end at 5 p.m. on January 16. It would be continued up to January 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/32000-health-workers-to-be-vaccinated-in-first-phase/article33585436.ece
16 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘High-handed’ constable made to apologise to shop owner||The senior police officials on Friday served notice on an Armed Reserve constable who reportedly behaved in a high-handed manner with a shop owner and damaged property on Thursday evening. The AR constable was asked to apologise to the shop owner. According to reports, Armed Reserve Police Constable Ch. Narendra Babu and another Hemant Verma went to a cool drink shop at Sector 6, Vizag Steel Plant, on Thursday evening, and bought cigarettes. They claimed to have paid Rs. 200 and left the shop. But after some time they came back and asked for change. The cool drink shop owner said that they didn't pay money at all. This was followed by an argument and ruckus, which led to partial damage of refrigerator and cool drink bottles. Immediately, the shopkeeper called the police and informed about the incident. Police traced down the constable through the bike registration number. On coming to know about the incident, ADCP (admin) M. Rajani counselled Narendra Babu over ethics to be followed as a policeman and also strictly warned him not to repeat such acts. Later they also took the AR police constable to the shop, where he apologised to the owner. The police also handed over Rs. 5,000 to the shopkeeper for the damage done. According to the police, notices under Section 41 of CrPC has been served on the constable and legal action on him shall continue as per law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/high-handed-constable-made-to-apologise-to-shop-owner/article33585438.ece
16 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District reports 21 cases in 48 hours||The cumulative COVID-19 tally has crossed the 60,000-mark in Visakhapatnam district, after 21 new infections were reported in the last 48 hours. As on Friday, the tally stands at 60,009, according to the bulletin. The last 10,000 COVID-19 cases were reported in about 110 odd days. According to the officials, between January 13 and January 14, nine cases and a death was reported in the district. From January 14 to January 15, 12 new infections and no deaths were reported. As many as 35 persons have recovered from the virus in the last two days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-reports-21-cases-in-48-hours/article33585440.ece
16 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bouddha Mela draws huge crowd at Bojjannakonda||The Buddhist heritage site at Bojjannakonda wore a festive look as a huge crowd thronged the place to participate in the annual Bouddha Mela, which is celebrated on Kanuma, which falls a day after Sankranti. The festival was organised by the Visakha Bouddha Sanghala Samakhya and Siddhartha Social Services and Cultural Association, Anakapalle. A peace rally was taken out by Buddhist Bikshus, members of various Buddhist organisations and followers to the Buddhist Stupa in a cave on the hill. They offered prayers at the stupa. Later a meeting was held downhill in which the Buddhist spiritual leaders and guests spoke on the significance of the Bouddha Mela. Buddanta Gyandeep Mahatero (Nagpur) spoke on the eight-fold path shown by the Buddha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bouddha-mela-draws-huge-crowd-at-bojjannakonda/article33585395.ece
16 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman found dead||A 21-year-old woman allegedly ended her life by hanging herself from the ceiling fan at Cheedimetta village in Paderu mandal in Visakhapatnam district in the early hours of January 14. According to reports, one Padma Kumari reportedly had been in live-in relationship with one Ramanna for the past eight months. Those who are in distress can contact police helpline No. 100.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-found-dead/article33585441.ece
16 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Youth drowns at Chaparai waterfalls||A 22-year-old youth allegedly drowned at Chaparai waterfalls in Dumbriguda mandal in Visakhapatnam district on Friday. According to police, the youth who hailed from Vijayawada had come to Chaparai waterfalls as part of Araku trip along with his family members on Friday. He along with some of his family members reportedly went for swimming, when the youth drowned. His body was fished out from the water. More details are yet to be ascertained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/youth-drowns-at-chaparai-waterfalls/article33585442.ece
16 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Beach Control Room rescues four missing children||On Sunday, the all-women police team at the Beach Control Room rescued four children, who had gone missing at RK Beach, and handed them over to their parents, said Police Commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha. Being festival and weekend, there was huge crowd at beach and the four children who had gone missing, were all below 10 years. After receiving the complaint, the police team at the control room rescued them, said a woman constable. Durga Prasad, father of Venkat Gyandeep (4), who had gone missing, said that his son was traced within 20 minutes, after he lodged a complaint at the Control Room. He said that the constables and staff were very cordial.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/beach-control-room-rescues-four-missing-children/article33585445.ece
16 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Sankranti Utsavam’ at Novotel||Novotel Varun Beach has been conducting ‘Sankranti Utsavam’, a four-day feast, at The Square, the hotel’s all-day dining outlet, from January 14th to 17th. The feast will be on from 7.30 p.m. to 11.30 p.m. on January 16 and from 12.p.m. to 4.30 p.m. on January 17.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sankranti-utsavam-at-novotel/article33585437.ece
16 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man dies as car rams bus stop||A 35-year-old man died after the car in which he was travelling reportedly hit a bus stop on NH-16 at Kasimkota in Visakhapatnam district, on Friday early morning. The deceased was identified Tarun Kumar, a resident of Duvvada area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-dies-as-car-rams-bus-stop/article33585439.ece
16 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||ENC chief reviews operational preparedness of Eastern Fleet||Vice Admiral Atul Kumar Jain, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief of Eastern Naval Command (ENC), reviewed the operational preparedness and combat readiness of Eastern Fleet at sea over the last four days. In total, 22 ships of the Eastern Fleet participated in the operational readiness inspection. The ENC chief embarked on various Fleet ships to witness their readiness first hand and also interacted with the men onboard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/enc-chief-reviews-operational-preparedness-of-eastern-fleet/article33585444.ece
16 January 2021||January 16 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Far from an intriguing thriller||Cinematic stories of lookalikes follow a few tried and tested tropes. Red , starring Ram Pothineni in a dual role and directed by Kishore Tirumala, uses some of these tropes until a point and then the game begins to shift, paving way for an investigative thriller. Red is a remake of the 2019 Tamil film Thadam , which was written by Magizh Tirumeni based on a few true but implausible real-life incidents. We think we know how such stories and characterisations go — one is suave with a respectable work profile while the other is rugged and gambles away. When there’s a crime and both end up as suspects, we think we know who might have done it; but wait, it isn’t that simple.  Thadam was built on an interesting premise and Red adheres to it largely. But it also puts forth a slightly ‘mass’ version of the original, in an effort to pander to the image that Ram has after iSmart Shankar . An item number is thrown in, every emotion is emphasised and everything is over explained. Ram handles the two roles effectively — civil engineer Siddharth and Aditya, who knows a thing or two about con jobs as well as matters of law! But the biggest dampener in both Thadam and Red is the time taken to establish the two characters, their respective romances and thereafter juxtapose the two men in a stiff whodunnit. Sure, the romances show us what sort of men they are — for instance, Aditya draws boundaries of whom and when he will con and that Siddharth lives up to the trust placed in him. But the romances aren’t interesting enough to keep us invested in the proceedings. Both Malvika Sharma and Amritha Aiyer have nothing much to do, and try to make their parts seem convincing enough. The film gathers momentum only at the pre-interval stage when police officers Nagendra Kumar (Sampath Raj) and Yamini (Nivetha Pethuraj) step in. The film’s high point is when Siddharth and Aditya clash in the police station and make it amply evident that there’s a past between them. Moments after this, someone underlines this point about them being at loggerheads owing to a past - as though viewers won’t interpret this much!   Red is intriguing in parts; it could have been a better thriller had it been more consistent and, of course, concise.  Red   Cast: Ram Pothineni, Nivetha Pethuraj, Malvika Sharma, Amritha Aiyer  Direction: Kishore Tirumala   Music: Mani Sharma||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/far-from-an-intriguing-thriller/article33585348.ece
16 January 2021||January 16 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Not quite ‘adhurs’||Despite an unsuccessful formula, some directors tread the same path. Director Santosh Srinivas does exactly that with Alludu Adurs. While in Class IX, Sai Sreenivas (Bellamkonda Sai Sreenivas) falls in love with his classmate Vasundhara (Anu Emmanuel) but she doesn’t reciprocate as she feels, “Love is magic for you but it is tragic for me. I like you but I don’t love you.” Thereafter, he develops an aversion towards women and vows never to fall in love. In some moments we see him stalk Vasundhara’s younger sister Kaumudi (Nabha Natesh). The girl’s father Jaipal Reddy (Prakash Raj) refuses the alliance and tells Sai Sreenivas that the latter is being stalked by death and Gaja (Sonu Sood) is death personified. Why is Gaja, just out of prison, baying for Sai’s blood and why is Sai extending him an olive branch without putting up a fight? The rest of the story also deals with the Jaipal Reddy-Gaja relationship. The writer has weaved multiple sub-plots to fill the two-and-a-half-hour slot. The story appears tailor-made for the front-benchers and one feels a sense of deja vu at the comedy. There is an entire episode on the house being possessed by the ghost of Vasundhara, and it is a blunder to reveal in the beginning that she isn’t dead but has been saved by Sai at the last minute. While actor Anish Kuruvilla looks comfortable in his role, Hari Teja’s character as a stereotyped maid, lends no value to the script. The music is a saving grace and manages to stand out despite the screenplay. Nabha Natesh gets to do an extension of the iSmart Shankar act. Sai Sreenivas has worked hard on his looks, styling and also performance and shines through an otherwise lacklustre script. Monal Gajjar shines through her much-hyped item song and Sonu Sood, with a meaty role, steps in the second half and blends into the comic portrayal swiftly. A couple of cringe-worthy dialogues have escaped the Censor’s notice or has it been done deliberately? There are actors like Prakash Raj, Satya, Brahmaji in the film but none of the roles are noteworthy.This is just a regular mass movie that one forgets the moment you step out of the theatre. The scenes worth watching are in the song that has been shot in the snow-filled Pahalgam.   Alludu Adhurs Cast: Sai Sreenivas, Nabha Natesh Direction: Santosh Srinivas  Music: Devi Sri Prasad||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/not-quite-adhurs/article33585432.ece
16 January 2021||January 16 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||A bittersweet tech story||The Telugu feature film Mail , now streaming on Aha, is another reminder that there is no dearth of close-to-reality stories. Director Uday Gurrala ushers us into Kambalapally village in Mahabubabad district, Telangana, and captures people as they are, slowly unravelling their day-to-day lives and aspirations. Yet again, we have Venkatesh Maha (of Care of Kancharapalem ) and Malayalam cinema to thank for encouraging more Telugu filmmakers to narrate stories that reflect region-specific ethos. After the recent Middle Class Melodies , this is another film that tries to keep things realistic and endearing. It looks like a simple story but has enough scope to show how people can use anything new as a tool of power to enforce a social hierarchy, or worse, take the gullible for a ride. In the late 90s, the clunky personal computer and printer were prized possessions. Computer labs in schools and colleges were sanitised spaces — footwear at the door, and the PC was handled with trepidation and reverence. Internet penetration in rural pockets took time. Uday incorporates these nuances into this story set in Kambalapally in the mid 2000s. Ravi Kumar (Harshith Malgireddy) eyes the monitor, keyboard, CPU and the UPS with awe when he goes to check his high school board examination results. Back then, those who knew to operate the PC considered themselves higher than those who don’t. The first half hour establishes the aspirational value of a computer course for a rural 18-year-old. For other folks, like Ravi’s father who toils in the fields, the computer is mysterious and unaffordable. Ravi is wide-eyed in admiration when Hybath (Priyadarshi) opens a cyber gaming centre. Kamran’s background music equates Ravi’s yearning for the PC to a romance. A little later, Ravi falls in love with Roja (Gouri Priya), a fellow student. Had there been a contest between the computer and Gouri to win Ravi’s attention, it might have been a tough call! The process of Ravi learning to use a computer, from Hybath, follows a wicked gurukul pattern. Ravi borrows money to buy liquor for Hybath and in turn, uses the PC. Harshith is a delight to watch as the innocent and enthusiastic teen; Gouri as Roja and Mani as the friend Subbu perfectly fit into the film’s world. Priyadarshi is effective as the smug Hybath and this is another credible addition to his repertoire. Sweekar Agasthi, who has emerged as the go-to composer for those who want to narrate rooted stories, delivers again.Uday also handles the cinematography along with Shyam Dupati. and presents Mail in a documentary fashion.  (For the longer review, check www.thehindu.com )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-bittersweet-tech-story/article33585346.ece
16 January 2021||January 16 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Political conspiracy behind desecration’||In one such offence which took place on September 12, 2020, the police charged four persons belonging to TDP and BJP at Rajahmundry Urban, with indulging in alleged false propaganda that idols of Vinayaka at a temple under Bommuru police station had been desecrated. Investigation revealed that the idols had actually been given a coat of paint. In another instance, a TDP sympathiser, Bojjana Subba Reddy, allegedly desecrated an idol at the Anjaneya Swamy temple in Gadvel in Kadapa district in a bid to divert attention over sale of his land by his father. Security at temples In another related offence, six persons, including some media personnel, were arrested in Prakasam district on charges of allegedly desecrating idols in temples and later indulging in false propaganda. The DGP also gave details of the steps being taken for enhancing security at temples. The police either facilitated or they themselves got installed 44,521 cameras in 13,296 temples. The police also bound over 4,643 persons involved in such offences besides establishing 18,050 village defence squads. A phone number was made available to people to register any complaints over temple attacks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/political-conspiracy-behind-desecration/article33585350.ece
16 January 2021||January 16 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Celebration soars||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/celebration-soars/article33585362.ece
16 January 2021||January 16 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Misty morning harvest||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/misty-morning-harvest/article33585430.ece
16 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Voter strength crosses the 3 crore mark in Telangana||The number of electors in the State has crossed the three crore mark reaching 3,01,65,569. Of the total voters, 1.51 crore are male, 1.50 crore are female and 1,628 are third gender. The fresh list comprises voters in 34,708 polling stations. Voters are spread across 119 constituencies in 31 districts of the State. The Chief Electoral Officer’s office released the final list of voters on Friday, after completing the summary revision of electoral rolls that started in November last year. As many as 2,82,497 new voters were added to the list while 1,72,255 names had been deleted on account of double entries, shifting of houses and other reasons. Hyderabad district with 43.11 lakh voters had the highest number of voters followed by Rangareddy (30.97 lakh) and Medchal-Malkajgiri (25.40 lakh). Nalgonda with 13.54 lakh voters, Nizamabad (13.11 lakh), Sangareddy (12.19 lakh) and Khammam (11.29 lakh) too registered voters in excess of 10 lakh. Mulugu district with 2.14 lakh voters, Wanaparthy a shade higher at 2.47 lakh voters and Jayashankar Bhupalpally with 2.64 lakh voters had the least number of electors, according to the fresh list released by the election authority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/voter-strength-crosses-the-3-crore-mark-in-telangana/article33584811.ece
16 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||No choice between vaccines for recipients||The recipients of COVID-19 vaccine will not have a say with regard to the two choices — Covishield and Covaxin — but they will have to sign a consent form if they are administered the latter. This was informed by Director of Medical Education K. Ramesh Reddy and Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao at a press conference in the city on Friday. They said distribution of brands to vaccination centres was dependent on their geographical location and operations internal to Health department. So, the recipients will have to accept whatever vaccine comes their way. They will be given the second dose of the same brand after a gap of 28 days. Both vaccines are same in nature. They, however, insisted that the acceptance of vaccine was totally voluntary. Apprehensions allayed The senior officials allayed apprehensions about adverse reactions to vaccines, stating that inherently there could be mild fever, redness around the injected area and pain in the hand where the shot is given. But, they were all indications that the vaccine is working, they claimed. The vaccination will result in development of anti-bodies which kill the virus and break its cycle. This has been the experience from vaccination against swine flu. Now, there are no swine flu cases in the State, Dr. Ramesh Reddy said. ‘No adverse reaction’ He added that there are no cases of death or serious adverse reactions due to COVID vaccination anywhere in the world. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan will inaugurate the vaccination drive at Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences at 11.30 a.m. and Health Minister Eatala Rajender will do the honours at the Gandhi Hospital. Ministers, MPs and legislators will also be involved in the programme in their respective districts. An indelible mark will be put on the thumb of the recipients to aid in identification during the second dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-choice-between-vaccines-for-recipients/article33585058.ece
16 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BDL signs pact with Thales to make STARStreak Missile Systems||City-based Bharat Dynamics Limited (BDL) under the Ministry of Defence and Thales have signed a ‘Teaming Agreement’ to work in partnership on the ‘STARStreak Air Defence system' with the support of both the governments of India and the United Kingdom. The system is to be developed under the ‘Make in India’ programmes. The ‘STARStreak Missile System’ is in service in the British Army and has been procured by defence forces worldwide. It is touted to be the fastest missile in its category and the missile system is unique due to its three laser-guided darts, which cannot be jammed by any known countermeasure. The system also has the capability to defeat any air target – even armoured helicopters – as the last line of defence, said an official spokesman. Industrial cooperation The agreement between BDL and Thales also presents an opportunity for industrial cooperation between both countries to facilitate closer collaboration and co-development between industries on either side. “This partnership between Thales and BDL Transfer of Technology for ‘STARStreak’ will create a new business opportunity for us and our supply chain partners in the country. BDL will be able to enhance its footprints in the export market in addition to the domestic market with the new business opportunity,” said chairman & managing director Commodore Siddharth Mishra (retd) on Friday. The government's ‘Make in India’ programme, ‘ease of doing business’ and recent ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ initiatives have created a congenial ecosystem for foreign original equipment manufacturers to tie up with Indian companies like BDL to establish the production facility here, he said. Thales UK CEO Alex Cresswell said the partnership pact between both firms is a ‘significant milestone.’ He said the company is looking forward towards developing a close working relationship. The new air defence system to be manufactured by the BDL will be exported to various countries, including the UK. It will also benefit Thales business in Belfast in Northern Ireland for the strong supply chain of UK's small and medium enterprises and for its teams in India.  The system also has the capability to defeat any air target – even armoured helicopters – as the last line of defence. Spokesperson||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bdl-signs-pact-with-thales-to-make-starstreak-missile-systems/article33585140.ece
16 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Eatala seeks public support for COVID vaccination drive||Health Minister Eatala Rajender on Friday has said the COVID-19 vaccine is safe and that since he is the ‘captain’ of the Health department, he would take the vaccine first as a measure to build confidence among citizens. Addressing mediapersons, the Minister encouraged the people to cooperate in the vaccination drive. Answering questions on the efficacy and trials conducted among vaccine candidates, he said the Drugs Controller General of India has looked into the matter. He added that stage three trials of Covaxin are under way at the Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences. The vaccine will be administered in a phased manner starting with health workers, frontline warriors, those with co-morbidities, and those above 50 years of age. The vaccine roll-out and administering will be done per the guidelines issues by the Centre and Indian Council of Medical Research. Mr Rajender said all measures, including security, are in place for a smooth vaccination drive. The Health Minister along with Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, Health Secretary S.A. M. Rizvi and Director of Medical Education Ramesh Reddy will be presenr at the Gandhi Hospital on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/eatala-seeks-public-support-for-covid-vaccination-drive/article33585104.ece
16 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||AFA to celebrate its golden jubilee today||Air Force Academy (AFA), Dundigal, will celebrate its golden jubilee on Saturday. “AFA has been rendering yeoman’s service ever since its inception by training and commissioning brave and distinguished officers of the IAF from its famed portals,” an official release said. To commemorate the occasion, several events including golden jubilee marathon, Academy Utsav, blood donation camp and activities by Air Force Wives’ Welfare Association have been planned. The celebrations will culminate on January 19 with a training workshop and the release of Indian Postal Department special cover by Air Chief Marshal R.K.S. Bhadauria, chief of the Air Staff. The foundation stone of the AFA was laid by Zakir Hussain, the then President of India on October 11, 1967. On January 16, 1971, Kasu Brahmananda Reddy, former Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh, inaugurated the Academy. During its 50 glorious years, Air Force Academy, the ‘alma mater of all officers’ of IAF has evolved progressively to become a world-class academy to train Air Force officers. “AFA has always ensured highest standards of training being imparted to the commissioned officers to take on their future assignments and challenges unstintingly, with the ultimate aim of safeguarding the safety, integrity and sovereignty of the country,” the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/afa-to-celebrate-its-golden-jubilee-today/article33585098.ece
16 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Find AI-based solutions for agri’||A challenge called Innovation Factory to identify innovative Artificial Intelligence (AI) solutions for agriculture has been launched by IT industry body Nasscom in collaboration with Telangana AI Mission (T-AIM). It is an opportunity for innovators to assist Telangana government in helping farmers increase their income by devising AI-based solutions in three selected use-cases. They are precision farming for improving yields; real-time price discovery and volume management and e-marketplaces; and farmer lending using farm/output-backed credit risk assessment. A release from Nasscom on Friday said the contest, initiated with an intent of sourcing best in class AI solutions in agritech, is open to startups as well as companies and institutions operating within India. Each team will get six weeks to work on the use-case. The teams will be judged based on approach, technique and result. January 24 is the last date to register and the winner will be announced on March 30. The winner will receive Rs. 1 lakh prize money and the runner-up Rs. 50,000 per use-case. The innovators will also be able to showcase their AI solution development capabilities at a larger scale and avail an opportunity to implement a pilot project within Telangana, with mentorship support from the State government entities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/find-ai-based-solutions-for-agri/article33585107.ece
16 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Governor to launch Saksham 2021 today||Governor Dr. Tamilisai Soundararajan will address a webinar on Saturday to mark the inauguration of Saksham (Sanrakshan Kshamata Mahotsav) 2021 oil conservation campaign in Telangana. A nationwide initiative, Saksham 2021 will be held from January 16-February 15. The campaign, consisting of various programmes, is being organised by Petroleum Conservation Research Association (PCRA), Union Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas to sensitise people about conservation and efficient use of petroleum products for better health and environment. National oil marketing companies Hindustan Petroleum Corporation (HPCL), Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) and Bharat Petroleum Corporation (BPCL) and the country’s largest gas distribution company GAIL are supporting the programme. In Telangana, the programme is being presented by the State Level Coordinator (SLC) for oil industry. According to a release, the campaign is aimed at showing the way forward for making a change and enhancing the fuel conservation capabilities of people. It is to help understand the significance and need for fuel conservation and find solutions for adoption of green and clean energy. The campaign seeks to promote effective utilisation of petroleum products, something that will lead to environmental protection. It also aims at educating the masses on how efficient and optimal use of energy can protect health and environment. The webinar is scheduled at 9.30 a.m. The weblink is: https:// thehindutheme.zoom.us/webinar/register/WN_vxJmu7HeRvu6ylKK8aoURA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/governor-to-launch-saksham-2021-today/article33585109.ece
16 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Promised 20,000 KL water doesn’t come easy!||Many city residents expecting to avail themselves of the 20 kilo litres of free water supply right from the day the Minister had launched the scheme will be a disappointed lot. By the time the hurdles are cleared between them and the promised benefit, several of them are likely to lose the enthusiasm. Only metered domestic consumption will be considered for the scheme in areas other than slums, which would mean that the domestic users from multi-storeyed apartment complexes will have to wait till individual meters are fixed for each flat. Water board is yet to revise the list of empanelled agencies displayed on its website, so that the demand for meters can be matched with sufficient supply. “We will update the list of agencies within a week’s time, along with their contact numbers. Though a list already exists on the website for fresh connections, it needs to be updated with several more agencies to match the requirement,” said an official from the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board. Alternatively, the consumers may visit a supplier’s outlet within the premises of the Board’s headquarters in Khairatabad, and obtain the meter. Each meter with the parameters specified by the Board costs anywhere between Rs. 1,200 and Rs. 1,500. “Only when the receipt vouching the purchase is produced before the water board, will the consumer be enrolled for the scheme starting from that date,” informed the official. That is not the end of the story. Even where the meters are already existing, the customer will need to provide Aadhaar authentication to avail the scheme. The benefit may be denied to him based on discrepancies between how his name is spelt in the Customer Account Number of the water board and his Aadhaar card. Already, customers to whom the water board had sent the link for Aadhaar authentication are fuming over the issue. P.V.Siva Kumar, a resident of Banjara Hills, was denied the benefit, as his name as per the CAN had shortened initials, whereas his full name was mentioned in the UID. The authentication failed even after he had keyed in the One Time Password sent to his registered mobile. When Mr.Siva Kumar lodged a complaint to the water board through social media, the authorities responded asking him to visit the division office carrying six documents, including request letter, latest water bill, sale deed document, tax receipt or mutation certificate from the GHMC, an affidavit, and the identity proof, for the name to be changed in CAN. “I might be saving about Rs. 200 over the monthly water bill, which I would pay and be done with, rather than making rounds of the Board’s offices carrying so much documentary evidence,” says Mr. Siva Kumar. Perhaps that would work well for the Board too, as thousands of its genuine customers facing the same issue may follow suit instead of going through the bureaucratic rigmarole!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/promised-free-water-doesnt-come-easy/article33585094.ece
16 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Final electoral rolls published||GHMC has, through a press note, informed that the final electoral rolls of the 15 Assembly constituencies of the Hyderabad District have been published under the Special Summary Revision of the Electoral Rolls 2021. The list has been displayed at all prominent places including offices of the Deputy Commissioner or Electoral Registration Officer. They have also been uploaded in the Chief Electoral Officer’s website, for the voters to verify and submit claims and objections, the note said. As per the final rolls, there are a total of 43,11,803 voters in the 15 constituencies, of whom, 22,30,054 are male, 20,81,527 are female, and 222 are the third gender. Jubilee Hills has the maximum number of electors at over 3.68 lakh, while Charminar has the lowest number at 2.15 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/final-electoral-rolls-published/article33585113.ece
16 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||IICT inks pact with Mysore university||The Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT) here and University of Mysore have entered into a memorandum of understanding (MoU) for collaborative cooperation in identified areas of research of mutual interest. Through the MoU, both institutes will identify specific fields to conduct collaborative programs in student training, faculty exchange, sharing of instrumentation facilities and submission of joint projects. The pact will benefit students at both institutes and improve quality of research with exchange programmes to help understand region-specific issues, and develop distinct solutions. IICT director S. Chandrasekhar and Mysore University Vice-Chancellor G. Hemantha Kumar exchanged the documents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/iict-inks-pact-with-mysore-university/article33585096.ece
16 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Girl’s dream of meeting soldiers comes true||Most children of her age group are hooked to online games, but seven-year-old Nyorah Patra likes to keep herself busy with creative pursuits like painting and music. On Army Day on Friday, she got the golden opportunity to spend time with the soldiers of Indian Army. A soldier’s life inspires many, and for Nyorah, it wasn’t any different. She developed a connection with the Armed Forces while watching the Republic Day parade from her home in Hyderabad on a cold winter morning last year. By the time the bravery medals were awarded, her parents narrated the roles and responsibility of the armed forces and their sacrifices to protect the nation. In the flow of storytelling, her father pulled out a few videos from social media and explained the tough conditions that the Army operates in. Nyorah was enchanted by the selfless contribution of the forces and started dreaming of seeing herself in the uniform. She even started making several paintings on soldiers. Parents wrote to PM Amazed by her enthusiasm, her parents wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking a special visit for their daughter to any army establishment or for an invitation to attend either the Independent Day or Republic Day celebrations. To their surprise, they were contacted by the Prime Minister’s office, and after exchanging a few e-mails, a special arrangement was worked out — there was official confirmation to allow Nyorah to visit the Army establishment in Hyderabad. The little girl’s joy knew no bounds after her parents broke the news to her. A few days later, an Indian Artillery establishment from Golconda extended an invitation to Nyorah. As expected, she was wonder-struck at the sight of Army personnel at work and the visit left an indelible mark on her mind. Joy doubled It was later revealed that she might be one of the guests attending the Army Day and Army Veteran’s Day celebrations on January 15! “She was escorted by an officer of Colonel rank and two soldiers from her home, and taken to Veerula Sainik Smarak, the War Memorial in Secunderabad, where Major General RK Singh, General Officer Commanding, Telangana and Andhra Sub Area, and the veterans graciously received her which made her feel like a queen. She coyly thanked them as they interacted and took photos with her which made her day,” an official release said. Her parents, Varsha and Samir Patra, who moved back to India after a few years abroad to raise Nyorah in their homeland, believe that the experience of being invited to attend the Army Day and Veteran’s Day celebrations will leave a strong impression on her.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/girls-dream-of-meeting-soldiers-comes-true/article33585100.ece
16 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Student found dead||The body of a a 21-year-old engineering student was found on the railway track near the Hitec City railway station in the city on Friday, the police said. Tiff with brother According to Government Railway Police, Nampally, the victim, Karunakar Reddy, from Lingarajpalli village in Atmakur mandal of Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri district, committed suicide by jumping in front of a running train around 9 p.m. on Thursday. He was pursuing his engineering course in a college in Hyderabad, police said. “He came to the city from Lingarajpalli on Thursday evening, following a tiff with his elder brother over purchase of a laptop and resorted to the extreme step,” police said.  (There is always someone to listen at: +914066202000 or 6666 1117 in case of any emotional breakdowns at this Hyderabad-based suicide intervention centre Roshni)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/student-found-dead/article33585110.ece
16 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||MP seeks support for turmeric farmers||Member of Parliament from Nizamabad D. Aravind has urged the State government to send a proposal to the Central government to increase the support to the turmeric farmers under the market intervention scheme as the prevailing market price of Rs. 5,000-6000 is very low. In a memorandum to Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, whom he met at the BRKR Bhavan here on Friday, the BJP leader explained that Centre had already declared Jagtial and Nizamabad as turmeric export clusters and a spice board regional extension centre was also set up. The government here has to develop infrastructure using these schemes but all these steps would take some time to fructify and for the farmers to benefit from it so it was necessary to aid the farmers before the crop arrives into the market now. The Centre has already banned imports and had facilitated movement of four trainloads of turmeric to Bangladesh, he pointed out, according to a press release.  Centre declared Jagtial, Nizamabad as turmeric export clusters and a spice board regional extension centre was also set up. D Aravind, Member of Parliament.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mp-for-more-support-to-turmeric-ryots/article33585129.ece
16 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||202 new virus cases||The State on Thursday recorded 202 COVID-19 positive cases, pushing the total number of cases to over 2.91 lakh. According to the media bulletin on COVID-19 released by the office of the Director of Public Health and Family Welfare on Friday, two deaths were recorded, thus bringing the total number of fatalities to 1,574. The State tested fewer samples — just 19,898 — and 248 test reports are awaited. With low testing, Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation recorded 48 cases, followed by 15 in Rangareddy, 12 in Karimnagar, and 10 in Medchal-Malkajgiri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/202-new-virus-cases/article33585103.ece
16 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Three die in separate accidents||A playful evening ended tragically when an 44-year-old man flying a kite fell from the top of a building at Ashok Nagar in Chikkadpally here on Thursday. The victim, Bangaru Krishna, who owned a tent house, was also a local Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) leader. According to police, on the evening of Sankranti, Krishna along with a group of his friends went to the top of a three-storey building of his neighbour to fly kites. “While flying a kite he was too close to the edge of the terrace, lost balance and fell on the gate, which has iron spikes. The spikes pierced his chest, as a result he died on the spot,” Chikkadpally police said. Krishna’s body was handed over to family members after autopsy at Osmania General hospital morgue. At Jeedimetla, a 12-year-old boy was electrocuted while flying the kite on Friday morning. According to police, M Charit Kumar, a student of class VII, from Shapurnagar, was flying kites on his neighbour’s terrace when he came in contact with an iron water pipeline which was connected to the electric motor pump and was electrocuted. Electrocuted In another such incident at Nallavelli village in Yacharam mandal, 13-year-old K. Rakesh was electrocuted when the kite he was flying got entangled with an electric service cable outside his neighbour’s house. “He tried to remove the kite with iron and suffered electric shock, as a result he fell off the building and died on the spot. His sister Sony, who tried to rescue him also suffered burns,” police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/three-die-in-separate-accidents/article33585111.ece
16 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC dismisses plea to set aside land compensation||The Telangana High Court had dismissed a writ petition seeking to set aside a land acquisition award passed by State government relating to a 305-square yard plot in Nanakramguda of Serilingampally in Ranga Reddy district. A Bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice M.S. Ramachandra Rao had passed the order after the petitioner chose to withdraw the plea. A housewife from Bhadradri Kothagudem district G. Laxmi Kumari moved the High Court seeking to set aside the compensation awarded by government for acquiring her plot in Nanakramguda. She contended that government issued proceedings to acquire the plot for public purpose. However, the plot along with other pieces of land was eventually allotted to real estate developers for construction of private villas. The petitioner’s counsel told the court that she purchased the plot in 2003. The lawyer argued that without issuing any notice to the plot owner and conducting inquiry as per the Land Acquisition Rules, the government passed an award of compensation. This was illegal and violation of the constitutional provisions, the lawyer said. The award was liable to be set aside under Section 242 of the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition and Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act-2013. It was in violation of the law laid down by the SC in a case in 2020, the lawyer told the court. However, during presentation of arguments over maintainability of the plea, it was confirmed that while the government issued notification for acquiring the land on July 17, 2002, the petitioner purchased it on June 13, 2003. In this backdrop, the petitioner’s lawyer requested the Bench to permit withdrawal of petition while reserving the petitioner’s right to approach the authorities to verify the status of payment of compensation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-dismisses-writ-petition-to-set-aside-land-compensation/article33585127.ece
16 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Karimnagar Dairy filling station inaugurated||The Karimnagar Milk Producer Company Limited (Karimnagar Dairy) has now forayed into the marketing of petroleum products. Minister for Civil Supplies and BC Welfare Gangula Kamalakar along with Mayor Y. Sunil Rao, and Karimnagar Dairy chairman Ch Rajeshwara Rao formally inaugurated the Karimnagar Dairy Filling Station on the premises of the dairy at Padmanagar in Karimnagar town on Thursday. The state-of-the-art modern filling station had come up on the sprawling and spacious premises in collaboration with the Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited (HPCL). Quality products Speaking on the occasion, the Minister exuded confidence that Karimnagar Dairy would win over the confidence of vehicle owners by selling quality products. Hailing Karimnagar Dairy for emerging as the number one dairy in Telangana with the highest sale of over 2 lakh litres of milk per day, he said that the dairy was also promoting the brand image of Karimnagar town by selling pure and quality products to the utmost satisfaction of customers. Welfare schemes Mr. Kamalakar also appreciated the dairy for launching several innovative welfare schemes for over 70,000 milk producers and their family members and also milching animals. Mr. Sunil Rao was all praise for Mr. Rajeshwara Rao for making the dairy run in profits and benefit the farmers by introducing several reforms and welfare schemes. Farmers’ benefit Mr. Rajeshwara Rao said that the dairy’s sole motto was to provide quality products to customers and benefit farmers. He said that they had started selling fertilizers for farmers in rural areas. Managing director P. Shankar Reddy, advisor V. Hanumantha Reddy, directors Prabhakar Rao, Santh Prakash Reddy, Swamy Reddy, Sudhakar Rao, Venkat Reddy, and Limbadri, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/karimnagar-dairy-filling-station-inaugurated/article33585128.ece
16 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||9 IAS officers for TS cadre||Telangana has got nine new Indian Administrative Service officers of 2019 batch. They are among the 179 IAS officers allotted to 25 States by the Department of Personnel and Training of the Central government after induction training. Two of the officers — Manda Makaranda and B. Rahul — are natives of the State. The others are: Mayank Mittal, Abhishek Augustya, Apurv Chauhan, Ashwini Tanaji Wakade, Pratibha Singh, Praful Desai and P. Kadhiravan. Three officers of Telangana origin had been allotted to other States. These are: P. Dhatri Reddy (Odisha), Katti Ravi Teja and Banoth Mrugender Lal (both to Tamil Nadu). Likewise, eight officers of the 2019 batch were allocated to the neighbouring AP, according to a circular issued by DoPT to chief secretaries of all the States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nine-ias-officers-allotted-to-ts-cadre/article33585131.ece
16 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Madrasa-i-Aaliya to be razed to make way for a new building||The 1872-school for former royal children Madrasa-i-Aaliya is set to be razed to make for a new building. The old building now called Aliya High School for Boys has been abandoned in stages and only the library, Principal’s chamber and laboratory are functioning from the continental-style heritage building. “There have been a lot of rumours about a new building from the time parts of it were abandoned. But a few weeks ago, officials came and measured the building confirming our fears that this building will be demolished,” said a teachers’ union official when asked about the development. Every year, the school gets a notice from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation about the building’s stability. Two years ago, the high ceiling in the right wing of the building collapsed in a heap after the timber rafters gave way. ‘Building is strong’ “The building is strong. It’s built with granite blocks. The walls are nearly three-foot wide. Yes it is leaking in places, but that can be hopefully fixed easily. The new building can be built around this,” says Fareesa Asma, principal of the school, unsure about the fate of the building.Built at the turn of the 19th century with a mix of stone, bricks, steel and reinforced concrete it has Jack arch roof held up by massive steel girders. Now there is vegetal growth between the rocks and the fissures in the steel and concrete structure. The lack of maintenance, leakages and vegetal growth led to a situation where the rusting steel trusses are on the verge of collapse. The building is a listed Grade III heritage structure. Archival map “In conservation terms, the building’s condition is fair. It is not going to collapse anytime soon. It is structurally stable. Instead of demolishing the building, a new building can be constructed close by while carrying out conservation work on the heritage building,” says a heritage activist. An archival map with the school authorities shows that it was spread over 25 acres. “There was no road. This whole area was an educational complex that developed from this kernel,” says a school official showing the map. The Madrasa-i-Aaliya has a storied past whose students included the Nizam Osman Ali Khan, Maharaja Kishen Pershad, Pakistani cricketer Asif Iqbal as well as well as the author Raja Rao who spent 10 years between 1915 and 1925.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/madrasa-i-aaliya-to-be-razed/article33585112.ece
16 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TSPB for accurate data collection||Telangana State Planning Board vice-chairman B. Vinod Kumar has exhorted officials and staff of Bureau of Economics and Statistics to ensure accurate collection of statistics relating to socio-economic and other parameters as they will help the government prepare plans and prioritise welfare and development of different sections. Officials must ensure information is collected from village to State level with accuracy to guide different departments in effectively implementing schemes under their purview.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tspb-for-accurate-data-collection/article33585101.ece
16 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CS to head monitoring committee on PMSVANidhi||The State government has constituted a state-level monitoring committee to overlook the progress of socio-economic profiling of beneficiaries under the Prime Minister’s Street Vendors’ AtmaNirbhar Nidhi scheme. The committee will be headed by the Chief Secretary and Mission Director of MEPMA would be its convenor. The committee will have principal secretaries of Finance, Civil Supplies, Labour, Municipal Administration, Health and Women & Child Welfare as its members. The committee has been constituted to monitor the socio-economic profiling of the PMSVANidhi beneficiaries and their families in the nine selected urban local bodies in the State. The objective was to assess the potential eligibility of the beneficiaries and their families for various Central schemes and facilitate their linkages to these schemes. The constitution of the committee follows a request made by the MEPMA Mission Director and this would also help the States, if they deemed fit, to extend their state specific welfare schemes and benefits of the eligible PMSVANidhi beneficiaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cs-to-head-committee-on-pmsvanidhi/article33585130.ece
16 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Air show-cum-para motor championship (with photo)||A five-day air show-cum-para motor championship began in Mahbubnagar on Wednesday. Para motor pilots from ten States are participating in the event. Hot air balloons, sky diving and remote para motors attracted the audience. The winners in the championship will qualify for international para motor championship in Thailand. Tourism and Sports Minister V. Srinivas Goud, who inaugurated the championship, said on the occasion that the first of its kind aero sports-para motor adventure training centre will be set up in Mahbubnagar. Collector S. Venkat Rao, Additional Collector Tejas Nandlal Pawar and Municipal Chairman K.C. Narasimhulu were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/air-show-cum-para-motor-championship-with-photo/article33585402.ece
16 January 2021||Khammam,TELANGANA||BRF||The Rythu Sangeebhava Samithi representing people from various walks of life has decided to organise a 5-km human chain here on January 17 in support of the ongoing agitation by farmers on the borders of New Delhi demanding scrapping of the Centre’s new farm laws. The Samithi has launched a social media campaign urging people from all sections of society to actively participate in the human chain slated to be held here on Sunday. The organisers have chalked out an elaborate plan to organise the chain from Mayuri Centre to Yellandu crossroads at 10 a.m. on Sunday. Several organisations representing farmers, students, intellectuals and others will extend support.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brf/article33585134.ece
16 January 2021||MEDAK,TELANGANA||Army Day observed||In a responsible gesture, members of New Sadhan Youth Association of Kurthivada in Papannapet mandal felicitated three jawans on the occasion of Army Day. K. Anjaneyulu, Md. Hasnoddin, Ch Jeevan Goud and S Nagaraju, all Army jawans, were felicitated in the village by the youth. Kurthivada sarpanch K. Sravanthi Srinivas, Mandal Parishad Territorial Constituency (MPTC) Ramesh Goud, and Youth Association president Srikanth participated in the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/army-day-observed/article33585400.ece
16 January 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Nalgonda sheep re-launch venue for Sagar by-poll: BJP||BJP leaders in the district concluded on Friday that Nalgonda was chosen as the venue for the re-launch of sheep distribution scheme, which would be attended by several Ministers, including IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao, because of the soon-to-be-held by-poll in Nagarjunasagar Assembly constituency. Along with Minister for Animal Husbandry T. Srinivas Yadav and Energy Minister G. Jagadish Reddy, Mr. Rao would distribute sheep units to Golla-Kuruma beneficiaries at the Gandhamvarigudem sweet lime market yard in the town on Saturday. “It is timed with the Sagar by-poll. What happened to CM KCR’s Nalgonda adoption plan? Their whole scheme is to mislead people,” BJP State secretary M. Srinivas Goud said. Speaking to the media on Friday, he said that constituencies like Sircilla were on development path while Nalgonda has been neglected. “If KTR promises to make Nalgonda an IT hub, that promise should be kept by related works within six months,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nalgonda-sheep-re-launch-venue-for-sagar-by-poll-says-bjp-leader/article33585125.ece
16 January 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Woman ryots urged to become micro-entrepreneurs||Director General of the National Institute for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (NI-MSME) Glory Swaroopa called upon women members of the Deccan Development Society (DDS) to become micro entrepreneurs to ensure that more people can access their produce. Participating as chief guest at the inauguration of the month-long bio-diversity festival at Shamshallapur village in Nyalakal mandal in the district on Thursday, Ms. Swaroopa said, “To me this festival appears to be a revolution. In my 20 years of experience, I have never come across such farming and women farmers who are so committed to their traditional practices. Zaheerabad Agenda needs to be an ideal document at the nation-level. Products of the Sangham women need to reach a larger audience and there is a need for encouraging micro enterprise for that. We are ready to extend all support from NI-MSME to the DDS Sangham women.” The 21st Mobile Biodiversity Festival will travel to 23 villages before it concludes on February 15 at Machnoor. Director of DDS P.V. Satheesh said that the festival was a way to re-inculcate confidence among farmers that whatever is being followed is the way forward. “Twenty years ago, I was told that our idea of farming is going to be outdated and that the entire country is going with use of chemical fertilisers. As the years pass, we realised and conveyed to the communities around us that millets are not going to be affected by climate change. Whatever was not welcome back then is now being looked-up to and is in demand, the reason being the Millet Movement. Amidst the pandemic, the movement continued and I extend my sincere gratitude to all the sangham women who didn’t lose hope and faith in their beliefs and practices and took it forward. The fact that all of us pulled off millet farming even when the mobility was halted shows the value it is giving to the farmer.” The festival looks like a ‘riot of colours’, he added. “The women of this region are celebrating this festival overcoming all differences. They are the real catalysts and examples of redefining agriculture and climate change. The festival marks the value and importance of seeds. Your driving force is the reason behind national and international accolades,” co-director of DDS Jayasri Cherukuri said. Director General of MANAGE and NIPHM Chandra Shekara elaborating on the agrarian crisis said everyday 2,409 farmers are leaving their land and migrating to cities for work, which is an alarming issue for the present day. Director of Grameena Resource Centre Rukmini and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/woman-ryots-urged-to-become-micro-entrepreneurs/article33585133.ece
16 January 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||‘Vacate villages only after getting rehabilitation’||BJP MLA from Dubbak M. Raghunandan Rao has assured Mallannasagar oustees that he would fight for their justice. He has suggested the villagers to vacate only after getting rehabilitation benefits. Mr. Rao interacted with the oustees of Brahmana Banjerpally in Toguta mandal on Friday and interacted with them for about four hours. He made it clear to them that only genuine oustees will get the benefits as per law and land should be on the name of the oustee. “I will make all efforts to see to it that those who crossed 18 years get compensation. Do not trust and vacate village based on the promises made by local leaders and officials. Make it clear to them that you will vacate only after keys of houses at Mutrajpally are handed over with water and power connections,” said Mr. Raghunandan Rao adding that plots were not allocated to the oustees of Lakshmapur who vacated the village about a year ago. BJP leaders Ch. Chandram, Vibhishan Reddy and others have participated in the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vacate-villages-only-after-getting-rehabilitation/article33585139.ece
16 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Pan masala firms serial tax defaulters’||Pan Masala companies have been found as the serial tax evaders in the Delhi, says a survey conducted by the Department of Trade and Taxes of Delhi government. During the December, 2020, the Anti Evasion Cell - 1 of State GST, Delhi has conducted 46 surveys on the premises of taxpayers of different natures such as pan masala/ gutka, craps and metals, hardware, etc. wherein the department has realised Rs. 5.41 crore tax and penalty from the taxpayers. It has also blocked Input Tax Credit of defaulter tax payers of Rs. 4 crore. During the search, some premises were sealed and prohibition order was also issued to the taxpayers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/pan-masala-firms-serial-tax-defaulters/article33584980.ece
16 January 2021||bhubaneswar,||Won’t take vaccine, say 15K Odisha healthcare workers||As Odisha government gears up for its mass vaccination programme from Saturday, about 15,000 health workers have threatened not to take the COVID-19 vaccine. Members of the Odisha State Male and Female Multipurpose Health Workers and Health Supervisors’ United Association alleged that they had been completely ignored in the matter of career progression. “The State government has given greater importance to doctors, clinical staff and staff nurses by effecting cadre-restructuring,” said Rabindra Nath Pradhan, General Secretary of Odisha State Male Multipurpose Health Workers’ Association. “All other government employees who joined at the same time have been given five to seven promotions. We have got only one,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/wont-take-vaccine-say-15k-odisha-healthcare-workers/article33585344.ece
16 January 2021||GURUGRAM,||‘Over 4 lakh migrants sent home during lockdown’||More than 4 lakh migrant workers and labourers were sent back to their home States in special trains and buses under “Operation Samvedna” during the lockdown in a joint operation with the civil administration, said Haryana Police on Friday. Giving this information in Chandigarh, Manoj Yadava, Director General of Police, Haryana, said all the stranded migrant labourers and workers were sent back by arranging special trains and buses during lockdown period last year under “Operation Samvedna” which was carried out by the CID.  100 special trains Mr. Yadava said that under the drive, migrants who expressed their willingness to return to their native States during COVID-induced lockdown were sent back. A total of 100 special trains and about 6,600 buses were arranged for safe and secure departure of over 3.20 lakh migrant labourers and more than 1.11 lakh brick kiln workers to their home States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/over-4-lakh-migrants-sent-home-during-lockdown/article33585340.ece
16 January 2021||JAIPUR,||Dalit groups seek quota in CM’s Jan Awas Yojana||Dalit groups here on Friday demanded 16% reservation for Scheduled Castes in the Chief Minister’s Jan Awas Yojana for economically weaker sections, while citing a recent instance of cancellation of allotment of a house to a Dalit woman. The allotment in Dausa district was cancelled despite the signing of sale deed and other formalities having been completed. The woman, Maya Devi, has alleged in her complaint lodged at Ashok Nagar police station here that the colonisation firm, which had built flats under the integrated housing scheme at Lalsot bypass road in Dausa, had cancelled her allotment when its officials came to know of her Dalit identity. “The board of directors decided in a meeting that my allotment should be cancelled, as the presence of my family in the residential colony would harm the firm’s reputation and desecrate the locality,” Ms. Devi said. Police registered a first information report against the firm’s office-bearers earlier this week. The Centre for Dalit Rights (CDR) and Rajasthan Valmiki Vikas Manch demanded immediate action in the matter, in addition to fixing a 16% quota for the SC communities in the housing scheme. “The mindset of builders is outrageous... They have brazenly flouted the norms of a government scheme launched for the benefit of the poor,” CDR chief patron P.L. Mimroth said. The FIR has been registered under the provisions of the Scheduled Castes & Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989, and the Protection of Civil Rights Act, 1955. Mr. Mimroth demanded arrest of the accused and measures for protection of the complainant and witnesses in the case. Valmiki Vikas Manch president Rakesh Valmiki said the State government should take up a study to find out how many plots, flats and houses had been denied to Dalits because of their caste.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/dalit-groups-seek-quota-in-cms-jan-awas-yojana/article33585343.ece
16 January 2021||Lucknow,||54 held in U.P. under conversion law so far||At least 91 persons have been booked and 54 arrested so far, an overwhelming number of them Muslims, under the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020. The most number of arrests have been made in Etah (14) followed by Sitapur (13), Mau (8), Gautam Buddha Nagar (4), Azamgarh (3) and Firozabad (3). In a counter affidavit submitted before the Allahabad High Court on January 4, a copy of which has been seen by The Hindu , the U.P. government said it had registered 16 cases under the new ordinance, booking 86 persons, of which 54 had been arrested while 31 others were yet to be arrested. The FIRs were spread across 14 districts of six administrative zones of the State. The other districts are Moradabad, Muzaffarnagar, Saharanpur, Bareilly, Kannauj, Hardoi, Bijnor and Shahjahanpur. In addition to these cases, an FIR was registered in Shahjahanpur on January 3 against five persons, including two Christians from Tamil Nadu and two local Dalits, on charges of allegedly trying to allure a Bajrang Dal convenor into conversion for jobs and free education for children. However, no arrests were made in the case. A look into these 17 cases shows that barring a Hindu driver in Sitapur, two Tamil Christians and three Hindus in Shahjahanpur, and seven persons with Hindu names accused of unlawful conversion in Gautam Buddha Nagar and Azamgarh, the rest of the accused are Muslims.  Charges dropped On January 7, more than a month after booking a Haridwar-based Muslim labourer under the new ordinance for allegedly trying to coerce and allure a married Hindu woman from Muzaffarnagar to convert, the Uttar Pradesh government told the Allahabad High Court that they found no evidence of unlawful conversion against him and have dropped the charges. However, the police filed a chargesheet under charges of criminal intimidation against him. The case had been connected to a petition filed in the High Court challenging the ordinance. When asked if there had been additions to the number of cases lodged under the ordinance since the filing of the counter affidavit on January 4, Additional Advocate General Manish Goyal said the counter reflected the status of the cases at the time it was filed. “Further progress might have taken place. Some other cases might have been filed after the filing of the counter,” he said, adding that he was unaware of any new cases. A petitioner, Saurabh Kumar, had prayed for the ordinance to be declared ultra vires saying it was “both morally and constitutionally repugnant”. Following this, the High Court issued a notice to the government and sought their response. The provisions giving State policing powers over a citizen’s choice of life partner or religion militate against the fundamental rights to individual autonomy, privacy, human dignity and personal liberty guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution, the petitioner submitted. In its response, the State government defended the ordinance and said it was safeguarding community interests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/54-held-in-up-under-conversion-law-so-far/article33585341.ece
16 January 2021||Mumbai,||PIL seeks FIR against Munde for cheating in nomination form||In what may bring more trouble for Maharashtra Social Justice and Special Assistance Minister Dhananjay Munde, a criminal public interest litigation (PIL) was filed before the Bombay High Court on Friday, alleging that he has committed the offence of cheating and violated provisions of the Representation of the People Act by submitting a nomination form concealing facts about his second marriage. Hemant Patil, a Right to Information activist, said in the plea, “Mr. Munde has admitted on a social media site that apart from his wife and two daughters, he has a relationship with another woman since 2003 and had two children — a daughter and son from her. This fact, the petition states, had not been disclosed by Mr. Munde in his election affidavit.” The PIL said, “Mr. Munde submitted a false and bogus affidavit, hiding the list of his spouses, i.e., one daughter and son from one Karuna Sharma and also criminal allegations against him.” On January 11, sister of Ms. Sharma filed a complaint against Mr. Munde alleging the offence of rape at Oshiwara police station. She stated in her complaint that she has known the Nationalist Congress Party leader from 1997. It added, “As per the conduct of Election Rules, 1961, candidates contesting elections are required to make a declaration of assets and liabilities, including that of spouse, candidate’s criminal antecedents, and educational qualification, in the affidavit in form 26.” ‘Suppressed facts’  The plea contended, “As per the facts and circumstances, Mr. Munde has suppressed facts and committed offences under Sections 193 (punishment of false evidence), 197 (issuing or signing false certificate, 200 (using as true such declaration knowing it to be false), 417 (punishment for cheating), 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) of the Indian Penal Code. It is just and necessary in the interest of justice and in public interest to admit this petition and register a FIR against the minister.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/pil-seeks-fir-against-munde-for-cheating-in-nomination-form/article33585258.ece
16 January 2021||Mumbai,||ED questions Khadse||Nationalist Congress Party leader Eknath Khadse was questioned for more than six hours by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) at its office on Friday in connection with a 2016 land deal. Mr. Khadse, who arrived at the ED office in south Mumbai’s Ballard Estate around 11 a.m. and left it around 5.30 p.m., told mediapersons that he was cooperating with the probe. He said, “They asked questions and I tried to give answers. Whatever documents or information they need, I will provide them, and will appear before them again whenever they ask.” The former minister’s daughter, Sharada Chaudhari, was also seen entering the office later. Personnel from the State Reserve Police Force and the Mumbai Police were deployed in large numbers outside the office and barricades were put up to prevent his supporters from gathering.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/ed-questions-khadse/article33585255.ece
16 January 2021||Mumbai,||Will await probe outcome: Pawar||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Friday said he has full faith in the Mumbai Police and its investigation into the allegations of rape against State Minister Dhananjay Munde. Mr. Pawar said, “Yesterday, I said it was a serious issue. But some facts were not in the public domain. I’ve learnt there were similar complaints against the woman by different political leaders. So it must be probed.” He said the party would take action against Mr. Munde based on the results of the probe. “I believe the matter should be thoroughly checked and nobody should face injustice,” Mr. Pawar said. On Thursday, BJP leader Krishna Hegde and Maharashtra Navnirman Sena leader Manish Dhuri said they have filed complaints against the same woman for allegedly trying to blackmail them. An ex-employee of Jet Airways also reportedly filed a similar complaint against her. On Thursday night, the NCP had held a meeting where it was unanimously decided not to sack Mr. Munde. The woman on Friday said she was stepping back from the issue. “So many people are coming together to prove I am wrong. It is me versus Maharashtra,” she said in a tweet in Hindi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/will-await-probe-outcome-pawar/article33585256.ece
16 January 2021||New Delhi,||Non-essential expenses of civic bodies may stop||The Delhi High Court on Friday hinted that it may stop all non-essential, discretionary expenses of the three municipal corporations, including perks of councillors and senior officers, so that salaries and pensions of COVID-19 front-line workers can be paid. A Bench of Justice Vipin Sanghi and Justice Rekha Palli directed the civic bodies to give details of expenses incurred on top officials. It said the payment of salaries of health workers, including doctors and nursing staff, and sanitation staff — who are at the frontlines during the current pandemic should be prioritised over other discretionary expenses. The court said “paucity of funds cannot be an excuse for non-payment of salaries and pensions” as these are fundamental rights. The court also expressed its disapproval over Delhi government’s decision to deduct from the amounts transferred to the corporations the loans given to them, saying even the Reserve Bank of India had imposed a moratorium on recall of loans and declaration of accounts as NPA by banks and financial institutions. The court will hear the case again on January 21. It was hearing several petitions claiming non-payment of salaries and pensions of serving and retired employees, including teachers, doctors and sanitation workers, of the three corporations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/non-essential-expenses-of-civic-bodies-may-stop/article33584956.ece
16 January 2021||New Delhi,||City records 295 new cases||The city witnessed 295 fresh COVID-19 cases in 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 6,31,884, stated a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Friday. Also, 10 more deaths have been reported in 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 10,732. A total of 66,921 tests were done in a day. Of the total cases, 6,18,357 people have recovered and there are 2,795 active cases. The positivity rate of COVID-19 cases was 0.44% on Friday and the overall positivity till now was 6.49%, as per the bulletin. “Well done Delhi! Delhi records the lowest number of Covid cases in the last 8 months. The positivity rate stands at an all-time low at 0.44%. With the resilience of the Delhiites, we are committed to fight and beat Corona [sic],” CM Arvind Kejriwal tweeted. Delhi government on Friday reduced the number of total beds reserved for COVID-19 in six government hospitals to 610 from existing 2,000. In another order, the government also reduced the number of beds in private hospitals reserved for COVID-19. There were 2,451 containment zones in the city as of Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/city-records-295-new-cases/article33584962.ece
16 January 2021||New Delhi,||Let us run civic bodies, AAP tells BJP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Friday said the BJP should resign from the municipal corporations and pass over their governance to them. “Despite knowing that the BJP-ruled civic bodies owe more than Rs. 6,000 crore to the Kejriwal govt., we have released Rs. 938 crores because we do not want the employees of civic bodies to suffer anymore,” said AAP leader Atishi said. She said in the last 15 years, the only work the BJP-ruled corporations have done is corruption. “They have not performed any of the duties, be it cleaning of the roads or the drains or to manage the sanitation, nothing has been done...,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/let-us-run-civic-bodies-aap-tells-bjp/article33584959.ece
16 January 2021||New Delhi,||Jatin- BJP brief||The BJP on the eve of COVID-19 vaccination drive in India, sought to express gratitude to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and those involved in the formulation of the vaccine here on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/jatin-bjp-brief/article33584960.ece
16 January 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra records 3,500 more recoveries||Maharashtra on Friday reported 3,500 COVID-19 recoveries and 3,145 fresh cases as the active case tally dipped to 52,152. While the total case tally has reached 19,84,768, the death toll has touched 50,336, with 45 more fatalities. The cumulative recoveries stand at 18,81,088. The State’s recovery rate is 94.78%, while the case fatality rate is 2.54%. “Of 1,36,84,589 laboratory samples tested so far, 19,84,768 (with the case positivity rate down to 14.50%) have returned positive, with over 61,000 samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate. 574 cases in Mumbai Pune reported over 550 new cases to take its tally to 3,81,204. Three deaths saw the death toll rise to 7,851. As per district administration figures, the active case tally stands at 5,370, while the recovery rate is 96.17%. Mumbai reported 574 new cases to take its case tally to 3,01,655, of which just 7,107 are active. Eight fatalities saw the city’s death toll reach 11,229. Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported nearly 300 new cases, taking its case tally to 1,31,447, of which 4,998 are active. Four deaths saw the total death toll reach 3,287. In western Maharashtra, Satara reported no deaths while 51 fresh cases saw the tally rise to 55,453, of which just 743 are active. Neighbouring Sangli reported 16 cases and a single death as the district’s case load reached 50,539, of which just 434 are active. Its death toll stands at 1,775. Kolhapur reported just 23 cases and two fatalities as its case tally reached 48,905, of which just 137 are active. The total death toll stands at 1,669. In north Maharashtra, Nashik reported more than 200 cases and six deaths as its case tally reached 118,740, of which 1,502 are active. Its death toll stands at 1,962. Jalgaon reported 76 new cases and no deaths as its case tally reached 56,915, of which only 624 are active. Its death toll stands at 1,465. A total of 2,24,851 people in the State are in home quarantine and 2,240 are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtra-records-3500-more-recoveries/article33585257.ece
16 January 2021||WILMINGTON,||Biden unveils $1.9 trillion relief package||President-elect Joe Biden has unveiled a $1.9 trillion coronavirus plan to end “a crisis of deep human suffering” by speeding up vaccines and pumping out financial help to those struggling with the pandemic’s prolonged economic fallout. Called the “American Rescue Plan,” the legislative proposal would meet Mr. Biden’s goal of administering 100 million vaccines by the 100th day of his administration, and advance his objective of reopening most schools by the spring. On a parallel track, it delivers another round of aid to stabilize the economy while the public health effort seeks the upper hand on the pandemic. “We not only have an economic imperative to act now — I believe we have a moral obligation,” Mr. Biden said in a nationwide address on Thursday. At the same time, he acknowledged that his plan “does not come cheaply.” Economic recovery Mr. Biden proposed $1,400 cheques for most Americans, which on top of $600 provided in the most recent COVID-19 Bill would bring the total to the $2,000 that Mr. Biden has called for. It would also extend a temporary boost in unemployment benefits and a moratorium on evictions and foreclosures through September. And it shoehorns in long-term Democratic policy aims such as increasing the minimum wage to $15 an hour, expanding paid leave for workers, and increasing tax credits for families with children. The last item would make it easier for women to go back to work, which in turn would help the economy recover. The political outlook for the legislation remained unclear. In a joint statement, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer praised Mr. Biden for including liberal priorities, saying they would move quickly to pass it after Mr. Biden takes office next Wednesday. But Democrats have narrow margins in both chambers of Congress, and Republicans will push back on issues that range from increasing the minimum wage to providing more money for States, while demanding inclusion of their priorities, such as liability protection for businesses. “Remember that a bipartisan $900 billion #COVID19 relief Bill became law just 18 days ago,” tweeted Senator John Cornyn, R-Texas. But Mr. Biden says that was only a down payment, and he promised more major legislation next month, focused on rebuilding the economy. “The crisis of deep human suffering is in plain sight, and there’s not time to waste,” Mr. Biden said. “We have to act and we have to act now.” Still, he sought to manage expectations. “We’re better equipped to do this than any nation in the world,” he said. “But even with all these small steps, it’s going to take time.” His relief Bill would be paid for with borrowed money, adding to trillions in debt the government has already incurred to confront the pandemic. Aides said Mr. Biden will make the case that the additional spending and borrowing is necessary to prevent the economy from sliding into an even deeper hole. Interest rates are low, making debt more manageable. Mr. Biden has long held that economic recovery is inextricably linked with controlling the coronavirus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-unveils-19-trillion-relief-package/article33584681.ece
16 January 2021||January 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Unveiled document highlights Trump’s mixed China legacy||The newly declassified 2018 Strategic Framework for the Indo-Pacific, made public by the Trump administration in its last week in office, underlines how prominently “strategic competition between the U.S. and China” set Washington’s regional policy over the past four years, and President Donald Trump’s mixed record in effectively addressing that challenge. Among the objectives outlined in the document are promoting American values throughout the region to “counterbalance” values being promoted by China, deterring China from using force or threats against U.S. allies and partners, and building a credible economic response and advancing “U.S. global economic leadership” to counter China’s influence and its projects such as the Belt and Road Initiative. China this week expectedly hit out at the document, saying it “proves the malign motives of the U.S. side to contain China”. Asked by State media specifically about its references to “protecting Taiwan and helping India contain China”, the Foreign Ministry spokesperson in Beijing, Zhao Lijian, dismissed the framework as “certain politicians on the U.S. side want[ing] to mark their legacy”, saying it “reeks of Cold War mentality” and “belongs to the dustbin of history”. The Trump administration certainly did achieve some of the outlined objectives, particularly in expanding security cooperation with India, Japan and Australia — or the “Quad”. However, its economic aspirations, as well as building a broader coalition to respond to China’s actions, remain, at best, works-in-progress. Mr. Trump’s inconsistent approach to many of America’s own allies and partners, particularly on the trade front, has been one major obstacle. Indeed, one of his first acts in office was to withdraw from the Trans-Pacific Partnership agreement, which would have created the world’s biggest trading bloc without China. The agreement was later concluded without the U.S. China-led trade bloc The end of his term, meanwhile, saw the China-backed Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) agreement come into force in November last year. This includes Japan, South Korea, Australia and New Zealand — four countries that the U.S. had hoped to align with to offer a robust economic regional response to China. The document notes China’s aims “to dissolve U.S. alliances and partnerships in the region” and “exploit vacuums and opportunities created by these diminished bonds”. Yet, one of the biggest criticisms of Mr. Trump’s foreign policy has been his hot-and-cold approach to allies, for instance, demanding South Korea pay more to maintain a U.S. military presence there. His successor, Joe Biden, has declared repairing alliances as one of his immediate priorities as well as a shift away from the messaging of “America First”. Unpredictable U.S. Wary of the unpredictability in Washington, countries including India and Japan moved to try and shore up relations with China. India in June 2017 proposed holding an “informal summit”, which it went ahead with in 2018 and 2019 despite a border crisis in Doklam erupting only days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi's proposal to Chinese President Xi Jinping. However, China’s own actions on several fronts, ultimately, would end up, more than anything else, help further some of the goals in the U.S. strategic vision, particularly in building security partnerships. Rather than look to “dissolve” U.S. partnerships as the framework had feared, Beijing’s actions, from the crisis sparked on the India border by its transgressions last year to renewed tensions in the Taiwan Straits and the South China Sea, only helped deepen them. Relations with India emerge as one major positive. The framework describes as one of its “desired end-states” the U.S. becoming India’s “preferred partner on security issues” — a trend that the past four years has certainly seen - as well as the two countries cooperating to counter Chinese influence in South and Southeast Asia — which, however, remains a work-in-progress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/unveiled-document-highlights-trumps-mixed-china-legacy/article33584679.ece
16 January 2021||HONG KONG,||Mounting pressure on China, U.S. blacklists Xiaomi, CNOOC||The U.S. government has blacklisted Chinese smartphone maker Xiaomi Corp. and China’s third-largest national oil company for alleged military links, heaping pressure on Beijing in President Donald Trump’s last week in office. The Department of Defense added nine companies to its list of Chinese firms with military links, including Xiaomi and state-owned plane manufacturer Commercial Aircraft Corp. of China (Comac). U.S. investors will have to divest their stakes in Chinese companies on the military list by November this year, according to an executive order signed by Mr. Trump last November. Xiaomi did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Xiaomi Corp. overtook Apple Inc. as the world’s No. 3 smartphone maker by sales in the third quarter of 2020, according to data by Gartner. Separately, the Commerce Department put China National Offshore Oil Corp. (CNOOC) on the entity list, an economic blacklist that forbids U.S. firms from exporting or transferring technology with the companies named unless permission has been obtained from the U.S. government. The move comes after about 60 Chinese companies were added to the list in December, including drone maker DJI and semiconductor firm SMIC. CNOOC has been involved in offshore drilling in the disputed waters South China Sea, where Beijing has overlapping territorial claims with other countries including Vietnam, the Philippines, Brunei, Taiwan, and Malaysia. “China’s reckless and belligerent actions in the South China Sea and its aggressive push to acquire sensitive intellectual property and technology for its militarisation efforts are a threat to U.S. national security and the security of the international community,” U.S. Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross said. “CNOOC acts as a bully for the People’s Liberation Army to intimidate China’s neighbours,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/mounting-pressure-on-china-us-blacklists-xiaomi-cnooc/article33584687.ece
16 January 2021||Kampala,||Uganda’s Bobi Wine rejects election results, claims victory||Ugandan opposition leader Bobi Wine on Friday claimed victory in the presidential election, rejecting as a “complete sham” early results that gave President Yoweri Museveni a wide lead. Mr. Wine said he felt under threat as soldiers surrounded his home on Friday evening after he alleged that Thursday's election was rigged and said “every legal option is on the table” to challenge the official results, including protests. He referred to himself as the “President-elect.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/ugandas-bobi-wine-rejects-election-results-claims-victory/article33584759.ece
16 January 2021||Washington,||‘U.S. rioters sought to assassinate lawmakers’||U.S. prosecutors now believe supporters of President Donald Trump planned to “capture and assassinate elected officials” in their siege of the Capitol building last week, according to a new court filing. The filing, submitted by Justice Department lawyers late on Thursday, sought the detention of Jacob Chansley of Arizona, the QAnon conspiracy theorist pictured in the riot dressed as a horned shaman at the desk of Vice- President Mike Pence. “Strong evidence, including Chansley’s own words and actions at the Capitol, supports that the intent of the Capitol rioters was to capture and assassinate elected officials in the U.S. government,” prosecutors said of the January 6 siege. They said Chansley, 33, left a note for Mr. Pence at the dais in the Senate Chamber, which read: “it’s only a matter of time, justice is coming.” The filing gives further insight into the FBI probe on the day of chaos at the Capitol, which left elected officials holed up fearing for their lives and at least five people dead. It comes as authorities lay charges against individuals involved in the riot, including a man who flew the confederate flag inside the building, a man who wore a “Camp Auschwitz” sweatshirt and a U.S. Olympic swimming gold medalist. Chansley is due to appear in court on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-rioters-sought-to-assassinate-lawmakers/article33584689.ece
16 January 2021||Beijing,||China puts 20,000 villagers in quarantine over virus risk||China has sent over 20,000 rural residents living in the epicentre of the country’s latest virus outbreak to state-run quarantine facilities, as Beijing on Friday reported the worst nationwide figures since March. The country had largely brought the virus under control after strict measures, including mass testing and travel restrictions. However, recent weeks have seen numbers climbing, especially in the north, prompting a fresh wave of lockdowns and restrictions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-puts-20000-villagers-in-quarantine-over-virus-risk/article33584682.ece
16 January 2021||Moscow,||After U.S., Russia pulls out of Open Skies treaty||Russia announced on Friday it was pulling out of the Open Skies treaty, saying that the pact, which allows unarmed surveillance flights over member countries, had been seriously compromised by the withdrawal of the United States. The move, announced by Russia’s Foreign Ministry, comes days before U.S. President-elect Joe Biden’s January 20 inauguration amid fears of a burgeoning arms race. Moscow’s last major nuclear arms pact with Washington is set to expire next month. The United States left the Open Skies arms control and verification treaty in November, accusing Russia of violating it, something Moscow denied. Russia said in a statement that Moscow had made specific proposals to other members to mitigate against the impact of the U.S. exit but that those proposals were not backed by Washington’s allies. Moscow will formally notify other member states about its exit once it has completed unspecified withdrawal procedures at home, it said. The exit process usually takes months to be finalised. Sharing of intelligence Russia has raised concerns that despite leaving the treaty Washington could potentially retain access to overflight intelligence gathered by allies who remain members in the treaty. The Kommersant newspaper reported earlier that Moscow had tried to get guarantees from other countries that they would not share such intelligence with the U.S. but had not been given any assurances. Arms control tensions have been rising between Moscow and Washington and New START, their last remaining major nuclear arms control treaty, is set to expire in February. Mr. Biden has said he’s keen to renew it but it remains unclear for how long.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/after-us-russia-pulls-out-of-open-skies-treaty/article33584683.ece
16 January 2021||Washington,||Trump to leave before Biden steps in||President Donald Trump will leave Washington next Wednesday morning, just before President-elect Joe Biden’s inauguration, to begin his post-presidential life in Florida. He will be sent off with a departure ceremony at Joint Base Andrews, according to a person who spoke on condition of anonymity. Officials are considering an elaborate event that would have the feel of a state visit, with a red carpet, colour guard, military band and 21-gun salute all being discussed. Mr. Trump is expected to remain in Florida with a small group of aides.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-to-leave-before-biden-steps-in/article33584763.ece
16 January 2021||Jakarta,||42 dead after powerful quake rocks Indonesia||A powerful earthquake rocked Indonesia’s Sulawesi island on Friday, killing at least 42 people, levelling a hospital and severely damaging other buildings, authorities said, as they warned there were people trapped beneath rubble. Hundreds were injured when the 6.2-magnitude quake struck the island, triggering panic among residents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/42-dead-after-powerful-quake-rocks-indonesia/article33584762.ece
16 January 2021||Kunduz,||9 security personnel killed in Afghan attacks||At least nine Afghan security personnel were killed when Taliban militants attacked two police checkpoints overnight in in a restive northern province, officials said on Friday. The militants launched simultaneous raids on the checkpoints in Kunduz, which left nine security personnel dead, Governor Abdul attar Mirzakwal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/9-security-personnel-killed-in-afghan-attacks/article33584684.ece
16 January 2021||THE HAGUE,||EU--Netherlands-Politics||Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte and his entire Cabinet resigned on Friday to take political responsibility for a scandal involving investigations into child welfare payments that wrongly labelled thousands of parents as fraudsters. The move was seen as largely symbolic as the government will remain in office until a new coalition is formed after a March 17 election in the Netherlands.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/eu-netherlands-politics/article33584761.ece
16 January 2021||Geneva,||UN rights body picks Fiji in first ever presidential vote||The UN Human Rights Council elected Fiji’s Ambassador as its 2021 President in an unprecedented secret ballot after a diplomatic stand-off blocked the usual consensus decision. Fiji's Ambassador in Geneva, Nazhat Shameem Khan, who served as the council's Vice-President in 2020 and is considered a rights champion, won with 29 out of 47 votes.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/un-rights-body-picks-fiji-in-first-ever-presidential-vote/article33584685.ece
16 January 2021||Kampala,||Uganda’s Bobi Wine rejects poll results, claims victory||Ugandan opposition presidential candidate Bobi Wine said on Friday the military had entered and “taken control” of his home and that he was “in serious trouble.” He tweeted the news just hours after he alleged that Thursday’s election was rigged. The election commission said longtime President Yoweri Museveni is leading over Mr. Wine based on results from half of polling stations.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/ugandas-bobi-wine-rejects-poll-results-claims-victory/article33584691.ece
16 January 2021||January 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Betrayed by blind faith||On the bitterly cold evening of January 3, when the skies of western Uttar Pradesh were a menacing grey, a middle-aged woman left her home in Kyawali village in Sahswan block of Budaun district to go to the Thakurji temple in the neighbouring village of Mevli, her mayka (mother’s village). She walked for 3 km through fields to reach the temple, surrounded on three sides by farmland and a god-fearing neighbourhood on the fourth. Given the inclement weather, she was in two minds whether or not to go, but the temple priest, Satyanarayan, had insisted over the phone that she come. The habitual visit ended in unspeakable tragedy, however. The woman, a mother of five, was dumped in front of her house in Kyawali at midnight by Satyanarayan and his two aides, Vedram and Jaspal. Her faith had been betrayed, her private parts oozed with blood, and her rib cage and left leg were fractured. Within minutes, the woman, an Anganwadi helper, died in the arms of her son and two minor daughters. The priest and his aides made a hasty retreat into the darkness and clambered into their SUV, the lights of which were turned off, before the children could confront them. Their father, who was tending to his ailing brother in the neighbourhood, rushed home, but by then, his wife had almost lost her battle with life. Had life not been snuffed out of her, the woman would have been contributing to the COVID-19 vaccination programme being rolled out today. The alleged gang rape and murder of the Anganwadi helper in a place of worship has, yet again, raised questions about women’s security in U.P. In October 2020, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath launched the Mission Shakti programme for the security of women. He promised that those committing crimes against women in U.P. would be punished swiftly. The three accused have been arrested, but accounts show that there were multiple lapses on the part of the administration in the investigation. Mediapersons reached the crime spot before the police did. Two police officials have been suspended so far. Delay in investigation The morning after the incident, when the woman’s family members gathered the courage to go to the police station in Ughaiti, merely 2.5 km away, they were told that the police were busy. By the time the police collected the woman’s body and took it to Budaun, 42 km from Ughaiti, it was evening. Curiously, the post-mortem started only on January 5 at 3 p.m., and was not videographed. It was only after the Chief Medical Officer confirmed injury to the private parts, signs of dragging, described the case as “prima facie a case of rape” and said that the woman had died of “excessive bleeding and trauma” that the administration woke up. The family was asked to give a written complaint and a First Information Report was lodged under Sections 376 (punishment for rape), 376D (punishment for gang rape) and 302 (punishment for murder) of the Indian Penal Code against the three accused. By then, at least 48 hours had passed from the time the crime took place. Till then, Satyanarayan kept telling the villagers and the local media that the victim had fallen into the dry well in the temple premises, and that he had responded to her cries. Everyone including the Station House Officer (SHO) of the Ughaiti police station, Raghvendra Pratap Singh (now suspended), and the local pradhan fed his version of the story to the senior officers in Budaun. By January 5 evening, Vedram and Jaspal were arrested, but Satyanarayan had quietly slipped away. It took the police another 48 hours to nab him. Surprisingly, he was found hiding in Mevli whereas four teams of the Budaun Police and the U.P. Special Task Force were looking for him in the neighbouring districts. Locals say that when mobile surveillance revealed Satyanarayan’s presence in the area, the message spread in the village that he must be handed over, else every household would be checked. “ ‘Lath bajega (everyone will be caned),’ said the officials on the ground. Policemen in civil clothes covered the entire village. Soon after the warning, those who were hiding the priest backed off. Within 10 minutes, Satyanarayan was nabbed in the fields just outside the residential areas of the Thakurs and Mauryas,” says a local, requesting anonymity. “The baba [as Satyanarayan is called in the village] was not a hardened criminal and could not have survived in the cold on his own,” he adds. There were other lapses too. The local media declared that the age of the victim was 50. Her Aadhaar card says she was 38 and the post-mortem report records her age as 40. Officials haven’t put her correct age on record. ‘The most industrious daughter’ Wailing in her rat-infested residence in Mevli, the mother of the victim describes her daughter as the most “industrious” of her four daughters. Her son-in-law, she says, is “moti buddhi (slow-witted)”. “ Wohi kamati, khawati thi (She was the one who used to earn and feed the family). She would buy me medicines and pass on her saris to me. She was helping me renovate this house,” she says, pointing at the tin-roofed residence that has an electricity meter firmly attached to the unplastered wall. The victim’s mother lost her husband early and single-handedly raised her four daughters. “Like me, she sent all her children to school. I could afford to educate her only until Class 9. She made sure that her two older daughters completed intermediate education. Her son is in the first year of graduation.” To those pointing fingers at her daughter’s character, she says they are undermining her struggle. “Do they mean I also ‘compromised’ to give my children whatever I could,” she asks. The mother says her daughter often visited the temple in the evening. “She knew she could stay back with me and return home the next morning to work. But on January 3, I had no idea that she was in the village,” she says. Early on Monday morning, she reached the temple premises soon after her son-in-law came and broke the news to her, she says. “The baba was sleeping on a cot. When my son-in-law woke him up, I saw that his clothes had bloodstains. I also saw my daughter’s shoe and the string of her petticoat lying in the room.” When they confronted Satyanarayan, she says he told them that the woman had fallen into the well and his clothes got stained while he was trying to pull her out. “He had no answer when asked why my daughter would undress herself and then fall into the well. Also, why would she go into that quarter, considering that it is nowhere close to where the idols are placed and secured by doors,” she asks. The mother says they wanted to take the priest  to Kyawali but the local pradhan refused as he felt that Satyanarayan would get beaten up by the villagers. “He promised us that he wouldn’t let the priest escape till the police came, but he didn’t stand by his promise,” she says. Suresh Shakya, the pradhan, denies that he helped the priest in finding refuge in the village or brokered any deal on behalf of the priest after the incident. “I had no role in the case. Let the police investigate,” he says. Death and the morning after In Kyawali, the Anganwadi helper’s son, aged 18, is struggling to come to terms with the death of his mother who was building their home brick by brick. A section of the roof is still covered by tarpaulin. One room was built by his mother under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojna and the rest was being built after selling half of the six bighas of land. It was the son who forced the administration to act when he spoke to the local media about the brutal treatment meted out to his mother. “We froze on seeing her that night. My father is not of much help, but on that day he was not home when the baba arrived with his aides,” he says. “I knew them all. The baba had visited us twice in the past. He told us she had fallen into the well. Vedram said my mother was lying outside the well when he reached the temple premises. Before I could say anything, they left. She was barely breathing. Her leg was twisted and she was bleeding only from her private parts. After a few minutes, my father came,” he recounts. He looked for the only phone that the family had, which his mother carried. “I found it in the clothes she was wearing. It was smashed. I approached a neighbour, borrowed his phone and called up my brother-in-law who lives in Palpur, 7-8 km from our village,” he says. The brother-in-law says he could go to the house only at around 4 a.m. the next morning  as it was raining on January 3 night and he could not get any transport. “Later, I went to Mevli along with my father-in-law and some others to confront the priest. Satyanarayan said he had taken my mother-in-law to a private hospital in Chandausi after taking her out from the well with the help of his aides. But when the hospital refused to admit her, he dropped her home, he said. He took us to the well. In the torchlight, I could see a shoe of my mother-in-law lying in the well,” he says. The victim’s son says Satyanarayan had called his mother at around 4 p.m. on that fateful day. “She left home at around 5 p.m, saying she would stay at my grandmother’s place at night. It was not unusual as she used to go to the temple every 8-10 days.” After returning from Mevli, where they had gone to confront the priest, the son says they approached the Ughaiti police station, which falls between the two villages. “But we were told that the police were busy elsewhere. At noon, I called up 112. The police then took the body for post-mortem,” he says. In a leaked video, the victim’s husband could be heard telling someone that his wife told him before dying that she fell into the well. This was not mentioned in his complaint lodged on January 5. On January 11, his second son-in-law, who was in Delhi at the time of the incident, says the victim’s husband was hospitalised in Budaun after he tried to hurt himself. “He might have been tutored to say this as part of the deal that the pradhan and a ration dealer tried to broker on January 4,” he alleges. Character of the priest In Mevli, there are multiple opinions about Satyanarayan, a Thakur from Aonla town, Bareilly district. Some say he indulged in tantrik practices. Some say he used to roam around the village trying to impress upon women to visit the temple. Om Pal Singh, a neighbour of the victim’s mother, asks why the priest failed to inform the mother and other relatives of the incident if he was innocent. “One of the daughters of the victim is married in Mevli [She and her husband were in Delhi at the time of the incident]. Why were her in-laws not informed? It is clear that he wanted to hide something,” he says. “He doesn’t have any knowledge of the scriptures. He doesn’t even have a flair for words that babas usually have,” says an officer who was present during the interrogation. Local media reports suggest that the priest took drugs but police officials say he was addicted only to tobacco, which was what forced him to come out of his hiding place. This is corroborated by Mahesh Chandra Gupta, the old grocery store owner at the corner of the lane leading to the temple. “The baba’s behaviour was never in question. Otherwise he would not have survived in the village for seven years. Yes, there were rumours of his relationship with a 50-year-old woman, but the villagers had more or less accepted it. This is his first real transgression that has come to light,” he says. Tikam Singh, a Jatav who was not allowed to enter the temple, says the baba believed in untouchability and did not accept any charity from his community. “But there was nothing else that made us doubt his character or intentions. He was feeding off the goodwill that the previous mahant had nurtured over decades. Devotees, especially childless couples, used to come to seek the blessings of the deity, not the priest. They believed that since the priest was the chela  (disciple) of the previous guru, he must also have some knowledge. Even if two of the 200 people visiting the temple got the desired result, the priest’s influence remained intact,” he says. Ompal, a Jat, hints at the hegemony of the Thakurs and Mauryas/ Shakyas in the village. “They are in a majority and perhaps that’s why they made a Thakur the priest,” he says. The victim comes from a Marwari Thakur family. Hers was one of the many families that migrated from Rajasthan years ago, say villagers. Meanwhile, at Vedram’s residence in Mevli, empathetic relatives gather around his mother Shiv Devi. “He was trapped by the baba because my son had blind faith in him,” Shiv Devi claims. “The baba called him around 9 p.m. on January 3 and asked him to come to the temple as there was an emergency. He didn’t tell him what the emergency was,” she claims. Pulling out medicines that her son was purportedly taking for a respiratory disorder, Shiv Devi says her son, a carpenter, came under the influence of Satyanarayan ever since he lost his wife. Local sources say one more person helped Satyanarayan take the victim out from the well. His name is not being made public because he is not named in the FIR, they say. A senior police official says there is a strong possibility of another person being involved. Official clarifications and beliefs On the basis of call records, local intelligence and Satyanarayan’s statement during interrogation, a senior police officer claims that the priest was in a relationship with a 50-year-old woman, who, along with her two sons, tilled a section of the agricultural land of the temple, the proceeds of which go to Satyanarayan. “The woman got a hint that the priest was now moving on to a younger woman. Possibly, on the date of the incident, she came to know about the Anganwadi helper’s presence in the temple premises and confronted him. It could have spiralled into a series of events that will become clear once the forensic reports come out,” he claims. Asked how the woman went inside the shed where the dry well is located, he says it looks as though she visited the place using the back door. The official adds that Satyanarayan’s claim that he took the victim to a private hospital in Chandausi, 32 km away in Sambhal district, has been corroborated by the CCTV footage of the hospital. About 14 bighas of land separate the 50-year-old woman’s house from the temple premises. As the wheat crop is still young, she can see the temple clearly. “I went to the temple twice on Sunday evening but couldn’t find the baba. I called him over the phone to ask why he had left all the doors open in such weather. He said he had gone out to buy tobacco and would return soon. When the police picked me up for questioning, I told them the same thing,” she says. She lost her husband in 2018.   Devendra Singh Dhama, the SHO of Ughaiti police station and investigating officer of the case, says he is pretty sure that the victim fell into the well. “But what circumstances contributed to that is still not clear,” he says. Dhama went down the well. It is 32 feet deep, he says. Whether she fell into the well or not does not absolve the former SHO of laxity, says Senior Superintendent of Police Sankalp Sharma. “That is why he and the outpost in-charge, Amarjeet Singh, have been suspended and charged with dereliction of duty under Section 166A of the IPC. He tried to reach conclusions before the investigation and didn’t keep senior officials in the loop,” he says. Sharma admits that sometimes, the constabulary fail to take into account the changed rape laws that followed the gang-rape of a woman in Delhi in 2012. He reels out figures to defend Mission Shakti. “We have taken remand of the accused for further questioning as some of their claims are not matching with our investigation. A forensic team from Lucknow has come to reconstruct the crime scene. Their report is awaited. We will also seek medico-legal opinion on the post-mortem report,” he adds. The post-mortem report has not been given to the family. The District Magistrate, Kumar Prashant, has ordered an inquiry into the leaking of the post-mortem report to the media. When asked whether this is a priority, he says the post-mortem report is an important document of the investigation process. If leaked, it can help the accused plan for the trial even before the chargesheet is filed, he says. It also compromises the dignity of the deceased, he says. Yashpal Singh, Chief Medical Officer, admits that videography of the post-mortem was not conducted. “It is the administration’s job. They didn’t ask for it,” he says. Sharma says the police will examine why the post-mortem was not videographed. On the delay in conducting the post-mortem, Singh says while the body was with them, they were waiting for a three-member panel to be formed. A doctor took time in reaching the hospital. “It didn’t affect the forensic investigation and the slides were formed well within time,” he insists. Prashant says the case will be heard in a fast-track court. The administration, he says, is contemplating invoking the National Security Act against Satyanarayan. “It is because of him that the peace and tranquility of the area remained disturbed for three days,” he says. He says the formalities of the U.P. Rani Laxmi Bai Mahila and Bal Samman Kosh, that provide Rs. 1,00,000 to the family of a victim of rape and murder, had started. “The victim’s son could be absorbed as a 4th class employee in the municipality of Sahaswan. As an Anganwadi helper, she was also insured under a scheme of the Integrated Child Development Services. At our level, we have provided ration and refilled the gas cylinder of her mother,” he says. Meanwhile, Sunita Devi, an Anganwadi worker in a neighbouring village, says women’s security remains a major issue. “When we go out for work, some men pass obscene comments. They can’t digest the fact that women are working. We listen and move on. Recently, an Anganwadi worker ended her life because the pradhan allegedly called her to his residence,” she says. The Thakurji temple remained sealed in Mevli on Lohri but a priest offered prayers in the Ughaiti police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/betrayed-by-blind-faith/article33584677.ece
16 January 2021||January 16 2021 00:00 IST,||A fast fading promise, of growth with trust||Recent events in the country leave citizens wondering whether the Prime Minister can ensure his promise to the Nation, of ‘ Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas ’ (‘Together, for everyone’s growth, with everyone’s trust’). With one of the largest populations of Muslims in the world, India needs to tread carefully in its approach towards them. Developments of concern The race among States ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to issue ordinances or bring laws against the so-called “love jihad” and the challenging if not provocative statements by some of their Chief Ministers, the latest happenings in Madhya Pradesh, and lopsided investigations into the Delhi riots must be viewed with concern by sensitive citizens. Of greater concern has been the Nizammuddin Markaz episode (in the context of the novel coronavirus pandemic) where many worshippers including several foreigners were arrested and jailed for no reason whatsoever as has now been pronounced by series of judgments including a powerful expression by the Division Bench of the High Court of Bombay, Aurangabad Bench in an order dated August 21, 2020 (https://bit.ly/2MWIOxs). Contrast this with the “Namaste Trump” meeting attended by thousands of people between February 24-25, 2020 at Ahmedabad, and, separately, hundreds of congregations, religious, social and political, which were permitted during the height of COVID-19 in India. Were they not super-spreaders as well? Constitutional institutions, especially the judiciary, need to be on guard and pro-active in this regard. Clearly, the BJP, the dominant ruling party at the Centre and in the majority of States in India, is paying no heed whatsoever to the warnings given by India’s greatest leaders, during the Constituent Assembly debates. Past advice still relevant On November 4, 1948, Dr. Ambedkar had cautioned future India with these words (https://bit.ly/2XFD39B): “... To diehards who have developed a kind of fanaticism against minority protection I would like to say two things. One is that minorities are an explosive force which, if it erupts, can blow up the whole fabric of the State... The other is that the minorities in India have agreed to place their existence in the hands of the majority... It is for the majority to realize its duty not to discriminate against minorities....” Prime Minister Narendra Modi while laying the foundation stone of the Ambedkar Memorial in 2016 said, “Baba Saheb was guardian of Human Values” and that “... if you make a list of founding fathers whose ideas are most relevant today, Baba Saheb will be right at the top”. He added: “... the time has come when we must again strengthen the unity of our society and we can learn about this from Baba Saheb.” Yet, the Prime Minister maintains virtual silence even when citizens from the minority community are killed in the name of cow protection or jailed in the name of being COVID-19 and ‘love jihad’ spreaders. Sardar Vallabhai Patel, another towering figure, and who Mr. Modi paid tribute to by giving the nation a statue of him, its tallest, in Gujarat, was the Chairman of the Advisory Committee on Minorities in the Constituent Assembly. On May 25, 1949, he presented the report of the said Committee, and in his speech had these poignant words for future India (https://bit.ly/39Nhud5), “... It is not our intention to commit the minorities to a particular position in a hurry. If they really have come honestly to the conclusion that in the changed conditions of this country, it is in the interest of all to lay down real and genuine foundations of a secular State, then nothing is better for the minorities than to trust the good-sense and sense of fairness of the majority, and to place confidence in them. So also it is for us who happen to be in a majority to think about what the minorities feel, and how we in their position would feel if we were treated in the manner in which they are treated. But in the long run, it would be in the interest of all to forget that there is anything like majority or minority in this country and that in India there is only one community....” Yet, Mr. Modi, as the undisputed leader of the BJP, does little to follow the sound advice of the Iron Man of India and reassure the minority community. Even Dr. Syama Prasad Mookerjee on December 17, 1946 declared, “... We shall go ahead with our work in spite of all difficulties and obstacles and help to create that great India, united and strong, which will be the motherland of not this community or that, not this class or that, but of every person, man, woman and child, inhabiting this great land, irrespective of race, caste, creed or community, where everyone will have an equal opportunity, an equal freedom, an equal status so that he or she could develop himself or herself to the best of his or her talents and serve faithfully and fearlessly this beloved common motherland of ours.” Undisputably, the BJP and other respectable organisations supporting it have treated Dr. Mookerjee with great adulation and rightly so. Yet, the BJP, the governing party, is following a path different from the one he envisioned. A blow against rights Laws in the name of stopping ‘love jihad’ strike at the very basic principles of human values and the fundamental rights. Nobody can justify forceful conversions but when two adults fall in love, it can never be equated as such. ‘Jihad’ has been defined in the dictionary as “religious warfare or a war for the propagation for the defence of Islam” or “a campaign or crusade in some cause”. Some of the most respected Indians from all walks of life — judges, lawyers, politicians, artists, bureaucrats, men in uniform belonging to both majority and minority communities — have fallen in love and married. It has been happening for centuries. To regulate it in the garb of stopping forced conversions is to strike at the very freedom of conscience that citizens possess. Judiciary’s path Sadly, even the Supreme Court of India did not credit itself well when in August 2017 (https://bit.ly/3bSmIXF), it asked the National Investigating Agency to examine the marriage between two adults, Hadiya and Shafin Jahan. Pertinently, the Bench comprised the Chief Justice of India, J.S. Khehar and Justice D.Y. Chandrachud. Ultimately, the young lady appeared before the Court and confronted the judges by professing her love for the man she had married, compelling the Supreme Court to set aside the judgment of the High Court which had annulled their marriage, and allowing the happy couple to be united. But in the interregnum, the legally wedded wife was kept away from her husband under the protection of paramilitary forces. This was the seed that was sown in the country to justify so-called ‘love jihad’. Political footprints were made and many who were associated with the case were conferred benefits by the BJP government. Sadly, some of us lawyers, who appeared for the hapless husband were targeted by the government by instituting an inquiry through the Ministry of Home Affairs and the Income Tax Department. The Supreme Court has decided to examine the validity of the laws on ‘love jihad’ but declined to protect citizens being arrested and jailed under them. The laws on ‘love jihad’ are draconian. The words of Justice Hidayatullah must sound a warning bell, “…If a halt is to be called, we must declare the right of Parliament to abridge or take away Fundamental Rights. Small inroads lead to larger inroads and become as habitual as before our freedom was won. The history of freedom is not only how freedom is achieved but how it is preserved. I am of the opinion that an attempt to abridge or take away Fundamental Rights by a constituted Parliament even though an amendment of the Constitution can be declared void. This Court has the power and jurisdiction to make the declaration.” Let us hope the Court does not put this case also in cold storage as it has done with many cases which the Executive may not want to be heard. Since 2014, the Executive has had an almost total approval by the Court of all its Executive actions, the latest being the Central Vista case. One can only wonder: does the government ever falter? The Supreme Court, which showed great alacrity in staying the implementation of the Farm Laws, ostensibly to save the lives of innocent people, failed to stay the implementation of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, resulting in avoidable violence that caused the deaths of many innocent citizens and damage to properties worth crores. Many people are languishing in jails following violence. What should a citizen make out of this selective administration of justice by the highest court of the country? India needs to move forward and the present government has a great role to play here. It does not need such distractions, even for political mileage. The ruling party is firmly in the saddle and can continue its popularity with development and progress. Let us hope and trust that we can together re-affirm ‘Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas ’. Dushyant Dave is a Senior Advocate at the Supreme Court of India and currently the President of the Supreme Court Bar Association. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-fast-fading-promise-of-growth-with-trust/article33584669.ece
16 January 2021||January 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Vaccine optimism and the scientific uncertainty link||With its robust domestic vaccine industry and strong fundamentals of the Universal Immunisation Programme, India is now embarking on the world’s largest COVID-19 vaccination programme, on January 16, 2021. This represents the forging of a novel public-private collaboration wherein the vaccine supply is under the responsibility of Indian pharma companies and the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare for the implementation of the vaccination programme. The vaccine development programme has received unstinted support from the government, and two vaccines (Covishield and Covaxin) have been granted permission for restricted use in an emergency situation subject to certain regulatory conditions. The clinical trial ongoing within the country by the firms will continue. These vaccines are thus deemed to be market ready while regulatory processes and logistic requirements are being laid out. The expedited development was guided by the “adaptive and seamless” approach advocated by the World Health Organization (WHO) for public health emergencies and promoted by the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation, and some of the current discourse of regulatory issues is focused on the authorisation process. Traditional clinical trials follow a straightforward but mandatory three-step approach: designing, conducting and analysing the collected data, according to a pre-specified analysis plan. Seamless adaptive designs add a ‘review-adapt’ loop to the linear design-conduct-analysis sequence, with a pre-defined one primary endpoint and several secondary endpoints.  An adaptation is referred to a change made to the trial procedure, such as eligibility criteria, study dose, treatment duration or study endpoints, and/or statistical procedures such as randomisation, study design, study hypothesis or statistical analysis plan, while a clinical trial is at the design stage.  These are a priori planned adaptations and should be based on data collected from the study itself, and different from unplanned ad hoc modifications that are common in traditional trials. Impact of modifications In the current situation, where the clinical trial of both vaccines shall continue, community engagement is critical to establish community acceptability of control arms, placebo, and blinding and should adhere to WHO’s guidelines on good participatory practice (GPP). Acceptability may impact whether trials are individually or cluster randomised, blinded or unblinded, and have use of a placebo or other comparator. Unique cultural considerations such as drawing of blood may impact the study design, and in turn the choice of endpoints collected in the study. There are some key regulatory concerns and the challenge of communicating them to the users and beneficiaries of research including policymakers. What is the level of adaptation that is agreed to by the regulatory agencies? What are the regulatory standards for the review and approval process of data obtained from adaptive trials with different levels of modifications? And, most critically, has the trial become a totally different trial after the modifications for addressing the study objectives of the originally planned clinical trial? Need for more caution The European Medicines Agency cautions that while the increased flexibility of this option may well fit the needs in early phases of drug development, their use in late Phase II or confirmatory Phase III trials deserves a more cautionary approach. Pharmacology experts thus opine that “not every trial can be rescued by adaptation and adaptive designs... these should not be a cure for poor planning”. While adaptive designs do have a risk of introducing bias in a trial, that is not to be construed as a reason for staying away from these designs. The challenge is to minimise operational bias by rigorous planning and transparency. There is also a need to build and sustain trust through clear and comprehensive sharing of the adaptive design protocols in scientific journals for peer guidance, particularly in projects with major translational relevance. These challenges are as critical to the regulators as to those designing communication strategies and messages, with obvious implications for vaccine confidence. Given the conditions under which the vaccines are being rolled out, there is considerable debate among scientists, the medical community and the public at large. Among these diverse constituencies, there are optimists and sceptics about the effectiveness and safety of the vaccines. According to WHO, vaccine confidence encompasses trust in the effectiveness and safety of the vaccine as much as in the system that delivers. Adequacy of processes An important aspect is also the perceived motivations of policymakers making decisions about the vaccine. Given the fact that data are still awaited on the effectiveness and safety of the vaccine, the rollout decisions may well add to the scepticism. In addition, there is a need for imaginative social and behavioural research that takes on board the scientific uncertainties and helps to build trust in the health service system and the community. Trust-building in the vaccine and its rollout is important for a robust communication strategy. The lack of this does not augur well for programme implementation even while efforts are being made to promote and sustain vaccine demand. Therefore, it is critical at this stage for the government and establishment scientists to communicate how the regulatory processes and authorisation are adequate and appropriate. Are we, as a community of researchers and policymakers, making adequate and appropriate efforts to communicate these uncertainties? Communicating uncertainty entails identifying facts that are specifically relevant to potential vaccinees, characterising the relevant uncertainties, assessing their magnitude, drafting possible messages and evaluating their success. Underlying the vaccine optimism is the search for a strong signal that the evidence is certain enough and how far the predictions of valued outcomes can be relied upon. Needed, openness Scientists are trained and professionalised in dealing with doubt and uncertainty, given that all scientific knowledge is uncertain. To quote Richard Feynman, “... to solve any problem that has never been solved before, you have to leave the door to the unknown ajar. You have to permit the possibility that you do not have it exactly right. Otherwise, if you have made up your mind already, you might not solve it.” The task, particularly in the current context, is to be able to communicate scientific uncertainty — both to policymakers and the public at large. This requires a climate of transparency and data sharing that allows for public scrutiny and a healthy debate. Rajib Dasgupta and Rama V. Baru are professors at the Centre of Social Medicine and Community Health, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/vaccine-optimism-and-the-scientific-uncertainty-link/article33584673.ece
16 January 2021||January 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Private space||The Allahabad High Court ruling that people marrying under the Special Marriage Act, 1954, can choose not to publicise their union with a notice 30 days in advance may not exactly be a judicial pushback against problematic anti-conversion laws enacted by several BJP-ruled States. But it serves to get a major irritant out of the way of couples wanting to marry against the wishes of their parents or their immediate community. Many intercaste and inter-faith marriages have faced violent opposition from those acting in the name of community pride or those raising the bogey of ‘love jihad’. Hindutva activists have been targeting Muslim men marrying Hindu women, especially if the women have converted to Islam prior to the marriage. The court said that mandatorily publishing a notice of the intended marriage and calling for objections violates the right to privacy. According to the new order, if a couple gives it in writing that they do not want the notice publicised, the Marriage Officer can solemnise the marriage. Under Section 5 of the Act, which enables inter-faith marriages, the couple has to give notice to the Marriage Officer; and under Sections 6 and 7, the officer has to publicise the notice and call for objections. But, in his order, Justice Vivek Chaudhary said the Act’s interpretation has to be such that it upholds fundamental rights, not violate them. Laws should not invade liberty and privacy, he said, “including within its sphere freedom to choose for marriage without interference from state and non-state actors, of the persons concerned”. The HC ruling came on the plea of a Muslim woman who converted to Hinduism for marriage as the couple saw the notice period under the Special Marriage Act as an invasion of their privacy. Justice Chaudhary’s remarks on ‘state and non-state actors’ will undoubtedly be read in the context of the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020, that particularly targets inter-faith marriages. This new law declares conversion of religion by marriage to be unlawful, mandates a 60-day notice to the District Magistrate and also requires the Magistrate to conduct a police inquiry to find out the explicit reason for the conversion. Enacted last November, there have been 54 arrests till date by the U.P. police. The HC ruling can now be cited across India to prevent public notices under the Special Marriage Act. Inter-faith couples will hope that when the Supreme Court hears pleas on the U.P. conversion law, it will be guided by progressive verdicts, such as the 2017 Aadhaar ruling, on the right to privacy as a basic right, and the 2018 judgment on Hadiya, upholding the student’s right to choose a partner, a Muslim man in Kerala, as an essential freedom.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/private-space/article33584663.ece
16 January 2021||January 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Double ignominy||Outgoing U.S. President Donald Trump has entered the record books for being the only American President to be impeached twice. The moment of ignominy came after the House of Representatives passed a motion of impeachment against him, this time for “incitement of insurrection,” following the assault on the U.S. Capitol building on January 6 by a violent pro-Trump mob. His first impeachment, in September 2019, was for “abuse of power” and “obstruction of justice” over his dealings with Ukraine and attempts by Congress to investigate the same, yet he survived in office owing to a Senate acquittal. On this occasion, not only did the House vote resoundingly, by a margin of 232-197, to impeach him but it passed with an unprecedented margin of bipartisan support after 10 Republicans crossed the aisle. This might signal a broader mood across Congress, particularly in the Senate, to vote differently to the outcome last time, specifically that there will be sufficient support among Republican ranks for a Senate conviction. Given the tight timeline leading up to the inauguration of Democratic President-elect Joe Biden on January 20, it might be that the Senate does not have the opportunity to conduct a full trial based on the article of impeachment sent to it by the House, before Mr. Trump demits office. Nevertheless, Senate Democrats have vowed to carry out the trial even after the fact, including not only a vote on convicting him for high crimes and misdemeanours but also potentially on barring him from running again. The question looming before Congressional Republicans is this: are they, as a group united in safeguarding mainstream conservative values, convinced that the harm that Mr. Trump has done to the presidency and the fabric of American society warrants banning him from the highest office in the land, or will there be too many holdouts within their ranks to successfully bring closure to this turbulent saga in American politics? The answer also depends on what Senate and House Republicans make of the broader “movement” that he has come to represent — a rowdy, vicious campaign built on white privilege and regularly indulging in racist attacks, yet one that has pulled in elements of economically disenfranchised middle America. Will they believe that they can cut off Mr. Trump from leading this cohort, yet appear responsive to the needs of the 74 million Americans who voted for him? Or will they fear that they have no other leaders of national standing who could bring the kind of support that he did into the Republican tent? The course of action that Senate Republicans choose now will determine which vector the country’s battered politics will travel along — one that strikes a balance between national interest and the traditional formula of economic growth with social pluralism, or one that gives ever greater voice to nativist populism and disregard for the cherished institutions of democracy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/double-ignominy/article33584664.ece
16 January 2021||January 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Trade with China shrank in 2020, deficit at five-year low||India’s trade with China declined last year to the lowest level since 2017, with the trade deficit narrowing to a five-year low as the country imported far fewer goods from its northern neighbour. Bilateral trade slid 5.6% to $87.6 billion, according to new figures from China’s General Administration of Customs (GAC). India’s imports from China shrank by 10.8% to $66.7 billion, marking the lowest level of inbound shipments since 2016. India’s exports to China, however, jumped 16%, crossing the $20 billion-mark for the first time to a record high of $20.86 billion. The trade deficit, a source of friction in bilateral ties, shrank to $45.8 billion, the lowest level since 2015. While there was no immediate break-up of the data for 2020, India’s biggest import in 2019 was electrical machinery and equipment, worth $20.17 billion. Other major imports in 2019 were organic chemicals ($8.39 billion) and fertilisers ($1.67 billion), while India’s top exports that year were iron ore, organic chemicals, cotton and unfinished diamonds. Appetite for iron ore The last 12 months saw a surge in demand for iron ore in China, as a slew of new infrastructure projects aimed at reviving growth after the COVID-19 slump lifted consumption of steel. Total iron ore imports in Asia’s largest economy rose 9.5% in 2020. The drop in India’s imports from China largely mirrored a decline in overall inbound shipments last year as domestic demand slumped in the wake of the pandemic. That makes it difficult to determine whether 2020 is an exception or marks a turn away from the recent pattern of India’s trade with China, especially since there is, as yet, no evidence to suggest India has replaced its import dependence on China by either sourcing those goods elsewhere or manufacturing them at home. The dip in exports to India bucked a strong year for Chinese exports, which surged 10.9% in December and grew 4% in 2020, aided by the economic recovery in China while many countries worldwide remained in various stages of lockdown. The full year’s export performance marked a sharp turnaround for the world’s second-largest economy, which saw its GDP contract 6.8% during the height of the COVID-19 outbreak in the first quarter, while foreign trade fell 4.9% year-on-year over the first five months through May. With a stringent lockdown containing the outbreak in China by the summer, the economy rebounded to grow 3.2% in the second quarter and 4.9% in the third, with China’s industries humming back to life even as much of the rest of the world remained in varied states of lockdown.  ‘Positive growth’ China was “the world’s only major economy to have registered positive growth in foreign trade in goods,” said Li Kuiwen, spokesperson of the GAC, with China’s foreign trade and exports in the first 10 months of the year accounting for a record 12.8% and 14.2% share of the global totals, respectively. That was reflected in the annual export figures, as China posted sharp increases with most of its major trading partners. Exports to the ASEAN bloc, China’s largest trading partner last year with bilateral trade amounting to $684 billion, rose 6.7%, while exports to the EU, China’s second-largest trading partner, also rose 6.7% as total trade reached $649 billion. Despite the trade war with the U.S. and the pandemic, two-way trade was up 8.3% to $586 billion, with China’s exports rising 7.9% to reach a record $451 billion. The trade surplus with the U.S. expanded to $317 billion in 2020, compared with the $288 billion figure at the end of President Donald Trump’s first year in office in 2017, underlining the limited impact of his tariff measures as he ends his presidency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/trade-with-china-shrank-in-2020-deficit-at-five-year-low/article33584654.ece
16 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||HCL Tech Q3 profit rises 31% on digital, cloud momentum||HCL Technologies said it posted a 31% increase in net profit for the third quarter ended December to Rs. 3,982 crore driven by a ‘robust momentum’ in the company’s businesses led by digital, cloud and products and platform segments. The company also announced that it crossed $10 billion in revenue in 2020. For Q3, revenue rose 6.4% to Rs. 19,302 crore. The IT firm also revised upwards its quarter-on-quarter revenue growth expectations to 2-3% in constant currency from the previous estimate of 1.5-2.5% growth. “We posted a strong financial performance in Q3 FY21 with a constant currency revenue growth of 3.5% sequentially and 1.1% YoY and an EBIT of 22.9%,” said C. Vijayakumar, president and CEO. “This solid performance was driven by a robust momentum in our Mode 2 and Mode 3 businesses led by digital, cloud and products and platform segments.” “Looking ahead, a combination of a strong pipeline and good order booking gives us a lot of optimism about the growth trajectory,” Mr. Vijayakumar said. The board of directors has declared an interim dividend of Rs. 4 per equity share. The firm’s shares closed at Rs. 989.40 per share, down 3.73% from the previous close on BSE. Mr. Vijayakumar said during the quarter, the firm won 13 transformational deals across industry verticals, including financial services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/hcl-tech-q3-profit-rises-31-on-digital-cloud-momentum/article33584645.ece
16 January 2021||mumbai,||Indian economy ‘weak,’ credit growth bottoming out: BofA||American brokerage BofA Securities said the Indian economy continues to be ‘weak,’ pointing to activity indicators tracked by it. On the positive side, the brokerage said credit demand is bottoming out and the real lending rates, adjusted for wholesale price inflation, are falling. It can be noted that there has been a slew of reports lately about a stronger recovery being underway after the jolt caused by the pandemic. The government expects the GDP to contract 7.7% in financial year 2021 because of the reverses. “The bad news is that the continued drop in our BofA India Activity Indicator reinforces our view that the economy still remains weak,” the brokerage said in a note. The indicator fell by 0.6% in November on top of the 0.8% decline in October, and 4.6% drop in the September quarter, it said, adding, “this supports our call of GVA (gross value added) contractions of 1% in the December quarter and 6.7% in FY21.” The credit growth for FY22 will come at 12%, it said. It can be noted that credit growth had been declining for the last few years, in sync with a dip in the overall economic growth which has been on a downward spiral since demonetisation in late 2016 as borrowers went slow on expansion. The real lending rates adjusted for WPI will be one of the prime reasons for the faster credit growth estimate in financial year 2022, the brokerage said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/indian-economy-weak-credit-growth-bottoming-out-bofa/article33584656.ece
16 January 2021||New Delhi,||GAIL announces Rs. 1,046.35-crore share buyback, govt. to participate||GAIL (India) Ltd., the country’s largest gas distribution firm, on Friday announced a Rs. 1,046.35 crore share buyback programme as it looked to return surplus cash to shareholders, the biggest being the Government of India. In a stock exchange filing, the company said its board had approved the buyback of 6.97 crore shares at a price of Rs. 150 per share. The shares being bought represent 1.55% of the total number of fully paid-up equity shares. The company board also declared an interim dividend of 25% (Rs. 2.50 per share) for financial year 2020-21. The government owns 51.76% of GAIL and is expected to participate in the share buyback. It stands to get Rs. 583.6 crore from the dividend payout and another Rs. 541.5 crore if it participates in the buyback by tendering a proportionate number of shares. The buyback plan of Rs. 1,046.35 crore represents “2.5% and 2.26% of the aggregate of the fully paid-up equity share capital and free reserves of the company,” GAIL said in the filing. The plan was within the statutory limits of 10%, it said. The record date for buyback of equity shares as well as payment of the interim dividend will be January 28, GAIL said. The government has asked at least eight state-run companies to consider share buybacks as it scours for ways of raising funds to rein in its fiscal deficit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/gail-announces-rs-104635-crore-share-buyback-govt-to-participate/article33584650.ece
16 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Army inks $20 mn deal with ideaForge for UAV||The Indian Army has signed a $20-million contract with ideaForge, a player in unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) technology, to procure undisclosed quantities of a high-altitude variant of SWITCH UAV, an indigenous system used in surveillance operations. SWITCH UAV is an indigenous system built to cater to the most demanding surveillance operations of the Indian forces. This fixed-wing vertical take-off and landing UAV can be deployed at high altitudes and under harsh environments for day and night surveillance, ideaForge said in a statement. “UAV player ideaForge has been awarded this one-year contract after it qualified the operational requirements in an evaluation done in real-world conditions. The contract marks a strategic shift in the Indian defence procurement process,” the company added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/army-inks-20-mn-deal-with-ideaforge-for-uav/article33584643.ece
16 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||OneWeb fundraising nudges $1.4 bn: Bharti||OneWeb, a global communications firm jointly owned by the U.K. Government and Bharti Global, said it has raised additional funding from SoftBank Group and Hughes Network Systems, taking the total funding to $1.4 billion. Following this, SoftBank will gain a seat on the OneWeb board, the firm said, adding Hughes is an investor through its parent EchoStar, and also an ecosystem partner, developing essential ground network technology for the OneWeb system. The capital positions OneWeb to be fully funded for its first-generation satellite fleet, totalling 648 satellites, by end 2022, it added. The company did not disclose the details of funding raised from the two groups. In July last year, the U.K. Government and Bharti Global had announced an investment of $500 million each in OneWeb.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/oneweb-fundraising-nudges-14-bn-bharti/article33584648.ece
16 January 2021||new delhi,||Exports rise a tad, imports surge in Dec.||India’s exports rose marginally to $27.2 billion in December, while imports surged 7.6% to $42.6 billion, official data showed. Merchandise exports were valued at $27.1 billion in December 2019. “The trade deficit for December 2020 was estimated at $15.44 billion as against the deficit of $12.49 billion in December 2019, an increase of 23.66%,” according to the data. India’s overall exports (merchandise and services) in April-December 2020-21 were estimated at $348.5 billion, showing a negative growth of 12.7% YoY. Overall imports fell 25.9% to $343.3 billion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/exports-rise-a-tad-imports-surge-in-dec/article33584657.ece
16 January 2021||Mumbai,||Indigo Paints IPO to open on Jan 20||Indigo Paints Ltd. said its initial public offering (IPO) will open on January 20. The price band has been fixed at Rs. 1,488 – Rs. 1,490 per equity share. The IPO comprises fresh issue of Rs. 300 crore and an offer for sale by existing investors amounting to Rs. 870 crore at the upper band. From the net proceeds, the company proposes to use Rs. 150 crore towards funding capital expenditure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/indigo-paints-ipo-to-open-on-jan-20/article33584646.ece
16 January 2021||Mumbai,||Forex reserves up by USD 758 mn to lifetime high of USD 586.082 bn||Foreign exchange reserves rose by $758 million to reach a record high of $586.08 billion in the week ended January 8, RBI data showed. In the week ended January 1, the reserves had increased by $4.48 billion to $585.32 billion. Gold reserves rose $568 million to $37.59 billion in the reporting week.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/forex-reserves-up-by-usd-758-mn-to-lifetime-high-of-usd-586082-bn/article33584652.ece
16 January 2021||Brisbane,||Labuschagne’s century gives Australia the edge on opening day||An under-strength India fought back in the final session to leave the fourth Test against Australia evenly poised after the opening day at the Gabba here on Friday. Australia finished the first day on 274 for five, with Cameron Green on 28 and Tim Paine alongside him on 38. The four-match Border-Gavaskar Trophy series is locked 1-1. Flow interrupted Australia looked headed for a much stronger position when it reached 200 for three shortly after tea, with Marnus Labuschagne and Matthew Wade scoring freely. But, soon Wade went attempting a rash pull, followed by Labuschagne for a superb 108. Green and Paine then steadied the innings against a tiring attack. India's efforts were especially admirable considering it was fielding two debutants in the bowling attack following injuries to Jasprit Bumrah and R. Ashwin. India also lost fast bowler Navdeep Saini to a groin injury midway through the second session. India started the game as underdogs following the loss of four players from the drawn third Test, which finished on Monday in Sydney. Pace spearhead Bumrah (abdomen), off-spinner Ashwin (back), batsman Hanuma Vihari (hamstring) and all-rounder Ravi Jadeja (broken thumb) were all ruled out. T. Natarajan and Washington Sundar made their debuts while there were also recalls for batsman Mayank Agarwal and seam bowler Shardul Thakur. In contrast, Australia made just one change, with Harris coming in for Will Pucovski, who injured his shoulder while fielding in Sydney. Yet India got away to the perfect start when David Warner fell off the last ball of the first over, edging Mohd. Siraj to second slip, where Rohit Sharma took a superb catch diving to his right. Natarajan shared the new ball with Siraj and kept the pressure on with some tight bowling, his opening spell of six overs going for just eight runs. The pressure eventually told when Shardul, playing just his second Test, struck with his first ball, Harris chipping a simple catch to Washington at square-leg to leave Australia 17 for two. But Labuschagne and Steve Smith, Australia's saviours in so many recent matches, once again steadied the rocking ship. Smith, who roared back to form with a century in Sydney, was impressive but on 36 he clipped a ball to Rohit at short midwicket to give Washington his first Test scalp.  Australia, now 87 for three, should have lost Labuschagne in the next over when he edged Saini to gully, but the normally reliable Ajinkya Rahane spilled a simple chance. To make matters worse, Saini appeared to injure his groin in the delivery stride and left the field. Cheteshwar Pujara grassed a much harder chance when Labuschagne was on 48, but from that moment he was in fine form, stroking nine boundaries and two all-run fours on way to his century. Siraj picked up one for 51 in 19 testing overs, while Natarajan (two for 63) also impressed despite showing signs of fatigue late in the day.  Playing XIs:   India: Rohit Sharma, Shubman Gill, Cheteshwar Pujara, Ajinkya Rahane (Capt.), Mayank Agarwal, Rishabh Pant (wk), Washington Sundar, Shardul Thakur, Navdeep Saini, Mohammed Siraj, and T. Natarajan   Australia: David Warner, Marcus Harris, Marnus Labuschagne, Steve Smith, Matthew Wade, Cameron Green, Tim Paine (Capt. & wk), Pat Cummins, Mitchell Starc, Nathan Lyon, and Josh Hazlewood .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/labuschagnes-century-gives-australia-the-edge-on-opening-day/article33584744.ece
16 January 2021||KOZHIKODE,||Kerala continues its giant-killing act||Kerala's giant- killing act continued at the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy T20 tournament in Mumbai. A day after stunning Mumbai, Sanju Samson’s men crushed a star-studded Delhi by six wickets on Friday to register its third straight win. Kerala moved to the top of Group-E with 12 points and a healthy net run-rate of +1.395. That the side chased down Delhi's daunting target of 213 — the second-highest in the tournament's history — with an over to spare helped in improving the run-rate, which could come into play in deciding the qualifiers for the knock-out phase. Masterclass It was a masterclass chase by the Kerala batsmen, led by Robin Uthappa, whose 91 (54b, 3x4, 8x6) nearly took the side home. Credit should also go to Vishnu Vinod who hammered an unbeaten 71 off just 38 balls (3x4, 5x6). The two added 133 for the fourth wicket. The Kerala innings got off to a disastrous start when Mohammed Azharuddeen, the hero against Mumbai, was dismissed for a duck by Ishant Sharma, with Anju Rawat taking an excellent diving catch behind the stumps. Skipper Samson (16) and Sachin Baby (22) flattered only to deceive and things could have gone either way at 71 for three, when Vishnu joined Uthappa. The two ensured the asking rate was under control all the time and rotated the strike well when they weren’t hitting the hapless bowlers all around the ground. Earlier, skipper Shikhar Dhawan (77, 48b, 7x4, 3x6) led from the front after Delhi was put in. He stepped out to drive S. Sreesanth delightfully on either side of the wicket to put the Kerala bowling under pressure. Lalit Yadav (52 not out, 25b, 5x4, 3x6) and Rawat (27 not out, 10b, 1x4, 3x6) then took the score beyond 200, but it was not beyond Kerala’s reach.   Saturday's matches   Elite A (Bengaluru): Uttar Pradesh vs Tripura; Railways vs Karnataka; Jammu & Kashmir vs Punjab, all at noon.  Elite B (Kolkata): Tamil Nadu vs Hyderabad; Assam vs Bengal, both at noon; Odisha vs Jharkhand, 7 p.m.  Elite C (Vadodara): Himachal vs Uttarakhand; Baroda vs Maharashtra; Gujarat vs Chhattisgarh, all at noon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kerala-continues-its-giant-killing-act/article33584985.ece
16 January 2021||January 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Stoppage-time heartbreak for Blasters||Kerala Blasters suffered a stoppage-time heartbreak as it was forced to a 1-1 draw by SC East Bengal in the Hero Indian Super League at the Tilak Maidan, Vasco, on Friday. Just when it looked like the Blasters would celebrate a third victory this season after a Jordan Murray goal shortly after the hour mark, came the East Bengal equaliser from Scott Neville from a corner kick in the fourth minute of injury time. It was virtually a repeat of the previous meeting between the two teams, on December 20, which also ended 1-1. There was no change at the bottom in the 11-team ladder with East Bengal staying on ninth (11 points) and Blasters on 10th (10) after 11 games. Lively game The young Sahal Abdul Samad played a lively game as Blasters appeared to control a major part of the first-half. And as the match progressed both sides had plenty of chances but there were also many occasions when the players gave away the ball cheaply. Drama Australian Murray, Blasters’ top scorer now with six goals, had a chance to score soon after the start but he shot straight to the goalkeeper Debjit Majumdar. But when he did strike, in the 63rd minute, there was plenty of drama. It looked like a chest ball, a foot shot and a header all rolled into one as Murray found the target with two defenders desperately chasing him. The assist came from Blasters’ goalkeeper Albino Gomes, whose long shot from the box fell straight into Murray’s path. And then, minutes after East Bengal’s Aaron Holloway messed up a fine chance to score, came the equaliser. It was virtually the last piece of action in the match and Neville scored with a fine header off Bright Enobakhare’s perfect corner.  The result:   Kerala Blasters FC 1 (Jordan Murray 63) drew with SC East Bengal 1 (Scott Neville 90+4).   Saturday’s match: Mumbai City FC vs Hyderabad FC, 7.30 p.m .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/stoppage-time-heartbreak-for-blasters/article33584756.ece
16 January 2021||Jeddah,||'Mr Dakar' lives up to his name||France's Stephane Peterhansel on Friday won the Dakar Rally for the 14th time, 30 years after his initial success in the most gruelling event on the motorsport calendar. Peterhansel, nicknamed 'Mr Dakar', has now won the car category eight times, having also won the motorbike category six times. The 55-year-old Mini driver, aided by co-pilot Edouard Boulanger, finished 14min 51sec ahead of Qatari Nasser al-Attiyah (Toyota), with Spain's Carlos Sainz — winner of Friday's 12th and final stage from Yanbu to Jeddah — rounding out the podium in another Mini. Biker succumbs Peterhansel's victory came shortly after news that French motorcyclist Pierre Cherpin had died from injuries sustained in a crash on the seventh stage, becoming the race's first fatality this year. Cherpin's death takes to 27, including 22 motorcyclists, the number of competitors who have lost their lives since the inaugural Dakar Rally in 1979. Argentina's Kevin Benavides won the motorbike category, leading home defending champion Ricky Brabec of the United States by 4:56 in a first Honda 1-2 since 1987. Briton Sam Sunderland, the 2017 champion, finished third. Benavides, who broke his nose in a crash on the fifth stage that saw his helmet shattered, became the first South American to win the category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mr-dakar-lives-up-to-his-name/article33584637.ece
16 January 2021||BENGALURU:,||In-form Cerise Noir for feature event||Cerise Noir, who maintains form, may score again in the Dr. M.A.M.Ramaswamy Memorial Trophy (1,200m), the chief event of the races to be held here on Saturday (Jan. 16). False rails width about 8mts from 1,600m to the winning post.  FLASHING STAR PLATE (1,100m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms), 2-00 p.m.: 1. Cool Rider (3) Srinath 56, 2. The Omega Man (8) D. Patel 56, 3. Tommy Shelby (5) R. Marshall 56, 4. Twilight Fame (7) S. Naik 56, 5. Angel Dreams (4) P.P. Dhebe 54.5, 6. Diamond Queen (11) R. Vaibhav 54.5, 7. Domina (2) Antony Raj 54.5, 8. Gulfstream Park (6) Neeraj 54.5, 9. Moon’s Blessing (9) P. Trevor 54.5, 10. Perfect Empress (1) Suraj Narredu 54.5 and 11. Spirit Dancer (10) R.N. Darshan 54.5.  1. COOL RIDER, 2. MOON’S BLESSING, 3. PERFECT EMPRESS   HASSAN PLATE (1,400m), rated 00 to 20, 5-y-o & over, 2-30: 1. Antheia (4) Shreyas Singh 60, 2. Happy Dancing (6) Md. Aliyar 60, 3. Nawabzaadi (8) Siddaraju P 60, 4. Scintilla (2) Naveen Kumar 60, 5. Challenging Star (7) Likith Appu 58.5, 6. Song And Dance (5) Tousif Khan 58.5, 7. Hawking (1) Arvind Kumar 58, 8. Barog (10) S. Saqlain 56, 9. Golden Heaven (9) Salman Khan 56, 10. Prime Star (11) J.H. Arul 55.5, 11. Ruler Of Nation (3) Chethan G 55 and 12. Blackhawk (12) Ankit Yadav 54.  1. PRIME STAR, 2. CHALLENGING STAR, 3. SONG AND DANCE   KALINADI PLATE (1,200m), rated 15 to 35 5-y-o & over, 3-00: 1. Lightning Attack (8) J.H. Arul 60, 2. Silken Striker (4) Siddaraju P 59.5, 3. Anakin (10) Srinath 59, 4. Princess Pride (12) S. Saqlain 58.5, 5. Chantelle (2) Shreyas Singh 58, 6. Augustina (11) Chethan G 57, 7. Kingsfield (9) P. Mani 55, 8. Celestial Highway (5) Nazerul Alam 54.5, 9. Lifeisamiracle (3) P. Surya 54.5, 10. Polar Express (1) R.N. Darshan 53, 11. Sir Piggot (7) Arshad Alam 53 and 12. Skiathos (6) Rayan Ahmed 53.  1. ANAKIN, 2. AUGUSTINA, 3. CELESTIAL HIGHWAY   DARIA DAULAT PLATE (Div. II) , 1,200m, rated 30 to 50, 3-30: 1. Darahasini (7) P. Surya 60, 2. Gypsy (2) S. Asgar 57.5, 3. Jersey Legend (1) R. Shelar 57, 4. Palm Reader (11) Anjar Alam 57, 5. Anne Boleyn (10) Rayan Ahmed 56.5, 6. Cherokee Moon (3) Suraj Narredu 56.5, 7. Mr. Humble (5) Kiran Rai 56.5, 8. She’s Innocent (9) Chetan K 56.5, 9. Stroke Of Genius (6) P.P. Dhebe 56.5, 10. Realia (8) P. Trevor 56, 11. Ultimate Striker (4) R. Vaibhav 55 and 12. Black Whizz (12) S. Shareef 53.5.  1. REALIA, 2. MR HUMBLE,   3. CHEROKEE MOON   KEMPE GOWDA CUP (1,400m), 6-y-o & over, rated 45 to 65, 4-00: 1. Turf Magic (7) Ashok Kumar 60, 2. Dr Logan (2) R. Vaibhav 59, 3. Ashwa Raftar (10) Raja Rao 57, 4. Excellent Sorrento (4) Naveen Kumar 57, 5. Big Moon (6) Angad 56, 6. Knotty Oak (11) Antony Raj 56, 7. Alpha (3) P.P. Dhebe 55, 8. Crack Of Dawn (8) P. Trevor 54.5, 9. Harbour Sunrise (9) Akshay Kumar 54, 10. Silver Dew (1) R.N. Darshan 53.5, 11. Land Of Liberty (5) B. Harish 53 and 12. Good Time Indeed (12) J.H. Arul 52.5.  1. KNOTTY OAK,   2. HARBOUR SUNRISE,   3. CRACK OF DAWN   DR. M.A.M. RAMASWAMY MEMORIAL TROPHY (1,200m), rated 75 & above, 4-30: 1. Saint Petersburg (3) P. Trevor 61.5, 2. Aeisir (6) R.N. Darshan 58.5, 3. Cerise Noir (4) Suraj Narredu 57, 4. Ashwa Joshila (8) Rayan Ahmed 56.5, 5. Silver Ikon (7) Ankit Yadav 53.5, 6. Star Carnation (5) Jagadeesh 51.5, 7. Psychic Warrior (1) Akshay Kumar 51 and 8. Treasure Delight (2) Khurshad Alam 51.  1. CERISE NOIR, 2. SAINT PETERSBURG, 3. PSYCHIC WARRIOR   CHAMUNDI HILL PLATE (1,600m), rated 15 to 35, 5-00: 1. Mahalakshmi (1) S. John 60, 2. Redoubtable (7) P. Trevor 60, 3. Garamond (4) Suraj Narredu 58, 4. Almanach (8) Srinath 57.5, 5. Livisilla (2) Neeraj 57.5, 6. Max Mueller (3) Ashhad Asbar 57.5, 7. Smithsonian (12) R.N. Darshan 57.5, 8. Southernaristocrat (10) Arshad Alam 57.5, 9. Tyto Alba (6) R. Ravi 56.5, 10. Royal Blossom (11) Antony Raj 56, 11. Dream Chaser (5) B. Dharshan 55.5 and 12. Gazebo Talk (9) S. Shareef 53.  1. REDOUBTABLE, 2. GARAMOND, 3. MAHALAKSHMI   DARIA DAULAT PLATE (Div. I) , (1,200m), rated 30 to 50, 5-30: 1. Lagopus (1) A. Imran Khan 60, 2. Donna Bella (4) Md. Aliyar 59.5, 3. Benediction (3) B. Nayak 58, 4. Brown Bess (9) Naveen Kumar 56.5, 5. Golden Vision (11) Suraj Narredu 56.5, 6. Jack Ryan (2) Neeraj 56, 7. Amazonite (12) S. Shareef 55.5, 8. Ultimate Speed (6) S. Saqlain 55.5, 9. Birchwood (5) P. Mani 55, 10. First Impression (8) Akshay Kumar 55, 11. Schafenberg (7) Indrajeet 55 and 12. The Preacher (10) Vinod Shinde 54.  1. JACK RYAN, 2. GOLDEN VISION, 3. FIRST IMPRESSION  Day’s best: REDOUBTABLE  Double: REALIA — KNOTTY OAK  Jkt: 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8; Tr (i): 3, 4 & 5; (ii): 6, 7 & 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/in-form-cerise-noir-for-feature-event/article33584658.ece
16 January 2021||Los Angeles,||Wood fuels Houston Rockets’ win||Houston Rockets put this week's franchise-altering trade in the rear view mirror on Thursday night as it kicked off its post-James Harden era with a gutsy comeback NBA win over San Antonio Spurs. Journeyman Christian Wood scored a team high 27 points and had 15 rebounds for the Rockets in a 109-105 win over the Spurs a day after Houston sent shockwaves through the NBA when they traded three-time league scoring champion Harden to Brooklyn Nets as part of a mammoth multi-team deal. Houston was coming off back-to-back blowout losses at home to Los Angeles Lakers. Asked what the feeling was like in the Rockets' dressing room one day after the blockbuster deal, Wood correlated it to the never give up mindset of late Lakers superstar Kobe Bryant. In Portland, Domantas Sabonis had 23 points and 15 rebounds to lead visiting Indiana Pacers to a 111-87 win over the Trail Blazers, who lost centre Jusuf Nurkic with a broken wrist. Malcolm Brogdon added 25 points and seven assists for the Pacers, who improved to 4-1 on the road and snapped an 11-game losing skid in Portland. Elsewhere, Chris Boucher matched his career best with 25 points and added 10 rebounds as Toronto Raptors held off Charlotte Hornets 111-108. In Philadelphia, Shake Milton scored a season-high 31 points off the bench, Tobias Harris added 18 and Philadelphia 76ers rolled over a depleted Miami Heat 125-108.  The results:   Denver Nuggets bt Golden State Warriors 114-104; San Antonio Spurs lost to Houston Rockets 109-105; Philadelphia 76ers bt Miami Heat 125-108; Toronto Raptors bt Charlotte Hornets 111-108; Portland Trail Blazers lost to Indiana Pacers 111-87.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/wood-fuels-houston-rockets-win/article33584641.ece
16 January 2021||KOLKATA,||Tamil Nadu cruises to victory||N. Jagadeesan scored his second successive half-century as Tamil Nadu cruised to an eight-wicket win over Odisha in an Elite Group-B match of the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy T20 tournament at the Eden Gardens here on Thursday. Odisha missed out on a good start and reached 132 for nine. Tamil Nadu secured its third victory in 15.1 overs. Openers Gaurav Choudhary (19, 14b, 2x4, 1x6) and Rajesh Dhuper (22, 26b, 3x4) took Aswin Crist and Sandeep Warrier to task as Odisha, electing to bat, scored 34 runs in the first three overs. Stopping the run flow Dinesh Karthik brought on R. Sai Kishore to stem the run flow. The left-arm spinner made an immediate impact by bowling Chaudhary off his second delivery. After Govinda Poddar’s fall, Subhanshu Senapati (20, 18b, 2x4) and Dhuper tried to steady the boat. The partnership did not last long as Senapati played M. Ashwin straight to mid-wicket in the 11th over. Crist, who had leaked a lot of runs on his comeback, mounted pressure by taking two wickets in the 13th over. Dhuper and captain Biplab Samantray perished in their attempt to dominate Crist. Ashwin, who mixed his leg-breaks and googlies well, dealt two more blows by removing Ankit Yadav and Sarbeswar Mohanty. He finished with three for 16 in four overs. Suryakant Pradhan scored a rapid 10-ball 23 (1x4, 2x6) to help Odisha cross 130. Aggressive batting Tamil Nadu’s in-form openers N. Jagadeesan (61, 38b, 4x4, 4x6) and C. Hari Nishaanth (29, 22b, 4x4, 1x6) batted aggressively to put on 56 runs. Left-arm spinner Pappu Roy provided the breakthrough by having Nishaanth, who drove beautifully on either side, caught at long-off in the seventh over. Jagadeesan, who exhibited his timing and power, pulled and drove with authority. He added 54 with K.B. Arun Karthick (28 n.o., 21b, 3x4, 1x6) before scooping Ankit Yadav to short fine-leg, with TN near the winning target.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tamil-nadu-cruises-to-victory/article33584899.ece
16 January 2021||MUMBAI,||Mumbai’s third loss on the trot||Arjun Tendulkar’s debut didn’t bring a reason to smile to his team as Mumbai’s winless run in the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy continued for the third match in succession. The host slumped to an eight-wicket loss to Haryana to end even a remote mathematical chance of qualifying for the quarterfinals. After suffering annihilating defeats to Delhi and Kerala at the Wankhede Stadium, Suryakumar Yadav’s boys travelled to the Bandra Kurla Complex facility. Yet, it didn’t reverse the trend of its batting collapses. Southpaw Yashasvi Jaiswal and Aditya Tare gave the host a quickfire start after Suryakumar elected to bat. However, once medium-pacer Arjun Chaprana accounted for Tare off the last ball of the fourth over, the seasoned spin duo of Yuzvendra Chahal and Jayant Yadav took over. Spin web They broke the back of Mumbai’s batting, sharing five wickets for 19 runs in the next five overs to leave Mumbai reeling at 56 for six in the ninth over. Neither Suryakumar (bowled by Chahal) nor Siddhesh Lad nor Shivam Dube — promoted to No. 5 — could open their account as Jayant picked four key wickets. Atharva Ankolekar and Sarfaraz Khan’s 48-run partnership stablised the innings before Sarfaraz and Dhawal Kulkarni propelled Mumbai to 143. Despite Arjun, son of the legendary Sachin Tendulkar, dismissing left-handed opener Chaitanya Bishnoi in his second over, the left-arm seamer had a forgettable outing as he was clobbered for 34 runs off his three overs. Himanshu impresses Himanshu Rana (75, 53b, 8x4, 3x6), the former India Under-19 batsman, showcased his artistry with the willow as his unbroken 117-run partnership with Shivam Chauhan for the third wicket saw Haryana overhaul the target with eight wickets and 14 balls to spare.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mumbais-third-loss-on-the-trot/article33585320.ece
16 January 2021||KOLKATA,||Bengal cruises to victory over Hyderabad||Ishan Porel and Akash Deep’s career-best four-wicket hauls and Shreevats Goswami’s unbeaten half-century helped Bengal defeat Hyderabad by six wickets in an Elite Group B match of the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy T20 cricket tournament at the Eden Gardens here on Thursday. Opting to field, Bengal restricted Hyderabad to 157 and overhauled the total in the 19th over to record its third consecutive victory. Porel removed Pragnay Reddy early, but captain Tanmay Agarwal (19, 21b, 3x4) and Thakur Tilak Varma (50, 30b, 6x4, 1x6) added 34 runs. After the fall of Tanmay, who was trapped in front by Arnab Nandi, Tilak — the left-hander who drove, cut and pulled beautifully to get his maiden fifty — and B. Sandeep (20, 15b, 2x4) gathered 53 at good pace. Twin strikes Akash Deep removed Tilak and Sandeep in the 12th over to bring joy for Bengal. He also dismissed Himalay Agarwal (27, 19b, 1x4, 2x6) and T. Ravi Teja (1) as Hyderabad lost quick wickets while trying to accelerate. Porel, who polished off the tail, and Akash achieved their personal milestones and Goswami took four fine catches to deny Hyderabad much ground. In reply, Goswami (69 n.o., 48b, 11x4) and Vivek Singh (26, 11b, 6x4) provided Bengal a bright start before Kartikeya Kak bowled Vivek in the fourth over. Goswami and Anustup Majumdar (16) added 37 but left-arm spinner Tanay Thyagarajan applied the brakes by having the Bengal skipper stumped. Brisk pace When Bengal was on top gathering runs at a brisk pace, Ravi Teja took two wickets to apply pressure on the host. Manoj Tiwary was caught behind, while Kaif Ahmed was caught and bowled. A determined Goswami, who cut and drove to get most of his runs, forged an unbeaten 73-run stand with Writtick Chatterjee (39 n.o, 28b, 3x4, 2x6) — who was dropped early off Ravi Teja — to see his side home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bengal-cruises-to-victory-over-hyderabad/article33585121.ece
16 January 2021||BENGALURU,||Karnataka prevails over Tripura in an exciting finish||Karnataka recovered from its crushing nine-wicket loss to Punjab in the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy with a win over Tripura on Thursday at the Alur Grounds, but the manner and the margin of victory would not have pleased the defending champion. Riding on Devdutt Padikkal’s unbeaten 99 (67b, 9x4, 4x6), Karnataka made 167 for five, but let its opponent come within 11 runs of the victory target. Tripura’s top-order failed, but Rajat Dey (44 n.o., 29b, 4x6) and skipper Mura Singh (61 n.o., 33b, 3x4, 5x6) almost pulled it off, with an 89-run partnership for the fifth wicket in just nine overs. Earlier, after being put in, Karnataka paired Rohan Kadam (31, 23b) with Padikkal and saw the two score 62 for the opening wicket in 8.2 overs. But for them, every other batsman failed. Skipper Karun Nair’s subdued run continued as he followed up scores of 27 and 13 with just 5 (10b). K.L. Shrijith and Aniruddha Joshi fell cheaply too, making 11 and 12 respectively. However, Padikkal held one end up and batted through the innings to make up for his two below par outings in the first two games (18 and 19). On the day, Karnataka made three changes to the line-up, bringing in Shreyas Gopal, V. Koushik and Pravin Dubey in place of Pavan Deshpande, Ronit More and J. Suchith. Karnataka will next meet Railways on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/karnataka-prevails-over-tripura-in-an-exciting-finish/article33584853.ece
16 January 2021||January 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Amazing opportunity, says Washington||Friday happened to be a dream day for debutants Washington Sundar and T. Natarajan, two players who were not originally in the squad and staying back just as net bowlers. At stumps on day one, the duo from Tamil Nadu picked up three of the five wickets India took, with Washington getting the key wicket of Steve Smith. “It was a dream come true for me. I have to thank the management for asking me to stay through the Test series because I felt I can improve on my skill level both in batting and bowling by being here. Yes, there was little nervousness but, it is an amazing opportunity to represent your country,” said Washington. The all-rounder, known more for his exploits with the white ball in the T20 format, last played a First Class game in 2017 for Tamil Nadu. When asked about if he had to change his preparation for the longer format, the 21-year-old said, “I have always felt my skill level is good with the red ball and I have bowled a lot of overs in First Class and First Division league in Chennai.” Waiting for it “So I was waiting for the opportunity. The last few months here, I did get to bowl a lot of balls and got a chance to improve my skill levels here. So it was just more to do with quantity and, I didn’t have to change anything technically,” said the 21-year-old. The youngster also said that he had spoken to senior-pro R. Ashwin on how to tackle Steve Smith and was glad he could take the important wicket.  Had plans for Smith “Yes, we had some plans for Smith but, I had to bowl good balls over and over again to get him out. I am glad that I got him and being my first wicket, it felt very good.” Washington was pleased for fellow-debutant Natarajan who helped India get back into the game with his twin strikes in the last session. “Nattu (Natarajan) bowled well. He brought us back in the game. (Matthew) Wade and Marnus (Labuschagne) had a 120 odd-run partnership (sic 113) and, he took both of them out. It feels good to make my debut alongside him,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/amazing-opportunity-says-washington/article33584746.ece
16 January 2021||Chennai,||The debutant duo of Natarajan and Washington — destiny’s children||Fate and destiny alter scripts, open pathways. Ask T. Natarajan and Washington Sundar. Considered limited overs specialists, the two were catapulted to Test cricket by a series of injuries to frontline cricketers, the limitations in selection forced by a pandemic, and their own work ethics and ability that impressed the team-management. And the Tamil Nadu duo, making their Test debut on the same morning, displayed composure when emotions must have been swirling around. Natarajan and Washington pulled their weight with tidy bowling on day one of the fourth Test at the ‘Gabba. Control was the key as they bowled lengthy spells on a dry surface with some bounce but no moisture on a hot day. Among wickets They were among the wickets too. Natarajan consumed Marnus Labuschagne and Matthew Wade with short-pitched deliveries that were slippery in nature and Washington got the big fish, Steve Smith, caught at the leg-trap. Just consider this. After a strong IPL, Natarajan was slated to travel to Australia as a net bowler and only an injury to Varun Chakravarthy put him in the Twenty20 squad. And now he has played in all three formats for India! Who would have thought so a few months ago? But then, it was his impressive display in the Twenty20 games and the ODI — he sent down compelling yorkers at will — that opened the door for him in Test cricket. Inborn tenacity There is that inborn tenacity, that desire to overcome the odds, that has been the driving force in Natarajan. With abject poverty around him as he grew up, he has faced and conquered so many challenges. Coach Ravi Shastri, as shrewd as they come, would surely have seen the fighter in Natarajan, that temperament which is so essential for top-flight cricket. He is not quick but makes the most of his ability, bringing into play the left-armer’s angle from over and round the wicket and stringing together variations.  There is a calmness about Washington that enables him to soak in the pressures of the occasion and focus on the job on hand. Tall and lithe, he essentially bowled a middle and leg line at the ‘Gabba with two men in catching positions. On a first day wicket, there is only so much a spinner can accomplish, in the absence of any moisture, and Washington did not let his side down. He is in the eleven for the balance he provides with his smooth-stroking left-handed batting. Big days await him. Indeed, Natarajan and Washington are destiny’s children. This life... it can surprise you.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/natarajan-and-washington-destinys-children/article33584750.ece
16 January 2021||January 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Puducherry chases down a record target against Andhra||Sheldon Jackson (106 n.o., 50b, 7x4, 8x6) and Paras Dogra (51, 18b, 2x4, 6x6) justified the tag of professionals to help Puducherry chase down a record target of 227 set by Andhra in a Group E tie of the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy in Mumbai on Friday. Dogra set the chase on course, dominating the 98-run partnership with Jackson for the third wicket before being brilliantly caught by Ashwin Hebbar on the long-off boundary. Jackson then took over and ensured that Puducherry opened its account in the tournament by scoring his maiden T20 hundred and helping his side cross the gargantuan target with four balls to spare. Puducherry, thus, registered the highest successful run chase in the history of the domestic T20 tournament. The previous record was held by Kerala which had chased down a 213-run target against Delhi in the day game in Mumbai on Friday. Triple blow With Andhra striking thrice in three overs when Ashith Rajiv joined Jackson at the crease, Puducherry was in danger of falling short of the target. But with 32 required off 14 balls, Jackson took a calculated risk against left-arm pacer C. Stephen to bring the target down to 22 off 12. In the next over, Ashith’s twin boundaries off K.V. Sasikanth brought Puducherry in sight of the victory. And Jackson then ensured that Andhra skipper Ambati Rayudu’s decision to throw the ball to leggie S.K. Ismail for the final over backfired with a straight six that brought his hundred and a lofted drive over covers. Bharat, Rayudu shine Jackson’s knock overshadowed Andhra’s stupendous effort of piling on 226 for four after being inserted at the Wankhede Stadium. The stars of the night for Andhra were opener K.S. Bharat (62, 34b, 4x4, 5x6) and Rayudu (62 n.o., 26b, 5x4, 5x6). Rayudu cut loose at the death to help Andhra comfortably cross the 200-run mark. But in the end, Jackson ensured it wasn’t enough.  The previous record was jointly held by Delhi and Chhattisgarh, who had overhauled a target of 211 against Railways (2015-16) and Haryana (2018-19), respectively||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/puducherry-creates-a-sensation-chases-down-a-record-target-against-andhra/article33584850.ece
16 January 2021||January 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Goa too good for Jamshedpur||FC Goa moved to the third spot in the 2020-21 ISL standings, just two points behind ATK Mohun Bagan, with a 3-0 victory over Jamshedpur FC at the Fatorda Stadium on Thursday. Jorge Ortiz, who completed his brace in the 52nd minute, and goalkeeper Naveen Kumar were Goa’s stars on the night, which saw Jamshedpur being reduced to 10 men after Alexandre Lima was dismissed for receiving a second yellow card in the 86th. Ahead of the game, Goa manager Juan Ferrando surprisingly decided to leave out leading striker Igor Angulo on the bench, while handing starts to Alberto Noguera, Lenny Rodrigues and Naveen. However, Ortiz stepped up in his countryman’s absence and led the Goa attack. After missing a big chance just moments before, the Spaniard gave his side a 1-0 lead when he received a Noguera pass from the right and fired the ball past JFC shot-stopper T.P. Rehenesh.  Ortiz had more chances to increase his team’s advantage in the opening 45 minutes, but his first touch and placement let him down. Despite Goa dominating possession in the first-half, it was Naveen who was the busier of the two custodians, making three crucial saves. Jamshedpur could have opened its account before Ortiz’s first goal, with Peter Hartley’s header off an Aitor Monroy set-piece missing the target and Isaac Vanmalsawma’s shot from just outside the box testing Naveen. Ferrando’s men started the second half brightly with Edu Bedia having an early attempt on target. Ortiz then doubled his team’s lead when he was set up by Brandon Fernandes inside the box. Gonzalez on target Defender Ivan Gonzalez added a third in the 89th minute after dashing forward with pace, evading a few opposition players, and executing a one-two pass with Noguera to find the back of the net. Jamshedpur attacker Nerijus Valskis, who is just behind Angulo in the Golden Boot standings of the season, had a dull outing as FC Goa came out on top.  The result: FC Goa 3 (Jorge Ortiz 19, 52, Ivan Gonzalez 89) bt Jamshedpur FC 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/goa-too-good-for-jamshedpur/article33584754.ece
16 January 2021||London,||Palace holds a fatigued Arsenal||Arsenal’s recent resurgence in the Premier League was checked by Crystal Palace as it was held to a dull 0-0 draw on Thursday. Mikel Arteta’s side was bidding for a fourth successive league win but could find no way through an obdurate Palace. Palace was well worth its point and was the better side in the first half in which defender James Tomkins hit the bar and Christian Benteke went close. Arsenal controlled the second half but lacked spark and rarely troubled Palace goalkeeper Vicente Guaita. Static The north Londoners remained in 11th spot in the standings with 24 points from 18 games with Palace two places lower with 23 points. Mikel Arteta admitted Arsenal was suffering from fatigue. “I wanted to see a win and a few goals but we were fatigued. I cannot fault the spirit but it wasn’t enough,” Arteta said.  Just before Christmas, Arsenal was only four points above the relegation zone, so its current position 12 points away from the bottom three affords Arteta some much-needed breathing space. But this disjointed display underlined the attacking flaws that have stopped Arsenal building on last season’s FA Cup triumph. Palace has only won one of its past eight matches in all competitions. Emile Smith-Rowe, Arsenal’s promising young midfielder, started after scoring against Newcastle as a substitute last weekend. But Kiernan Tierney was absent with muscle tightness and the Gunners missed the Scotland left-back’s busy presence. Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang has endured a difficult season and, once again, Arsenal’s captain was a diffident figure.  The results: Thursday: Arsenal 0 drew with Crystal Palace 0.   Wednesday: Manchester City 1 (Foden 44) bt Brighton 0; Tottenham 1 (Kane 25) drew with Fulham 1 (Cavaleiro 74).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/palace-holds-a-fatigued-arsenal/article33584758.ece
16 January 2021||Bangkok,||Indian campaign comes to an end||Former World No. 1 Saina Nehwal was knocked out of the Thailand Open Super 1000 event on Thursday. Saina managed to grab the opening game but ran out of steam as Thailand’s World No. 12 Busanan Ongbamrungphan won 21-23, 21-14, 21-16 in 68 minutes. It was Saina's fourth straight loss to Busanan. Saina and Busanan engaged in some long rallies but it was the Thai shuttler who had the last laugh as she dished out some delectable drops and also stood out with better placement of shots. In men's singles, former World No. 1 K. Srikanth conceded a walkover to his eighth-seeded Malaysian opponent Lee Zii Jia after pulling his right calf muscle. The Indian men's doubles pair of Satwiksairaj Rankireddy and Chirag Shetty also bowed out of the competition after a 21-19, 21-17 defeat to the second-seeded Indonesian combination of Mohammad Ahsan and Hendra Setiawan. Later in the day, Satwik and his mixed doubles partner Ashwini Ponnappa went down 21-12, 21-17 to the Hong Kong pairing of Chang Tak Ching and Ng Wing Yung.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-campaign-comes-to-an-end/article33584633.ece
16 January 2021||Chennai,||Red Bull extends Daruvala’s contract||Red Bull Racing, on Friday, confirmed the extension of its support to India’s Jehan Daruvala for the 2021 season. Jehan created history last year when he became the first Indian to win an FIA Formula 2 Championship race. The 22-year-old from Mumbai will continue with Carlin for his second season in F2 and would hope to follow the footsteps of his teammate from last year Yuki Tsunoda who graduated to F1 for the 2021 season with Red Bull-owned AlphaTauri F1 team. “I am very thankful to Red Bull for their continued faith in me. I’m extremely excited to be staying in F2 and with Carlin for 2021 as a Red Bull Junior. It was great to end the season on such a high with my first F2 win and then back that up with front running pace in post-season testing,” said Jehan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/red-bull-extends-daruvalas-contract/article33584639.ece
16 January 2021||CHENNAI,||Sharath and Sathiyan confident of making it to Tokyo Olympics||With two crucial international tournaments clashing with each other, India’s top paddler Sharath Kamal has spoken to Table Tennis Federation of India (TTFI) and asked for clarification. While the WTT-Star Contender is scheduled from March 6 to 13 in Doha, the Asian qualification tournament is due to be held in the same city between March 13 and 15. A problem   “There is a problem. What if I reach the semifinals of Star Contender on March 13? Then how can I compete in the Asian tournament which starts on the same date? If TTFI asks me to skip the Star Contender and play in the other tournament, I have no choice. “But playing in Star Contender will help me improve my world rankings,” Sharath told The Hindu . Meanwhile, after a poor show in the World team table tennis championships in Gondomar (Portugal) where they failed to qualify, the Indian players would be keen to make amends in singles and make it to Tokyo Olympics through the Asian qualification event. The winner of the [South] Asian tournament will directly qualify to the Olympics. India’s top two players, Sharath and G. Sathiyan, [Olympic] ranked 32 and 37 in the world, being the highest-ranked paddlers in the field, are hoping to reach the final given the quality and rankings of those in the fray. Even the second-placed player, too, has a chance to qualify for Tokyo. According to the qualification system, of the players who finish second in all the regional qualification events, one will go through based on his/her world rankings. On this count, both Sharath and Sathiyan are confident and believe they don’t have to play in the World singles qualification tournament in Doha from March 16 to 19. “We should make it in men’s singles,” said the duo. India is hoping to make the Olympic grade in mixed doubles too with Sharath and Manika Batra pairing up. Manika and Sutirtha Mukherjee will play in the women’s singles in the Asian qualification tournament.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sharath-and-sathiyan-confident-of-making-it-to-tokyo-olympics/article33584897.ece
16 January 2021||January 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Real Kashmir downs a depleted CCFC||Real Kashmir FC took advantage of an under-strength Chennai City — without four of its players, including first-choice goalkeeper Kabir Toufik — to score once in each half to secure a 2-0 win against the 2018-19 I-League champion in a match at the Mohun Bagan Ground on Friday. Quarantine Toufik and Vijay Thomas tested positive in a RT-PCR test conducted by the AIFF medical team on Tuesday. The two players and their roommates — Vijay Nagappan and Uma Shankar — were quarantined as per pre-agreed protocol. However, all four tested negative when the club opted for re-testing through a reputed private lab in the city on Wednesday. The players, though, were not allowed to take part in the game after the AIFF turned down Chennai City’s appeal to allow their participation following the latest results. Real Kashmir FC started confidently and took the lead in the 16th minute when Aser Dipanda Dicka found the target. The Cameroonian forward made the most of an assist from strike partner Lukman Adefemi, who did the hard work in the Chennai City box before setting up the former with the opportunity. Dicka was instrumental in setting up the second goal in the 83rd minute as he played in a nice cross for substitute Lalrindika Ralte, who put the ball in the net. Gritty Gokulam Gokulam Kerala FC scored a remarkable comeback win with a fantastic second-half performance to beat RoundGlass Punjab FC 4-3 in an I-League match played at the Salt Lake Stadium on Thursday. Training 1-3 in the first half Gokulam Kerala rallied spectacularly after the change of ends and scored three without a reply to pick up its first win of the tournament.  Gokulam Kerala was served well by its two Ghanaian forwards Dennis Antwi and Philip Adjah who shared the four goals to realise the fantastic comeback for their side. Punjab FC dominated the first half where Chencho Gyeltshen scored twice and Rupert Nongrum found the target once to give their team a convincing lead.  The results:   Real Kashmir FC 2 (Aser Dipanda Dicka 16, Lalrindika Ralte 83) bt Chennai City FC 0.   Gokulam Kerala FC 4 (Philip Adjah 27, 75, Dennis Antwi 70, 72) bt RoundGlass Punjab FC 3 (Chencho Gyeltshen 17, 25, Rupert Nongrum 44).   Sudeva Delhi FC 3 (Kean Lewis 40, Naorem Mahesh Singh 49, Shaiborlang Kharpan 66) bt Indian Arrows 0.   Mohammedan Sporting 0 drew with Churchill Brothers 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/real-kashmir-downs-a-depleted-ccfc/article33584752.ece
16 January 2021||London,||Tone down goal celebrations — Premier League to players||Premier League goal celebrations this weekend will be under intense scrutiny after players were reminded of their responsibility to set an example during the coronavirus pandemic. When football in England restarted in June after the COVID-19 shutdown, much was made of strict measures to limit the spread of COVID-19. Increasing pressure But footballers are coming under increasing pressure to tone down their celebrations as the country struggles to contain a highly infectious strain of the virus. Julian Knight, the MP who chairs the House of Commons Digital, Culture, Media and Sport committee, labelled some of the scenes at matches “brainless”, saying they give out an “awful message”. Sugestions Even England’s deputy chief medical officer, Jonathan Van-Tam, suggested footballers should avoid hugging and kissing to celebrate goals. New directives The Premier League sent out new directives last week, including demands that players tone down goal celebrations and avoid handshakes and swapping shirts. Chief executive Richard Masters said the Premier League must set the “right example”, while English Football League chief executive Trevor Birch warned football would come under “extreme governmental pressure” if players continued to flout the rules. Masters, Birch and Football Association CEO Mark Bullingham on Thursday issued a joint statement in a sign of their desire to see concrete action. “The game has a responsibility, and during this critical period it is down to everyone involved to ensure they follow government rules and our protocols,” they said. “We have seen the huge contribution players have made to the national effort and they must continue to use their influence in demonstrating the importance of following the rules.” The question is, how easy will it be to change the habits of a lifetime? Manchester City players crowded together after Phil Foden scored the winner against Brighton on Wednesday and Fulham players also hugged after their late equaliser against Tottenham. But Harry Kane was more muted in his celebrations after he opened the scoring against Fulham, exchanging fist bumps with teammates instead. City boss Pep Guardiola defended his men after their 1-0 win, which moved them to third in the Premier League. “In the real moment of joy, in the moment, to say the players don’t hug and celebrate together, it is instinct and reaction,” he said. “It is difficult.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tone-down-goal-celebrations-premier-league-to-players/article33585259.ece
16 January 2021||CHENNAI:,||Born Queen’s regal display in South India Derby Stakes||Satish Narredu’s ward Born Queen (Suraj Narredu up) won the The South India Derby Stakes, the star attraction of the season here on Thursday (Jan. 14), The winner, bred at S. Pathy’s Sans Craintes Stud Farm, is owned by United Racing & Bloodstock Breeders Limited. Suraj, who rode confidently, kept the unbeaten Born Queen third and fourth till the home stretch. He started manoeuvring his mount in the straight and the filly responded tremendously to few reminders on the 300m and took over from long-time leader Sporting Memories to not only register her fifth win in a row but also complete a Classic hat-trick.  1. A.M.M. ARUNACHALAM MEMORIAL CUP (1,000m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms), AMENDMENT (Akshay Kumar) 1, Tudor (Umesh), Subjucate (R.N. Darshan) 3 and Elegant Touch (Zervan) 4. 3-3/4, 1/2 and lnk. 1m, 0.45s. Owner: Mr. A.C. Muthiah. Trainer: Suresh.  2. BANGALORE TURF CLUB CUP (Div. II) , (1,200m), rated 20 to 45: PAPPA RICH (Arshad Alam) 1, Choir (Azfar Syeed) 2, Full Of Surprise (S. Kamble) 3 and Striking Distance (P. Trevor) 4. 1-1/4, 1 and 1/2. 1m, 13.90s. Owner: Mr. D. Nagaraj, Mr. P.S. Jagadish and Mr. V.P. Ghanesh. Trainer: P. Krishna.  3. BANGALORE TURF CLUB CUP (Div. I) , (1,200m), rtated 20 to 45: COPPER QUEEN (Nakhat Singh) 1, Shalem (Suraj Narredu) 2, Protea (Brisson) 3 and Pacific (Umesh) 4. 6-1/2, 1-1/2 and neck. 1m, 12.17s. Owner Mr & Mrs. Cyrus Palia. Trainer: R. Foley.  4. HYDERABAD RACE CLUB CUP (1,600m), rated 20 to 45: SALVO (P. Sai Kumar) 1. Divina (Brisson) 2, Grand Royal (Zervan) 3 and Brilliant Script (Arshad Alam) 4. 1-3/4, 3/4 and 1. 1m, 41.22s. Owners: Mr. M.A.M.R. Muthiah & M/s. United Racing & Bloodstock Breeders. Trainer: R. Ramanathan.  5. DR. M.A.M. RAMASWAMY MEMORIAL TROPHY (1,400m), 4-y-o & over (Terms): CAVALLO VELOCE (A. Imran Khan) 1, Multifaceted (A. Sandesh) 2, Victory Parade (Akshay Kumar) 3 and Megasthenes (P. Sai Kumar) 4. 3/4, 1-1/2 and 3-3/4. 1m, 23.71s. Owner: M/s. Arun Alagappan Racing. Trainer: B. Suresh.  6. SOUTH INDIA DERBY STAKES ( 2,400m), 4-y-o (Terms): BORN QUEEN (Tazahum-State Secret) Suraj Narredu 1, SPORTING MEMORIES (Leitir Mor-Priceless Memories) Neeraj 2, TAIMUR (Multidimensional-Tammy O) A. Sandesh 3 and SUCCESSOR (Leitir Mor-Sweeping Success) P. Trevor 4. Not run: Illustrious Ruler. 2-1/2. 3-3/4 and 1-1/4. 2m, 33.18s. Owner: United Racing & Bloodstock Breeders. Trainer: S. Narredu.  7. ROYAL WESTERN INDIA TURF CLUB CUP (1,000m), rated 60 to 85: ABIRA (Neeraj) 1, Mzilikazi (Zervan) 2, Gods Plan (P. Sai Kumar) 3 and Star Guitar (Azfar Syeed) 4. 2-1/4, 2-3/4 and hd. 58.77s. Owner: M/s. Sarainaga Racing. Trainer: Arjun Mangalokar.  8. TURF AUTHORITIES CUP (1,400m), rated 40 to 65: TORBERT (P. Trevor) 1, Nekhbet (Zervan) 2, Demerara (P. S. Chouhan) 3 and Renegade (Arshad Alam) 4. Lnk, 2 and 1-1/2. 1m 26.25s. Owner: Mr. Vazhaparambil J. Joseph. Trainer: Sebastian.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/born-queens-regal-display-in-south-india-derby-stakes/article33584660.ece
16 January 2021||Pune:,||Enid Blyton claims the main event||Enid Blyton ridden by Neeraj Rawal claimed the Maharaja Sir Pratapsingh Gaekwad Trophy, the main event of Friday’s (Jan. 15) Mumbai races held at Pune. The winner is owned by M/s. S. M. Ruia, Suhrud S. Jhaveri & K. H. Vaccha. Altamash A. Ahmed trains the winner.  SPRUNGLI PLATE (Div.II) (1,200m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46: RAMBLER (Zeeshan) 1, Cellini (Ayyar) 2, Tomorrows Dreams (Sandesh) 3 and Cipher (Neeraj) 4. 1, Snk and 1. 1m 9.74s. Rs. 26 (w), 15, 20 and 30 (p). SHP: 42, FP: 154, Q: 67, Tanala: 894. Favourite: Rambler. Owner: Mr. Jaydev M. Mody rep. J.M. Livestock Pvt Ltd. Trainer: Shazaan Shah.  SIMPLY NOBLE PLATE (1,200m), Cl. III, rated 40 to 66: MARKET KING (Sandesh) 1, Princess Annabel (Bhawani) 2, Arc Shine (Merchant) 3 and Epiphany (Aniket) 4. 1-3/4, 1-1/4 and 3/4. 1m 9.48s. Rs. 15 (w), 13, 26 and 95 (p). SHP: 72, FP: 235, Q: 65, Tanala: 619 and 531. Favourite: Market King. Owners: M/s. Jatin L. Trivedi, Nitin H. Jain, Mrs. K.N. Sunderji & Mr. Aneil V. Lala. Trainer: S.K. Sunderji.  MAHARAJA SIR PRATAPSINGH GAEKWAD TROPHY (1,400m), Cl. II, rated 60 to 86: ENID BLYTON (Neeraj) 1, Sultan Suleiman (Trevor) 2, Majestic Warrior (Kaviraj) 3 and Revelator (Parmar) 4. Hd, 3 and 1-1/4. 1m 24.53s. Rs. 58 (w), 19 and 10 (p). SHP: 46, FP; 171, Q: 28, Tanala: 1,323 and 283. Favourite: Sultan Suleiman. Owners: M/s. S.M. Ruia, Suhrud S. Jhaveri & K.H. Vachha. Trainer: Altamash A. Ahmed.  JAYANT M. SHAH PLATE (Div. II) (1,400m), Cl. V, 5-y-o & over, rated 4 to 30: SHAPATH (Chouhan) 1, Take It Easy (Nazil) 2, Honourable Eyes (Raghuveer) 3 and Chezza (Merchant) 4. Nk, 3-3/4 and Nose. 1m 26.68s. Rs. 35 (w), 19, 15 and 40 (p). SHP: 43, FP: 96, Q: 90. Tanala: C/F. Favourite: Take It Easy. Owners: M/s. Vivek Lalwani & Subhag Singh. Trainer: Subhag Singh.  V R MENON PLATE (1,400m), Cl. IV, Maiden, 4-y-o only, rated 20 to 46: RAYS OF SUN (Parmar) 1, Marvin (Sandesh) 2, Chancellor (Trevor) 3 and Memorable Moments (Dashrath) 4. Not run: Spanish City. Nk, 3 and 1-1/2. 1m 26.60s. Rs. 38 (w), 15, 24 and 10 (p). SHP: 104, FP: 483, Q: 598, Tanala: 215 and 55. Favourite: Chancellor. Owners: Mr. Champaklal Zaveri, Mrs. Bindu C. Zaveri, Miss. Niti N. Desai & Miss. Harsha N. Desai rep. Zaveri Stud Farm Pvt Ltd. Trainer: S.S. Shah.  KARL UMRIGAR TROPHY (1,400m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only: INFINITE N BEYOND (Sandesh) 1, Supreme Runner (S. Amit) 2, Above The Law (Ajinkya) 3 and Beastia (Bhawani) 4. Not run: Arc De Triomphe and Spinoza. 6, 5-1/4 and 1-1/4. 1m 27.99s. Rs. 22 (w), 10, 19 and 22 (p). SHP: 56, FP: 209, Q: 381. Tanala: C/F. (Note: In this race the first favourite Roman (Trevor astride) shifted out alarmingly from 1000m and ended far behind of the field). Favourite: Roman. Owners: M/s. Rajesh Monga, Jatin L. Trivedi & Nitin H. Jain. Trainer: S.K. Sunderji.  SPRUNGLI PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46: AGRAMI (Aniket) 1, Powerful Lady (Sandesh) 2, Royalty (Chouhan) 3 and Belenus (Gagandeep) 4. 1-3/4, 3/4 and 1-1/2. 1m 10.43s. Rs. 123 (w), 31, 10 and 15 (p). SHP: 38, FP: 792, Q: 265, Tanala: 306 and 157. Favourite: Royalty. Owners: M/s. Kapil Bahl & Vinay Kumar. Trainer: Faisal A. Abbas.  JAYANT M. SHAH PLATE (Div. I) (1,400m), Cl. V, 5-y-o & over, rated 4 to 30: PERIWINKLE (Nazil) 1, Mikayla’s Pride (J. Chinoy) 2, Sachertorte (Vishal Bunde) 3 and Arabian Storm (Kaviraj) 4. 2-3/4, 1/2 and 1/2. 1m 27.03s. Rs. 35 (w), 14, 14 and 27 (p). SHP: 67, FP: 121, Q: 83, Tanala: 624 and 267. Favourite: Ellysia. Owners: M/s. Zaheer Lalkaka & Pervez Andhyarujina. Trainer: Hosidar Daji. Jackpot: 70 per cent: Rs. 9, 793 (1 tkt), 30 per cent: Rs. 839 (5 tkts). Treble: (i) Rs. 469 (C/F), (ii) Rs. 2,393 (C/F).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/enid-blyton-claims-the-main-event/article33585313.ece
16 January 2021||Galle,||Root’s century puts England in driving seat||Skipper Joe Root stood tall with an unbeaten 168 as England stretched its lead to 185 against Sri Lanka on a rain-hit day two of the opening Test on Friday. England reached 320 for four at tea riding on a 173-run partnership between Root and debutant Dan Lawrence, who made 73, after the visitors resumed the day on 127-2 in Galle. Root, who is batting alongside Jos Buttler (7), hit his 18th Test ton and kept up the pressure on the home bowlers despite losing overnight partner Jonny Bairstow for 47 in the second over of the day. Single to century He moved from 99 to 100 soon after lunch with a single off Dilruwan Perera as he raised the bat and hugged his partner in the two-match series played behind closed doors due to the coronavirus. The star batsman, who started the day on 66, recorded his highest Test score in more than a year after going through 2020 without a century and dropping out of the top 10 of the world rankings. Standing firm Lawrence, 23, stood firm with his captain, displaying confidence against the spinners as he brought up his fifty in 95 balls with five fours. Lawrence, who plays for English County Essex, survived two dropped catches on 60 and 68 in his first international outing and finally fell to Perera. Earlier Bairstow became left-arm spinner Lasith Embuldeniya's third victim after being caught at gully. The wicket ended a 114-run third-wicket stand for the tourists. Off-spinner Dom Bess returned career-best figures of 5-30 and helped skittle out Sri Lanka for 135 — the lowest first-innings score at the venue — in two sessions on Thursday after the hosts elected to bat. The series has resumed after being aborted due to the coronavirus in March.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/roots-century-puts-england-in-driving-seat/article33584837.ece
16 January 2021||Karachi,||Masood and Sohail axed for SA series||Six players, including Shan Masood, Haris Sohail and Imam-ul-Haq, from the recent New Zealand series, were axed as Pakistan’s new chief selector Muhammad Wasim on Friday announced a massively overhauled 20-member squad for the two-Test home series against South Africa. The South African team will reach Karachi on Saturday. Wasim rewarded several top performers of the domestic season and included nine uncapped players in the squad, which will be trimmed to 16 players ahead of the first Test. Top-scoring batsmen Saud Shakeel, Kamran Ghulam, allrounder Agha Salman, left-arm spinner Nauman Ali, off-spinner Sajid Khan and fast bowlers Hasan Ali and Tabish Khan — all got call-ups for the series beginning on January 26 at the National Stadium here. The selectors also upgraded young batsman Abdullah Shafique to the Test squad although he was selected for the New Zealand tour as a specialist T20 player and failed in his two outings.  Pakistan Test squad: Babar Azam (Capt.), Muhammad Rizwan (Vice-capt.), Imran Butt, Abdullah Shafique, Abid Ali, Azhar Ali, Fawad Alam, Sarfaraz Ahmed, Saud Shakeel, Kamran Ghulam, Agha Salman, Hasan Ali, Shaheen Shah Afridi, Tabish Khan, Haris Rauf, Sajid Khan, Nauman Ali, Yasir Shah. Faheem Ashraf and Muhammad Nawaz .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/masood-and-sohail-axed-for-sa-series/article33584848.ece
16 January 2021||London,||United faces title test at Liverpool||Manchester United’s bid to win the Premier League for the first time in eight years will face a major test when the leader faces champion Liverpool on Sunday. With points certain to be dropped by one of the title contender at Anfield this weekend, third placed Manchester City can climb back into the race. Slumping Chelsea has been forced to put its own title ambitions on hold after a woeful run that must be arrested soon to take the pressure off boss Frank Lampard. Golden opportunity After unexpectedly gate-crashing the title race with nine wins during an 11-match unbeaten run, Manchester United heads to Anfield knowing it has a golden opportunity to open up a potentially priceless six-point lead over Jurgen Klopp’s men. For the first time since Alex Ferguson’s title-winning farewell season in 2012-13, United is top of the table at this stage of the campaign. It holds a three-point cushion over second placed Liverpool after Tuesday’s success at Burnley — a far cry from the 30-point gap the Reds had opened up over Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s side when they last met in January 2020. Having made its worst home league start to a season in 48 years, United was in turmoil when it suffered a shock Champions League group stage exit. Flash in the pan? But Solskjaer, who appeared in danger of the sack, deserves credit for dragging United back into contention and a first win against Liverpool since 2018 would be the perfect way to show its challenge is more than a flash in the pan. United has won seven league games on its travels this term, while Liverpool — ravaged by defensive injuries and suddenly short of goals — has gone three league matches without a victory. Hampered by Sergio Aguero’s prolonged absence with a variety of injuries and forced to deal with a debilitating coronavirus outbreak among his squad, Pep Guardiola has somehow steered Manchester City back into the title race. Game in hand City’s 1-0 win against Brighton on Wednesday extended its unbeaten run to 14 games in all competitions and left it just four points behind United with a game in hand. With City hosting Crystal Palace on Sunday before taking on Aston Villa, West Bromwich Albion, Sheffield United and Burnley in its next league games, the time is now for Guardiola’s men to take their move.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/premier-league-united-faces-title-test-at-liverpool/article33585122.ece
16 January 2021||New Delhi,||Six Indians in the top-10||Young shuttlers Varun Kapur and Samiya Imad Farooqui have attained career-best second spots in their respective categories in the latest BWF's junior world rankings, which features six Indians in the top-10. Varun jumped four places among male singles players, while Samiya climbed six spots in the female category. Varun had a great run last year as he picked his sixth junior title, claiming the XII Portuguese International 2020 in November. While 17-year-old Samiya, winner of the U-15 Asian Badminton Championship, has been one of the consistent performers in the junior circuit last year. “It's great to see many junior shuttlers doing so well. We currently have 10 Indians in the top-20 and the juniors have shown a lot of promise," Badminton Association of India (BAI) president Himanta Biswa Sarma said in a release. “This ranking will work as a desired boost for each of them and surely motivate them to work harder as it has been tough year for COVID-19 affected sporting world and badminton is trying to make a comeback after almost a year's break.” BWF had frozen the world junior rankings as of March 17, 2020, owing to the COVID-19 pandemic. However, with the recommencement of some international junior tournaments, BWF decided to add subsequent International junior tournament results to the world junior rankings without deducting points from previous weeks, thereby creating a rolling ranking until such time as the world junior rankings can be fully unfrozen. While Varun is the only Indian in the top 10 among male shuttlers, the female singles category has three other Indian shuttlers — Tasnim Mir (4), Treesa Jolly (8) and Aditi Bhatt (10) — in the top-10 list. In women’s doubles, Tressa (8), Tanisha Crasto (9) and Aditi (9) are among the Indians who are placed inside top-10. “BAI’s executive council meeting and AGM is scheduled for January 30 in Delhi. We will be finalising a detailed plan on how to conduct domestic tournaments as well as the key junior tournaments that BAI plans to send its players this year,” said BAI general-secretary Ajay Singhania. “We will also be discussing the future plans related to coaching and training for junior shuttlers.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/six-indians-in-the-top-10/article33584635.ece
16 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Commendable show by Chaudhary||After months of training at home, Asian Games gold medallist Saurabh Chaudhary came up with a commendable fare in the men’s air pistol event of the National shooting selection trials at the Dr. Karni Singh Range on Friday. Even before the trials, high performance pistol coach Samaresh Jung had said that Chaudhary was shooting close to his best during the training camp. The 18-year-old Chaudhary, who won six World Cup gold medals in 2019, shot 590 in qualification and topped the finals with a world record score of 246.9. The second Olympic quota winner in the event, Abhishek Verma, who also won two individual gold medals in World Cups in 2019, finished fourth. Guarav Rana and Omprakash Mitharval were the others to make the final. Manu Bhaker was also in brilliant form as she topped the women’s air pistol with 239.3 in the final, and 580 in qualification. Shri Nivetha was 1.1 point behind Manu, while Neha finished third. The young Esha Singh who shot 576 in qualification slipped to fourth. The second Olympic quota winner in the event, Yashaswini Singh Deswal shot 570 in qualification and did not shoot the final. In the 25m sports pistol second trial on Thursday, Manu topped qualification with 590 but it was Rahi Sarnobat who once again topped the final, as she pipped the other Olympic quota winner in the event, Chinki Yadav 38-37. Olympian Annu Raj Singh was third, while Tejaswini, Abhdnya Patil, Neeraj Kaur and Neha were the others to make the final.  The results: Men: 10m air pistol: 1. Saurabh Chaudhary 246.9 (590); 2. Amanpreet Singh 244.5 (580); 3. Shiva Narwal 223.3 (579).   Women: 10m air pistol: 1. Manu Bhaker 239.3 (580); 2. Shiri Nivetha 238.2 (572); 3. Neha 217.4 (571).   25m sports pistol: 1. Rahi Sarnobat 38 (582); 2. Chiki Yadav 37 (584); 3. Annu Raj Singh 29 (575).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/commendable-show-by-chaudhary/article33584986.ece
16 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Tunisia closes tournaments abruptly||It was an abrupt end to the aspirations of Zeel Desai and Vaidehi Chaudhari as the $15,000 ITF women’s tennis tournament was cancelled, quite abruptly, on Wednesday. Both the Indians were looking forward to their second round matches when the ITF made a statement, announcing the cancellation, citing the Tunisian government’s restriction on sporting gatherings owing to COVID-19 escalation. With Paras Dahiya competing in the men’s event in Tunisia, it was a big blow for the trainees of coach Jignesh Raval who were accompanied by coach Eetee Maheta. The Indian players were scheduled to compete in two more weeks in Tunisia. In two circulars in quick succession, the ITF first announced the cancellation of future events in Tunisia, before declaring an end to the current tournament. “Our kids are in great form. Unfortunately, they have to return back,” said Raval of the Altevol Academy in Ahmedabad. The Indian players were able to secure flight bookings to Mumbai through Dubai, and are scheduled to reach home by Saturday. Riya loses in semis Riya Bhatia and Fanny Ostlund of Sweden lost 3-6, 6-0, [10-7] to Gloria Ceschi and Marion Viertler of Italy in the $15,000 ITF women’s tennis tournament doubles semifinals in Cairo.  The results: $15,000 ITF, Cairo: Men: First round: Romain Faucon (Bel) bt Muthu Aadhitiya Senthilkumar 6-3, 6-3. Doubles: Pre-quarterfinals: Naoki Tajima (Esp) & Jose Fco. Vidal Azorin (Esp) bt Aryan Goveas & Dhruv Sunish 6-2, 6-0; Andrey Chepelev (Rus) & Grigoriy Lomakin (Kaz) bt Yash Chaurasia & Tushar Madan 6-3, 6-3.   Women: Pre-quarterfinals: Sinja Kraus (Aut) bt Riya Bhatia 6-3, 6-0. First round: Riya bt Beatrice Ricci (Ita) 1-6, 6-4, 6-3; Anna Morgina (Rus) bt Saumya Vig 6-2, 6-0.   Doubles: Semifinals: Gloria Ceschi & Marion Viertler (Ita) bt Fanny Ostlund (Swe) & Riya 3-6, 6-0, [10-7]. Quarterfinals: Ostlund & Riya bt Aya Elaouni (Mar) & Elena Grekul (Ukr) 6-3, 6-1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tunisia-closes-tournaments-abruptly/article33584987.ece
16 January 2021||Derby,||Rooney moves full time into managing||Wayne Rooney now has the Derby job on a permanent basis after England’s record goal-scorer retired from playing and received a contract through 2023 to manage the second division team. The 35-year-old former Manchester United captain, who took temporary charge of Derby in November, is now focusing on his coaching career. “Despite other offers I knew instinctively Derby County was the place for me,” Rooney said Friday. “I can promise everyone involved in the club and all our fans, my staff and I will leave no stone unturned in achieving the potential I have witnessed over the last 12 months of this historic football club.” Rooney returned to England after a stint at DC United to last January join a Derby team that has been out of the Premier League since 2008. “Our recent upturn in results under Wayne was married together with some positive performances, notably the 2-0 home win over Swansea City and the 4-0 victory at Birmingham City,” Derby CEO Stephen Pearce said. “During that nine-game run we also dramatically improved their defensive record and registered five clean sheets in the process, while in the attacking third we became more effective and ruthless too. “Those foundations have provided a platform for the club to build on in the second half of the season under Wayne’s guidance.” Rooney scored a record 253 goals for United after moving from Everton as an 18-year-old in 2004, winning the Premier League title five times, the FA Cup once, the League Cup three times, the Champions League once and the Europa League in his last season there. The striker not only overtook Bobby Charlton as United’s record goal-scorer but he also eclipsed the World Cup winner with England, scoring 53 goals in 120 appearances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rooney-moves-full-time-into-managing/article33585261.ece
16 January 2021||Barcelona,||Barcelona presidential elections postponed||Barcelona’s presidential elections have been postponed because of the coronavirus pandemic, the club said on Friday. Barcelona said the January 24 elections were delayed because of “mobility restrictions decreed by the Catalan government in the current context of (the coronavirus) pandemic.” Barcelona said it has asked the Catalan government to allow voting by mail, “a request that the government has undertaken to study.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/barcelona-presidential-elections-postponed/article33584988.ece
16 January 2021||January 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Essence of pranava||The significance of the pranava mantra is such that a sanyasi should keep repeating it constantly. Pranava also means ‘yes,’ in Sanskrit. Those who say ‘yes’ to superior things in life are great people. And these superior things are, naturally, not of the material world, but they have to do with ways to attain moksha. When one recites the pranava, one’s mind must imagine Krishna on the chariot, in the driver’s seat, with Arjuna, behind Him. Vedanta Desika shows the importance of Arjuna’s chariot in the context of the pranava mantra, said V.S. Karunakarachariar in a discourse. Desika acknowledges that it was his Acharya Kidambi Appullar, who taught him this. The Lord being in front is symbolically important. The first akshara of the pranava is ‘a’. And ‘a’ indicates Vishnu. It is also the origin of all letters. It is the foundation for everything in this world. The One who drives everything in the world, and sustains everything did not think it was demeaning to be a mere mortal’s chariot driver. In the battlefield, dust kicked up by the horses settles on Krishna. Being dust-covered is nothing new to the Lord. Was He not covered in dust when He grazed cows? One is reminded of Krishna’s childhood in Gokula when one thinks of Krishna’s dust covered body as Arjuna’s chariot driver. Appayya Dikshitar gives yet another interesting interpretation in his commentary on Vedanta Desika’s Yadavabhyuadaya. In Gokula, He was in the midst of cows. Here, on the battlefield, He is in the midst of Bhishma, Drona, the Pandavas, and others. They are all like cows in the presence of the divine grazer Krishna, says Dikshitar. While chanting the pranava, one should meditate on Arjuna’s chariot, for it represents the essence of the pranava mantra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/essence-of-pranava/article33584739.ece
16 January 2021||January 16 2021 07:23 IST,||Sudoku - January 16, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-january-16-2021/article33585457.ece
16 January 2021||January 16 2021 00:00 IST,||And the parties are back||2021 is definitely off to a bang. This last weekend felt like a real one after so long, I almost forgot about Covid-19. On Saturday evening, I went to a five-person dinner party at art aficionado Udit Bhambri’s home. Of course, we adhered to our social bubble. Udit has a fabulous collection and his enthusiasm for Indian art is infectious. His passion began as a young child; as an eight-year-old, he was urging his parents to buy paintings! Those who remember a pre-smart phone era will recall how popular autograph books used to be. Udit showed us his, signed not by movie stars and athletes, but by artists. He flipped through pages signed by MF Husain, Jehangir Sabavala and Ganesh Pyne, amongst others. The evening reminded me of all that we missed out last year, the wonderful feeling of dining with friends, learning something new along the way. On Sunday, I did something even more risqué — I ate out at a restaurant! Tori recently opened in Bandra, and it is making waves. Chef Thomas Pongsak Catley, who helmed Amaz in Lima, Peru (one of South America’s best restaurants), and who has worked at Nobu Park Lane, Maze Grill by Gordon Ramsay, and Ottolenghi in London, is in charge. Proprietor Abhayraj Singh Kohli, better known as ‘AB’, the man behind joints like The Roll Company and Grandmama’s Café, said he conceptualised everything over lockdown, including hiring the chef and assistant chefs over Zoom. A fan of Latin American-inspired Japanese food for almost two decades, he said he has been “waiting to open one in Mumbai for the last 16 years”. It was the lockdown that made it happen. Because of the depressed economy, rents in prime locales were down, providing the right opportunity. “Getting a chef of this calibre could not have happened otherwise,” he said. Prior to opening, Catley spent a lot of time researching vegetarian and vegan dishes, and the brunch menu reflected it. The pulled jackfruit tacos were divine and so was the ‘sushi’: vegan tuna, avocado, and salted melon fat, which was essentially watermelon that had been drained over hours and ‘reduced’ to look like the fish. The one hiccup was around service. New restaurants tend to have such teething problems, but the fact that places of this calibre are opening is exciting. To top off the week was — gasp! — a proper ladies lunch, replete with floral décor and big hair blow drys. It had been almost a year since I had been to one of these and I had forgotten how much fun they could be. My girlfriend Priya Nathani had insisted on throwing me a belated birthday bash. The celebratory lunch involved 10 people, including me, and everyone had braved the gathering after being reassured that it was “just us”. Over lamb and mushroom tacos, truffle parmesan fries, pink grapefruit avocado salad, baked baby burrata and rawas , served alongside white wine and Prosecco, we discussed skincare, wellness, and, of course, the pandemic. Most importantly, we laughed a lot. It was a perfect afternoon, one that hopefully sets the tone for the year to come. Read the full column on weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/and-the-parties-are-back/article33584588.ece
16 January 2021||January 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Mother knows best?||At a time when notions of motherhood are being subverted in literature and in film comes Tribhanga — Tedhi Medhi Crazy , written and directed by Renuka Shahane. It pries open the complex dynamic between three generations of mothers and daughters with generous helpings of humour, chutzpah, and grace. Mothers falter. They fail. They are fallible. It is important to not judge them for it, the film appears to say. The upcoming Netflix film marks Kajol’s digital debut, playing a famous actor and Odissi dancer Anu, who resents her writer mother Nayan (Tanvi Azmi). Added to the mix is Anu’s daughter, Masha (Mithila Palkar), who is about to have a baby. Shahane, who adores Odissi, uses it as a metaphor for her characters. Anu describes Nayan as the slightly off-centre pose ‘ abhang’ , Masha as the in-balance ‘ sama-bhang’ , and herself as ‘ t ribhanga ’, the pose with three bends at varying angles.  Not always perfect   The story, says Shahane over a warm, laughter-filled Zoom conversation, along with Kajol and Azmi, came from a desire to explore how our relationships with the mother figure affects our journeys, especially when we become mothers. “For me it is a very strong relationship and for everything I am today, I would thank my mother [writer Shanta Gokhale]. When I was doing [TV show] Surabhi , I had met someone who mentioned that after her marriage she was so glad to get out of her premarital home because she hated her mum. I was stunned by that admission. Meeting her was the beginning of the story.” At the core of the story is Anu’s resentment of her mother’s unconventional decisions that she believes ruined her life. “Then Masha followed because I wanted the intergenerational difference,” says Shahane.  Telling it like it is   What drew Kajol to the film is the way the three lives and relationships are woven together. “I’ve always had strong women around me — like my mother and my grandmother — who made non-conformist decisions and encouraged that in me as well,” she says. Much of the film’s energy comes from Anu’s outbursts against her mother. “The script is the hero of the film,” says Azmi, adding that she found it fascinating how “Anu is almost exactly like her mother, which she doesn’t realise till she has a daughter of her own”. And indeed, the film counters the image of the perfect, self-sacrificing mother we’ve long held on to. So what does motherhood mean to the three women off screen? For Shahane, “Motherhood has never been what was projected in a small box by society. There is so much pressure to be that kind of mother. I have never seen my mother like that. She has been non-conformist, warm and amazing.” Meanwhile, Kajol quips that motherhood is like being an intern forever, always learning on the go. What they hope the audience takes away from the film is the idea that women, whether they are mothers or not, need to be appreciated as human beings. And to not expect mothers to be demi-gods who know the answers to everything and do everything perfectly, adds Azmi.  Looking inwards   Did working on Tribhanga make them reflect on their own relationships with their mothers and children? “My mother is the only person in the world who understood me, spoke my language and still does. We are not putting up a strict manual saying if you don’t do this right, you are wrong. You aren’t wrong, you are just different,” says Kajol. It is perhaps natural that the process of making the intense, unfiltered family drama has been a cathartic experience. “Playing a part, crying in front of a 100 people on set is always cathartic,” says Kajol. For Shahane, it was the culmination of a long journey. “I wanted people to look at the characters, forgive them, and not judge them for their actions. I wanted the expectations that I have as a mother from myself to be kinder and more compassionate. I could look at myself with a little more grace.” Tribhanga is nowstreaming on Netfllix. Watch an interview with Kajol, Tanvi Azmi and Renuka Shahane on thehindu.com   dummy he related to the characters of both Anu and Nayan. “I’ve always had strong women around me — like my mother and my grandmother — who made non-conformist d||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/mother-knows-best/article33584600.ece
16 January 2021||January 16 2021 00:00 IST,||How Jo Malone created over 40 fragrances in 2020||The sense of smell is closely linked with memory, possibly more so than any of our other senses. This is something we have come to deeply appreciate during the pandemic, Covid-19 induced anosmia or no. Perfumer Jo Malone knows this connection well, having launched two successful fragrance businesses and currently enjoying the rewards of her collaboration with high street giant, Zara. When we meet on a Zoom call, Malone, 57, talks about her “year within four walls” with her husband and son, likening herself to an athlete “practising and practising and working every day”. Zara has been receptive to her creativity, she says. As for Zara Emotions, the new collection of eight fragrances, launched in India in December 2020 is budget friendly and delivers the Jo Loves experience. Best known for Jo Malone London that she sold to Estée Lauder in 1999 and introducing Jo Loves in 2011, where her Pomelo fragrance wasted no time in becoming a classic, this entrepreneur has been candid about her struggles when she left Jo Malone London. “With Jo Loves, it was like starting from the beginning. It demanded so much more from me. Working with Zara, I’m on the top of that mountain again, and every day I see opportunity. I’m braver and stronger. I used to create three to four fragrances a year but now it’s probably 40 to 50 a year,” she says. She has turned one floor of her house into her workspace where everything is archived. “I think the quietness and isolation [of lockdown] has really caused something in me to come to the surface that I didn’t know existed. So you’re going to see in 2021 all of that creativity and storytelling come to reality.” Known for her clean and unforgettable unisex perfumes — Red Truffle 21 with green fig, bitter citrus and pine is a personal favourite — and her minimalist bottles, Malone has something new for Jo Loves fans. “I have a fragrance where I have created art for the bottle [not clear glass which is the norm]. It is a very masculine, rich fragrance with notes I have not used before. You can feel the heritage and the spirit of London, and the things I love about this city. It is about looking up and dreaming again,” is all she gives away about the perfume to be launched in March-April in the UK. While citrus and the Orange Flower have been her all-time favourites, she says it is this new fragrance that will always remind her of 2020. As it did for most of us, last year taught Malone to work and live differently. “My team and I created even while not being in the same room and it has shown me the most powerful way of working that I’ve ever known,” she says. New Jo Loves stores were launched in Dubai and China despite the lockdown, where she checked every detail virtually. Malone places emphasis on experiential retail — popular concepts include letting customers create their own scented candles, and a Fragrance Brasserie Bar with a ‘tapas menu’ encourages you to try out her scents in creative ways. While her candles and another successful product, her Fragrance Paintbrush — a paintbrush-style scent applicator — are yet to come to India, Malone hopes to be present when the latter launches. “I want to be there in India to show you how to paint your body with fragrance, so it becomes a new form of a tattoo. You can paint Monet’s water lilies all over your body. It’s a whole new way of wearing and looking at fragrance,” she says. She adds that the pandemic has brought with it heartfelt stories about the impact of her fragrance among people in isolation. One of them is about a woman who made pillow slips with pictures of her family and sprayed it with their favourite Jo Loves fragrance, Pomelo. “It was like a love letter for her mother who lived in a home; she put those pillows on her bed and could still smell her family, although she couldn’t touch them and hold them,” says Malone, concluding, “It is a privilege to be able to unlock those memories, to be a part of the intimacy of a family, and bring people together.”  Zara Emotions 40 ML at Rs. 1,590 or a collector’s set of eight at Rs. 9,990||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/how-jo-malone-created-over-40-fragrances-in-2020/article33584605.ece
16 January 2021||January 16 2021 00:00 IST,||In the #houseplantclub||“Our plant, Lola, had a baby!” announced a #proudplantparent yesterday, on the ’gram. Another parent introduced us to Hera and Odin, two succulents that had “graduated to bigger pots”. The comments sections were flooded with congratulatory messages. Seems odd? Not so in our post pandemic world, where houseplants — often with unusual names, much like our pets — are our new companions. People are picking up Monsteras (one of the trending plants of 2020), talking to them every morning (many swear by it), and taking photographs with them. Our social media feeds are proof: overrun with pictures of people showing off their newly-acquired Calatheas and Chinese Money Plants. And, interestingly, it is not just the average garden enthusiast who has taken it up with an enthusiasm last seen for sourdough. The world over, the houseplant industry is blooming with workshops, live videos, and plant talk shows. Even MasterClass had a session with Ron Finley, the Gangsta Gardener of Los Angeles, which is telling. India’s ‘plant influencers’ are keeping up. “Interest in gardening has grown since lockdown,” says Vinayak Garg, who founded Delhi-based Lazy Gardener in 2019. His Reels about growing microgreens and knowing when to repot have seen his Instagram followers increase from 100k in March 2020 to 290k+. “During lockdown, I was alone at home. So I decided to do a 21-day series that included the basics, gardening for kids, etc. The number of people attending it [10,000 at one point] was a reflection of the growing interest. Since then, we’ve attracted a mixed crowd, between 25 and 50 years.”  Pot parenting  Lawyer Shefali Alvares is a new plant parent; she began gardening during the lockdown after seeing how therapeutic her grandmother found it. “I started with hardy varieties such as palms and money plants, and then moved on to others like caladiums and peace lilies.” She also went on a buying spree. “It became like a disease,” she laughs. “I made the mistake of buying from vendors who forced plants to flower prematurely, so they’d look attractive, but these don’t last.” The death of several species was a huge setback to her confidence. Since then, Alvares has “spent hours reading up about plants” and following experts. Plant blogger and researcher Ekta Chaudhary (@GardenUp) has dealt with many such ‘mourners’ of late. “Often, in DMs and comments, I see that people need encouragement after they’ve killed their first plant. I tell them to try again because nobody is born with a green thumb. Over time, you develop a kind of intuition,” she says. Another influencer who fields similar questions is Ann Mathew (@geeksofgreen). She’d started gardening a few years ago with 40 succulents she’d brought from her aunt’s garden in Mysuru. After she“killed them all”, she began studying plants seriously and, as her knowledge grew and her north-facing garden flourished, she started putting up videos on social media. Today, the Mumbai-based entrepreneur has 58k+ followers on YouTube and 32k+ on Instagram, who wait for her videos on gardening tips and nursery tours.  Some Swiss cheese?  Foliage is having a moment — perhaps because not too many flowering plants grow well indoors, in India’s climate. For Bengaluru-based architect, George Seemon, however, it is the “forest feel” that he finds most attractive. “When I design a space, I usually bring in a lot of minimalism. But when it comes to my own home, I love the clutter of having plants everywhere,” he says. His house currently has more than 300 plants, over 100 of which he bought last year (think Plum aralias and the Taro vine). Seemon also used his spare time to research plants. “I follow international accounts, such as @lostinplantopia and @houseplantclubto. Unlike most Indian influencers — who are straightforward, giving information about what looks nice, how to pot, how to water — these content creators go into greater detail. Such as light metering or what the browning in different parts of a leaf signifies.” Nurseries are cashing in on our growing interest. Outfits like Ugaoo, the online garden store, and The Seed Store in Goa (which retails open pollinated and heirloom seeds) are attracting more customers. Manish Saini, COO - e-commerce, Ferns N Petals, says they get over 1,500 orders every day. “To ensure availability, we are shifting towards hyperlocal deliveries — partnering with local suppliers to help us improve customer experience,” he says. At Mumbai’s Vriksha, customers are lining up to buy rare and unusual plants. “We have seen a notable increase in interest from younger people,” says owner Shaan Lalwani. “Plants seem to be a great way to flex online. Last week, we sold 160 Venus flytraps, which is very popular now, along with the carnivorous Pitcher Plant.” In Chennai, Maanas Vibhu of 30 Degrees North nursery on East Coast Road, says sales have surged by at least 40%. “First-time gardeners, who are savvy on social media, are coming in to pick up ‘trending plants’ like the Monstera deliciosa [Swiss Cheese plant]. This has also driven up the prices; what was selling for Rs. 200 pre-Covid is now selling for Rs. 500.”    W ater and stay calm   Aesthetics and a new hobby aside, what’s pushing this trend of greening our interiors is also the fact that it gives people a sense of control in a world that has gone awry. There is a symbiotic relationship between the ‘nature’ that they bring indoors and the ‘nurture’ we exchange with them. A Japanese study found that viewing plants altered EEG recordings — it lowered stress and fear, as well as reduced blood pressure and muscle tension. For others, it is a coping mechanism. Mumbai-based writer Deepika Gumaste was diagnosed with clinical anxiety and depression, and was put on medication right before lockdown. “Deciding to begin my garden was perhaps the wisest decision I took. They are no-expectation companions,” she says. “Caring for something immediately beyond our families and friends served as a daily reminder of the possibility of life. It kept me sane and added a routine to my life. And when I feel alone, I sing to them.” With so much going for the garden, 2021 can be the year to welcome more plant babies (if you haven’t already). And yes, to name them too. With inputs fromSPK||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/in-the-houseplantclub/article33584631.ece
16 January 2021||January 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Take a trip||Join Vasundara Devi Gohil — better knows as the Girl with the Backpack — on an eight-day trip to ski or snowboard in Gulmarg. From February 13 to 20, at Rs. 47,000 + taxes on a twin-sharing basis. This includes meals and equipment rentals. Travel arrangements to Gulmarg not included. Email girlwiththebackpack@gmail. com to register.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/take-a-trip/article33584607.ece
16 January 2021||January 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Get booked||As part of their year-long virtual event, the Neev Literature Fest has announced a Reading Challenge 2021. Children aged 10 to 13 can sign up to read over 60 books from January to June, in competitive and non-competitive tracks. School teams can compete in a quiz at the end of the challenge. Register on neevliteraturefestival.org||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/get-booked/article33584609.ece
16 January 2021||January 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Luxury meets manga||A much-loved cartoon meets Italian luxury in the new Gucci x Doraemon collection, designed by creative director Alessandro Michele. The robot-cat from the future also stars in the visual campaign that marks the show’s 50th anniversary. The collection of separates, jackets, shoes and more for men and women is now available online and in stores from January 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/luxury-meets-manga/article33584611.ece
16 January 2021||January 16 2021 00:00 IST,||OPOS goes offline||Aviyalin five minutes, butter chicken in six, and muttonbiryaniin 12? Not to mention lesser dishes to clean up once you’re done cooking. After building a cult following for his quick ‘one pot one shot’ cooking method on YouTube and Facebook, B Ramakrishnan has compiledThe Complete OPOS Cookbook(HarperCollins). At Rs. 399 online and in book stores.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/opos-goes-offline/article33584613.ece
16 January 2021||January 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Clean up||Known as Britain’s cheekiest bath and body brand, Anatomicals has launched their line of paraben- and cruelty-free products (complete with colourful and pun-covered packaging) in India. First on the market will be their signature body scrubs and cleansers in five different variants as well as hand wash. From Rs. 299, on Amazon, Flipkart and Myntra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/clean-up/article33584615.ece
16 January 2021||January 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Design with Dastkar||Thebazaarseason begins in Delhi with Design Fair 2021. Apart from carpets, studio pottery and Kutchhi crafts, Gujarati weaver-designer Chaman Siju, who showcased his saris at Lakme Fashion Week 2017, will launch a line of stoles, shawls anddupattas.At the Nature Bazaar Venue till January 24, from 11 am to 6.30 pm.9910802970||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/design-with-dastkar/article33584617.ece
16 January 2021||January 16 2021 00:00 IST,||A date with heritage||Heritage organisation Madras Inherited pays homage to the buildings and places that are central to the city’s history with a bilingual calendar featuring photos by Binsan Oommen Baby. It includes a list of significant dates pertaining to Chennai. Each page transforms into a picture card keepsake. At Rs. 449 each.8925704437 Email: mail@madrasinherited.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/a-date-with-heritage/article33584619.ece
16 January 2021||New Delhi,||Shopkeepers fume at protest at Singhu border||Shopkeepers at the stretch of Singhu border, where the farmers’ protest is under way, said they are incurring heavy losses and are drifting closer to a breaking point. An angry Hari Chand (70), a resident of Sonipat, said he has been bearing a loss of nearly Rs. 1 lakh a month and there is minimal to no work since the protest began. “I have to pay a rent of Rs. 35,000 and I have to pay salaries for four boys at Rs. 15,000 each plus electricity bill and daily tea. How am I supposed to pay for this?” he questioned. The shopkeeper, who has been running a hardware store for the last 40 years, said his customers – essentially factory owners and workers – don’t come because the factories are shut. “The owners of these factories have to come from Delhi or further in Haryana. Their supply-demand chain is shut so they don’t open,” Mr. Chand said, adding that their supplies come from Delhi or the other side of Haryana, which is why they’re selling articles stocked earlier. Praying for the end Mr. Chand sells wooden sticks, tarpaulin, brooms, baskets and hardware articles. “Honestly, I don’t even want to sell to the farmers. We are irritated and angry. We want the protest to end,” he said. Another shopkeeper, who identified himself as Varun Tayal (38) and runs an electrical store, said he is scared to say anything to the farmers. “I don’t want to die. They’re huge in numbers,” he said. Apart from netting losses, he said reaching the shop every day takes him more than an hour and a half because he has to take the route through the inside of villages. “What is our fault? We are taxpayers. Why do we have to suffer?” he asked. Mr. Tayal said that the entire Dahiya Market is rented and all the shopkeepers are running losses to the tune of lakhs and crores.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/shopkeepers-fume-at-protest-on-singhu-border/article33584975.ece
16 January 2021||New Delhi,||Petition for regulation of online lending platforms||The Delhi High Court Friday sought response of the Centre and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on a petition seeking regulation of online lending platforms operating through mobile apps. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh issued notice to the Finance Ministry and RBI seeking their stand on the petition, which claimed such lending platforms charge exorbitant interests on the loans given by them. Dharanidhar Karimojji, who was represented by advocate Prashant Bhushan, claimed that more than 300 mobile applications are providing instant loans ranging from Rs. 1,500 to Rs. 30,000 for seven to 15 day period. The petition said these money lending platforms deduct almost 35% to 45% of the loan as platform fees, service charges or processing fees and only transfer the remaining money to the borrower’s bank accounts. The plea claimed these entities charge exorbitant interests rates of 1% or more per day and in the event of non-payment of delay in repayment of the loaned amount. Caution for public It said these entities even call up everyone on the borrower’s contact list to humiliate and harass them into making payments. Mr. Bhushan said the RBI has issued a press note cautioning the general public about these platforms. The plea sought directions to regulate and control working of online digital lenders doing business through mobile app or any other platform and stop them from charging exorbitant interest on loan from borrowers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/petition-for-regulation-of-online-lending-platforms/article33585254.ece
16 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Professionals from Pune join stir||In further evidence to the swelling support for the farmers’ protest across the country, a group of nine persons has joined them from Pune, under the banner Lokayat to extend solidarity and witness “one of the biggest protests in recent history”. They came here to give energy and take energy from this “huge” protest, fighting for their rights against the corporates, members of the group said. They were wowed by the support they received from the protesters. “I, as a woman, feel safe here. The people here are so warm and welcoming. There is food everywhere. I haven’t seen a protest like this before,” said Varsha (36), an accounts professional who took seven days off to come for the protest. Rushal Heena (35) said, Lokayat was started by four-five people in 2004, who wanted to bring changes in the society. It is now 50-member strong. “We are all working professionals, who contribute a part of our salaries every month in the group fund,” he said, adding that they essentially work on awareness programmes in schools, colleges, streets, and institutions. Raising voice Mr. Rushal said he and other members took a train to reach Delhi on Friday morning and will stay here for the next four days including two days at the Singhu border and one each at Tikri and Ghazipur border. “Our aim has always been to collect people to raise their voice so that the authorities feel the pressure to change policies in favour of the people and not those who are already rich. One of the important aspects of this protest is that it is calling the spade a spade and fighting against the corporates,” he said. Mr. Rushal said that the group also fights against communalism by celebrating all festivals on the streets in public display. “The only way to bring about a change is to come together and raise our voice,” he said. Another member, Monali Chandrashekhar Aparna (35), a practising advocate, said the three farm laws are against the farmers. “These farmers should not only get support from other farmers in the country but also from everyone. That’s what we are doing here,” she said. Warm welcome The group received a warm welcome at the Singhu border, where they are lodging in the tents installed in Kessel Grand Mall. They are immensely helped by Patiala resident Kulvir Kaur (70), who found them clueless in the morning. “These kids don’t know the language. I am just helping them out around here,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/professionals-from-pune-join-farmers-stir/article33584973.ece
16 January 2021||New Delhi,||66% in city live in their own house: report||Every second Delhiite is dependent on pension, returns from investments or some form of remittance for income and more people earn their livelihood through the private sector or are unemployed than working in the public sector or with the government, an official survey of over 1 crore people – half the population of the Capital according to the 2011 survey – has found. Over 66% of the total households in Delhi are owned by their occupants while the rest pay rent. Almost 80% do not own air conditioners or computers and Rs. 25,000 is the maximum ceiling of average monthly expenditure incurred by 90% of the city’s total households. While a little more than half of the total population, around 52%, has a personal vehicle, mostly a two wheeler. Around 6.59%, have both a two-wheeler and a four-wheeler, compared to those who have only four-wheelers, which constitute 4.34% of the total households with vehicles. These are some of the findings of the Delhi government’s Directorate of Economics and Statistics’ two-part report on the Socio-Economic Profile of Residents of Delhi – the first part titled, and pertaining to, ‘Households Characteristics’ and the second on ‘Individual Characteristics’ – on the basis of data collected through a survey of a population of 1.02 crore from 20.05 lakh households in the city from November 2018 to November 2019. With the population census of 2011 putting the population of Delhi at 1.67, this survey, according to government sources, may present the clearest picture yet regarding the Capital’s current demography. However, it is accompanied by a disclaimer that about 55% of the total projected population has been covered till the closing date of the survey. The labour force participation rate was reported as 48.81% and the unemployment rate at 16.25%. The percentage distribution of the category of occupation put the percentage of those in the ‘Others’ category including pensioners, rentiers, those dependent on remittance and non-workers at 51.40%. Pension benefits Senior citizens constituted 5.41% of the total population. Among them, 43.28% avail old age pension, which is provided to those eligible for it over 60 years of age, from the Delhi government. Though the total percentage of Delhi’s population assessed in the survey reported to be suffering from chronic illness was 2.60%, a majority of them, over 36%, were afflicted by diabetes, almost 22% by cardiac illness and over 9% by respiratory diseases. As many as 72.87% of the population in Delhi, the report stated, avail medical facilities from govt. hospitals and dispensaries while only 27.13% depends on private ones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/34-families-in-the-capital-live-in-rented-houses/article33584977.ece
16 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Boy forced to undergo sex change operation; 2 held||Two persons have been arrested for allegedly forcing a 13-year-old boy to undergo a sex change operation and also for gangraping him multiple times in Delhi’s Geeta Colony, said Delhi Commission for Women. The victim, Shubham (name changed), met the accused at a dance event three to four years ago. They became friends and took him to Mandawali on the pretext of teaching him how to dance and getting him a job in the same field, the statement said. Initially, he participated in some events and was also paid money. But after some time, the accused started pressurising him to undergo sex change operation. They told him that he cannot go back home as he needs to stay with them in Mandawali. The victim was intoxicated and brutally beaten up. After a few days, he was forced undergo sex change operation. He was given hormones to make him look like a girl, it added. The two accused along with four others gang-raped him for several months. They also pushed him into prostitution and made to beg on the streets. He was threatened that if he told anything to police or his family, he and his mother would be killed. The victim used to secretly meet his mother when he was sent to fetch groceries. He said that the accused had guns and weapons. After a few months, another person, known to him was brought at the same hideout. He was also subjected to sexual abuse. They then managed to escape and reached New Delhi Railway Station. A lawyer found them and brought them to the DCW office at ITO.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/boy-forced-to-undergo-sex-change-operation-2-held/article33584972.ece
16 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Three killed in fire at scrap shop||Three people, including a child, were killed in a fire at a scrap shop in west Delhi’s Kirti Nagar, the police said on Friday. The blaze was reported at 10.50 p.m. on Thursday and seven fire tenders were rushed to the spot, according to the Delhi Fire Service (DFS). Small rooms built above the shop were also engulfed in fire, it said, adding that some people living there suffered injuries. Three bodies were recovered after the fire was doused. Two of the victims were in their 20s and the third was a child below the age of 10 years, a senior police officer said. One of the deceased has been identified as 20-year-old Rohit, a resident of Kamla Nehru Camp in Kirti Nagar. The police said initial probe shows that Rohit got trapped in the flames when he attempted to douse the fire. His body was found in a drain, they added. The scrap shop is owned by 50-year-old Tony Mehto, who is absconding, they said. DCP (West) Deepak Purohit said a short circuit is suspected to have caused the fire, but the exact cause will be known after the investigation is complete. “ In another incident, a fire broke out at an e-commerce company’s storehouse in north-west Delhi’s Rohini on Friday morning, leaving a woman injured, a fire officer said. During the operation to rescue six people, including the woman, from the terrace of the building, a fireman was also hurt, the officer added. “The fire broke out at an Amazon store located on the ground floor of a five-storey building in Rohini Sector-6,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/three-killed-in-fire-at-scrap-shop-in-city/article33584979.ece
16 January 2021||New Delhi,||Three held for issuing fake COVID challans||Three Civil Defence Volunteers have been arrested for allegedly issuing fake COVID-19 challans and collecting the penalty amount, the police said on Friday. Sunny, Yashwant Rathi, and Lucky, were posted in the office of SDM (New Delhi) in Jamnagar House. They issued fake challans to people visiting the Talkatora Garden. The matter came to light on December 31 when a resident of Shakarpur was issued a challan for not wearing a face mask while he was sitting inside the garden with his friend, the police added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/three-held-for-issuing-fake-covid-challans/article33584971.ece
16 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Cong. workers protest against farm laws||The Delhi Congress on Friday organised a protest outside Raj Niwas in the Capital as part of the agitation being planned across the country by the party in opposition to the three farm laws passed by the Centre. The protest was led by Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra along with Delhi Congress chief Anil Kumar. Hundreds of party workers carrying flags and black balloons protested against what the party called “black laws” and demanded the government to repeal the laws immediately. Addressing the protesters from atop a truck, Mr. Gandhi said the Congress would stand with the farmers till the laws are repealed and would not let the government destroy their livelihood by passing laws that benefit only the corporates. Mr. Kumar said that over 60 farmers have become martyrs to the cause, but the farmers would not back out, as they would not allow the government to hand over the farm sector to a few corporate houses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cong-workers-protest-against-farm-laws/article33585332.ece
16 January 2021||New Delhi,||HC judge recuses from plea against WhatsApp policy||A Delhi High Court judge on Friday recused herself from hearing a petition challenging the updated privacy policy of messaging app — WhatsApp. Justice Prathiba M. Singh took objection to an email sent on behalf of WhatsApp stating that she ought not to hear the matter. “I was, in any case, not going to hear it,” Justice Singh remarked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-judge-recuses-from-plea-against-whatsapp-policy/article33584970.ece
16 January 2021||January 16 2021 00:00 IST,||In the #houseplantclub||“Our plant, Lola, had a baby!” announced a #proudplantparent yesterday, on the ’gram. Another parent introduced us to Hera and Odin, two succulents that had “graduated to bigger pots”. The comments sections were flooded with congratulatory messages. Seems odd? Not so in our post-pandemic world, where houseplants — often with unusual names, much like our pets — are our new companions. People are picking up Monsteras (one of the trending plants of 2020), talking to them every morning (many swear by it), and taking photographs with them. Our social media feeds are proof: overrun with pictures of people showing off their newly-acquired Calatheas and Chinese Money Plants. And, interestingly, it is not just the average garden enthusiast who has taken it up with an enthusiasm last seen for sourdough. The world over, the houseplant industry is blooming with workshops, live videos, and plant talk shows. Even MasterClass had a session with Ron Finley, the Gangsta Gardener of Los Angeles, which is telling. India’s ‘plant influencers’ are keeping up. “Interest in gardening has grown since lockdown,” says Vinayak Garg, who founded Delhi-based Lazy Gardener in 2019. His Reels about growing microgreens and knowing when to repot have seen his Instagram followers increase from 100k in March 2020 to 290k+. “During lockdown, I was alone at home. So I decided to do a 21-day series that included the basics, gardening for kids, etc. The number of people attending it [10,000 at one point] was a reflection of the growing interest. Since then, we’ve attracted a mixed crowd, between 25 and 50 years.”  Pot parenting  Lawyer Shefali Alvares is a new plant parent; she began gardening during the lockdown after seeing how therapeutic her grandmother found it. “I started with hardy varieties such as palms and money plants, and then moved on to others like caladiums and peace lilies.” She also went on a buying spree. “It became like a disease,” she laughs. “I made the mistake of buying from vendors who forced plants to flower prematurely, so they’d look attractive, but these don’t last.” The death of several species was a huge setback to her confidence. Since then, Alvares has “spent hours reading up about plants” and following experts. Plant blogger and researcher Ekta Chaudhary (@GardenUp) has dealt with many such ‘mourners’ of late. “Often, in DMs and comments, I see that people need encouragement after they’ve killed their first plant. I tell them to try again because nobody is born with a green thumb. Over time, you develop a kind of intuition,” she says. Another influencer who fields similar questions is Ann Mathew (@geeksofgreen). She’d started gardening a few years ago with 40 succulents she’d brought from her aunt’s garden in Mysuru. After she“killed them all”, she began studying plants seriously and, as her knowledge grew and her north-facing garden flourished, she started putting up videos on social media. Today, the Mumbai-based entrepreneur has 58k+ followers on YouTube and 32k+ on Instagram, who wait for her videos on gardening tips and nursery tours.  Some Swiss cheese?  Foliage is having a moment — perhaps because not too many flowering plants grow well indoors, in India’s climate. For Bengaluru-based architect, George Seemon, however, it is the “forest feel” that he finds most attractive. “When I design a space, I usually bring in a lot of minimalism. But when it comes to my own home, I love the clutter of having plants everywhere,” he says. His house currently has more than 300 plants, over 100 of which he bought last year (think Plum aralias and the Taro vine). Seemon also used his spare time to research plants. “I follow international accounts, such as @lostinplantopia and @houseplantclubto. Unlike most Indian influencers — who are straightforward, giving information about what looks nice, how to pot, how to water — these content creators go into greater detail. Such as light metering or what the browning in different parts of a leaf signifies.” Nurseries are cashing in on our growing interest. Outfits like Ugaoo, the online garden store, and The Seed Store in Goa (which retails open pollinated and heirloom seeds) are attracting more customers. Manish Saini, COO - e-commerce, Ferns N Petals, says they get over 1,500 orders every day. “To ensure availability, we are shifting towards hyperlocal deliveries — partnering with local suppliers to help us improve customer experience,” he says. At Mumbai’s Vriksha, customers are lining up to buy rare and unusual plants. “We have seen a notable increase in interest from younger people,” says owner Shaan Lalwani. “Plants seem to be a great way to flex online. Last week, we sold 160 Venus flytraps, which is very popular now, along with the carnivorous Pitcher Plant.” In Chennai, Maanas Vibhu of 30 Degrees North nursery on East Coast Road, says sales have surged by at least 40%. “First-time gardeners, who are savvy on social media, are coming in to pick up ‘trending plants’ like the Monstera deliciosa [Swiss Cheese plant]. This has also driven up the prices; what was selling for Rs. 200 pre-Covid is now selling for Rs. 500,” he says.    W ater and stay calm   Aesthetics and a new hobby aside, what’s pushing this trend of greening our interiors is also the fact that it gives people a sense of control in a world that has gone awry. There is a symbiotic relationship between the ‘nature’ that they bring indoors and the ‘nurture’ we exchange with them. A Japanese study found that viewing plants altered EEG recordings — it lowered stress and fear, as well as reduced blood pressure and muscle tension. For others, it is a coping mechanism. Mumbai-based writer Deepika Gumaste was diagnosed with clinical anxiety and depression, and was put on medication right before lockdown. “Deciding to begin my garden was perhaps the wisest decision I took. They are no-expectation companions,” she says. “Caring for something immediately beyond our families and friends served as a daily reminder of the possibility of life. It kept me sane and added a routine to my life. And when I feel alone, I sing to them.” With so much going for the garden, 2021 can be the year to welcome more plant babies (if you haven’t already). And yes, to name them too. With inputs fromSPK||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/in-the-houseplantclub/article33585250.ece
16 January 2021||January 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Nikhil- air||The air quality of Delhi and Noida continued to be in the “severe” category and Gurugram’s in the very poor category, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. The national capital’s air quality is expected to continue in severe levels for the next few days. The AQI of Delhi was 460 on Friday, up from 429 on Thursday, as per CPCB’s 4 p.m. bulletin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/nikhil-air/article33584978.ece
