18 January 2021||January 18 2021 00:00 IST,||2.24 lakh vaccinated in 2 days, 447 report adverse reactions||A total of 2,24,301 individuals have been vaccinated so far, with about 17,000 of them vaccinated on Sunday, the Health Ministry said in a briefing. With 3,000 vaccination sites and a capacity of 100 persons per site, the Centre had planned to vaccinate 3,00,000 persons nationally on Saturday. Consolidated figures on Sunday show that 2,07,000 — or about seven in ten — were inoculated on the inaugural day. Three hospitalised Of all those vaccinated so far, 447 reported reactions such as pain, mild swelling, mild fever or nausea, with only three persons requiring hospitalisation. The drop in hospitalisations compared to the inaugural day was because of it being Sunday, with only six States — Arunachal Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Manipur and Tamil Nadu — conducting vaccinations. The Health Ministry has advised States to conduct vaccination sessions on only four days every week to minimise disruption to routine health services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/224-lakh-vaccinated-in-2-days-447-report-adverse-reactions/article33596676.ece
18 January 2021||New Delhi,||Farmers firm on conducting Republic Day tractor parade||Farmer unions protesting against the three contentious farm laws on Sunday said they would go ahead with their tractor parade in Delhi on Republic Day. Leaders of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a joint front of the unions, said the parade would be “peaceful”, and no disruptions would be caused to the official ceremony. The Supreme Court is slated to hear a petition by the Centre on Monday to injunct protesters from holding the parade to “disrupt” the Republic Day celebrations. Saying that “soldiers were mere farmers in uniform”, Swaraj India national president Yogendra Yadav said at a press conference that farmers too would celebrate Republic Day. Mr. Yadav said as per the pre-announced programme, the parade would be held on the 50-km Outer Ring Road. He added that weapons, provocative speeches and violence would not be allowed, and there would not be any attempts to attack or lay siege to buildings and places of national and historic importance. Mr. Yadav said all tractors would carry the national flag and the flags of the unions. He added that similar tractor parades would be held at the district headquarters and the State capitals across the country. All-India Kisan Sabha general-secretary Hannan Mollah said the purpose of the parade was to highlight the plight of the farmers. Earlier in the day, Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said the government expected the unions to come up with a proposal other than the revocation of the laws as the court had stayed the implementation of the laws. Darshan Pal, president, Krantikari Kisan Union, Punjab, alleged that the National Investigation Agency was harassing those taking part in the agitation or supporting it.He said the Morcha condemned this and was determined to fight.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/farmers-firm-on-conducting-republic-day-tractor-parade/article33596679.ece
18 January 2021||Madurai,||Youth gored by bull during jallikattu dies||A 24-year-old man, who had been gored by his friend’s bull at a jallikattu event held in Alanganallur, succumbed to his injuries in the early hours of Sunday. The bull gored Navamani when he went to check it out near the ‘Vaadivasal’ (the point of entry to the arena). He suffered injuries in the head and the neck, and lost a lot of blood. He was in a critical condition while being taken to Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH), Alanganallur Block Medical Officer P. Valarmathi said. GRH Dean J. Sangumani said Navamani’s head injury led to brain herniation. His external jugular vein was also affected. He was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit and underwent a surgery, Mr. Sangumani added. Earlier deaths A day earlier, two spectators, including a 60-year-old man, were gored to death by bulls at a manjuvirattu event held in Sivaganga district. The deceased were identified as Bose, 60, of Periya Machanpatti, and Periakaruppan of Kallipatti. As many as 70 persons were treated as out-patients at the Tirupathur Government Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/youth-gored-by-bull-during-alanganallur-jallikattu-dies/article33596744.ece
18 January 2021||January 18 2021 00:00 IST,||States fall short of inoculation target||With State governments reporting shortfalls in meeting their COVID-19 vaccination targets, the experience of the past couple of days has made one thing clear — uptake of the vaccines against COVID-19 in the first phase among healthcare and frontline workers is uneven. Health authorities in various States cite a “wait and watch” approach as the main reason. With the vaccination itself being voluntary, it is estimated that people are waiting to see how those who have already received the vaccine fared. What is also clear now is vaccine hesitancy even among medical professionals. In some districts in the country, the Covishield vaccine was dispensed much faster than Covaxin, district-level figures show. Technical glitches in the CoWIN app were also blamed for poor vaccine coverage. Tamil Nadu recorded just over 16% coverage on January 16, the first day. Health secretary J. Radhakrishnan acknowledged that there seemed to be a “wait and watch” trend. “We are continuing with the vaccination even if there is sluggish uptake. Some associations of health professionals have promised to come for vaccination after one or two days. We expect the response to improve after the weekend,” he said. He himself took a Covaxin shot on Sunday morning to encourage others to come forward and receive the vaccine, of which only 99 doses were administered on day 1 and 183 doses on day 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/states-fall-short-in-meeting-targets/article33596677.ece
18 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||2 Chinese nationals held for money laundering||The Enforcement Directorate has arrested two Chinese nationals on money laundering charge in connection with a hawala network involving several shell companies. The accused have been identified as Luo Sang and Carter Lee. They are in the agency’s custody. The Enforcement Directorate case stems from an Income Tax Department investigation of last year. Sang had come under the Department’s scanner in August during an investigation into a racket allegedly involving Chinese companies that used shell entities for hawala operations in India. Sang allegedly ran the hawala racket, while Lee, a Delhi University graduate who also knows Hindi and English, worked as a translator for him. Searches were then carried out on the premises of the suspects in Delhi, Gurugram and Ghaziabad.   The Department zeroed in on Sang, who had been living under the alias Charlie Peng. The accused held a fraudulently obtained Indian passport purportedly issued from Manipur. According to the agency, Sang used about 10 bank accounts, opened in fictitious names, to route funds. He represented several Chinese companies in India for hawala operations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/2-chinese-nationals-held-for-money-laundering/article33596680.ece
18 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi schools to reopen today after 10 months||For the first time since March 19, 2020, schools will reopen in the national capital on Monday and students will walk the corridors again with their classmates, albeit following social distancing norms and a host of other protocols that have been set by the Directorate of Education (DoE) to ensure a safe environment for classes to resume. Students of Class X and XII have been allowed to attend classes in schools so that they are able to complete their practicals, project work and counselling requirements ahead of the CBSE Board examinations that will be conducted between May 4 and June 10. The government has reiterated that physical attendance is not compulsory and students would attend schools only with the consent of their parents. The schools have to be outside the containment zones to be able to function. Heads of schools have been asked to ensure that no symptomatic child/employee is allowed on the campus. Everyone will have to undergo mandatory thermal screening at the school entry gate and compulsory hand sanitisation before entering classrooms, laboratories and public utility areas. Thorough sanitisation To prepare the schools for the classes to restart, the managements have been asked to ensure thorough sanitisation of the premises and ensure availability of key supplies like thermal scanners, disinfectants, masks, among others. Heads of schools have also been asked to plan specific timetables, as per the capacity of the classrooms/labs, with not more that 12 to 15 students in one group and ensure “bubbling effect”, which means that the same students would be repeated in groups. School timings will also be staggered with a gap of at least 15 minutes to avoid crowding at the school’s main entrance/exit gate. The DoE guidelines state that only academic activities will be permitted on campus and there will be no assembly, social events, extracurricular or physical outdoor activities. Students will be asked not to share books, copies and stationery items. Schools were closed across the country in March last year following the outbreak of COVID-19 and the nationwide lockdown imposed to contain its spread.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-schools-to-reopen-today-after-10-months/article33596808.ece
18 January 2021||Madurai,||Youth gored by bull during jallikattu dies||A 24-year-old man, who had been gored by his friend’s bull at a jallikattu event held in Alanganallur, succumbed to his injuries in the early hours of Sunday. The bull gored Navamani when he went to check it out near the ‘Vaadivasal’ (the point of entry to the arena). He suffered injuries in the head and the neck, and lost a lot of blood. He was in a critical condition while being taken to Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH), Alanganallur Block Medical Officer P. Valarmathi said. GRH Dean J. Sangumani said Navamani’s head injury led to brain herniation. His external jugular vein was also affected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/youth-gored-by-bull-during-jallikattu-dies/article33596806.ece
18 January 2021||Madurai,||Youth gored by bull during jallikattu dies||A 24-year-old man, who had been gored by his friend’s bull at a jallikattu event held in Alanganallur, succumbed to his injuries in the early hours of Sunday. The bull gored Navamani when he went to check it out near the ‘Vaadivasal’ (the point of entry to the arena). He suffered injuries in the head and the neck, and lost a lot of blood. He was in a critical condition while being taken to Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH), Alanganallur Block Medical Officer P. Valarmathi said. GRH Dean J. Sangumani said Navamani’s head injury led to brain herniation. His external jugular vein was also affected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/youth-gored-by-bull-during-jallikattu-dies/article33597062.ece
18 January 2021||January 18 2021 00:00 IST,||NIA examines Khalsa Aid functionary||The NIA last week examined a functionary of Khalsa Aid, an international NGO, in connection with a recent case registered against Sikhs for Justice, a foreign-based group that advocates secessionist and pro-Khalistani activities in India. Khalsa Aid provided aid during the ongoing farmers’ agitation.page 11||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nia-examines-khalsa-aid-functionary/article33596669.ece
18 January 2021||S. Sundar,||Now, payment apps come in handy for giving ‘moi’ in Madurai||Collection of ‘moi’ or gift in cash in marriages and other domestic functions has seen various innovations. Now there is one more way to give the gift in cash, as seen at a marriage function in Madurai on Sunday. The family members of bride T.J. Sivasankari used payment apps Google Pay and PhonePe to enable friends and relatives to make their gift contributions without having to mingle with the crowd at the ‘moi collection’ points. “It was the bride’s idea and since it was attractive, we introduced it,” said Ms. Sivaksankari’s maternal uncle B.R. Sasikumar, 48, a computer service engineer. The bride, a programme analyst in Bengaluru, thought of this idea to help the guests maintain social distancing. “We implemented the idea by printing the QR codes of the two payment apps on a replica of the marriage invitation,” he said. It was useful for friends and relatives to give their cash gifts after they could not turn up at the marriage hall from far off places due to rain and Pongal festival. ‘Moi’ collection has seen various innovations in the southern districts where this cash gift is recorded for posterity, and is matched measure for measure when an occasion arises in the family of the gift-giver. Some innovations over the years included introduction of professional ‘moi’ collectors, swiping machines, SMS-enabled receipts for payment of gifts and printed records of ‘moi’ collection. Some of the guests used the payment apps if only to get the feel of it, Mr. Sasikumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/now-payment-apps-come-in-handy-for-giving-moi/article33596836.ece
18 January 2021||Kolkata,||Bengal polls: Left, Congress to conclude seat-sharing by month-end||Cementing the electoral understanding for the Bengal Assembly polls, leaders of the Left parties and the Congress on Sunday discussed the seat-sharing arrangement which they said would be finalised by the end of this month. “The Left-Congress secular democratic alliance is necessary for defeating communal forces and the fascist Trinamool Congress. We had a very fruitful discussion and we will meet again a few times and conclude the process by end of the month,” Pradesh Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said. He said both the parties listened to each other and nobody tried to impose their views on the other. Chairman of the Left Front Biman Bose said the alliance is essential to give the people of the State an option against the binary created by the BJP and the TMC. Mr. Basu said the alliance was necessary to restore democracy and protect people from the communal divide. CPI(M) State secretary Suriya Kanta Mishra and senior Congress leader and Rajya Sabha MP Pradip Bhattacharya also took part in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bengal-polls-left-congress-to-conclude-seat-sharing-by-month-end/article33596970.ece
18 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Govt. likely to recommend 25-30% cut in pvt. school fees||After representations from parents and parents’ associations, the Department of Public Instruction (DPI) is likely to recommend a cut in private school fees in the range of 25 to 30 % for the current academic year. The department has also decided to submit a report to the State government after a meeting last week with representatives of parents’ associations and private school managements, regarding concerns over the fee structure for the current academic year. The fee reduction is likely to be recommended to all private schools — State syallabus as well as central board schools — as the issue of fee structure falls under the purview of the State government. Recurring expenditure While the parents alleged that the private school managements were collecting fees even for recurring expenditure that they were not incurring this academic year as the schools were shut owing to to the pandemic, school managements were anxious that a majority of the parents did not pay the fees and hence they were, in turn, unable to pay their staff salaries. A senior official of the department said that after the meeting last week, they realised that many school managements were collecting fees for infrastructure, transport, and other fees that were unnecessary. “We plan to list out subheads under which schools can collect fees and also want to list out fees that schools need not collect this year as physical classes for most grades have still not resumed,” an official said. While a section of private schools affiliated to the State syllabus have decided to cut fees by 25% for this academic year, many schools affiliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) have decided to waive fees for a section of parents. This comes in the backdrop of several parents undergoing financial crisis due to the pandemic as many have lost jobs and faced salary cuts. B.N. Yogananda, general secretary of RTE Students and Parents’ Association, welcomed the intervention of the department and said that several school managements were fleecing parents in the name of online classes and were restricting access to these classes if parents had not paid the fees. He said that they wanted reduction in the percentage of fees based on the student strength.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-likely-to-recommend-25-30-cut-in-pvt-school-fees/article33596702.ece
18 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Cong. designs template for candidate selection||The Congress party is reportedly striving to set a "new template" for selecting candidates for the Assembly elections. Traditionally, the party had "blindly" apportioned seats to powerful party factions in the State. The groups often wrestled with each other and the national leadership to place a higher number of their respective loyalists on the party ticket with an eye to control the Congress Legislative Party (CLP). The All India Congress Committee (AICC) reportedly wants to break this custom. It believes that the old habit had cost the Congress dearly in the previous Assembly elections and the recent local body polls. The party has contracted professional pollsters to evaluate the chances of victory of potential candidates based on the demographic structure and voting behaviour of respective constituencies. Leaders summoned The AICC has summoned Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president Mullappally Ramachandran, Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala, former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy to New Delhi for consultations on Monday. The demand for a generational shift in candidate selection could figure in the talks. Higher representation for youth and women, more candidates from marginalised sections, fielding popular personalities as Congress-backed independents are also reportedly on the cards. Notably, the party wants to prevent the Left Democratic Front (LDF) from highlighting its pacts with various Muslim organisations as a propaganda tool against the United Democratic Front (UDF). The LDF had raised the bogey of an "alliance" with Jamaat-e-Islami to draw Hindu and Christian votes away from the UDF in the local body polls. The AICC is sending high profile functionaries this month to build bridges with social organisations and community leaders to pre-empt such a move. Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot is likely to lead the pack. Door-to-door campaign Spadework for the Assembly polls also seemed to have gathered pace. The party is reportedly in the penultimate phase of putting together 19,500 ward level election committees in the State to pilot the door-to-door election campaign that commences on January 26.  The AICC has summoned Chandy, Mullappally and Chennithala to New Delhi for talks on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cong-designs-template-for-candidate-selection/article33596919.ece
18 January 2021||CHITTOOR,||Lone tusker tramples shepherd to death||A lone elephant on Sunday evening trampled a shepherd to death, while a group of forest personnel escaped unhurt from its charge at a forest location at the foot of Nandi hillock between Somala and Irala mandals. Divisional Forest Officer (Chittoor West) S. Ravi Shankar, confirming the attack, said the animal was coming down the hillock from the Somala forests where the shepherd was grazing cattle. “The deceased was wearing white clothes, which is considered very dangerous in front of a wild elephant. The animal trampled him to death on the spot. It also charged our staff members who were tracking its movements nearby, but they could run to safety,” he said. The DFO said the lone elephant strayed into the hilly terrain of Somala mandal from the Palamaneru range several days ago. Tragedy struck the shepherd, Abulaiah (50), when the animal was on its return path. Late in the night, the elephant was seen moving close to a mango orchard in Puthalapattu mandal. Meanwhile, Puthalapattu MLA M.S. Babu said the government announced an ex gratia of Rs. 5 lakh to the next of kin of the deceased.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lone-elephant-tramples-shepherd-to-death/article33596603.ece
18 January 2021||Patna,||First Kolkata nearby||An MBA graduate was arrested on the intervening night of January 14-15 in Patna for supplying illicit liquor. Atul Singh, 28, had employed over three dozen youths in his ‘business’. Over 1,100 litres of liquor worth Rs. 21 lakh, a bag containing Rs. 1.75 lakh in cash, passbooks and documents related to monetary transactions were seized. “A diary seized from his possession revealed that he sold liquor of several brands worth Rs. 9 lakh daily in various parts of Patna,” said Patrakarnagar police station in-charge Manoranjan Bharti.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/first-kolkata-nearby/article33596968.ece
18 January 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Second Kolkata nearby||The STF of the Odisha Crime Branch has busted an organised racket involved in the theft of cargo in Cuttack district. A heap of such illegally unloaded low ash metallurgical coke weighing about 32 metric tonnes, nine trucks loaded with coke, one earth moving vehicle, some resealed and repacking materials and incriminating materials were seized from the arrested accused at the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/second-kolkata-nearby/article33596969.ece
18 January 2021||Pune,||First Mumbai nearby||Maharashtra reported just 2,342 COVID-19 recoveries on Sunday as opposed to 3,081 fresh cases as the active case tally again rose incrementally to 52,653. The total case tally has now reached 19,90,759. With 50 more fatalities, the State’s total death toll climbed to 50,438. The cumulative recoveries stand at 18,86,469. The State’s recovery rate is 94.76%, while its case fatality stood at 2.53%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/first-mumbai-nearby/article33597045.ece
18 January 2021||Pune,||Second Mumbai nearby||Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said his Maha Vikas Aghadi government was committed towards incorporating into Maharashtra those areas of Karnataka, especially Belagavi district, where the Marathi-speaking populace were in the majority. A tweet issued by the CMO said this would be a “true tribute” to the martyrs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/second-mumbai-nearby/article33597046.ece
18 January 2021||MANGALURU,||CM to inaugurate new pathway in Udupi||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Monday will inaugurate Vishwapatha, the new pathway for darshan of Lord Krishna in Sri the Krishna Temple/Mutt in Udupi. This new pathway starts from the mutt’s north entrance near Rajangana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-to-inaugurate-new-pathway-in-udupi/article33597031.ece
18 January 2021||HUBBALLI,||Demand for widening bypass road gets louder||While five of the survivors of the ghastly accident on the Hubballi-Dharwad Bypass Road continue to battle for life in various hospitals in Hubballi and Bengaluru, the voice for widening the bypass road is getting louder day by day with various organisations petitioning the government in this regard.  The demand for widening the bypass road is not a new phenomenon. It has been raised by different organisations and individuals, including Ministers, on different occasions in the last few years, but to no avail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/demand-for-widening-bypass-road-gets-louder/article33596880.ece
18 January 2021||BELAGAVI,||Cong. led a corrupt govt., says Amit Shah||Union Home Minister and BJP leader Amit Shah has complained that Congress leaders were criticising the BJP now, without having done enough for the people when they were in power. In Belagavi, he said that the Congress had led a corrupt government with bad economic management for nearly seven decades. Their corruption runs to the tune of Rs. 12 lakh crore, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cong-led-a-corrupt-govt-says-amit-shah/article33596882.ece
18 January 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Congress, Akali Dal slam NIA notices to farmers||The Congress and the Shiromani Akali Dal on Sunday hit out at the BJP-led government at the Centre over the notices sent by the National Investigation Agency to the protesting farmers and those lending support to the ongoing protest against the new agriculture sector laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/congress-akali-dal-slam-nia-notices-to-farmers/article33596810.ece
18 January 2021||New Delhi,||‘Parents of road accident victims should get relief’||The Delhi High Court has held that parents are dependent on their children at some stage of their life and it would be inequitable to deny comp-ensation to those who lost their wards in road accidents. Justice J.R. Midha made the observation while awarding compensation to a woman whose 23-year-old son died in a road accident in 2008 and enhanced the amount from Rs. 2.42 lakh to Rs. 6.8 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/parents-of-road-accident-victims-should-get-relief/article33596811.ece
18 January 2021||Hassan,||Absence of Kannada plaque sparks off row||Home Minister Amit Shah’s foundation stone-laying event for the RAF unit on Saturday turned out to be controversial with the Opposition and Kannada organisations taking exception to the absence of Kannada in the plaque.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/absence-of-kannada-plaque-sparks-off-row/article33596705.ece
18 January 2021||Bengaluru,||‘Wistron may resume operations in 3 weeks’||Wistron, the Taiwanese firm that makes iPhone-7 and iPhone SE for Apple at Narasapura in Kolar district is currently in the process of conducting background checks and police verification on its 8,500 temporary workers as a precursor to its reopening, likely in three weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/wistron-may-resume-operations-in-3-weeks/article33596706.ece
18 January 2021||Belagavi,||Cong. opposition to vaccine baseless: Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday termed the opposition by the Congress to the COVID-19 vaccine as “baseless and meaningless”. “The Congress is opposing as they have nothing better to do,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cong-opposition-to-vaccine-baseless-shah/article33597048.ece
18 January 2021||Chennai,||Reduced syllabus for Classes 10, 12 announced||The School Education Department on Sunday announced a reduced sylla- bus for Classes 10 and 12 for the current academic year. Teachers who went through the reduced syllabus say that in most subjects, there is no deletion of chapters. Instead, some topics in each unit have been cut out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/reduced-syllabus-for-classes-10-12-announced/article33596741.ece
18 January 2021||Chennai,||Fresh cases fall below 600 in Tamil Nadu||Tamil Nadu on Sunday saw a drop in the number of daily coronavirus cases as 589 people tested positive for the deadly virus, pushing the tally to 8.30 lakh in the State, while the toll surged to 12,264 with 7 more deaths. Chennai reported 164 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fresh-covid-19-cases-fall-below-600-in-tamil-nadu/article33596742.ece
18 January 2021||Chennai,||Three RMM district secretaries join DMK||Three district secretaries of the Rajini Makkal Mandram and senior office-bearers on Sunday joined the DMK in the presence of party president M.K. Stalin. A retired judge of the Madras High Court, P.R. Sivakumar, too joined the DMK.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/three-rmm-district-secretaries-join-dmk/article33596743.ece
18 January 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Congress, SAD slam NIA notices||The Congress and the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Sunday hit out at the BJP-led government at the Centre over the notices sent by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) to the protesting farmers and those lending support to the ongoing protest against the new farm laws. In a statement, Punjab Cabinet Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said, “The farmer who feeds the entire nation with his blood, sweat and toil cannot be cowed down by such empty threats, which would prove to be very costly for the ruling dispensation in New Delhi.” Mr. Randhawa said the notices sent by the NIA were part of a ploy by the BJP government to weaken the farmers’ movement being waged on the borders of Delhi. “This is not the first time in the six-and-a-half year tenure of the National Democratic Alliance [NDA] that government agencies have been misused for political purposes,” he said, terming the current period the “darkest in the annals of India’s democracy”. The Congress leader said the BJP employed strong-arm tactics to browbeat its opponents into submission and now this new move would prove to be a disaster. “The Congress party and the State government will always stand by the farmers and stoutly oppose such autocratic tactics,” Mr. Randhawa added. Sukhbir Singh Badal, SAD president, said, “It is condemnable that the Central government did not find anything wrong with Khalsa Aid [international NGO that provides humanitarian aid in disaster areas] when it provided aid in Gujarat but had unleashed the NIA on the NGO for stepping in to help farmers agitating peacefully on the borders of Delhi.” Talking to presspersons in Ferozepur, Mr. Badal asked how it was possible that an organisation that was acclaimed by the country earlier had suddenly turned bad simply because it had chosen to help the farmers? “Summoning people associated with Khalsa Aid by the NIA is a clear sign of frustration. The Centre thinks it can weaken the farmers’ protest by such intimidating measures. Little does it know that the agitation is only getting stronger due to these repressive steps,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-sad-slam-nia-notices/article33596629.ece
18 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||10% of CSIR staff exposed to virus, says survey||A first such pan-India survey tracking nearly 10,000 employees of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) on the prevalence of COVID-19 found that nearly 10% of the staff were infected. Key neutralising antibodies that protect against the virus waned after infection, but were at “detectable levels” even after six months — a proxy for the period of effectiveness of future vaccination and general immunity, the serology survey found. About three-fourths of the respondents could not recall having experienced a single one of the symptoms commonly associated with the disease, and a vegetarian diet and smoking appeared to be “protective” against the infection. ‘Longitudinal study’ The CSIR has some 40 labs across the country in nearly every State and its staff — from scientific staff to contractual employees — is a microcosm of India, Shantanu Sengupta, Scientist at the CSIR-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (CSIR-IGIB), among the corresponding authors of the study, told The Hindu . “This is a first-of-its-kind longitudinal study anywhere in the world in that we are tracking a cohort over time and will continue to do so. Some of the associations, of smoking and vegetarianism, are significant, but we can now only speculate on why this is so. We don’t yet have a cause,” he said in a phone conversation. An association between smoking and protection against SARS-CoV-2, or lower odds of infection by the virus, has also been reported in studies in China and France. CSIR staff and family members who volunteered to be part of the survey filled out questionnaires on their lifestyle, food and disease histories. They were also tested with two different kinds of antibody tests to study the kinds of antibodies that were produced following infection. It usually takes a week to a fortnight after being infected for antibodies to be detected in the blood. If the prevalence in the CSIR were a proxy to the true scale of exposure to the virus, then it is likely that over 100 million persons in India had been infected and had recovered by September 2020. “Probably 2-3x [or 200-300 million] of that by now. Not surprised therefore that India has had a quiet 2021 compared with the world,” Dr. Anurag Agrawal, Director, CSIR-IGIB, and co-author of the study, tweeted. A serology survey by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has estimated 7% exposure to SARS-CoV-2 until mid-August, and a modelling exercise by the National Supermodel Committee estimated that 30% may have been exposed by September. Class bias The study, which has been submitted to a peer-reviewed journal for review, but available as a pre-print on MedrXiv, also revealed a distinct class bias in those affected. Those able to work from home and able to access private transport were nearly twice less likely to be exposed to the virus than the “outsourced staff” involved with sanitation and security, and using public transport. “Higher sero-prevalence among outsourced staff and public transport users in our cohort is more likely to be representative of general population of cities and towns that are part of the cohort. Millions of migrant workers trapped in Indian cities during the lockdown returned to villages in June in packed public transport. Outsourced workers, with highest seropositivity, reflect the high infection rate of this subgroup and it can be reasonably assumed that the pandemic had already reached rural India by September 2020,” the study notes. There was even a distinction in blood groups. “Sero-prevalence was highest for blood group type AB, followed by group B, group O and the lowest for group A . Blood group O was observed to be protective,” the authors noted. Dr. Sengupta said the 10% seropositivity was an average of the range that included 14% in Delhi, 18% in Hyderabad and 1% in Thiruvananthapuram, and could be used a proxy for “future infection trends”. When seen in light of reported trends in cities, a seropositivity of 15% represented a sort of threshold beyond which new cases started to decline. “In Thiruvananthapuram, for instance, we saw an uptick. Based on this, vaccines could be prioritised in rural India or districts with low seropositivity than the big cities that have seen high numbers,” he added. In August, the CSIR announced a project to track 10,000 employees of the organisation for at least 30 years to track an array of health vitals and genes. The overarching aim is to be able to build a medical cohort to give long-term perspective on the malaises that affect Indians, and determine if such a data bank can be used to help with predicting, say, the onset of diabetes or cardiovascular disease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/10-of-csir-staff-exposed-to-virus-says-survey/article33596635.ece
18 January 2021||Belagavi,||Cong. opposition to vaccine baseless, says Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday termed the opposition by the Congress to the COVID-19 vaccine as “baseless and meaningless”. “The Congress leaders are opposing COVID-19 vaccination efforts as they have nothing better to do. Their opposition is baseless and meaningless,” he said at the Jan Sevak rally in Belagavi to felicitate BJP members who won the gram panchayat polls. “I want to tell the Congress leaders that they should keep quiet and support the drive. I know that you are not doing anything about managing the COVID-19 emergency. You should at least keep quiet and let the government do its job. I appeal to the people not to be misled by the lies of the Congress leaders. Please get vaccinated whenever it is your turn. As you do, India will be free of COVID-19,” he said. ‘Managed pandemic’ “The Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led BJP government has managed the pandemic in such a manner that India is counted among the countries with the least deaths and highest recoveries. Now, Mr. Modi is leading the world’s largest immunisation drive. At this juncture, we are all proud that this government is not only fighting the epidemic, but also focusing on welfare and development,” he said. Mr. Shah taunted the BJP leadership for its show in the gram panchayat polls. “The BJP has won around 55% of the gram panchayat seats. This is like pass marks in technical subjects. We need to do better in the taluk and zilla panchayat polls. We should work towards winning at least 75% of the taluk and zilla panchayats,” he said. He showered praise on Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. Karnataka is benefiting from the double engine government of Mr. Modi and Mr. Yediyurappa. While Mr. Modi is working on issues of national importance, Mr. Yediyurappa is concentrated on the welfare of people in the State, he said. Mr. Shah quoted figures to say that the Yediyurappa government had distributed incentives to the people in distress during the lockdown and later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-opposition-to-vaccine-baseless-says-shah/article33596613.ece
18 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Eight more trains connect Kevadia||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday flagged off eight trains connecting Kevadia in Gujarat, where the Statue of Unity is located, to different regions of the country. Mr. Modi said this was perhaps the first time in the history of the Railways that so many trains were flagged off for one destination. The Prime Minister said Kevadia was no longer a small place in a remote area in Gujarat, but was emerging as one of the biggest tourist destinations in the world. More tourists visit the Statue of Unity than the Statue of Liberty in the U.S., he said. “More than 50 lakh visitors have come to see the Statue of Unity after it was dedicated to the nation.” Mr. Modi said the new trains connecting Kevadia to Chennai, Varanasi, Rewa, Dadar and Delhi; the MEMU service between Kevadia and Pratapnagar; the broad-gauging of the Dabhoi-Chandod section and the new line between Chandod and Kevadia would help in the development of the region. “This will benefit both the tourists and local Adivasis as this will bring new avenues of self-employment and employment,” he said. Mr. Modi also inaugurated the Dabhoi-Chandod gauge-converted broadgauge railway line, the Chandod-Kevadia new broadgauge railway line, the newly electrified Pratapnagar-Kevadia section and the new station buildings of Dabhoi, Chandod and Kevadia. He paid tributes to former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister and AIADMK founder M.G. Ramachandran on his birth anniversary, as he noted that one of the trains would connect Kevadia to Chennai. Speaking on the development of railway infrastructure, the Prime Minister said unlike in the past when the focus was limited to keeping the existing infrastructure running and less attention was given to new ways of thinking and technology, work has been done in the recent years on the comprehensive transformation of the entire railway system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/eight-more-trains-connect-kevadia/article33596642.ece
18 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Fire breaks out on moving train in Kerala||Two motorcycles were destroyed in a fire that broke out in the seating-cum-luggage rake/van (SLR) of the 06630 Mangaluru Central- Thiruvananthapuram Central Special Malabar Express when the train was approaching the Edava railway station, 40 km from here, on Sunday. No one was injured in the incident, Railways said. The Railways have ordered a joint departmental inquiry into the incident. The smoke, emanating from the luggage portion of the front SLR, was noticed first by a gatekeeper at the level crossing gate 555 at Edava around 7.45 a.m. The gatekeeper alerted the station master, Varkala, who in turn alerted the railway control in the divisional headquarters in Thiruvananthapuram. Along with alerting the loco pilots and guards of the train, sources said the traction power was switched off remotely from the control here bringing the train to a halt near the Edava station. Loco pilots and guards used fire extinguishers available at the train to control the fire. As the blaze could not be controlled and the two motorcycles were engulfed in fire, Fire and Rescue Services assistance was sought. Two units from the nearby Paravur fire station rushed to the spot and extinguished the fire. Two motorcycles that were loaded from Kasaragod railway station were gutted. After dousing the fire, the train was moved to Varkala railway station. At Varkala, the Senior Divisional Mechanical Engineer, Thiruvananthapuram Division, inspected the SLR and certified it fit for further running up to Thiruvananthapuram. At Thiruvananthapuram Central, a joint forensic inspection was conducted to find the cause of the fire. The SLR had been detached from the rake for inquiry. Preliminary reports said the petrol in the motorcycle might have led to the fire following a short circuit in the SLR. A commercial supervisor of Kasaragod railway station has been placed under suspension by Palakkad division authorities following the incident. A thorough check of motorcycles booked as luggage/parcel was conducted over Palakkad Division and ensured there was no presence of fuel in the tank. The inquiry committee has been asked to submit the report by January 24, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fire-breaks-out-in-moving-train-in-kerala/article33596607.ece
18 January 2021||LUCKNOW,||In U.P. law’s cross hairs, not just love||Balchandra Jaysawar, a driver from Jaunpur district, was among the three arrested by the Azamgarh police in December on charges of trying to convert Hindus, including a BJP office-bearer, to Christianity through allurement. After spending over three weeks in jail, Mr. Jaysawar was granted bail by an additional sessions court and released on Friday. The Uttar Pradesh Police have so far lodged at least 17 cases under the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020. While 14 of them relate to interpersonal relationships, marriages and elopement involving Hindu women and Muslim men, in at least three cases — in Azamgarh, Shahjahanpur and Gautam Buddha Nagar — the ordinance has been slapped against Hindus and Christians on charges of allegedly luring people to convert to Christianity. In two such cases, the complainants are directly linked to the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS)-BJP. In Azamgarh, an FIR was lodged under the ordinance, along with Sections 504 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code on December 20, on the complaint of Ashok Yadav, Gorakhpur “regional mantri (secretary)” of the BJP. Along with Mr. Jaysawar, Gopal Prajapati of Varanasi and Neeraj Kumar of Azamgarh were named in the FIR, in which Mr. Yadav alleged that the three men had come to the house of one Tribhuvan Yadav in Dih Kaithauli village with the intent of converting Hindus to Christianity. Mr. Ashok Yadav alleged that the group had already converted scores of people over four days when he intervened. He said he spotted the group praying outside under the sun in the cold. “When I went to enquire, they asked me to join the prayer and to convert and leave Hinduism. When I refused, they abused and threatened me,” Mr. Yadav said. He said he did not receive any money, but he alleges that others did. Mr. Jaysawar and the family that hosted him dismiss the allegations. Though he describes himself as a Hindu and Dalit by caste, he claims to have faith in Jesus and says he had been invited to the house of Mr. Tribhuvan, a security guard in neighbouring Mau, to conduct a prayer service for the wellness of the family and the village. Lali, Mr. Tribhuvan’s wife, says she invited the accused to her house for prayer to deepen her “knowledge” about Jesus. “We were only listening to katha s (stories) of Jesus Christ and sermons from the Bible ... We haven’t changed our [Hindu] religion...” Court view While granting bail to Mr. Jaysawar, Mr. Prajapati and Mr. Kumar, a local court noted that through the case diary, it was clear that the investigating officer did not record the witness family’s statement. Mr. Kumar, who is a construction worker in Kolhapur, says he was visiting his in-laws’ house in the village when he decided to meet Mr. Tribhuvan’s family. “Even I sat there to listen to the prayer for a few minutes … there was no religious conversion going on,” he said. In Surajpur, the Gautam Buddha Nagar police arrested four persons, including three women — one of them a South Korean national by the name of Minkaygali, alias Anmol — on charges of using enticement to convert people to a different religion. The three other accused were from Prayagraj. The complainant Anita Sharma, who worked as a security guard but left her job due to illness, says the accused had helped her with rations and Rs. 7,000 during the lockdown. She said they later started inviting her to a church in Malakpur every weekend, and offered her more money if she removed the images of Hindu deities from her house. “And if you convert, you will get Rs. 10 lakh, they promised,” she added. “I told them I will not convert. I am from the Pandit jaat [a Brahmin]. How can I change my religion?” she said. In Shahjahanpur, five persons, including two Christians from Tamil Nadu and two Dalits, were booked on the complaint of Ram Lakhan Verma, a city convener of the Bajrang Dal, for allegedly luring him and others to convert to Christianity with the promise of jobs and free education for children. However, the accused said they were only participating in a musical prayer service on January 3 to mark the first Sunday of the New Year. The accused were also thrashed by members of the right-wing outfit. However, no arrests were made. At least 54 persons have been arrested and over 90 persons booked — most of them Muslims — under the ordinance since it was promulgated in November 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/in-up-laws-cross-hairs-not-just-love/article33596625.ece
18 January 2021||New Delhi,||NIA examines Khalsa Aid functionary in SFJ case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) last week examined a functionary of Khalsa Aid, an international NGO, in connection with a recent case registered against Sikhs for Justice (SFJ), a foreign-based group that advocates secessionist and pro-Khalistani activities in India. Khalsa Aid provided aid during the ongoing farmers’ agitation. Two others will be examined this week, its founder, Ravinder Singh, said. He said this was the first time since 1999, the year they started work in India, that the group members had been called for questioning by any Indian agency. The functionary was asked to appear before the agency on January 15 as a “witness” in the case registered under sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. The NIA has summoned around 40 persons to be examined as “witnesses” in the SFJ case. Few persons were examined on Sunday, an NIA official said. Khalsa Aid has presence in the U.K, the U.S., and Canada. The NGO provided foot massage machines and geysers to farmers sitting on protest against the three agriculture laws at Delhi’s borders since November 26. Speaking to The Hindu on phone from the U.K, Mr. Singh said their activities were not against the Government of India and they had no links with SFJ. “Not only Khalsa Aid but other human rights organisations in Punjab have received NIA summons. We are not aligned to any political party. About 80% of donations to the India team has come from generous Indian donors. In our existence in India since 1999, we have never been accused of any illegality,” Mr. Singh said. He added that Khalsa Aid was registered as a charitable trust in Delhi with offices in Patiala and Jalandhar and had not received any foreign donations. “Every item we distributed at Delhi’s border has been donated by Indians. The only items we purchased was massage machines and geysers. Every day, people are donating truckloads of essentials, we have an account of every transaction,” he said. The NIA filed a fresh case against SFJ on December 15 last year where it alleged that large amounts of funds being collected by Khalistani terrorist outfits are being sent through NGOs to pro-Khalistani elements based in India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nia-examines-khalsa-aid-functionary-in-sfj-case/article33596631.ece
18 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Aero India to showcase indigenous helicopters||The India Pavilion at the Aero India 2021 next month will showcase a range of indigenously developed helicopters, while Defence Minister Rajnath Singh is scheduled to hold a conclave of Defence Ministers from the Indian Ocean Littoral (IOR) states, according to a senior Defence official. “We have matured in helicopters and have several in various categories. We are now capable of [designing and manufacturing] any kind of helicopter,” the official said. A Light Utility Helicopter (LUH), a weaponised Advanced Light Helicopter (ALH) and a Light Combat Helicopter (LCH) would be on display inside the pavilion, the official said. A civilian version of the ALH would be on display outside. All these helicopters have been designed and manufactured by Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd. (HAL). In addition to the Defence Ministers’ conclave, plans are also on to hold an Air Chiefs’ conclave. Also, six or seven official delegations from various countries are expected to be there at Aero India in addition to various companies. With less than a month left for the biennial air show, construction of the halls and facilities was in advanced stages of completion. Stating that there was a lot of interest in Aero India as other such major air shows had been cancelled, the official said, “More than 98% of the stalls are booked and about 93% of them have paid for it.” The LUH for the Army, which had completed all the tests and also demonstrated its high-altitude capability in hot and high weather conditions last September, is likely to get the Initial Operational Clearance (IOC) at the Aero India, the official said. The Air Force variant was accorded the IOC by the Centre for Military Airworthiness & Certification (CEMILAC) in February last year. In view of the pandemic, the 13th edition of the biennial Aero India will be held only on three business days from February 3. All precautions with respect to the COVID-19 pandemic had been taken.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aero-india-to-showcase-indigenous-helicopters/article33596633.ece
18 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||New safety device to be fixed in fishing boats in Kerala||The State government has begun installing high-security registration boards on fishing boats in a bid to ensure the safety of fishers. The high-security registration board with GPS/GPRS networking helps locate and identify deep-sea fishing craft. Manufactured from materials that can withstand rough sea conditions, the boards have holographic and laser systems to detect fake registrations. The project is being implemented by the State Fisheries Department for the protection and remote monitoring of boats, the government said on Sunday.  A hologram board is affixed to the top of the boat’s wheelhouse for better identification and communication. Clear view This ensures a clear view of 360 degrees and avoids damage to the board from direct contact with saltwater or mid-sea collisions. In the first phase, hologram registration boards will be installed on 300 boats. The boards have already been installed in approximately 100 vessels which operate out of Neendakara, Munambam and Kochi fishing harbours. As many as 1,500 boats will be covered in the second phase, and about 4,000 boats in the third phase. The boards are being installed at a subsidised rate, with the technical assistance from C-DIT. Illegal activities The system is meant to help government agencies track fishing vessels venturing far out into the sea and prevent crime and smuggling using such vessels. The agencies will be able to investigate unregistered fishing boats and those displaying fake registration numbers if they carry out any illegal activities along the national maritime border. The bogus number can be identified quickly as the registration number and serial number can be verified using a satellite-based communication device.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/safety-device-to-be-fixed-in-boats-in-kerala/article33596949.ece
18 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||M-beat for public welfare: Kerala Police||Countering claims that sought to link the Mobile Beat (M-beat) system under the Janamaithri community policing scheme with the controversial Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), the Kerala Police have issued a clarification that the initiative is aimed at assessing living conditions and review accessibility to various welfare schemes. In a statement, Crime Branch head Additional Director General of Police S. Sreejith, who is the State-level nodal officer of the Janamaithri Suraksha Project, warned of strict action against those who indulge in propagating falsehood, especially on the social media. He stated that the M-beat project was intended to take stock of the social, economic and educational status of each section to ensure the effective delivery of various services. The data collected would be taken up for discussion at Janamaithri committees to plug inadequacies. He said that personal details would not be solicited against the public will. Elaborating on its perceived advantages, Mr. Sreejith said the scheme would enable the police to keep tabs on migrants who have settled in the State as well as identifying those involved in anti-social and terrorist activities without delay. Pointing out that the M-beat system was intended to boost the Janamaithri community policing scheme, the senior officer said beat officers would record various details, including name, address, profession, educational qualification, contact number, vehicles, Aadhaar and ration card number on a digital platform. Besides houses, these officers would also visit public and private establishments, tribal colonies and camps that accommodate migrant labourers. Station house officers would be able to respond to exigencies without delay using the GPS locations recorded during the collection of details. The M-beat system had found numerous benefits during the lockdown period when the police rushed to the aid of several people who required medicines and other supplies, as well as children who lacked tools of access online classes, Mr. Sreejith said.  M-beat project will take stock of social, economic and educational status of each section for effective delivery of services. S. Sreejith ADGP, Crime Branch||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/m-beat-for-public-welfare-kerala-police/article33596946.ece
18 January 2021||New Delhi,||Tomar appeals to farmers to give up ‘stubborn’ stand||Ahead of the tenth round of talks scheduled on January 19, Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Sunday appealed to the protesting farm leaders again to give up their “stubborn” stand on the new farm laws and come for a clause-by-clause discussion. Speaking to the ANI news agency, Mr. Tomar said the government was willing to consider the objections of the farmer unions to the three laws and discuss them with all seriousness and an open mind, if they were willing to put forth any proposal other than the revocation of the laws. He added that the laws were for the entire country and “most of the farmers, intellectuals, agriculturists and scientists favoured them”. The Minister said the government had held nine rounds of talks and was willing to address the farmers’ concerns on various issues, including mandi s, registration of traders and registration of agreement for contract farming. Condemning the Minister’s statement, Bharatiya Kisan Union general secretary Yudhveer Singh said the government had revealed its true intentions before the meeting and was not serious about considering the farmers’ demands. He, however, added that the unions would attend the meeting. He said the farmers were determined to go ahead with the tractor parade, and the responsibility of any untoward incident if they were stopped lay with the administration. Darshan Pal, president, Krantikari Kisan Union, Punjab, said the NIA was harassing those taking part in the agitation or supporting it. He said people running langar s (community kitchens) or helping the families of those killed during the protests were not just being sent notices, but also being slapped with cases of sedition.  Centre is willing to consider the objections if farmers put forth any proposal other than the revocation of the laws Narendra Singh Tomar Union Agriculture Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tomar-appeals-to-farmers-to-give-up-stubborn-stand/article33596665.ece
18 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Centre extends Pawan Hans bidding deadlines by a month||The Finance Ministry has extended the bidding deadlines for the strategic disinvestment of Pawan Hans by a month, citing logistical challenges faced by interested bidders due to the COVID-19 pandemic. This marks another setback for the government’s already dented plans to raise Rs. 2.1 lakh crore through disinvestment in 2020-21, with just about Rs. 14,000 crore raised so far through minority stake sales. No strategic sales have been concluded so far this year, even as a new public sector policy promised last May to energise the privatisation of public sector firms is yet to be firmed up. The extended timelines for Pawan Hans’ stake sale requires potential bidders to submit physical copies of the required documents by the first week of March, making it difficult to expect the sale process to be completed this financial year. In December 2020, the government had invited expressions of interest from bidders for its 51% stake in mini-Ratna PSU Pawan Hans, with January 19 as the deadline. The balance 49% stake in the firm is owned by ONGC, and the successful bidder would get an option to buy out the oil major’s stake on a similar price and terms as agreed for the Centre’s stake. The deadline for evincing interest has now been extended till February 18, “considering the prevailing Covid-19 situation and consequent logistical challenges faced by Interested Bidders”, the Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM) said in a notification. Strategic sales of public sector firms like Air India and BPCL are unlikely to conclude this year, nor is the plan to list the Life Insurance Corporation of India on the bourses likely to take off by March 31, 2021, as amendments are needed to the LIC Act of 1956. The government could miss its disinvestment targets for the year by a wide margin, but the pressure on the exchequer to raise resources to prop up a fledgling economic recovery and meet expectations of higher outlays for healthcare could translate into even stiffer disinvestment targets in 2021-22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-extends-pawan-hans-bidding-deadlines-by-a-month/article33596640.ece
18 January 2021||Hyderabad,||15 more arrested in kidnapping case||Fifteen more persons were arrested on Sunday in connection with the kidnapping of businessman K. Praveen Rao and his two brothers. This takes the total number of accused arrested in the sensational kidnapping case to 19, including Andhra Pradesh’s former minister Bhuma Akhila Priya Reddy. However, prime suspects Madala Srinivas Rao Chowdary alias Guntur Srinu, Akhila Priya’s husband M. Bhargav Ram Naidu, his brother Chandrahas Naidu, mother Kiran Mai Naidu, and the former minister’s brother Bhuma Jagat Vikhyat Reddy, continue to be at large. Over 30 people were listed in the case as accused. Addressing a press conference here on Sunday, City Police Commissioner Anjani Kumar said that Akhila Priya had ‘narrated’ the sequence of the offence during her police custody, which ended on Thursday, and based on her confession new facts had cropped up and more persons were named as accused. Mr. Kumar said that Madala Siddhartha (29), an event manager and a close accomplice Guntur Srinu, from Nandigama, Andhra Pradesh, who was arrested on Sunday provided manpower to execute the kidnap. “He arranged 20 persons and a four-wheeler for execution of the offence and they were staying at a hotel at Kukatpally. Guntur Srinu promised to pay Rs. 5 lakh to Siddhartha and Rs. 25,000 to each person,” the city police chief said. On the evening of January 5, K. Praveen, and his brothers Sunil Rao and Naveen Rao, were abducted by the gang, after they entered the victims’ house at Bowenpally in the guise of I-T officers. Further disclosing the fresh findings in the case, Deputy Commissioner of Police (North) Kalmeshwar Shingenavar said that Akhila Priya along with her husband and others held meetings at her residence at Lodha Apartments, KPHB Colony, and at MGM School, Yousufguda, on January 2 and January 4 to discuss the offence. Fugitive Guntur Srinu took the body measurements of 20 persons, who stayed at the hotel, to get them formal clothes as they impersonated I-T and police officials. On the day of offence, all accused gathered at MGM School, Yousufguda, where they were briefed by Bhargav Ram about the execution of their plan in the guise of I-T and police officers, he said and that the accused also possessed a toy pistol. “The victims were taken to Bhargav Ram’s guest house at Moinabad where they were forced to sign on a bunch of plain and written stamp papers, while they were being assaulted by the sticks,” Mr. Shingenavar said. “After noticing the efforts being made by the police to rescue the three brothers, the accused released them on the same night near Sun City and fled,” the officer added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/15-more-arrested-in-kidnapping-case/article33596605.ece
18 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Clip of phone chat distorted: ex-judge||Former Andhra Pradesh High Court judge Justice V. Eswaraiah has filed an affidavit in the Supreme Court contending that a “deliberately distorted” version of his private phone conversation with a suspended judicial officer became the basis for the High Court to launch an inquiry into a “conspiracy” against the higher judiciary. Justice Eswaraiah, who is the Chairman of the Andhra Pradesh State Higher Education Regulatory and Monitoring Commission, said the allegations of “conspiracy” and a “plot” against the judiciary derived from the contents of the conversation were “white lies”, and derogatory and defamatory to him. He said some parts of the entire conversation were possibly edited out. On August 13, the High Court ordered a judicial inquiry by former Supreme Court judge Justice R.V. Raveendran into the chat. The High Court had termed the conversation an attempt to “malign” a senior sitting Supreme Court judge and the then Chief Justice of the Andhra Pradesh High Court. Justice Eswaraiah had appealed to the top court against the High Court order. On January 11, a three-judge Bench of the Supreme Court, led by Justice Ashok Bhushan, asked Justice Eswaraiah, represented by advocate Prashant Bhushan, to file an affidavit about the phone conversation. In his affidavit, Justice Eswaraiah said “my admission or denial of the private conversation with the suspended district magistrate Mr. Ramakrishna is immaterial in deciding the present SLP as the High Court order is challenged on the ground that it is untenable in law and violative of my right to privacy, which is held to be a fundamental right.” Senior advocate Harish Salve and advocate Vipin Nair, for an intervenor-advocate P. Samuel John, objected to Justice Eswaraiah saying “there was nothing private about the conversation”. But Justice Eswaraiah, in his affidavit, said he had not committed a crime. There was no complaint filed by anybody on the basis of the private conversation, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/former-hc-judge-files-affidavit-in-phone-conversation-case/article33596620.ece
18 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Opposition demands inquiry into Arnab’s WhatsApp chats||Days after the conversations between Republic TV promoter Arnab Goswami and former CEO of the viewership ratings agency Broadcast Audience Research Council (Barc) Partho Dasgupta leaked into the public domain, Opposition leaders on Sunday said it merited a “thorough inquiry” since many of the issues raised in the chats pertained to “national security”. “The WhatsApp chats that have come out in the chargesheet of the Mumbai Police raise serious questions of national security. How financial frauds happened, involvement of officials in high positions, and some conversations even talked about ‘buying’ judges and deciding portfolios for Ministers — this is akin to playing with national security and shows the hollowness of those in power,” Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said at a press conference. Former Union minister P. Chidambaram asked, “Did a journalist (and his friend) know about the retaliatory strike on Balakot camp three days before the actual strike? If yes, what is the guarantee that their ‘source’ did not share the information with others as well, including spies or informers working for Pakistan? How did a ‘For Your Eyes Only’ decision find its way to the government-supporting journalist?”  “On Pakistan the government is confident of striking in a way that people will be elated. Exact words used,” reads one of the messages attributed to Mr. Goswami. Trinamool Congress MP Mahua Moitra tweeted: “Nation Needs to Know: Transcript of Whatsapp chats shows clearly [that] government gave prior information about both Balakot strikes & abolishing Article 370 to TV anchor. What is going on? Am I the only one who thinks ModiShah owe us answers?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/opposition-demands-inquiry-into-arnabs-whatsapp-chats/article33596623.ece
18 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||U.K. invites PM Modi to G7 summit in June||The United Kingdom has invited Prime Minister Narendra Modi to attend the G7 summit that is scheduled to be held in June. Apart from India, Australia and South Korea are also invited to participate in the proceedings of the summit as “guest countries”. “U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson will use the first in-person G7 summit in almost two years to ask leaders, including Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, to seize the opportunity to build back better from coronavirus, uniting to make the future fairer, greener and more prosperous,” a statement issued by the British High Commission announced on Sunday. The summit will be held in Cornwall from June 11 to 13.   The invitation came days after Mr. Johnson cancelled his visit to India in the last week of January because of a new wave of COVID-19 in Britain. He said he will visit India “ahead” of the G7 summit. Cooperation between the U.K. and India is significant this year as India is a non-permanent member at the UN Security Council, where the United Kingdom will take over the presidency in February.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/uk-invites-pm-modi-to-g7-summit-in-june/article33596627.ece
18 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Man booked for buying blank firearm online||Internal Security Division (ISD) officials have booked a 36-year-old man from Ramanagaram for allegedly purchasing blank firearm online and is suspected to have links to “subversive activities”. The accused, Mujeeb Baig, is a resident of Ramanagaram. He had caught the attention of customs officials after he came to receive the blank firearm consignment from the international airport. Officials found that Baig had ordered the firearm through the dark net and did not have the required license to keep it. Feigned ignorance He feigned ignorance when the officials asked him for the permit required to possess the weapon. They alerted ISD officials, who did a background check and found that Baig had put up posts on social media that hinted at involvement in “subversive activities”, officials said. He was booked under the Arms Act, a police officer said. Held for transporting explosive material In another incident, ISD officials caught a 24-year-old man allegedly transporting a box of explosive materials in a goods van on January 13. The accused, identified as Naveen from Bidadi, was caught red-handed while waiting for his associates to deliver the consignment in Peenya. The accused has been taken into custody for further investigation to ascertain the source of explosive material and the motive behind transporting the same, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/man-booked-for-buying-blank-firearm-online/article33596602.ece
18 January 2021||Hassan,||Absence of Kannada plaque draws flak||Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s foundation stone-laying event for the RAF unit in Karnataka on Saturday turned out to be controversial with the Opposition and Kannada organisations taking exception to the absence of Kannada plaque in the foundation stone event. It only had Hindi and English inscriptions. Former Chief Minister and JD(S) leader H.D. Kumaraswamy and Kannada organisations have condemned the prominence given to Hindi and English languages, ignoring Kannada. The foundation stone plaques unveiled by Mr. Shah in the presence of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa had information only in Hindi and English. The banner on the dais stated contents of the programme only in Hindi. Mr. Kumaraswamy in a series of tweets, on Saturday evening, said: “It is an unpardonable act that despite getting land from Karnataka for RAF unit, Kannada has been completely ignored in the foundation stone plaque. Amit Shah should clarify to Kannadigas on the episode of violation of three-language formula in the plaque”. He alleged that the act of the Union Minister, Chief Minister, and Deputy Chief Minister, who were present, was “nothing but betraying Kannadigas”. Those who tolerate an insult to the dignity and honour of land, as well as its language, are not fit to hold the reigns of the State administration, he opined. Mr. Shah laid the foundation stone for 97 battalion of RAF at Bhadravati. The State government has provided 50.29 acres of land for the unit. KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar accused the BJP government of not being interested in regional languages and regional structure from the day they came to power. “They have forgotten it is a federal structure in the constitution. So, they are trying to create confusion and differentiate among States. We respect the national language and at the same time we cannot forget our roots. We condemn what the BJP has done. They lack common sense. They should apologise,” he said. Leader of Opposition in the Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah said that despite these efforts, imposition of Hindi on Kannadigas is not easy. Karnataka Rakshana Vedike president T.A. Narayana Gowda, in a post on social media, said it was common sense to use Kannada prominently in any government programme held in Karnataka. “Kannadigas need not tolerate the deliberate imposition of Hindi,” he said. His organisation gave a call for a Twitter campaign on Sunday evening opposing imposition of Hindi. Hundreds of people responded to the campaign by posting their tweets. Many Kannada lovers have posted comments condemning the way the language was ignored in the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/absence-of-kannada-plaque-draws-flak/article33596614.ece
18 January 2021||HYDERABAD,||Govt. actively working on reducing age limit for pension: Dayakar Rao||The State government has announced that the distribution of pension at the revised age limit of 57 years and above will start soon, Panchayat Raj Minister E. Dayakar Rao said on Sunday. Reducing the age limit for pension from 65 to 57 has been an election promise of the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) and the government had embarked on the process since the past few months. The reduction of age limit is expected to add over six lakh beneficiaries. The government had already obtained reports on the number of beneficiaries consequent on reduction in the age limit from several parts of the State and is awaiting information pertaining to certain municipal corporations and municipalities. The Minister said that in spite of the adverse impact of COVID pandemic on the State’s economy, Telangana was the only State that continued implementation of welfare schemes uninterrupted. Speaking at a meeting of elected representatives at Palakurthy in Warangal (Rural) district on Sunday, he admitted that the benefits of certain developmental schemes could not reach people on the expected lines since the past few months in view of the pandemic. Now, since the vaccine had been made available, the government would vigorously work for ensuring that the benefits reached the grass-roots. He recalled that the government had provided employment to over one lakh eligible candidates. Recruitment process for certain posts was however stopped at different levels owing to technical reasons. The process for commencing skill development programmes for youth for making them employment-ready would be initiated soon and the government was working out modalities for economic uplift of SCs/STs by providing loans to them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-actively-working-on-reducing-age-limit-for-pension-dayakar-rao/article33596901.ece
18 January 2021||January 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Youth gored by bull during jallikattu dies||He was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit and underwent a surgery, Mr. Sangumani added.  A day earlier, two spectators, including a 60-year-old man, were gored to death by bulls at a manjuvirattu event held in Sivaganga district. The deceased were identified as Bose, 60, of Periya Machanpatti, and Periakaruppan of Kallipatti.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/youth-gored-by-bull-during-jallikattu-dies/article33596812.ece
18 January 2021||January 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Youth gored by bull during jallikattu dies||He was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit and underwent a surgery, Mr. Sangumani added.  Earlier deaths A day earlier, two spectators, including a 60-year-old man, were gored to death by bulls at a manjuvirattu event held in Sivaganga district. The deceased were identified as Bose, 60, of Periya Machanpatti, and Periakaruppan of Kallipatti. As many as 70 persons were treated as out-patients at the Tirupathur Government Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/youth-gored-by-bull-during-jallikattu-dies/article33597063.ece
18 January 2021||HYDERABAD,||Kishan Reddy compares KCR with Trump||Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy used some strong words to criticise TRS government and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and even went to the extent of comparing them to the Trump administration. “The State government does not believe in sticking to its word, and the shifting stances show people have stopped believing him and are tired of the first family corrupt rule. Actually, there is no difference between President Trump and this government,” he said. Mr. Reddy was addressing the party’s State executive meeting where he charged the government of being inefficient in the manner it has handled corona pandemic, floods, farmers issues and others. “The government is losing people’s confidence daily and it not in a position to state its achievements in the last six years as was evident during the GHMC elections. We have this strange situation where elected corporators are made to sit at home while those who lost are invited to launch programmes of Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao,” he said. The senior BJP leader questioned the timing of GHMC elections where the Opposition was given neither space or time with largescale misuse of official machinery with ill-trained outsourced employees on poll duty even as teachers were not allowed to participate in the process. If the polls were held in a true democratic manner, the results could have been different and the TRS could have ended up with single digit, he observed. Mr. Reddy said the winds of political change are being felt across the State with senior officials themselves openly expressing it, and the party needs to be united and fight it out for the next two years to come to power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kishan-compares-kcr-with-trump/article33596900.ece
18 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Two hydel projects to be ready by May||Two delayed hydel projects of the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB), with a combined installed capacity of 84 megawatts (MW), are expected to be ready for commissioning in May this year. While a generator of the 60 MW Pallivasal extension scheme will be operational by then, the 24 MW Bhoothathankettu small hydro electric project (SHEP) also will be ready for power generation, according to the Power Department. Work is progressing at a brisk pace on both projects, which are among the eight delayed hydel projects that the KSEB hopes to commission in 2021-22. According to department officials, 98% of civil works and 86.17% of electromechanical works on the 24 MW Bhoothathankettu scheme have been completed. The annual generation expected from the SHEP is 83.5 million units (MU). The Bhoothathankettu project banks on the controlled release of water from Lower Periyar and Idamalayar under the Periyar valley irrigation project for power generation. The project was initially tendered in October 2013, with a December 2015 deadline for commissioning. The Pallivasal extension scheme (60 MW/153.9 MU) will be partially commissioned by May.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-hydel-projects-in-kerala-to-be-ready-by-may/article33596947.ece
18 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Free vaccine for all must be govt. policy: Congress||Free vaccine and vaccine for all should be the policy of the Narendra Modi government, the Congress said on Sunday. The party also asked the government to spell out its distribution policy. At a press conference a day after the vaccination drive was rolled out, Congress general secretary Randeep Surjewala said though the Centre had talked about covering 3 crore persons in the first phase, it was yet to clarify when the remaining population would get the vaccines. “Is the government not aware that 81.35 crore people are eligible for subsidised ration under the Food Security Act? Will the SC, ST, BC, OBC, BPL, APL, the poor and the underprivileged get the vaccine for free or not? If yes, what is the roll-out plan and by when will the government ensure free vaccination?” Mr. Surjewala asked. Asked if the MPs should be given vaccine shots ahead of the Budget session, which starts on January 29, he said, “The Congress has no opinion in the matter. But may I just point out that there will always be some doubts that will be raised on the efficacy and the side effects. That is why all over the world, leaders, prime ministers and presidents have come forward to get the first shot.” Essential medicines The chief spokesperson also questioned the pricing of the Covaxin and the Covishield vaccines and asked why the government had not put them under the National List of Essential Medicines. He asked why the government should pay Rs. 95 more to the Bharat Biotech for a vaccine developed with the expertise and experience of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) scientists. He also objected to the Serum Institute of India’s decision to sell the vaccine in the open market for Rs. 1,000, when it was selling it for Rs. 200 to the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/free-vaccine-for-all-must-be-govt-policy-congress/article33596643.ece
18 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Police fail to identify ‘source’ of information in espionage case||In the chargesheet submitted by the Delhi police special cell in the arrest of freelance journalist Rajeev Sharma, the police have failed to identify the “source” of classified information that was allegedly passed to a Chinese handler. Mr. Sharma was passing information about the Dalai Lama’s movement to a Chinese intelligence official through the Telegram app. On September 14, Mr. Sharma was arrested in an espionage case under the Official Secrets Act for allegedly leaking sensitive information to Chinese intelligence. On December 4, he was granted bail by the High Court on the ground that the police had failed to file the chargesheet within the stipulated 60-day period. “Sincere efforts have been made to trace the source of accused Rajeev Sharma, who used to supply the documents to him, but the same could not be traced yet,” the police said in the chargesheet. In the chargesheet framed against Mr. Sharma, the police said the confidential documents recovered in his house were moved for verification to the Director-General of Military Intelligence. As per the report, the documents were classified as “confidential”, and the accused had unauthorised possession of it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/police-fail-to-identify-source-of-information-in-espionage-case/article33596644.ece
18 January 2021||January 18 2021 00:00 IST,||States fall short in meeting targets||A total of 6,156 shots (of both vaccines) have been given in the State over two days, while the actual capacity was over 30,000 doses. In Andhra Pradesh, the Health Department planned to vaccinate nearly 32,000 beneficiaries at 320 session sites across the State on the first day, and only 61% of them or 19,108 were given vaccine shots due to various reasons. Delay caused by technical issues has been the major issue. On the second day, a target of vaccination for 27,009 beneficiaries at 312 session sites was fixed, but by 8.30 p.m. only 13,041 (47.8%) persons were vaccinated. The State has been using only the Covishield vaccine. A total of 8,062 healthcare workers in Kerala received the COVID-19 vaccine on launch day, at 133 sites across the State. Vaccination will resume on Monday. The target fixed for the launch day was 11,138 persons. In many sites, 70-90% of the target was achieved, with some who had registered earlier being dropped as they did not fit the criteria (for instance, pregnant or lactating mothers, and individuals with serious allergies) that changed after registration. State Medical Board Chairman Santhosh Kumar said there seemed to be a lot of apprehensions among healthcare workers regarding the side effects profile, which definitely affected the numbers. Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope said on Sunday that persisting technical difficulties in the Co-WIN app had led to the suspension of the vaccination drive until Monday. As many as 18,425 beneficiaries, or 65% of the target for the first day, were given vaccine shots across the State on Saturday. Telangana had planned to vaccinate 4,296 healthcare workers at 140 vaccination session sites across the State on the first day, and 3,962 people took the shot. Without specifying the number, State Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao said on Saturday that some healthcare workers refused to take the vaccine on the first day out of fear or anxiety, and had said that they would like to be immunised after two to three days. West Bengal managed to vaccinate 15,707 candidates out of the scheduled 20,700 persons on January 16. Explaining the reasons for the shortfall, Director of Health Services Ajay Chakraborty said that the Co-WIN app through which the message was sent to people had developed glitches from Friday. Since the message could not be delivered to all the people, some did not turn up, he said. Delhi’s Heath Minister Satyender Jain on Sunday said that 53.3% of those who were scheduled to receive the vaccine on the first day showed up in the Capital. Commenting on the turnout, Mr. Jain said: “Some people decided not to turn up at the last moment. The vaccination programme is completely voluntary. We cannot ask anyone to compulsorily take the shot even if the person has registered for it.” No vaccinations were carried out on Sunday. Odisha achieved among the highest levels of coverage. The government said it had received encouraging response from frontline health workers, with 85% of registered persons turning up on Saturday. “This is in our expected line. We had planned vaccination for 16,405 persons and 13,980 received the COVID-19 vaccine on the first day,” said Bijaya Kumar Panigrahi, Director of Family Welfare. In seven out of the 30 districts of Odisha, 100% vaccination target was achieved, while in five districts over 90% health workers came forward to receive the shot. He added that all those registered for Covaxin had taken it. Rajasthan too reported among the higher turnouts in the country, with 73.8% of planned vaccination taking place. On Saturday, 12,258 people received the vaccine against a target of 16,613. No vaccination was conducted on Sunday as the State government has decided carry out the vaccinations on four days a week. There will be no vaccination on Thursdays, Sundays and public holidays. Laxman Singh Ola, Director, Family Welfare, also reported problems with the app, citing it as the reason for those who did not turn up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/states-fall-short-in-meeting-targets/article33596616.ece
18 January 2021||January 18 2021 00:00 IST,||2 Chinese nationals held for money laundering||The Department zeroed in on Sang, who had been living under the alias Charlie Peng. The accused held a fraudulently obtained Indian passport purportedly issued from Manipur. According to the ED, Sang used about 10 bank accounts, opened in fictitious names, to route funds. He represented several Chinese companies in India for hawala operations. “Based on the credible information that some Chinese individuals and their Indian associates were involved in money laundering and hawala transactions through a series of shell entities, a search action was mounted in various premises of these Chinese entities, their close confederates and a couple of bank employees,” the Department had said. Initial probe revealed that at the instance of the Chinese individuals, more than 40 bank accounts were set up for various dummy entities, entering into credits of more than Rs. 1,000 crore over a period of time. “A subsidiary of Chinese company and its related concerns have taken over Rs. 100 crore bogus advances from shell entities for opening businesses of retail showrooms in India,” the Department had said, adding that the role of some bank officials and chartered accountants was also being investigated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/2-chinese-nationals-held-for-money-laundering/article33596618.ece
18 January 2021||January 18 2021 00:00 IST,||2.24 lakh get vaccine, 447 report adverse reactions||The Health Ministry has advised the States and the Union Territories to conduct vaccination on only four days a week to minimise disruption to routine health services. Sunday’s briefing was conducted by Dr. Manohar Agnani, Additional Secretary (Health), with no follow-up questions by journalists taken up. India plans to inoculate 3 crore health workers, municipal workers, sanitation workers, and later on, 27 crore of those most vulnerable to the disease by July. The Health Ministry said the nearly 2,00,000 vaccinations undertaken on Saturday were the highest “day 1” numbers anywhere in the world. However, the Ministry did not share numbers on how many of those who were supposed to be inoculated on Saturday and Sunday actually turned up for their shots. Nor was information shared on how many doses of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin and Serum Institute of India’s Covishield were dispensed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/224-lakh-get-vaccine-447-report-adverse-reactions/article33596615.ece
18 January 2021||January 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Farmers to go ahead with Republic Day tractor rally||Darshan Pal, president, Krantikari Kisan Union, Punjab, alleged that the National Investigation Agency was harassing those taking part in the agitation or supporting it. He said people running langar s (community kitchens) or helping the “martyrs’” families were not just being sent notices, but also being slapped with cases of sedition. Earlier in the day, Mr. Tomar said that the Union government now expected farmer unions to discuss the farm laws clause-by-clause at the next meeting on January 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farmers-to-go-ahead-with-republic-day-tractor-rally/article33596617.ece
18 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Kerala set to open new transport firm||The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) will go ahead with forming KSRTC-SWIFT, a legally independent company, for operating long-distance buses despite opposition from trade unions and apprehensions raised by employees. The stance of the KSRTC management assumes significance even as KSRTC Chairman and Managing Director (CMD) Biju Prabhakar is meeting employees of the State transport undertaking on Monday to take them along while taking forward the initiatives under Restructure 2.0. “Formation of the KSRTC-SWIFT will only pave the way for solving the present financial crisis. Moreover, the Finance Department has made it clear that the funds promised, including assistance from the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board, will be provided to the KSRTC only if the new special purpose vehicle is floated,” the CMD said. Independent unit The KSRTC-SWIFT will function independently within the KSRTC. After 10 years, the company will be dissolved and the assets will be merged with the KSRTC. The revenue would be made available for the needs of KSRTC employees and for repayment of loans taken by the KSRTC, he said. The KSRTC-SWIFT will operate the new buses that will be procured with Rs. 359 crore from the KIIFB. The new 310 CNG buses, 50 electric vehicles, 190 JNNURM buses, 29 Scania Volvo and 18 wet-leased Scania will form part of the new company. A GPS and AI-assisted control room at the Anayara depot of the KSRTC here will take care of the bus operations. Long-distance buses will operate from here and feeder and courtesy services will be provided from five KSRTC depots, including Peroorkada, Vikas Bhavan Pappanamcode, and Enchakkal. The KSRTC CMD will be the Ex-officio CMD of the company. Experts in information technology, operations, traffic, accounts, ex-officio officials from the Finance and Transport Departments and Director, NATPAC, will form the board of the KSRTC-SWIFT. Five professionals will be employed on contract basis. The KSRTC-SWIFT will not have any depots or workshops. Drivers will be appointed on contract basis. The crew will be posted on 2:1 ratio. The crew will have to provide welcome kits on long-distance buses and take care of luggage. Cleaning of the buses after each trip will be part of the duty of the crew. No bus routes under the KSRTC will be transferred to the KSRTC-SWIFT. None to be thrown out The KSRTC CMD said no employees would be thrown out with the formation of the company. Staff reduction will be effected through redeployment, VRS and by leaving vacant retirement vacancies in the coming years. Once the buses changed to CNG and LNG from fossil fuel, the fuel bill would decrease considerably. Fare reduction would also help more patronage to the KSRTC fleet, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/amid-dissent-kerala-set-to-get-new-transport-company/article33596601.ece
18 January 2021||Umaria,||13-year-old girl raped by nine men in M.P.||A 13-year-old girl was allegedly raped by nine men on separate occasions after being abducted twice in Umaria city of Madhya Pradesh (M.P.) earlier this month, a police official said on Sunday. The girl’s mother lodged a police complaint on January 14, following which seven of the accused were arrested on Friday. Search is under way for two other culprits, said the official. The girl was abducted from a market by a person known to her on January 4. She was then taken to a secluded spot, where the accused person and six others allegedly raped her. As the accused threatened the girl, she was scared and did not file any complaint, said the official. She was again abducted by one of the accused on January 11 and taken to a desolate place where five people, including three accused in the previous incident and two unidentified truck drivers, allegedly raped her on that day and on January 12.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/13-year-old-girl-raped-by-nine-men-in-mp/article33596621.ece
18 January 2021||Mumbai,||Governor condoles death of Ustad Ghulam Mustafa Khan||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Sunday expressed grief over the death of renowned classical musician Ustad Ghulam Mustafa Khan. Khan died on Sunday afternoon at his residence here. He was 89. In his condolence message, Mr. Koshyari described Khan as a “great musician and an equally great human being” and hailed him for enriching the world of Indian classical music with his “multifarious contributions”. “Deeply saddened to know about the demise of the great Indian classical vocalist, Padma Vibhushan Ustad Ghulam Mustafa Khan in Mumbai,” the Governor said in his message. Describing Khan as a “great Guru”, he said the former passed on the rich legacy of his music to generations of students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/governor-condoles-death-of-ustad-ghulam-mustafa-khan/article33596971.ece
18 January 2021||NALGONDA,||Vehicles bound for Hyderabad clog NH-65 in Nalgonda||Lakhs of Andhra Pradesh natives returning to Hyderabad after Sankranti festivities found themselves in bumper-to-bumper traffic on NH-65 (Hyderabad-Vijayawada) in the district on Sunday. A police officer on duty at Narketpally described the scenes as “almost unprecedented. Traffic moved like a stream for hours, but there were no jams.” Narketpally is the merging point in Nalgonda, with traffic volume from both sides — Guntur, Tirupati and Chennai via the Addanki State highway; and Vijayawada via the national highway. On Sunday, traffic count started to increase around noon. Gradually, vehicular speeds too reduced, but after 3 p.m., traffic after exiting Narketpally almost hit a slow constant speed. About 10 km to Chityal, and then 25 km till the Pantangi toll plaza at Chotuppal, traffic movement was at its peak in the evening. Besides the volume of traffic, traffic bottlenecks at places like Kattangur and Kethepally were reported for reasons of narrow mainways, where there are diversions to major villages and towns, queue accumulation at Kethepally toll plaza, and barricades and speed stoppers. From reports available at around 7 p.m., toll plaza officials at Choutuppal said they have witnessed a 20% rise in traffic, about 35,000 passenger car unit/day being its measure, as against its capacity design of 60,000 PCU. “Because of increased FASTag compliance, there are no traffic jams at Kethepally or Pantangi toll plazas. Even with a continuous and floating traffic, the constant queue length was only about 300 metres,” an official said. According to police officials in Chityal, which witnessed a bumper-to-bumper traffic for at least 15 km for about three hours on the day, “It took at least one hour to reach Choutuppal, at a distance of 25 km, the usual time being about 20 minutes.” Police officials at Kethepally, Kattangur, Narketpally, Chityal and Choutuppal also added that the peak hour traffic was between 4 p.m. and 7 p.m., and the vehicular speeds increased later. The toll plaza near Madgulapally on the Narketpally-Addanki State highway, which is not equipped with FASTag facility, had queues for at least a kilometre. Its officials said the vehicular count was about 10,000, which is 20% more than the usual.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bumper-to-bumper-traffic-on-nh-65/article33596708.ece
18 January 2021||HYDERABAD,||Session sites for COVID vaccination increased||Telangana Health officials have increased the number of session sites for COVID-19 vaccination from 140 on Saturday to 324 on Monday. The number of beneficiaries per site too was increased from 30 to 50. Altogether, the officials aim to inoculate 16,200 healthcare workers on January 18.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/session-sites-for-covid-vaccination-increased/article33596713.ece
18 January 2021||Hyderabad,||Sex sorted semen production (briefly)||With a view to encourage production of female calves, Karimnagar Dairy has started developing sex sorted semen production at the Frozen Semen Bull Station in Karimnagar town as part of the National Mission for Bovine Productivity. The dairy would supply sex sorted quality semen with ‘x’ chromosome to get only female progenies through artificial insemination, according to its chairman Ch. Rajeswara Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sex-sorted-semen-production-briefly/article33597119.ece
18 January 2021||New Delhi,||Tandav controversy: I&B Ministry seeks explanation from Amazon Prime Video||Taking cognisance of the complaints that Hindu deities had been ridiculed in the web series Tandav , the Union Ministry of Information and Broadcasting on Sunday sought an explanation from Amazon Prime Video, the streaming platform, on the issue, sources said. The development came after BJP MP Manoj Kotak said he had written to Union Minister Prakash Javadekar seeking a ban on the series.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tandav-controversy-ib-ministry-seeks-explanation-from-amazon-prime-video/article33596666.ece
18 January 2021||Pune,||Mahesh Manjrekar booked for assault||A case has been lodged against award-winning film-maker Mahesh Manjrekar for allegedly slapping and abusing a man in Pune, the police said on Sunday. According to the Yavat police, the incident occurred on Friday night near Yavat village (46 km from Pune) on the Pune-Solapur highway after a car driver hit Mr. Manjrekar’s car from behind. The complainant, Kailas Satpute, alleged that his vehicle had accidentally hit the actor-director’s car as the latter had braked suddenly. Mr. Manjrekar then had a heated altercation with the complainant and had allegedly slapped and abused him. The Yavat police registered a non-cognisable offence against the film-maker under sections of the Indian Penal Code based on a complaint filed by Mr. Satpute.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mahesh-manjrekar-booked-for-assault/article33596638.ece
18 January 2021||Mysuru,||BSY will be removed after April, Siddaramaiah||Former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah has claimed that B.S. Yediyurappa will be removed from the post of Chief Minister after April this year. Speaking to reporters in Mysuru on Sunday, Mr. Siddaramaiah said he had received information from RSS sources about the removal of Mr. Yediyurappa as the Chief Minister after April. “If the issue of change of leadership in the State was not before the party, why did it take so many days to permit expansion of his Ministry?, the Congress leader questioned, while making light of the praises showered on Mr. Yediyurappa by Union Home Minister Amit Shah during his visit to the State. “Does anybody come and say such a thing (that the Chief Minister will be removed). If they do, how will the government run? Mr. Siddaramaiah queried before claiming that his information about Mr. Yediyurappa’s removal was “credible”. Money spent Mr. Siddaramaiah said he had sought a probe by a sitting High Court judge into the claim made by Minister for Water Resources Ramesh Jarkiholi that newly inducted Minister C.P. Yogeshwar had spent Rs. 9 crore allegedly for Operation Lotus to form the BJP government in 2019. “No less a person than a Minister in the Yediyurappa government has made a statement that Mr. Yogeshwar spent Rs. 9 crore that had been taken as a loan. From where did he bring the money? From whom did he take the loan? Where was the money spent? It should be made public,” Mr. Siddaramaiah said, while demanding a probe in the matter. CD issue He also sought a probe into the issue of the CD, which a section of the BJP leaders are alleging had been used to blackmail Mr. Yediyurappa during the Cabinet expansion. “I don’t know what Mr. Yediyurappa has done. But, I am told it is disgusting. Let there be an inquiry,” Mr. Siddaramaiah added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bsy-will-be-removed-after-april-siddaramaiah/article33596611.ece
18 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||UDF promises income guarantee in manifesto||The United Democratic Front (UDF) has promised a minimum income of Rs. 6,000 to needy families if voted to power in the Assembly elections. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said the minimum income guarantee scheme was aimed at lifting crores of families out of poverty. It was an extension of the Nyuntam Aay Yojana (NYAY) mooted by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi. The UDF would better and further expand the LIFE Mission to provide free and modern housing for disadvantaged families. Welfarism will be central to the UDF manifesto. It would be based on principles of more government, more investment, more employment and more compassion. The UDF would expand social welfare pensions. Benny Behanan, MP, is the chairman of the manifesto panel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/udf-promises-income-guarantee-in-manifesto/article33596608.ece
18 January 2021||KOCHI,||Fire destroys two factories in Kochi’s Edayar industrial development area||Two factories in the Edayar industrial development area near Kalamassery were gutted in a massive fire that broke out after midnight on Saturday. No casualties were reported. The factories — a chemicals unit manufacturing thinner for painting, and a rubber processing unit — were destroyed in the fire that broke out following lightning and thunder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fire-destroys-two-factories-in-kochis-edayar-industrial-development-area/article33596619.ece
18 January 2021||Pune,||MVA govt. committed to incorporating Marathi areas into Maharashtra: Uddhav||Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said his Maha Vikas Aghadi government was committed towards incorporating into Maharashtra those areas of Karnataka, especially Belagavi district, where the Marathi-speaking populace were in the majority. A tweet issued by the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) said this would be a “true tribute” to the martyrs who strove for the incorporation of Belagavi and other Marathi-speaking areas into Maharashtra. “Bringing Karnataka-occupied Marathi-speaking and cultural areas in Maharashtra will be the true tribute to those who accepted martyrdom in the boundary battle. We are united and committed towards it. Respects to the martyrs with this promise,” the CMO tweeted. Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, too, endorsed the Chief Minister’s remarks by stating that the current government would keep on striving until the merger was accomplished and the dream of a ‘Sanyukt Maharashtra’ was realised. The Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti (MES), a regional organisation fighting for the merger of Belagavi and other border areas with Maharashtra, observes January 17 as ‘Martyrs’ Day’ in memory of those who laid down their lives for the cause in 1956. In 2019, Mr. Thackeray had referred to Belagavi and its nearby areas where people chiefly speak Marathi as ‘Karnataka occupied Maharashtra’, drawing the ire of Kannada politicians. Mr. Thackeray had also appointed ministers Chhagan Bhujbal and Eknath Shinde as ‘co-ordinators’ to oversee his government’s efforts to expedite the boundary dispute, which has been festering for more than 60 years. Pending in SC Maharashtra claims certain areas, including Belagavi, Karwar and Nippani which are part of Karnataka, contending that the majority of population in these areas is Marathi-speaking. The dispute has been long-pending in the Supreme Court. While Belgaum (as Belagavi was known till recently) was formerly part of the Bombay State, it was merged with the Mysore State (later Karnataka) at the time of the reorganisation of States in 1956. The MES, which came into being in 1948, has been opposed to the merger and continues to do so. The long-standing Maharashtra-Karnataka border dispute over the status of Belagavi district has witnessed a continual reigniting of tensions in the past years. In December 2019, the Maharashtra police had suspended bus services between Kolhapur (in western Maharashtra) and Belagavi (in Karnataka) as a precautionary measure after activists of the Belagavi-based Karnataka Navnirman Sena (KNS) had defaced Marathi hoardings and billboards in Belagavi and adjoining areas in Karnataka. In retaliation, Shiv Sena activists had blackened Kannada language hoardings and hotel billboards in Kolhapur city. At the time, the trigger behind the soaring political temperatures on the border was a controversial statement by KNS chief Bhimashankar Patil, who allegedly said leaders of the MES “ought to be shot dead”. Mr. Patil’s remarks had evoked strong reactions from the Shiv Sena, which has lent political support to the MES throughout its decades-long struggle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mva-govt-committed-to-incorporating-marathi-areas-into-maharashtra-uddhav/article33596636.ece
18 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Stalin’s dream to become CM won’t be reality’||DMK president M.K. Stalin’s dream of becoming the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister will remain just a dream and will not become a reality, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said on Sunday. Speaking at a public meeting on MGR’s birth anniversary at Ashok Nagar here, Mr. Palaniswami asked how Mr. Stalin could claim the AIADMK would not even be in the Opposition after the Assembly election. “You [Stalin] are saying you will win in all 234 seats. You can win only in your dreams. Not in reality. Keep dreaming. You kept saying my government will not last even 10 days, three months, six months, one year…. now we are going to complete four years. I never expected to be Chief Minister, but I am here because of my hard work. You are dreaming about becoming the Chief Minister. It will only be a dream,” he said. The Chief Minister said Mr. Stalin was a product of nepotism, unlike those in the AIADMK who worked hard to reach top positions. Mr. Palaniswami said he had fought elections nine times and climbed the ladder through hard work. He said Mr. Stalin had benefited only because of his father [late Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi]. Responding to Mr. Stalin’s charge that he did not become the Chief Minister by meeting the people, Mr. Palaniswami said everyone knew that was not true. He asked whether Mr. Stalin’s father, Karunanidhi, became the Chief Minister by meeting the people. “Your father became the Chief Minister through conspiracy after Anna’s death,” he said. In an apparent reference to actor-politician Kamal Haasan, he said those who were starting new parties were forced to take MGR’s name. Earlier, Mr. Palaniswami and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam led MGR’s birth anniversary celebrations organised by the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalins-dream-to-become-cm-wont-be-reality/article33596774.ece
18 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination numbers fall on second day||The Greater Chennai Corporation has registered a decrease in the number of beneficiaries who received COVID-19 vaccination on the second day of the immunisation programme. The number of beneficiaries reduced from 568 on Saturday to 437 on Sunday at the 12 centres in the city, seeing a 14% decline in numbers. Officials made arrangements to vaccinate at least 100 persons in each centre every day. But some of the 12 centres registered less than 10 beneficiaries on Sunday. The Porur urban community health centre registered just seven. The Institute for Obstetrics and Gynaecology registered eight, compared with the 70 on Saturday. Most beneficiaries visited in the morning, with the 12 centres registering 274 beneficiaries at 1 p.m. After that, many centres registered less than 10 visitors. Between 1 p.m. and 6 p.m. on Sunday, no one visited three of the 12 centres. At the Madhavaram, the vaccine was administered to 16 persons in the morning. However, just one vaccination was reported in the afternoon. Similarly, there were only two in in Porur after 1 p.m. In Injambakkam, only six beneficiaries received the vaccine in the afternoon. A total of 23 were registered in the morning. Apollo Hospital registered 10 beneficiaries, while MGM Healthcare reported 69 on Sunday. Most beneficiaries received Covishield on Sunday. Just 36 out of 437 on Sunday received Covaxin. As many as 85,000 healthcare workers have been identified for the first phase of the free COVID-19 vaccination programme. A total of 945 persons have participated in the first two days. Officials have been asked to mobilise more healthcare workers on Monday, as they are planning to cover most of the remaining healthcare professionals in two weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-numbers-fall-on-second-day/article33596760.ece
18 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Project to infuse hygiene into Corpn. schools in north Chennai||The COVID-19 pandemic has brought to focus the shortcomings in disease prevention strategies in the city and the lack of amenities needed to check the contagion. The most affected by the pandemic were the poor residents of several areas in north Chennai, where it is tough to keep physical distance and water is not readily available. Officials of the Greater Chennai Corporation found it difficult to check the pandemic, constrained as they were by the poor amenities. The lockdown helped the civic body ramp up infrastructure by opening mini-clinics, upgrading the testing facilities at primary health centres and strengthening the vector control with the purchase of modern fogging machines. As schools are to open for students of Classes 10-12, Corporation officials are facing the daunting task of shielding the students from the pandemic, what with inadequate water supply and toilets. The grant provided by the Asian Development Bank (ADB), which has funded the integrated storm drain network in the Kosasthalaiyar basin, could not have come at a better time for improving the facilities at Corporation schools in north Chennai, the officials say. The civic body has readied a detailed project report to improve facilities to ensure the personal hygiene among Corporation school students. Under the integrated pandemic and disaster risk management project, urban primary health centres and Corporation schools in the Kosasthalaiyar basin will be provided with hand-wash and drinking water dispensers and other facilities. Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash says the ADB-funded project is aimed at the systematic maintenance of personal hygiene at Corporation schools in the extended areas of north Chennai, where students of the poor families are found to lack in personal hygiene. Installation of drinking water and hand-wash dispensers, implementation of a waste management system through napkin dispensers and construction of additional toilets for girls have been planned. L. Nandakumar, Chief Engineer (General), Chennai Corporation, says the project will benefit 60 Corporation schools with nearly 12,000 students and 17 urban primary health centres registering more than 3,000 footfalls a day in the areas under the zones of Thiruvottiyur, Manali, Madhavaram and Ambattur. The project, costing Rs. 14.63 crore, has been accepted by the funding agency, and once the allotment order is issued, tenders will be called. The work will be completed within a year. The COVID-19 prevention project involves the installation of drinking water and hand-wash machines at Corporation schools with a special focus on girls. With almost 49% of the total students enrolled at the 60 Corporation schools being girls, additional toilets and privacy rooms would be created and napkin dispensers installed to promote menstrual hygiene. The project will also create toilets fitted with ramps for physically challenged students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/project-to-infuse-hygiene-into-corpn-schools-in-north-chennai/article33596769.ece
18 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fresh cases fall below 600 in State||The number of those testing positive for COVID-19 fell below 600, to 589, in Tamil Nadu on Sunday. The State has 5,940 active cases, and 8,30,772 persons have tested positive so far, according to the daily bulletin of the Directorate of Public Health. The discharge of 770 persons after treatment took the tally to 8,12,568. Seven more deaths pushed the toll to 12,264. Perambalur and Tenkasi districts recorded no fresh cases. At the same time, 20 districts recorded less than 10 cases each. Chennai count In Chennai district, 164 fresh cases were identified and three persons died. As on Sunday, 1,959 persons were undergoing treatment either at healthcare facilities or at home, while 147 persons were discharged after treatment. So far, 2,29,074 positive cases have been recorded and 2,23,050 persons have been treated and discharged. The district accounts for 4,065 deaths. While one person died due to the infection at a private hospital, six others died of pre-existing conditions. A 59-year-old man from Chennai who tested positive on January 15 and was admitted to a private hospital the same day with complaints of fever and generalised tiredness for 27 days died on the night of January 16. The hospital cited COVID-19 pneumonia as the cause. The oldest person to die of the infection was an 80-year-old woman from Chengalpattu. She was diabetic and hypertensive, and she also had an earlier episode of cerebrovascular accident. In the early hours of January 11, she was admitted to the Chengalpattu Medical College Hospital. She tested positive for COVID-19 on January 9 and died on January 14. Doctors cited COVID-19 pneumonia and acute respiratory distress syndrome as the causes. Health authorities said they had so far tested 1,52,29,307 samples.  Perambalur and Tenkasi districts recorded no fresh cases. At the same time, 20 districts recorded less than 10 cases each||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fresh-covid-19-cases-drop-below-600/article33596751.ece
18 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination yet to pick up pace; no takers in Aranthangi, Perambalur||A total of 3,030 healthcare personnel were vaccinated on the second day of the drive on Sunday to protect the front-line workers from COVID-19. While 183 persons received Covaxin, 2,847 received Covishield. The government said it had the capacity to administer 14,460 doses a day across the 45 sites. In Chennai, which has the capacity to administer 1,200 doses a day, only 402 persons volunteered to be vaccinated. Across the six government medical college hospitals in the State, where Covaxin was being offered, the willingness to be inoculated was yet to pick up, though it appeared to be better than Saturday. In Coimbatore, 245 persons received the vaccine, while in the Nilgiris, 217 persons opted for it. None in Aranthangi and Perambalur chose to be inoculated. The Health Department had allotted 300 doses for Ararnthangi, and Perambalur has the capacity to administer 98 doses. The government had the capacity of providing 100 doses each at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital in Chennai, besides the medical college hospitals in Tirunelveli, Tiruchi, Chengalpattu, Thanjavur and Pudukottai. The Thanjavur Medical College Hospital saw 60 persons, the highest number, getting inoculated on Sunday. At the Tiruchi hospital, where Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan got himself vaccinated, 40 persons received the vaccine. At the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital in Chennai, 36 healthcare professionals agreed to give it a try, while in Tirunelveli, 26 persons were vaccinated. The number dropped to 20 in Chengalpattu. Not a single person offered to be vaccinated at Pudukkottai, however. Poor acceptance While on Saturday, the government had planned 160 sessions, it reduced the number to 158 on Sunday for administering Covishield. The number of beneficiaries for Covishield fell from 3,027 on Saturday to 2,847 on Sunday, whereas it increased from 99 to 183 for Covaxin, according to the data provided by the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine. In the last two days, there have been 6,156 beneficiaries, officials said. Asked about the poor acceptance, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said, “The aim is not to achieve a target. We have built the capacity for vaccination. The centres will continue to offer the vaccine to all those willing. There have been no reports of adverse reaction from the State so far.” There seemed to be some hesitation among professionals and front-line workers to take the vaccine close to the launch. Many more doses of Covishield were given than Covaxin. Indian Medical Association national president J.A. Jayalal, who was administered the vaccine on Saturday, said the delays in communication and people’s belief that vaccination was restricted to doctors at government hospitals had slowed the process. “Private sector doctors were not aware that they were also eligible for vaccination. On Saturday, only government doctors and lower-level staff were vaccinated. Within a week, all medical fraternity will be covered,” he said. Tamil Nadu Government Doctors Association president K. Senthil expects a long queue for the vaccine in a week. “In the history of vaccines, from small pox onwards, there has rarely been reports of deaths due to vaccines. Rumours and negative messages are leading to a low vaccination turnout,” he said. Tamil Nadu Government Nurses Association president K. Sakthivel, who will be vaccinated on Monday, said, “I tested positive for COVID-19 in July and was in the ICU. I returned to work in September. I will take the vaccine, and have told all nurses to go ahead. Only those who are willing are administered it.” Director of Public Health T. Selvavinayagam reiterated Mr. Radhakrishnan’s statement: “This is not a race. We are aiming to protect all the 8 crore people of the State. We cannot achieve the target in a day. We have started it and will achieve it.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-yet-to-pick-up-pace-no-takers-in-aranthangi-perambalur/article33596756.ece
18 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||The Hindu Margazhi Classical Music Competition’s percussion results are out||The  results of The Hindu Margazhi Classical Competition have been announced. Of the 800-odd entries received, 119 participants have been chosen by the panel of judges as prize-winners. From December 12, 2020, the judges listened to 463 entries in the Carnatic vocal category, 16 in Hindustani, 129 in the percussion category and 126 in the instrumental music category. Guru and Mridangam vidwan Erode Nagaraj, who judged the entries, said he saw high levels of enthusiasm and confidence among participants. “They made efforts to include at least one gathi bedham, irrespective of their learning levels — beginner or advanced,” he added. The list of winners in the percussion category:  Konakkol (Up to 12 years)  First prize: Skanda Manjunath (Bengaluru); second prize: Aniruddha Pradyumna Kandadai (Bengaluru); and third prize: Arnav Vikranth Thirkannad (Bengaluru)  Konakkol (20 to 40 years)  First prize: Nachiketa sharma Miganakallu (Bengaluru); second prize: Siri Chandrashekar (Bengaluru)  Kanjira (20 to 40 years)  First prize: Vishnu V. Kammath (Cherthala, Alapuzha); second prize: V.V. Sabareesh (Chennai); and third prize: V. Murali (Chennai)  Ghatam (all categories)  First prize: Shriman Raghu Krishna (Chennai); R. Naveen (Tiruchi); and Shamith S. Gowda (Mysuru)  Mridangam (Up to 12 years)  First prize: Aayush Sriram Bharadwaj (Chennai); second prize: K. Jishnu (Tiruchi); and Third prize: Adithya Srihari (Bengaluru)  Mridangam (13 to 19 years)  First prize: Nagaraja M (Chennai); second prize: Raam Manikandan (Chennai) and Sai Keshav Sabesan (Vishakapatnam); and third prize: Abhiram Nitin (Bengaluru)  Mridangam (20 to 40 years)  First prize: Vignesh Venkataraman (U.S.A.); second prize: Kapil Ramanarayanan (U.S.A.); special prize: Shreyas Raghavan. The complete list of winners is available on http://bit.ly/3nPNF0b, and the winners will be notified by email. All those whose entries were valid will be sent participation e-certificates. The prizes and certificates for the competition are being sponsored by Indian Oil Corporation Ltd.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/the-hindu-margazhi-classical-music-competitions-percussion-results-are-out/article33596752.ece
18 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man on a mission: preserving Thirukkural on palm leaves||“Kedayil vizhuchelvam kalvi oruvaruku, madalla matrai yavai” (Learning is the only imperishable wealth, others are not true riches) — 10 years ago, these words changed the life of 58-year-old Jaswant Singh, and thereafter began his journey, learning the Thirukkural . He started writing couplets on a palm leaf, using an ezhuthani (metal stylus), from the end of 2019, and using the lockdown to his advantage, has now completed all 1,330. Meet Mr. Singh, a civil engineer by profession and a nature lover by passion. At his house in Mogappair, he stoops over a small table with the stylus in his hand, his hand moving over the leaves smoothly, as he engraves words on it — a pagdi (turban)-wearing sardar reading out the couplets has surprised many. “I am a native of Hoshiyarpur in Punjab, but I grew up in Chennai. I did my schooling from a Hindi-medium school and realised the potency of Tamil much later in life. I started learning various literature, and 10 years ago, started reading Thirukkural . It is the only text applicable to all religions and races. It is applicable to mankind, always, and is not restricted to a particular time period,” he said. He then wanted to preserve the Thirukkural on palm leaves and embarked on a mission. “Though I started in 2019, I used the lockdown to my advantage, as I was home. I got some palm leaves from a tree without the nongu (ice-apple), put it in hot water, along with some spices and papaya leaves for softening. After drying them in the shade, I started writing the kurals on them,” he said. To make the engravings clear he applies a mixture of ash, from burning the leaves of a kind of spinach, and lemongrass oil on the leaf. “This can be preserved for hundreds of years. Children should also start writing the names of family members and ancestors on such palm leaves so they can be passed on from one generation to another,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-on-a-mission-preserving-thirukkural-on-palm-leaves/article33597103.ece
18 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two-way traffic to be allowed on G.P. Road on experimental basis||From Monday, the police will try out a few changes to traffic flow on the roads abutting the arterial Anna Salai on an experimental basis to reduce traffic pile up on Gemini Flyover. One of the systems that will be tested is two-way traffic on General Patters Road. According to officials, traffic pile up on Gemini flyover has become a common occurrence over the last few months. “We found that the vehicles, from Greams Road and from Gemini Flyover, pile up on the Anna Salai-Whites Road Junction to take a right turn or a U-turn. It was because the right turn at Peters Road was stopped some time ago,” a police officer said. So the police will be experimenting by opening up the right turn at Peters Road for vehicles coming from Gemini Flyover and going towards Spencer’s junction. “The U-turn and right turn at the Anna Salai-Whites Road junction will be closed and motorists will be allowed to turn at the Anna Salai-Thiru Vi Ka Road junction. Basically we are increasing right turns from one to two and reducing vehicle congestion,” said N. Kannan, Additional Commissioner of Police, Traffic. The police will also be experimenting with two-way traffic on G.P. Road. “As of now right turn into G.P. Road will not be allowed at the Anna Salai-G.P. Road junction for vehicles coming from Gemini Flyover. Vehicles from from Chintadripet can take a free left turn into G.P. Road,” a senior police officer said. He said a traffic signal had been planned on the Anna Salai-G.P. Road junction. “After this right turn, vehicles from Gemini Flyover, can also be allowed,” Mr. Kannan said. “Vehicles on G.P. Road come speeding from the opposite side, putting lives of pedestrians and motorists at risk,” said M. Ezhilarasan, a motorist.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-way-traffic-to-be-allowed-on-gp-road-on-experimental-basis/article33596764.ece
18 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘AIADMK won’t get even Opposition status’||Accusing the ruling AIADMK of using exchequer’s resources for self-promoting advertisements, DMK president M.K. Stalin said even if the government bent over backwards it would not be able to secure even the status of the Opposition in the State Assembly. “Earlier, I said that the DMK and its alliance would win over 200 seats. But the reception accorded to the ‘makkal grama sabha’ makes me believe that we will win all the 234 seats in the Assembly,” Mr. Stalin said, while addressing a meeting to admit DMDK party cadres and leaders in the DMK. “Though the government creates an impression through the advertisements that it has made great strides, the reality is different,” he said. “The survey conducted by ABC-C Voter has ranked Tamil Nadu in the 29th place in the country. Seventy per cent of people have voted against the government, which is releasing advertisements only to suppress the reality,” Mr. Stalin said.  ‘Exchequer’s resources’ The DMK president said that he would not have questioned the advertisements, had they been funded by the AIADMK itself. “But they are using the State exchequer’s resources. They cannot release advertisements if the election dates are announced. That is why they are doing it in a calculated manner now,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-wont-even-get-opposition-status-dmk-president/article33596775.ece
18 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kamal releases documentary on MGR||Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan once again claimed AIADMK founder and former chief minister M. G. Ramachandran’s political legacy during the launch of the documentary, ‘Kaalathai Vendravan’, on the occasion of his 104th birth anniversary on Sunday. The function was held at MGR’s Ramapuram house. The film documents the events leading up to his final days. Speaking at the event, Mr.Haasan said he shared MGR’s dreams and goals and was, therefore, justified in claiming the actor’s legacy. “MGR’s photo became smaller and smaller in the posters. MGR’s fans like me were fuming in silence. He had given me tapes of Periyar. They ask me why I didn’t say that so far. Till now, I was not in politics. Now I have come to politics and can I do that without thinking about MGR?” he asked. He said the AIADMK government was plotting to bring him to the streets in 2011, referring to theVishwaroopam controversy. “If MGR were there, he would have never allowed it to happen. He would have come and sat at the screening of the movie. At that time, my fans sent the documents of their properties. The gesture made me think of MGR,” he said. He recollected a number of encounters that he had with the legendary actor since his time as a child actor till MGR’s death in 1987. “He asked me if I had any political ambitions to which I said ‘You are there for that’. I told him that I am going to teach the fans ‘karate’. He disagreed and said that I must lead them by example and perform social welfare activities. At that time, I thought why must I do all that but then I realised they should not just be fans who whistle for me,” he said. He said his political slogan‘Naalai Namadhey’ was derived from MGR’s film. The documentary was directed by ‘Kungumam’ Sundarrajan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kamal-haasan-releases-documentary-on-mgr/article33596745.ece
18 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Hospital on wheels for extended areas||The integrated pandemic and disaster risk management project for the urban poor in the Kosasthalaiyar basin is aimed at improving health infrastructure in north Chennai. After the December 2015 floods, the Greater Chennai Corporation slotted the expanded city into the basins of the Kosasthalaiyar, Adyar, Cooum and Kovalam so as to establish storm drains. The Asian Development Bank’s proposal to give a grant for COVID-19 containment activities was grabbed by the civic body for boosting the health infrastructure in these areas. A senior official of the civic body says that unlike the other parts of the city, the four zones have people with the lowest income, grappling with the drawbacks of poor transport, healthcare and education. Hence, it was proposed to use the funds for creating health amenities on the wheels. The civic body proposes to launch two mobile medical and diagnostic units each for the four zones. A centralised processing and testing laboratory, linking the eight mobile units, will be established in the Madhavaram zone at a cost of Rs. 1.20 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hospital-on-wheels-for-extended-areas/article33596771.ece
18 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Reduced syllabus announced for Classes 10 and 12||After keeping students and teachers waiting for a long period of time, the School Education Department on Sunday announced a reduced syllabus for Classes 10 and 12 for the current academic year. The announcement comes two days before the schools are to open for both classes on Tuesday. Teachers who went through the reduced syllabus say that in most subjects, there is no deletion of chapters. Instead, some topics in each unit have been cut down. The State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) has asked the Chief Educational Officers to direct the schools to teach the prioritised content first; the rest can be taught when time permits. Students who are preparing for competitive exams or other common exams have been asked to factor in the syllabus for these exams and prepare accordingly on their own, if needed. “From what we have seen so far, topics have been reduced in chapters for Class 10 across subjects and changes have been made in the textbook questions too. Our teachers will come together for a review of the changes and we will convey the same to the students and parents this week,” said Stella Irin Kumari, principal, Shree Niketan Matriculation Higher Secondary School. The heads of several schools are expected to have virtual review meetings with their teachers on Monday to discuss the syllabus. “The changes have been made without excluding any important concept that the students may need in the future. In economics, for instance, important concepts have not been done away with, and it is only the extra information and a few additional topics that have been reduced,” said G.J. Manohar, correspondent, MCC Higher Secondary School. A reduction in syllabus was proposed in July last year because the schools were expected to remain shut for a major part of the academic year. Minister for School Education K.A. Sengottaiyan had said 40% of the syllabus would be cut. In the last six months, teachers associations had called for a speedy announcement. With the prioritised syllabus in hand, teachers say they will be able to plan the next three months properly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/syllabus-cut-for-classes-10-and-12-ahead-of-school-reopening/article33596749.ece
18 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Three RMM district secretaries join DMK||Three district secretaries of the Rajini Makkal Mandram and senior office-bearers on Sunday joined the DMK in the presence of party president M.K. Stalin. A DMK press release said Thoothukudi district secretary A. Joseph Stalin, Ramanathapuram district secretary K. Senthil Selvananth, Theni district secretary R. Ganesan, IT wing leader K. Saravanan, Ramanathapuram district deputy secretary A. Senthilvel and traders’ union secretary S. Muruganandam joined the party. Mr. Joseph Stalin said he joined the DMK since Mr. Rajinikanth had decided not to enter politics.  A retired judge of the Madras High Court, P.R. Sivakumar, too joined the DMK.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-rmm-district-secretaries-join-dmk/article33596754.ece
18 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Iranian film festival set to begin today||The Indo-Cine Appreciation Foundation, in association with the Culture House of the Islamic Republic of Iran, Mumbai, is organising an Iranian Film Festival from January 18 to 20 and on January 28 and 29 in the city. The films will be screened at the Alliance Française of Madras in Nungambakkam. The screenings will begin at 6 p.m. on all days. The film Under the Smoky Roof will be screened on January 18. Azar Shahdokht Parviz & Others and M for Mother will be screened on January 19 and 20 respectively. On January 28, Hush! The Girls are Not Yelling will be screened and Track 143 will be screened on January 29. For details, contact 9840151956 or 8939022618.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iranian-film-festival-set-to-begin-today/article33596758.ece
18 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Torrent Gas seeks nod to lay natural gas pipelines in city||The private city gas distribution network company that will lay pipelines for the supply of piped natural gas has applied to the Greater Chennai Corporation for permissions to cut roads. The Corporation conducted a meeting with various line agencies to implement the project. The civic body will collect a track rent of Rs. 9,400 per km for the pipeline. A committee has been constituted with the Commissioner as the head. Another executive committee has been constituted, with the Deputy Commissioner (Works) at its head, to provide permissions for road cuts. The permissions will be issued after studying traffic congestion on each road. Sources in Torrent Gas Pvt. Ltd., said the lines would be laid at a depth of 1.2 m and inside a chamber-like structure and the gas, a non-combustible one, would be passed at a reduced pressure. “We are now seeking permissions for laying the main lines. These would initially run from nearby petrol bunks and later be be connected to the bigger network,” the official said. The company will pay the Corporation Rs. 20 lakh as restoration charges for every 1 km of road cut for bituminous  roads and Rs. 21.75 lakh for restoring 1 km of cement concrete roads. The cost of shifting any utilities will be borne by the firm. The estimated cost for Chennai and Tiruvallur alone is Rs. 5,000 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/torrent-gas-seeks-nod-to-lay-natural-gas-pipelines-in-city/article33596762.ece
18 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Traffic snarls witnessed at toll plazas at city limits||As thousands of people drove back into the city after the Pongal holidays, traffic pile up was reported at several toll plazas including those at Paranur in Chengalpattu, Vikravandi, Athur, near Tindivanam, and Sriperumbudur since Sunday. A senior official of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) said additional lanes were being opened and more personnel pressed into service to help with the rush. “The situation eased out at most plazas, including at Vikravandi, by afternoon. The traffic at Paranur improved by evening when the queue was for 100 m from the plaza,” the official said. According to the police, many people had gone to their hometowns to celebrate Pongal and some to enjoy the long weekend. “On Sunday, people started driving back to the city and there was a pile up at the Paranur toll plaza,” said a police officer. To manage the traffic, close to 500 police personnel from the district were deployed. “We ensured that the vehicles kept moving,” the officer added. T.R. Srinivasan, who runs an Only Coffee outlet near Madurantakam on the GST Road, said motorists began heading towards the city from Saturday night. “Entire families, many with two or three children and carrying bags full of rice and vegetables, are riding on two-wheelers. They are stopping for breaks. We are unable to even cross the road by foot,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traffic-snarls-witnessed-at-toll-plazas-at-city-limits/article33596766.ece
18 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Quaide Milleth Awards presented||Bilkis dadi, the face of the Shaheen Bagh anti-CAA protests, and social activist and writer Harsh Mander of Karwan-e-Mohabbat were presented the Quaide Milleth Award for Probity in Political and Public Life at the India Islamic Cultural Centre, New Delhi, on Saturday, a press release said. The award consists of a shawl, citation and cash of Rs. 2.5 lakh and was presented to the recipients by Navaid Hamid, President, All India Majilis e Mushawarat. N. Ram, Director, THG Publishing Pvt. Ltd., said both recipients had made a mark in public life with their determination and zeal to protect the secular fabric of the country. He said the enactment of the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) is the face of the current oppressive regime. The selfless achievements of the awardees would be truly honoured only if a stance was taken in defence of the Constitution which has been under attack since the advent of this regime. Former Chief Secretary of Jammu and Kashmir and former IAS, Moosa Raza, stressed on the need for strengthening public movements against all the discriminatory laws which were hurting the weaker sections. He said people should not remain silent on the tyranny of the establishment and should speak out against it in a peaceful and democratic manner. The awards selection committee — headed by Moosa Raza, included former Vice-Chancellor of Manonmaniam Sundaranar university Dr. Vasanthi Devi, Bishop Devasagayam, and M.G. Dawood Miakhan, General Secretary, Quaide Milleth Educational and Social Trust, Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/quaide-milleth-awards-presented/article33596765.ece
18 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||NHAI begins collecting fines from overloaded vehicles||Toll plazas being managed by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) in the State have begun collecting fines from overloaded vehicles. Sensors to detect the weight were fixed in 170 lanes. The number of lanes in the 46 plazas on national highways is 240. The fine amount varies according to the quantity carried over the limit by heavy vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nhai-begins-collecting-fines-from-overloaded-vehicles/article33596772.ece
18 January 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 2.50 lakh stolen from parked car||Unidentified persons broke the windshield of a car and fled with over Rs. 2.50 lakh in cash in Abiramapuram on Saturday. The police said the victim’s car was parked on Bawa Road when she went to visit her friend. When she returned, the windshield was broken and the cash inside was gone. A complaint has been lodged and a search is under way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-250-lakh-stolen-from-parked-car/article33596757.ece
18 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘CMCH’s artificial limb centre a boon for western districts’||Amputation of left limb below the knee due to diabetic foot ulcer early in 2019 turned the life of Yasodha, a 40-year-old mill worker from Somanur, upside down. Yasodha’s younger daughter had to stop going to school to take care of her bedridden mother. The elder daughter, who was about to get married, had to step in as the breadwinner of the family. After about a year’s wait, she walked back to near normal life with the first light-weight prosthetic limb made at the Artificial Limb Centre at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital in August 2020. So far, 15 persons who underwent amputation of legs due to diabetes and accidents have received free artificial limbs from the centre. CMCH Dean P. Kalidas said that the centre was a boon for people from the western districts who require artificial limb following amputation. “The centre is very useful for people from the economically weaker sections who are unable to spend money for artificial limbs,” he said. Earlier, people from the region who approached Government facilities for artificial limbs had to travel to Chennai. Now, CMCH is the only Government medical college in the western region with an artificial limb making centre. Last week, Minister for Municipal Administration and Rural Development S.P. Velumani took to Twitter to laud the centre's service. S. Vetrivelchezian, Director, Institute of Orthopaedics and Traumatology at CMCH, said that the centre makes artificial limbs using light-weight materials. “People who had received wooden artificial limbs in the past have complained of the material’s weight. Such limbs also cause excessive sweating and pain near the stump. The centre uses light-weight telescopic rod and polypropylene to make artificial limbs. This reduces the strain while walking. The centre also provides footwear and walking sticks along with prosthetic,” he said. The centre has 10 beds to accommodate beneficiaries during the rehabilitation period. Health insurance scheme According to Dr. Vetrivelchezian, the artificial limb programme has become self-reliant as it is covered under Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (AB-PMJAY) - Chief Minister's Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme (CMCHIS), Tamil Nadu. “The centre was started with the Rs. 50 lakh generated by the Department of Orthopaedics by doing fracture fixation and joint replacements that were covered under CMCHIS. Now, artificial limb made for each beneficiary is also covered under the insurance scheme and the programme itself generates enough funds for it,” said Dr. Vetrivelchezian. As Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation is mandatory as per the revised medical curriculum, all medical colleges can start similar programmes covered by Government insurance scheme, making it a big rehabilitation model for lakhs of people who lose legs due to diabetes and accidents, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cmchs-artificial-limb-centre-a-boon-for-western-districts/article33596783.ece
18 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||500 bulls likely to take part in jallikattu||Around 500 bulls and 600 tamers from across the State are expected to participate in the jallikattu at Alagumalai village in Tiruppur district, said president of Alagumalai Jallikattu Bulls Welfare Association S. Palanisamy on Saturday. Ceremony held Ahead of the jallikattu scheduled to be held on January 31, the inaugural ceremony known as kaal kol vizha was held at Alagumalai on Saturday. Palladam MLA Karaipudur A. Natarajan and industrialists from the district were among those who participated in the event. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Palanisamy said that this will be the fourth annual jallikattu event organised by the Association. “We will give priority to Kangeyam bulls,” he said, adding that bulls from various districts will participate in the event. This jallikattu will be conducted in adherence to the COVID-19 safety protocol issued by the State government, he added. The Alagumalai jallikattu held on February 2 last year saw the participation of nearly 750 bulls and 600 tamers. Tiruppur district administration is yet to convene a meeting regarding the conduct of jallikattu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/500-bulls-likely-to-take-part-in-jallikattu/article33596784.ece
18 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Industries resume investments for expansion, new projects||For industries in Coimbatore, post-lockdown months have seen a spurt in demand across sectors. This is leading to capital investments. Several industries have started investing to expand or modernise existing capacities. Some industries are also investing to tap opportunities in new fields. According to the Southern India Mills' Association, the current demand trend is likely to continue till March for textile mills. Many spinning units that had pending expansion or modernisation projects have started investing in these works now. The demand for spinning machinery and components have seen an increase because of this. The Indian Texpreneurs Federation convenor Prabhu Dhamodharan also says that every unit is investing in modernisation, depending on the current level of technology. Some mills are going in for newer technologies too. Raja M. Shanmugham, president of Tiruppur Exporters' Association, says adds that garment units, mainly those that are into casual wear, are adding machinery to match the order flow. In the engineering sector too, the MSMEs are seeing orders that are higher than pre-COVID levels. If the trend continues, MSMEs are expected to start investing next fiscal, say industry sources. Some industries have started investing in newer sectors. According to Suraj Shantakumar, Director- Kirtilals, and also Managing Director of SJK Innovations that is installing automatic tray retrieval systems at airports, while the existing business models are getting disrupted in the current market scenario, there are new opportunities opening up. "This is the right time to innovate and create businesses that address the new problem statements," he says. Vijay Prasad, Executive Director of Annapoorna Masalas and Spices, says the pandemic has revealed the fragility of markets and supply chains. Organisations with cash reserves want to consolidate their position in the market, especially in the spices segment, and investors tend to leverage on the opportunities during such times.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/industries-resume-investments-for-expansion-new-projects/article33596777.ece
18 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Retired Education Dept. employee held for job fraud||The Ramanathapuram police (Crime) have arrested a retired employee of the Education Department on charges of cheating a man of Rs. 16 lakh by promising to arrange a government job for him and his cousin. S. Sekar (62), a resident of Maruthakutty Nagar at Rathinapuri, was arrested on Friday. The police said that his first wife S. Kalamani was also involved in the cheating and is yet to be arrested. The police registered a case against the couple based on a complaint lodged by R. Sathishkumar from Thevar Colony at Olampus, Ramanathapuram. According to the police, Mr. Sathishkumar, along with his father’s younger brother and a person named Periyakuppan, approached Sekar for a job for his cousin in March 2015. Sekar, who was then an employee in the Education Department, assured that he could arrange the job for Mr. Sathishkumar's cousin for Rs. 3 lakh which they paid, said the police. Sekar also managed to convince Mr. Sathishkumar that he could arrange a job for him , in Tangedco. The police said that Mr. Sathishkumar paid Rs. 18 lakh in three instalments from April 2015 to July 2017. However, he did not get the job which Sekar promised to arrange. Ramanathapuram inspector (Crime) L. Senthilkumar said that Sekar and his first wife Kalamani returned Rs. 5 lakh out of the total amount of Rs. 21 lakh which the complainant gave to Sekar to arrange jobs for him and his cousin. Though the couple gave the complainant a cheque for Rs. 16 lakh in December 2020, it bounced when Mr. Sathishkumar tried to encash it. He lodged a complaint with the Ramanathapuram police, seeking action against the couple. Sekar was arrested and remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/retired-education-dept-employee-held-for-job-fraud/article33596792.ece
18 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Launched||Audi Coimbatore has launched Audi A4 Sedan here. The vehicle comes with a new design and a more powerful 2.0-litre petrol engine. that The ex-showroom prices for the new Audi A4 starts at Rs. 42,34,000. Balbir Singh Dhillon, Head of Audi India, said in a press release, “In its fifth generation, the new Audi A4 is a perfect blend of class, elegance and sporty appeal. The car is equipped with the latest technology and sets a benchmark with the features on offer.” C.R. Anandakrishnan, Dealer Principal, Audi Coimbatore, said the new car combines modern aesthetics with supreme craftsmanship.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/launched/article33596788.ece
18 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Odisha man held for forgery||The police on Saturday arrested a native of Cuttack district in Odisha on charges of forging a woman’s signature on a bank cheque and stealing Rs. 3.76 lakh. In a release, the police said that Himanshu Kumar Mohapatra (49) allegedly received the cheque from a public sector bank at R.S. Puram recently without the woman’s permission. He was booked under sections of the Indian Penal Code including section 420 (Cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) and 468 (Forgery for purpose of cheating) and was remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/odisha-man-held-for-forgery/article33596870.ece
18 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for alleged assault on SI||The R.S. Puram police arrested a 36-year-old man, who allegedly assaulted a sub-inspector during vehicle check on Friday. The arrested has been identified as Arpith Jain (36), a resident of West Ponnurangam Road. According to the police, a team including sub-inspector T. Mahendran, special SI Andhuvan and head constable Kandhasamy were conducting vehicle check at Bashyakaralu road – Punniyakodi street junction at R.S. Puram around 6 p.m. on Friday. The personnel stopped the car in which Jain was travelling and asked for vehicle documents. The police sources said that the man came out of the car and spoke to them in a filthy language. The man also assaulted the SI and threatened him, said the police. The police arrested the man for offences under Sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 506 (ii) (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. He was remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-for-alleged-assault-on-sub-inspector/article33596793.ece
18 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Odisha native held with ganja||The Sulur police on Sunday arrested a 22-year-old man from Odisha with 1.25 kg of ganja. Dambura Ravath, a native of Nayagarh district in Odisha, was arrested with the contraband. A team led by Sulur inspector Sundarapandian and sub-inspector N. Jaganath apprehended Ravath from the parking area of Sulur boat house around 7.30 a.m. The police said that Ravath had been working in a spinning mill at Kannampalayam. The police suspect that he was waiting for a buyer. He was produced before a magistrate and remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/odisha-native-held-with-ganja/article33596785.ece
18 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Dak Adalat||The Department of Posts will conduct a regional-level dak adalat on January 21 at 11 a.m. at the office of the postmaster general, western region, Coimbatore. Postal customers should send their complaints with details - date and time of posting, address of the sender and the addressee, registered / consignment number, data and office of booking, etc to the Assistant Director (Mails and Establishment), Office of the PMG, Western Region, Coimbatore - 641002.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dak-adalat/article33596781.ece
18 January 2021||COIMBATORE/TIRUPPUR,TAMIL NADU||245 frontline workers receive vaccine in Coimbatore||As many as 245 frontline workers received Covishield vaccine from four centres in Coimbatore district on Sunday. At the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, 109 health workers received the vaccine on Sunday. The remaining 136 beneficiaries received the first dose of the vaccine from the government hospitals at Pollachi (80), Mettupalayam (30) and the primary health centre at Nallatipalayam (26), said the Health Department. As many as 72 persons were vaccinated in the district on the inaugural day on Saturday. Though the Health Department planned to administer the vaccine to 100 persons in each centre on Saturday, it could not meet the target due to technical glitches they faced in CoWIN, the vaccination administration portal. Officials involved in the exercise said that this could be due to the heavy traffic the portal witnessed on the inaugural day. In Tiruppur, 68 persons received the vaccine on Sunday. The beneficiaries received the vaccine from Government Medical College Hospital, Tiruppur, taluk hospitals at Udumalpet and Dharapuram and upgraded primary health centre at Perumanallur. K. Jegadeesh Kumar, Deputy Director of Health Services, Tiruppur, said that a total of 285 persons received the initial dose of the vaccine in the district on Saturday and Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/245-frontline-workers-receive-vaccine-in-coimbatore/article33596797.ece
18 January 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||NLCIL official’s house in Neyveli burgled||Unidentified persons broke into the house of an official from NLC India Ltd. (NLCIL) in Neyveli, and decamped with 30 sovereigns of jewellery and Rs. 70,000 in cash. The police said the theft was reported at the house of Selvakumar, an official from the human resources department at Mines-II. The official had gone to Chennai on Friday. He found things missing when he returned home on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/officials-house-burgled/article33597108.ece
18 January 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Power loom federation opposes anti-dumping duty on viscose yarn||Stating that imposition of anti-dumping duty on viscose spun yarn will have negative impact on Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) and large group of scattered small and marginal producers, members of the Tamil Nadu Federation of Powerlooms Associations has urged the Ministry of Finance not to go ahead with the Director General of Trade Remedies (DGTR) recommendation on imposing anti-dumping duty on imports from China, Indonesia and Vietnam. In a letter to the Minister of Finance and Corporate Affairs, New Delhi, members said that two-third of the country’s yarn needs are fulfilled by domestic procurement while the rest is imported from other countries. The letter said that due to increase in the demand for yarn, the price of domestically available yarn was hiked frequently worrying the powerloom unit owners. Imposition of anti-dumping duty will lead to job loss.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-loom-federation-opposes-anti-dumping-duty-on-viscose-yarn/article33596869.ece
18 January 2021||Hosur,TAMIL NADU||Elephant injured in road accident dies||The 40-year-old male elephant that suffered injuries in a road accident at Hosur died during the late hours of Saturday. According to the Forest department officials, the elephant suffered severe internal injuries. The wild tusker was injured while crossing Hosur-Krishnagiri highway near Sanamavu forest range on Friday night. According to officials, the elephant was hit by a Chennai-bound container truck from Bengaluru. Forest department officials have registered a case against the truck driver Solaimuthu from Thoothukudi under Wildlife Protection Act and he has been arrested. The elephant was undergoing treatment at Aiyyur forest camp and a wildlife SOS team from Karnataka attended to the elephant. District Forest Officer S. Prabhu said that the animal suffered from severe internal injury due to the vehicle accident. The SOS team found a fracture in the right hind foot of the animal. Mr. Prabhu said that in post-mortem, it was found that the elephant suffered a bladder blast and a blood clot in liver due to the accident. He said that they are planning to introduce speed control measures in the area and would be writing to NHAI on the same. The elephant was buried at Denkanikottai forest range itself.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elephant-injured-in-road-accident-dies/article33596873.ece
18 January 2021||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||Stalin arrives in Krishnagiri||Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam president M.K. Stalin reached Krishnagiri on Sunday night and was received by the party cadre at Kandhikuppam. Mr.Stalin will attend the Makkal Grama Sabha meeting to be held in Dharmapuri on Monday. He told the cadre to wait for another four months indicating that the party would be voted to power in the upcoming Assembly elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-arrives-in-krishnagiri/article33596868.ece
18 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||178 health workers get vaccinated on day two||A total of 178 health workers were vaccinated for COVID-19 on the second day until 5 p.m. at five centres across the district on Sunday. The Chief Minister inaugurated the State-wide COVID-19 vaccination at Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) here on Saturday. The vaccination is being carried out for health workers at five centres in the district - GRH, Melur Government Hospital, Tirumangalam GH, and Primary Health Centres at Kallandiri and Samayanallur. Each of these centres can administer the vaccine to a maximum of 100 beneficiaries in a day. Deputy Director of Health Services K.V. Arjun Kumar said that on Sunday 51 health workers were vaccinated at GRH, 67 at Melur GH, 58 at Tirumangalam GH and two at the PHC at Kallandhiri. However, no beneficiary was vaccinated at the PHC in Samayanallur. On the first day of vaccination, 190 health workers, including 92 doctors, were vaccinated in the district, he added. The district has received 23,100 doses of Covishield vaccine. Around 8,000 government health workers have been identified in the district for vaccination. “In the private sector, so far around 3,000 health workers have been identified in the district. The enumeration process in the private sector is still underway,” he added. GRH Dean J. Sangumani, who was vaccinated on Saturday, said that around 5,400 health workers had been identified for COVID-19 vaccination at GRH. He said that the vaccination would be held on all days in a week at the GRH. Two counters were set up at the hospital for the exercise, he added. Tamil Nadu Government Doctors’ Association president K. Senthil, who was administered the first dosage of the COVID-19 vaccine in Madurai on Saturday, said that the fear around getting vaccinated was unwarranted. Till date, there have been no major reports of the vaccination having caused any adverse effects on anybody, he said.  The fear around getting vaccinated is unwarranted as there are no major reports of adverse effects on anybody  K. SenthilPresident of a doctors’ forum||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/on-day-two-178-health-workers-get-vaccinated-in-madurai-district/article33596860.ece
18 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Boat service a huge draw||There was a good patronage for boating service at Mariamman Temple Teppakulam here on Sunday, at the end of the long Pongal holidays. People stood in a long queue for hours to take a ride on the boat across the temple tank. The boating service, which was introduced at the end of last year, had turned the temple tank into a favourite leisure spot in the city, said an official from the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department (HR and CE). “The crowd is usually high on weekends. Usually, around 60 boat trips are done on weekends,” he added. All those aged above five years are allowed to travel in the boat and life jackets are given to the passengers as a safety measure. Presently one steamer boat is being operated. Seven passengers can travel in each boat and the tariff is Rs. 20 per person. The boating service is allowed from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. K. Jothi, a resident of Jaihindpuram, said boating service has made Teppakulam an ideal spot for recreation. “With the closure of schools, children are frustrated to stay at home. The boating service at Teppakulam is a good distraction for them,” she said. However, there must be more boats as people had to wait for hours to board the boat, said G. Kannan who said he had to stand in the queue for nearly two-and-a-half hours for the boat ride. The HR and CE official said the department has placed a proposal requesting an additional boat. The water level at Teppakulam which was earlier at around 15 feet has come down to 10 feet. “The authorities must take steps to ensure that water is available throughout the year,” said Mr. Kannan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/boat-service-a-huge-draw/article33596857.ece
18 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||High Court tells RPO to re-issue passport to evangelist||Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed the Regional Passport Officer of Madurai to re-issue passport to evangelist Mohan C. Lazarus within three weeks after he submits a fresh application for the same. The court was hearing the writ petition filed by Mohan Lazarus who sought a direction to the Passport Officer to re-issue the passport as his passport was damaged. His application was rejected because he had failed to disclose information on cases registered against him. Four criminal cases were registered against the evangelist and three were pending at the First Information Report stage. One criminal case was taken on file by the jurisdictional criminal court. The petitioner said that there was a stay on the proceedings against him and sought relief. Commission of offence Justice G.R. Swaminathan observed that an applicant is said to commit an offence under Section 12 of the Passports Act, 1967 if he suppresses any material information with a view to obtain a passport. The applicant is not obliged to make any disclosure with regard to the cases pending at the FIR stage. But he is bound to give details if a criminal case has been taken on file by the jurisdictional criminal court. When the act of the applicant prima facie amounted to an offence, the passport officer was justified in rejecting the petitioner’s request for issuance of passport. The rejection of the application was valid. Right to travel abroad However, the right to travel abroad is implicit in Article 21 of the constitution and the right to go abroad is in the area falling within the right to privacy as held in Aadhaar judgment, the judge observed. Applying this yardstick and taking into account the fact that the petitioner does not represent flight risk as he has visited foreign countries on innumerable occasions and not overstayed, the court permitted him to submit a fresh application for passport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-tells-rpo-to-re-issue-passport-to-evangelist/article33596854.ece
18 January 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Pay cost to medical aspirant, HC tells State||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed the State to pay Rs. 2 lakh as cost to a differently abled medical aspirant for having been unfairly denied a medical seat. The court was hearing the writ petition filed in 2019 by G. Arun Kumar. The medical aspirant first sought relief in 2018. He was not granted medical admission as the Selection Committee had disputed the certificate obtained by him. Earlier, the court had directed the Director of Medical Education to constitute a fresh medical board and give a certificate of eligibility to the petitioner. The Board that was constituted confirmed the status of the petitioner as a differently abled person. The court directed the authorities to consider the petitioner for the next academic year. However, he was not considered and he had to move the High Court again for relief. Justice G.R. Swaminathan observed that the petitioner was arbitrarily denied medical admission for 2018-19. Candidates who had secured lower marks than him had secured admission under the differently abled category. The judge observed that the Supreme Court authorised the court to direct the admission of the petitioner only in the next academic year. It would not be proper for the court to direct the authorities to accommodate him this year. Since the authorities had unfairly denied the seat, Health and Family Welfare Department must pay a cost of Rs. 2 lakh to the petitioner. The judge asked the student to use the money towards NEET coaching fees and wished him luck in his attempt next year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pay-cost-to-medical-aspirant-hc-tells-state/article33597024.ece
18 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Smart City advisory panel meet not held for long: MP||Alleging that Collector T. Anbalagan, who is also the chairperson of Madurai Smart City Advisory Committee, was refusing to convene its meeting, Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan, who is its Co-Chairman, has called for the meeting on Monday. In a letter addressed to the chairman and members of the committee, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) MP said that the advisory panel meeting has not been conducted for long. He had raked up the issue during the District Development Coordination and Monitoring Committee (DISHA) meeting held on July 9, 2020. It was decided then that the meeting would be held within a month. However, the Collector, said that the administration could not conduct the meeting as it was pre-occupied with Chief Minister’s visit and conduct of jallikattu events. The meeting has been scheduled for Tuesday. “This is for the convenience for all the members of the committee,” the Collector said. However, Mr. Venkatesan said that he had to take a unilateral decision on conducting the meeting as the mandatory advisory committee meeting has not been conducted for the last four years, ever since the smart city project works started. Corporation Commissioner, S Visakan, who is also the Chief Executive Officer of Special Purpose Vehicle of the project, is the convenor of the panel. All the MLAs within the city jurisdiction and the City Engineer are members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/smart-city-advisory-panel-meet-not-held-for-long-mp/article33597026.ece
18 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. looks to step up volunteer participation in vaccine drive||The Health Department is looking to increase volunteer participation in the ongoing COVID-19 vaccination drive across the Union Territory over the next week. On day one of roll out on Saturday, only 274 healthcare staff took the first shot, in the four regions — Puducherry (150), Karaikal (15), Mahe (79) and Yanam (30). Barring a stray case of a volunteer developing a rash at a centre in Mahe, no adverse reaction was reported, a health official said. While the exercise is, at present, entirely governed through the Co-Win app, a walk-in mode for healthcare personnel is being considered to boost vaccine offtake. This comes amid the below-par participation, on the day of the launch, and reports of glitches in the Co-Win app from some areas in the country. “Now that the vaccine stocks are with us and the infrastructure is in place, we should be ramping up the immunisation rate, especially given the stringent conditions of storage required to preserve the vaccine’s potency,” said S. Mohan Kumar, director of health. A proposal is to opt for a more liberal process for volunteers to walk in to any of the designated vaccination centres and be administered their first shot. The Union Territory had received a stock of 1,750 vials, consisting of 17,500 doses of Covishield, ahead of the launch of the vaccination drive. “If we are able to exhaust at least 50% of the stock in the next few days before the next consignment arrives, we can use the remaining doses for the second shot, after 28 days,” Dr. Kumar said. The Health Department has scheduled further rounds of vaccination on Monday, Tuesday, Friday and Saturday. During this phase, vaccination will be confined to healthcare staff. Administering centres are the Indira Gandhi Government General Hospital and Post Graduate Institute, the Rajiv Gandhi Government Women and Children’s Hospital, IGMCRI and CHC in Karikalampakkam, Puducherry, and the general hospitals in Karaikal and Mahe. The next phase will target frontline workers and then those aged over 50 with co-morbidities. The Department is ready with logistics and trained personnel to operate 145 vaccination centres by the time the drive opens up for the people, an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-looks-to-step-up-volunteer-participation-in-vaccine-drive/article33597105.ece
18 January 2021||Puducherry,TAMIL NADU||35 fresh cases, no fatalities reported in Union Territory||Puducherry registered 35 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Sunday. No death was reported in the Union Territory. Of the new cases, which were confirmed from the testing of 2,535 samples, 30 were in Puducherry, three in Karaikal and two in Mahe. Yanam did not report any case. With 37 patients having been discharged, the number of active cases stood at 284. Of these, 119 patients were in hospital and 165 in home isolation. The test positivity rate was 1.38%, the case fatality rate 1.66% and the recovery rate 97.6%. The overall tally for the Union Territory is 38,646 cases and 37,720 recoveries.  Other districts Cuddalore reported five fresh cases of COVID-19 on Sunday, taking the district’s tally to 24,851. While 24,515 persons have been discharged, the number of active cases stands at 40. In Villupuram district, four persons tested positive for the infection, taking the total number of cases to 15,113. Kallakurichi district reported three fresh cases, taking the total number of cases to 10,860. The total number of cases in Vellore district reached 20,565, with 17 infections reported on Sunday. While as many as 20,036 persons have been discharged after treatment so far, the number of active cases stands at 185. The death toll is 344. Four cases were reported in Ranipet district, taking the total figure to 16,042. Tirupathur’s tally stood at 7,538, with two cases reported on Sunday. In Tiruvannamalai district, four new cases were reported on Sunday, taking the total figure to 19,298. Of these, 18,963 persons have been discharged. The number of active cases stands at 52.  With 37 patients having been discharged, the number of active cases stood at 284||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/35-fresh-cases-no-fatalities-reported-in-union-territory/article33597101.ece
18 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||L-G should work in tandem with elected govt., says Alagiri||The Lt. Governor should work in tandem with the elected government, and must function for the welfare of the people, not disrupting the implementation of schemes, Tamil Nadu Congress Committee (TNCC) president K.S. Alagiri said. After meeting Puducherry Welfare Minister M. Kandasamy who has been continuing with his protest in the Assembly since January 10, he said the Minister had been observing the dharna, in total agreement with Gandhian principles. “Had the Minister wanted, he could have held the agitation on the middle of the road. But he is holding the dharna in an utterly democratic way, as per Gandhian principles,” he said. Agriculturists from different parts of the country are observing an agitation, peacefully, and on Gandhian lines, for the scrapping of the farm laws, he said. Mr. Kandasamy is also protesting on similar lines, he said. Puducherry Chief Minister, V. Narayanasamy, has been displaying administrative acumen and proficiency for the promotion of welfare of the people. “But the style of functioning of Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi is a threat to democracy. She should work for the good and well being of the people,” Mr. Alagiri said. He said the NDA government, led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, was getting the Lt. Governor to disturb democracy. “This is not a good trend and will spread to other parts of the country. She must refrain from her undemocratic style of functioning and contribute to the good of the people and Puducherry,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/l-g-should-work-in-tandem-with-elected-govt-says-alagiri/article33597107.ece
18 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||BJP MLA Shankar dead||The BJP’s nominated legislator, K.G. Shankar, died due to cardiac arrest at his residence on Sunday. He was 71. He is survived by wife, a son and a daughter. An industrialist, Mr. Shankar, along with V. Saminathan and S. Selvaganapathy, was nominated by the Centre as an MLA to the Puducherry Assembly in July 2017 — a decision that was legally challenged but upheld by the Supreme Court. Mr. Shankar was holding the post of treasurer of the Puducherry unit of the BJP. Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy, Speaker V. Sivakolunthu and Mr. Saminathan were among those who condoled his death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-mla-shankar-dead/article33597100.ece
18 January 2021||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Siblings electrocuted||A brother and sister were electrocuted at Ayyanarpuram on Saturday. B. Tamil Arasan (23) and Parkavi (22) had carried an iron rod to the terrace of their house when it touched a live wire, causing an electric shock. Both died on the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/siblings-electrocuted/article33596843.ece
18 January 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Renovation of Anna Park nearing completion||The renovation of Anna Park, the only hangout spot within the city limits for elderly and children, near Mahatma Gandhi stadium is nearing completion. The Salem Corporation took up the work under the Smart Cities Mission project. The park which is spread over an area of two acres had several amusements such as giant wheel, toy train and many others and the park attracted huge crowds in the evening and during weekends. According to officials, under the Smart Cities Mission, the park is being renovated at an approximate cost of Rs. 3.9 crore and the work began in 2019. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami laid the foundation the works. Corporation officials said that amusements like toy train, a mini pool, water amusements and various other facilities would be part of the park. The park would have jogger’s track, children’s play area, open gym, an exclusive women recreation space, cafeteria, and water light show, officials said. Salem Corporation Commissioner N. Ravichandran said that several new amusements have been included in the park and the works are expected to be completed in the first week of February.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/renovation-of-anna-park-nearing-completion/article33596876.ece
18 January 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Work under way at Salem airport to obtain IFR licence||The authorities at the Salem airport are carrying out works to attain Instrument Flight Rules (IFR) licence. Authorities here said that majority of works have been completed. Officials from the Directorate General of Civil Aviation visited the airport recently and made observations on improvements at the airport for gaining IFR licence so that night flights could be operated. Modifications Authorities said that modifications like perimeter lighting, runway lighting, runway edge lighting parking stand reflectors and other arrangements have been made for gaining IFR licence. They said that 90% of observations have been fulfilled for obtaining the licence. The airport has currently a runway length of over 6,000 ft and land acquisition for airport expansion is progressing. The airport currently handles only one flight on regular basis and a second flight is expected to be operated from the airport under Udan 4.0 scheme. Pilot training school The Airport Authority of India is also planning to operate a pilot training school.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/work-under-way-at-salem-airport-to-obtain-ifr-licence/article33596877.ece
18 January 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Residents, DYFI demand speedy completion of service road at Four Roads junction||Residents and members of the Democratic Youth Front of India (DYFI) staged a protest in front of the Collectorate recently demanding speedy completion of service road between Four Roads junction and New bus stand. The two-tier flyover connecting important junctions in Salem was inaugurated in two stages by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami. The upper deck of the flyover connects Kuranguchavadi junction on Salem-Bengaluru Highway with Anna Park through Four Roads junction and New Bus Stand. In downward traffic direction, from Anna Park, the flyover connects till Omalur Main Road and the second flyover on the stretch connects New bus stand to Kuranguchavadi. Though the inauguration was done almost six months ago, the service road between Four Roads junction and Omalur Main road was not completed and motorists were forced to squeeze through a narrow lane. Motorists often drove on the wrong side to reach Omalur Road from Four Roads junction. The protesters complained that motorists are forced to use the narrow lanes in nearby residential areas to reach New bus stands and places further. Officials at State Highways department said that the service road works delayed since some land acquisition has to be completed. They said that land acquisition has now been completed and the road works would be completed at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-dyfi-demand-speedy-completion-of-service-road-at-four-roads-junction/article33596879.ece
18 January 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Theatre fined||The district administration imposed a fine of Rs. 5,000 on a theatre near Gugai here on Saturday for allowing over 50% occupancy during movie screening. According to officials, a the theatre screening actor Vijay’s Master at Gugai reportedly permitted over 50% occupancy against the standard operating guidelines issued for movie screening by the State government. A team led by Revenue District Officer Maran and Salem Corporation officials, who inspected the theatre, found the violation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/theatre-fined/article33596874.ece
18 January 2021||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||Revenue employee attacked||In a daring attack, a revenue department employee ( thalaiyari) of Periakottai near here suffered severe cut injuries when an armed gang assaulted him with aruvals on Sunday. It is said that a few days ago, a flying squad intercepted and seized a vehicle near V Pudukulam village after it was found that sand was being smuggled from the river bed. The victim, Pandian, 40, who was in Mela Vaniyangudi village at the time, heard a call. When he stepped out, he was attacked by a gang, including Siva of V Pudukulam, with aruval . He fell unconscious and was rushed to Sivaganga GH, where the doctors referred him to Madurai. Sivaganga Town police registered a case and launched a hunt for the suspects. Collector P. Madhusudhan Reddy recently instructed officials to step up vigil against sand mining and appealed to people to pass on information about such illegal activities. The daring attack on the thalayari, who also acted as driver for Sivaganga Tahsildar, shocked revenue officials. They said they would take up the issue with the district administration on Monday. A few months ago, a village administrative officer in Devakottai block was targeted by a sand mining gang. Though revenue officials then seized the lorry, which was carrying sand, a police inquiry was delayed due to political pressure. Following this, the VAO Association staged a protest. A revenue official, who was supervising the issue, said firm action would be taken against the attackers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/revenue-staff-attacked/article33596862.ece
18 January 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Plea for train stoppages in rural stations||The Thanjavur District Train Beneficiaries Association has called upon the railways to provide stoppages for trains passing through important railway stations in rural Thanjavur district for the benefit of rural commuters. A resolution to this effect was passed at the association meeting chaired by Ayyanapuram Natarajan, association president, and V. Jeevakumar, secretary, here on Friday where the association deplored the railway administration’s proposal to close down some of the rural railway stations such as Ammapettai, Papanasam and others in the district citing ‘poor’ commuter patronage. Stating that at present the services were operated with stoppages at major towns only which had led to a situation wherein commuters hailing from rural pockets were left in the lurch. Further, introduction of local train services on Thanjavur-Tiruchi, Thanjavur-Mayiladuthurai and Thanjavur-Karaikal sections would be of immense help to commuters. Introduction of local trains would not be a difficult task for the railways since infrastructure to operate the electric loco-hauled train services had already been put in place in the main line section, the association pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-for-train-stoppages-in-rural-stations/article33596838.ece
18 January 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||DMK MP Kanimozhi lambasts Thoothukudi civic authorities||The plight of the residents of Thoothukudi city was pathetic that even after the rain had stopped, a majority of the habitations continued to remain under water, said DMK MP Kanimozhi here on Sunday. After visiting the low-lying areas, which were inundated due to the widespread rain, she told reporters that the State government and the civic authorities had very little time to think about the permanent plans which would see the water drain automatically. "Kindly wait for just three months.... if the DMK was voted to power, you will all (people) experience a new living. It will be good. The government will work and make the system function in a transparent manner," she said. Bryant Nagar, Kadirvel Nagar, Adiparasakti Nagar, State Bank Colony, Lourdammal puram and many more pockets were reeling under problems. Though the Corporation Commissioner Jeyaseelan and team had assured that pumping of water was going on at a full stretch, the people were put to untold hardships, she charged. The DMK MP said that many people had left their homes and moved to their relatives homes, while many others had stepped into dwellings or relief centres, which were in relatively on the upper sides. The civic authorities told the MP that about 150 giant size motors were functioning, 15 tanker lorries were engaged in taking the rainwater and eight JCPs were used to dug canals which could take the rainwater. Charging the Edappadi K Palaniswami government with having done nothing to the tax paying citizens, she said that when the people voted DMK to power, M K Stalin would address all the grievances of the people. She also appealed to the district administration to give relief to the farmers who have lost their produce in the rainfall after carrying out inspection. The MP said that with the weather forecast signalling that the next 72 hours would witness a dry spell, it may help the people to go back to their dwellings and also expedite the civic staff to examine the modalities to give permanent relief. The DMK MLA Geetha Jeevan and others accompanied Ms. Kanimozhi who visited a number of habitations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-mp-kanimozhi-lambasts-thoothukudi-civic-authorities/article33596855.ece
18 January 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 30 crore for relaying damaged roads||In a major relief to residents and motorists who have been undergoing an ordeal due to poor condition of roads caused by underground drainage works, the State government has sanctioned Rs. 30 crore for developing the road infrastructure in the city. The Tiruchi City Corporation had undertaken work on underground drainage network in two phases simultaneously in the city. While the Phase-III UGD project was recently started, the Phase-II project was said to be progressing well and more than 60% of the projected works have been completed. The civic body had laid pumping mains, pumping stations, UGD chambers, and lifting stations in most wards from 61 to 65 in the city. The civic body is said to have completed most of the works in Kattur, Ariyamangalam, and Tiruverumbur except relaying the roads, which suffered extensive damage while carrying out UGD works. The residents, who were disappointed over the long and undue delay in relaying of the roads, organised a number of protests against the civic body recently, seeking immediate response. Taking cognisance of their grievances, the Corporation has listed all areas where UGD works were completed, so as to relay the roads, and the State government has sanctioned Rs. 30 crore for the project. The State Government will release the amount under the Special Road Project and the Corporation will repay it. Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian told The Hindu that a tender has been floated for executing the project. The last date for submitting the tender documents would be January 22. It would be finalised within this month. All areas, where Phase II of the UGD project was completed, had been included in the road development project. Most of the areas in the five wards from 61 to 65 would be covered. Few other areas in the city, where roads were badly damaged, have also been included in the project. Considering the urgency of the project, the work will be completed during February-March, Mr. Sivasubramanian added.  A tender has been floated for executing the project and the work will be completed during February-March S. Sivasubramanian Corporation Commissioner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-30-crore-for-relaying-damaged-roads/article33596842.ece
18 January 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Chennai-bound vehicles choke Samayapuram toll plaza||People returning to Chennai from Tiruchi and southern districts after the Pongal festival were caught between Samayapuram Toll Plaza and No.1 Toll Gate on Sunday evening. Innumerable vehicles were seen waiting for over a three-kilometre stretch apparently due to inability of the staff in the toll plaza to handle the heavy movement of vehicles. The stranded vehicles could not move for hours at a stretch. All the five lanes at the toll plaza were entirely occupied by cars and other four-wheelers and buses. In contrast, there was less vehicle movement in the opposite direction. The clogging of vehicles that was noticed in the evening hours continued even after darkness set in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennai-bound-vehicles-choke-samayapuram-toll-plaza/article33596849.ece
18 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||No daily target set for administering vaccine: Health Secy.||No daily target has been set for the administration of the COVID-19 vaccine. The only target is to ensure that there is no adverse reaction among those who have been vaccinated, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said on Sunday. He was administered a dose of Covaxin at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital here. Speaking to reporters, he said he had taken the vaccine as a health administrator and would encourage all to get vaccinated when their turn came so as to break the chain. “Despite having taken a dose, people must be cautious at crowded and closed places and in the presence of the contacts of those who had tested positive for COVID-19.” On the first day of vaccination, nearly 3,000 people were vaccinated and none had reported any side effect. “It is one’s personal choice to take the vaccine but one must not doubt the safety of both approved vaccines,” he said. “The Drugs Controller-General of India has approved both vaccines after careful deliberations and would not have done so without the safety of the people in mind,” he said. “It is our duty to ease the concerns of those with inhibitions.” Among others vaccinated were doctors affiliated to the Tiruchi branch of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), including M.S. Ashraf, former national vice-president, IMA; Kannamai Manoharan, president of the IMA Tiruchi branch; former IMA Tiruchi president R. Gunasekaran; cardiologist Senthilkumar Nallusamy; and staff nurses and security staff members of the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital. By afternoon, 40 doses of Covaxin and 30 doses of Covishield were administered.  Vaccination sites Later in the day, the Health Secretary visited the vaccination sites at the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital. Speaking to reporters there, he admitted that there was a snag in the CoWin application across the country, adding that it would be rectified soon. “Many vaccination sites took to manual re-entry of data owing to the slow-functioning of the application’s server. This is the first time we are using such software, but soon our efficiency and speed will increase,” he said. He noted that the second booster dose must be the same as the first. “I took Covaxin in Tiruchi today, and 28 days later, I must take the same one,” he said. Leaving out pregnant women, all others, except those being treated for COVID-19, could take the vaccine, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-daily-target-has-been-set-for-administering-vaccine/article33596748.ece
18 January 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Central region sees 67 new cases||The districts in the central region on Sunday recorded 67 COVID-19 positive cases and no death was reported. Perambalur district reported no fresh cases for the second consecutive day. Thanjavur district reported 22 fresh cases, while in Tiruchi, 17 patients tested positive. Most patients who tested positive were local index cases, asymptomatic patients and their contacts. All other districts in the region reported less than 10 fresh cases. Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam both reported seven fresh cases each. Among them were patients with a history of Influenza-Like Illnesses, and their immediate contacts. Karur and Pudukottai district, too, reported an equal number of cases with each recording six. Among the patients who tested positive in Karur were residents of Amaravathi Nagar and Ranimangamal Street. Inter-district travellers also tested positive in the district. Ariyalur reported two new cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-region-sees-67-new-cases/article33596837.ece
18 January 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||It is a tough life for residents of waterlogged Bharathi Nagar||Residents of Bharathi Nagar in the city are irked by what they termed as delay on the part of the City Corporation to rectify leakage in drainage systems in the locality. Following last week’s rains, the drains in the area have begun to overflow, causing stagnation on the streets. Residents of Bharathi Nagar, Eighth Cross, located off Vayalur Road, claim that despite several representations to the Tiruchi City Corporation, the authorities have paid no heed. “We have been facing this problem since October when the rainfall began. One night’s downpour is enough to clog the drains; it only means the drainages are not regularly cleaned,” M. Arun, a resident said. There are small children and elderly residents, who are gravely affected. “The children are unable to leave their residences to play. A few days ago, there was a death in a house at the end of the street. Family members who took part in the funeral had to wade through the drainage water,” Mr. Arun said. Water from the overflowing drains has crept into at least two empty plots on the street, he said. Another resident, S. Karuppasamy said that the civic body should not cite manpower shortage. “Patchwork on roads was done in many other streets but ours was left out,”, said yet another resident.  One night’s downpour is enough to clog the drains; it only means the drains are not regularly cleaned M. Arun Resident||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/it-is-a-tough-life-for-residents-of-waterlogged-bharathi-nagar/article33596846.ece
18 January 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Two gored by bulls succumb to injuries||Two persons who were under treatment after being gored by bulls in two separate jallikattu events in Pudukottai district died on Sunday. The victims were identified as S. Murugesan (22) of Keelakayampatti and K. Ponnusamy (42) of Sangirampatti. While Murugesan suffered injuries during the jallikattu held at Sevugampatti on Saturday, Ponnusamy was gored by a bull at Iluppur on Thursday. The events were organised without permission, police sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-gored-by-bulls-succumb-to-injuries/article33596844.ece
18 January 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level in Mettur dam stood at 105.71 on Sunday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 2,141 cusecs and the discharge nil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article33596847.ece
18 January 2021||Tirupathur,TAMIL NADU||Three dead after van rams into tea shop||Three persons, including a four-year-old boy, died after an inebriated driver rammed his van into a roadside tea shop, in Chinnavarivakkam village, Ambur, on Saturday. A few more were injured in the accident. According to the police, a group of people were having tea at the shop, when a mini van, heading from Ambur to Pernambut, drove into the tea shop. Four-year-old Manimaran and 45-year-old Subramani died on the spot. Five others were injured and rushed to a hospital. Soon after the accident, the van driver, Elangovan, fled the spot. He was later nabbed by the police. 17-year-old dies On Sunday morning, Dinesh,17, who was injured in the accident, died at the hospital, the police said. “Elangovan had unloaded the goods he was carrying in his vehicle, and was headed to Pernambut when the accident took place. We have booked him for drunken driving and he has been arrested,” a senior police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-dead-after-van-rams-into-tea-shop/article33597109.ece
18 January 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||‘Aiming for a unified society’||When Kotagiri residents, R. Selvakumar and his wife Indirani tried to get their three children admitted to school with a clear mission of proudly proclaiming that they neither belonged to any caste or religion, they faced a number of hurdles from school authorities. “However, these experiences and battles were extremely enjoyable, as we were fighting for something we believed in, and taught us a lot about society,” said Mr. Selvakumar. Being staunchly anti-caste and anti-religion, the couple insisted that when their three children – Sugadev, Rajguru and Bhagatsingh joined school in Kotagiri, the school authorities maintain the records in line with their beliefs. “In the caste and religion columns, we only mentioned that our children are Indian and nothing else,” said Mr. Selvakumar, who runs a fruit stall in Kotagiri town. His eldest son, Sugadev, serves in the Indian army, while his two younger sons, aged 17 and 22 respectively are studying. Selvakumar has named his three sons after Indian revolutionaries and freedom fighters Bhagat Singh, Shivaram Rajguru and Sukhdev Thapar. Their initials, too, are the combination of both the names of Selvakumar and Indirani. “When we were pressured by people asking why we didn’t disclose our caste or religion, I would simply reply that an American or a Japanese person refers to themselves as such. Why do you have a problem with me referring to myself as an Indian?,” he asked. Recently, Mr. Selvakumar managed to get certificates issued by the local tahsildar that all his sons do not belong to any religion or caste. He said that he hopes that such a gesture will also help other people to move past cast, creed or religion. “Caste and religion are relatively new constructs, which have plagued our society. Only if we move past them, can we build a better, more coherent, unified society,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiming-for-a-unified-society/article33596791.ece
18 January 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Gudalur forest staff undergo training to improve operational capacity||Forest department staff in the Gudalur Forest Division underwent survival, rescue and human-animal conflict mitigation training carried out by the state forest department’s elite Protection and Vigilance (P&V) wing recently. The Protection and Vigilance Wing is the State’s elite striking force formed to strengthen forest and wildlife protection. Assistant Conservator of Forests, P&V wing, Mahendran, imparted the training to the frontline staff in the division at Gene Pool. The staff were given training on how to rescue stranded forest staff and people with minimal equipment, conducting forest patrols, mob control, rappelling and climbing buildings, trees and other structures. Sumesh Soman, District Forest Officer, Gudalur division, said that the training for the staff will help the forest department detect and deal with wildlife crime, as well as carry out effective rescues of people and wildlife if the situation required. “The staff were given training on a number of aspects, including fashioning a stretcher out of sticks collected from the forest, as well as communicating using sign language and the sound of animals. Trainings such as these will improve our operational capacity in the long-run,” said Mr. Soman. Dog squads featuring breeds of native Indian dogs were also brought to the training, and staff were shown how dog squads can be used effectively to detect wildlife crime. The P&V wing also demonstrated cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) techniques to forest staff during the training.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gudalur-forest-staff-undergo-training-to-improve-operational-capacity/article33596780.ece
18 January 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Body of missing girl found in well||The Nilgiris district police have found the remains of an eight-year-old girl, who had been reported missing since December. The girl, the daughter of two tea estate workers from Jharkhand, had gone missing on December 21, last year. Initially, police suspected that she could have been killed in an animal attack. However, as they couldn’t find any clues, they extended their search to surrounding districts, fearing that she may have been kidnapped. D. Suresh, Deputy Superintendent of Police, Coonoor, said that the police found the remains of the girl around 2 km away from her home in a tea estate near Thuthurmattam. The body was found in an abandoned well surrounded by a patch of forest. “As the body was in a decomposed state, we managed to confirm that it was that of the girl from her clothes and other possessions that she still had on her,” said Mr. Suresh, who added that only after the completion of the postmortem could the police reveal the cause of death. Police are treating the death as suspicious and could alter the case of suspicious death to murder, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/body-of-missing-girl-found-in-well/article33596786.ece
18 January 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Intense wet spell takes a toll on paddy crop in Virudhunagar||Paddy grown in nearly half the extent of farmland in Virudhunagar district is feared destroyed by the recent incessant rain. While paddy coverage has been around 19,000 hectares, an official said that around 10,000 ha of the crop, especially in Narikudi, Kariyapatti and Tiruchuli blocks and Rajapalayam and Watrap blocks, could have been damaged badly. “The sun is out only today [Sunday] and teams comprising officials from the departments of revenue and agriculture have started enumeration,” said Joint Director of Agriculture S. Uthandaraman. Most of the crop damage is likely to have occured in the eastern parts of the district, as Narikudi, Kariyapatti and Tiruchuli have received incessant and higher amount of precipitation. Farmers who sowed earlier are the worst sufferers. “The crops were to be harvested in 10 to 15 days. But, with the continuous rain, the standing crop has collapsed and, in some areas, the earheads have germinated,” the Joint Director said. In areas such as Rajapalayam and Watrap, overflowing dams have caused damage. Besides paddy, millets and pulses have also borne the brunt of inundation. However, he says, almost 95% of the farmers in eastern areas of the district have insured their crop. “They have realised the benefit of crop insurance after facing damages in the recent past.” However, with less rain in Sivakasi and Virudhunagar blocks, the damage is expected to be less. Meanwhile, Virudhunagar MP B. Manickam Tagore has demanded that Rs. 30,000 compensation per acre be given to all damaged crops. “The farmers’ investment and hard work have gone down the drain at the advanced stage. Hence, they should be adequately compensated,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/intense-wet-spell-takes-a-toll-on-paddy-crop-in-virudhunagar/article33596864.ece
18 January 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||PM, CM should get vaccinated first: Cong. MP||Virudhunagar MP and Congress Parliamentary Party whip B. Manickam Tagore has demanded that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami should get themselves vaccinated against COVID-19 to instil confidence about the safety of the vaccines in the minds of people. Talking to reporters, he said the heads of States in western countries were the first to take the shots of vaccine. Similarly, the Prime Minister, the Chief Minister and Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar should take the vaccine first. ‘Show leadership’ “That many of the registered health workers did not turn up for vaccination on Sunday when the drive began indicated that they had fears about the efficacy of the vaccines,” he said. It was time for the leaders to show their leadership quality, Mr. Tagore added. He also gave credit to the Indian scientific community for the successful development of the vaccines. “It is the success of the scientists and no party should claim credit for that,” he said, adding that the Bharatiya Janata Party’s leaders were trying to ‘hijack’ the hard work of the scientists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pm-cm-should-get-vaccinated-first-says-congress-mp/article33596746.ece
18 January 2021||January 18 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Dharmapuri reports single digit case||Four indigenous COVID-19 cases were reported in Krishnagiri and one case in Dharmapuri on Sunday. Salem district reported 25 positive cases. According to health department officials, 19 cases were indigenous, including nine in Salem Corporation limits. Six patients have returned from Erode and Namakkal. In Namakkal, 10 indigenous cases were reported. Erode district reported 18 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 14,087. While 27 persons were discharged, 144 persons continue to be under treatment. Coimbatore district reported 66 new cases. The Health Department said that 88 persons from the district got discharged from hospitals after recovering from the disease on Sunday. Coimbatore district had 608 COVID-19 patients undergoing treatment for the disease in different hospitals as of Sunday. In Tiruppur district, 20 persons tested positive. The district had 213 active cases of the disease on Sunday. As many as 220 persons from the district returned to their homes after recovering from COVID-19. In the Nilgiris, six persons tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 8,109. The number of deaths in the district stood at 47 on Sunday, while 77 people are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dharmapuri-reports-single-digit-case/article33596872.ece
18 January 2021||January 18 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||66 new cases reported||Coimbatore district reported 66 new cases of COVID-19 on Sunday. The Health Department said that 88 persons from the district got discharged from hospitals after recovering from the disease on Sunday. Coimbatore district had 608 COVID-19 patients undergoing treatment for the disease in different hospitals as of Sunday. In Tiruppur district, 20 persons tested positive. The district had 213 active cases of the disease on Sunday. As many as 220 persons from the district returned to their homes after recovering from COVID-19. In the Nilgiris, six persons tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 8,109. The number of deaths in the district stood at 47 on Sunday, while 77 people are undergoing treatment. A total of 25 positive cases were reported in Salem. According to health officials, of this, 19 were indigenous, including nine in Salem Corporation limits. Six patients have returned from Erode and Namakkal. In Namakkal, 10 indigenous cases were reported. Four indigenous cases were reported in Krishnagiri and one in Dharmapuri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/66-new-cases-reported/article33596795.ece
18 January 2021||January 18 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Heavy rain too plays spoilsport||With the extended spell of northeast monsoon bringing heavy rain to the region, several arterial roads in the city and rural areas have taken a battering and developed deep potholes. The NE monsoon, which was supposed to have ended in the latter part of December, is continuing in the third week of January too.The city has experienced wet spells for more than a week. As a result, several busy roads, interior stretches, lanes and bylanes have been badly damaged. Deep potholes have surfaced on almost all roads except a few arterial ones in Cantonment. Even the newly laid ones — touted as smart roads by Tiruchi Corporation — have not escaped. Shastri Road in Thillai Nagar, Sivaprakasam Salai in Anna Nagar, Salai Road, Old Palpannai to Gandhi Market Road, West Boulevard Road, Madurai Road and Woraiyur Main Road are among the badly hit. Sivaprakasam Salai, which connects Shastri Road and Anna Nagar Link Road leading to MGR statue junction, for instance, makes a back-breaking ride for motorists. Similar is the condition on Shastri Road. Ironically, the Corporation carried out patch work on some of the roads, including Sivaprakasam Salai and Shastri Road, only a week ago. But the top layer of several stretches have been eroded badly. The condition of interior roads and in areas where the underground drainage works have been completed is terrible. With the rain unrelenting, the situaton has worsened. “Most of the roads have become unmotorable. Some of the recently laid ones have also suffered extensive damage. It is unfortunate that the recently laid Karur Bypass Road, which was projected as a smart road, has also suffered damage,” said M. Sekaran, a consumer activist.  Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian told The Hindu that it had been decided to carry out patch works with immediate effect and the exercise would begin in a day or two.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/heavy-rain-too-plays-spoilsport/article33596840.ece
18 January 2021||January 18 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Festive mood||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/festive-mood/article33596790.ece
18 January 2021||January 18 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reader’s Mail||Tejas Express service, which was recently suspended owing to poor patronage, has been re-introduced considering the Pongal festival rush. Withdrawal of this ‘costly’ train service any time soon again cannot be ruled out if the occupancy rate falls below the railway’s present standards and policy of not running services that are commercially not viable. In this context, one wonders why Madurai MP Su.Venkatesan so enthusiastically ‘celebrates’ the victory of getting the Tejas Express back on track by distributing sweets to passengers, assuming the role of its ambassador. On the other hand, people will be happy if he takes up the cause of the commoners and tries to get back at least some of the passenger trains. Since he represents the Left party which works for the cause of the poor, it will be appropriate if he highlights this demand. K. Muthiah,  Railar Nagar      Though there is good scope for operating Diesel Electrical Multiple Unit (DEMU) and Electrical Multiple Unit (EMU) train services in Madurai division, they have not been started, unlike in other railway divisions. I request the Madurai railway divisional authorities to operate DEMU services from Madurai. M. Saravanakumar,      After the COVID-19 pandemic, Indian railways has been operating the scheduled trains as special trains without assigning the original name. These trains have numbers with a prefix of zero before the originally assigned numbers. No form of concessions are allowed and travel is only by reservation as there are no unreserved coaches. Earlier, in case of an unscheduled trip, unreserved tickets can be bought and travel by unreserved coaches was possible. Even upgradation was done if seats/berths were vacant. Now that facility is also denied. In most of the trains occupancy is low and vacant seats are wasted. Hence unreserved coaches should be provided for passengers who want to travel during a emergency situation. C.A. Pradeep, Moondrumavadi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail/article33597021.ece
18 January 2021||January 18 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Readers’ Mail||The work on relaying of the ghat road that has been initiated between Pudur hamlet and Koraiyaru falls in Vannadu panchayat of Pachamalai hills has to be completed early in the interests of tourists visiting Koraiyaru falls for taking a herbal bath. Due to the muddy condition of the road, people are unable to travel in their vehicles. They are forced to walk for nearly two kilometres to reach the water falls. Saravanan Natesan Puthanampatti    Important roads in the city have become unmotorable. For instance, the stretch from Sastri Road to Tennur Anna Nagar has numerous potholes making driving a harrowing experience. While the Sastri Road stretch has been bad for quite some time, roads in other areas are in a similar state due to the continuous spell of rains. At least, patch work must be carried out on a war-footing. J. Anantha Padmanabhan Tiruchi    An elephant owned by a private person walking around the streets of Srirangam is a common sight. It is very disturbing to see the animal being used to collect alms. The frail-looking pachyderm is made to stand for hours on the busy road. It is the responsibility of the animal welfare organisations and the State government to make sure that the elephant is rehabilitated and offenders are brought to justice. Vasudevan.S Srirangam    After a long gap, schools will reopen with six working days a week. Taking into consideration the portions completed on the online platform, the govt. consider implementing four-days a week schedule. S. Krishnan Thippirajapuram||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail/article33596841.ece
18 January 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||New farm laws will bring prosperity to farmers, says Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah has said that the new farm laws would bring prosperity to farmers and not affect them adversely as being claimed by the Opposition parties. He was speaking after inaugurating the Nirani Group of Industries and expansion of some of their units in Kerakalamatti village near Badami in Bagalkot district on Sunday. Many people are criticising Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his government over the farm laws. They don’t know that if Mr. Modi has any great priority, it is farmers welfare. The Modi government is committed to keeping its promise of doubling farmers income, he said. In fact, the new farm laws will help increase farmers income many times, he said. The new farm laws would liberate farmers from the shackles of middlemen. They will be free to sell their produce anywhere in the country and abroad, he said. Mr. Modi had increased the farm budget allocation and also increased the minimum support price for all farm produce, he said. He congratulated Murugesh Nirani, Minister and chairman of Nirani Group of Industries, for setting up an ethanol plant in his sugar factory. This will not only provide remunerative prices to farmers but will also create employment, he said. He said that the Congress which was questioning the farm laws had not done enough for farmers welfare. “I want to ask Congress leaders why they did not come up with schemes such as PM Kisan Samman Yojana that pays cash incentive to farmers and PM Fasal Bima Yojana,” he asked. The B.S. Yediyurappa government had taken several pro-farmer steps, he said. Karnataka has also passed new farm laws that will ensure higher prices, he added. “I am thankful to the people of the country for re-electing the BJP government. However, I am especially grateful to the people of Karnataka for filling Mr. Modi’s bag with votes,” he said. Mr. Modi is is leading the county in the right direction and under his leadership, it is moving on a path to lead the world, he said. Earlier, Mr. Shah performed Gau Puja and offered grain to cows. Mr. Yediyurappa, Mr. Nirani, party leaders and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-farm-laws-will-bring-prosperity-to-farmers-says-amit-shah/article33596887.ece
18 January 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘Congress led a corrupt govt. with bad economic management’||Union Home Minister and BJP leader Amit Shah has complained that Congress leaders were criticising the BJP now, without having done enough for the people when they were in power. At the two rallies in Belagavi and Bagalkot on Sunday, he said that the Congress had not taken pro-people steps while it was in government. He quoted from various figures to say that the Union and State governments had implemented several schemes for the welfare of farmers and the poor. He said that crores of poor families had been given electricity connections, cooking gas and toilets. In Karnataka, the B.S. Yediyurappa government has released cash incentives to labour, autorickshaw drivers, construction workers and others, he said. In Bagalkot, he questioned the Congress why it had not thought of schemes such as the PM Kisan Samman where farmers get cash incentive and PM Fasal Bima Yojana where crops are insured. In Belagavi, he said that the Congress had led a corrupt government with bad economic management for nearly seven decades. Their corruption runs to the tune of Rs. 12 lakh crore, he said. They did little for the poor. Why were millions of houses without power supply or cooking gas? Why are still millions of poor people without a roof over their head? Why did the poor not get health insurance? he asked. He said that the Centre had released Rs. 2.42 lakh crore to Karnataka under the 14th Finance Commission, as against the Rs. 88,000 crore released by the Congress government under the 13th Finance Commission. Will the Congress explain this? he asked. The Congress said that it would eradicate poverty, but it eradicated the poor, he said. According to him, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had resolved several issues that were pending for 70 years. “All Prime Ministers, starting from Jawaharlal Nehru to Manmohan Singh did not have the courage to tackle the Kashmir situation. It took a brave Prime Minister like Narendra Modi to root out Article 370 from the Constitution and integrate Kashmir into India. Now, the Indian flag flutters in the Kashmir sky,” he said. According to him, the Ayodhya temple issue and the evil practice of Triple Talaq were handled only because Mr. Modi was in power. “Our borders are safe because of Mr. Modi. Pakistan tried to attack us twice, but both times, they got a fitting reply,” he said. The threat of terror has died down, he said. Mr. Shah described Belagavi as the confluence of Kannadiga and Marathi cultures. He recalled the brave warriors Belagadi Mallamma, Kittur Rani Channamma and Sangolli Rayanna. He visited the houses of late Suresh Angadi and also BJP district unit general secretary Raju Chikkanagoudar who died recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-led-a-corrupt-govt-with-bad-economic-management/article33596883.ece
18 January 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||Farmers held for protesting against Home Minister’s visit||Farmers were arrested in Belagavi and Athani on Sunday for protesting against the visit of Union Home Minister Amit Shah. In the morning in Belagavi, farmers began “Urulu Seve” at Rani Chennamma circle. They shouted slogans against the Union government “for bringing in anti-farmer laws that would reduce farmers to labourers in their own village”. Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha (KRRS) and Hasiru Sene leaders participated in the protest. They were released after Mr. Shah’s rally ended, the police said. In Athani A group of farmers were arrested for raising slogans against Mr. Shah at Athani. KRRS and Hasiru Sene activists were planning a bike rally to Belagavi from Athani to protest against farm laws. The police tried to stop them at Athani Cross, resulting in arguments. The farmers said it was their fundamental right to protest and that the police could not stop them. As the farmers did not relent, 20 of them were taken away. They were released later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmers-held-for-protesting-against-home-ministers-visit/article33596739.ece
18 January 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||3,624 trainees pass out of ATS||As many as 3,624 trainees of the Airmen Training School Belagavi have successfully completed their basic training. They were sent off at the passing out parade at the ATS in Sambra on Saturday. Air Vice Marshal Vivek Pillai, Command Technical Training Officer of the Bengaluru-based HQ Training Command, was the chief guest. He reviewed the parade and presented trophies. Among the prize winners, trainee Gagan Sisodia was adjudged ‘Best in General Service Training’, Amit Singh Bhaduriya as ‘Best in Academics’, Virendra Choudhary as ‘Best Marksman’ and Vineet Kumar as ‘Overall First in Order of Merit’. Air Vice Marshal Pillai stressed upon the importance of precaution in fighting COVID-19. He reiterated that they must continue to be careful about their personal hygiene.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/3624-trainees-pass-out-of-ats/article33596893.ece
18 January 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||No regard for COVID-19 norms||Despite claims by BJP leaders, there was little regard for COVID-19 safety norms and protocol in the rallies addressed by Amit Shah in Belagavi and Bagalkot. Police officers estimate that around 50,000 persons attended the rally at the district stadium near J.N. Medical College. BJP workers had arranged for seating of around 30,000 but several were standing inside and outside the stadium. Only a handful of persons in the audience were wearing masks. Even on stage, most VIPs and speakers did not wear masks. On Saturday, senior party leaders including Deputy Chief Minister Lakshman Savadi, Ministers Ramesh Jarkiholi and Umesh Katti, and spokesperson Captain Ganesh Karnik had argued that all State and Union government COVID-19 safety protocol and norms would be followed. Ramesh Jarkiholi said each attendee would be wearing masks. “If they don’t bring masks, we will give them one,” he had said. However, there was no facility for distributing masks to the public, except for those in the VIP enclosure and media. Mr. Jarkiholi had claimed that around 3-4 lakh persons would attend the rally. Police officers say the figures were significantly less. Despite attempts by the police, crowds rushing into narrow passages and gates was not avoided. Before the rally, large crowds gathered at the entrance of the stadium on Kolhapur Road. After the rally, there was a huge rush at the two entrances to the venue. There were several restrictions for the leaders who climbed the stage, a police officer said. Leaders were asked not to go too close to Mr. Shah and not to stand behind him when he made the speech. The Home Minister is allergic to artificial perfume and leaders had been asked to avoid using perfume if they were to sit on the stage, he said. District Food Safety Officers had certified the food Mr. Shah tasted in the private hotel, airport and the residence of Suresh Angadi, former Minister, police officers said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-regard-for-covid-19-norms/article33596888.ece
18 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Companies favour flexi spaces||In November last year, payment service company Exceleron Software gave up its office of eight years in a commercial building at J.P. Nagar by just letting the lease agreement die a natural death. It now calls a smaller space its office, having signed a lower flexible lease term with ClayWorks, a flexible workspace provider. Pradnya Chebi, Head, Exceleron, points out that this way, the company has made sure it does not pay for a space that would lie painfully underutilised. The company's 30-plus staff has not set foot in the office since the pandemic, and would likely continue working from home for a few more months. Similarly, services provider Education First now operates from Awfis’ co-working space on Residency Road, in a three-year contract for 150 seats. The company has a 300-member workforce, which had a huge office in Halasuru until recently. “We intend to optimise operation cost,” says Harish Subramanian, Admin and Procurement Manager, Education First. As of now, the company has extended WFH to its workforce till March 2021. “Even if the office reopens, people would still be working from the co-working space on a rotational basis,” says Harish. A recent report by real estate services firm Jones Lang LaSalle (JLL) titled ‘Reimagine Flexspaces A 360⁰ view’ predicts that Indian flex space market would be catapulted to a 50 million sq.ft. industry in 2023. The market is expected to grow by around 20% per annum over the next three-to-four years, although this trajectory will not be linear, says the report. Bengaluru and Delhi NCR together would account for more than 50% of India’s flexi stock, the report adds. Experts say that as corporates return to the workplace, they are likely to further leverage flexible space to reduce capital expenditure. “The flexi space market is made attractive by manoeuvrability it offers clients, in terms of lease terms, customisation and amenities,” says Arpit Mehrotra, Managing Director, Office Services (South India), Colliers International. For example, if the average lease period in a Grade-B building is 10 to 12 months, flexi space providers may offer the client the same option for a duration of six months. “Larger the term of the contract in a flexi space, you can negotiate the price too,” says Arpit. Also, to achieve de-densification, moving to a new space could be more economical than investing on capex. Managed spaces Rahul Singh, co-founder and director, ClayWorks, says the pandemic has underlined the value of “neighbourhood workspaces” in sparing employees needlessly long commutes. He illustrates how a major IT company with a centralised facility approached them with a requirement for small workspaces in different pockets of Bengaluru. He adds that much of this demand comes from the Central Business District (CBD), and areas such as J.P. Nagar, Jayanagar and Bannerghatta Road. He draws attention to another trend, one where companies with large floor areas sublet their office space, converting them into a shared space.  We intend to optimise operation cost. Even if the office reopens, people would still be working from the co-working space on a rotational basis Harish Subramanian, Admin and Procurement Manager, Education First||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/companies-favour-flexi-spaces/article33596714.ece
18 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 vaccination: 58.4% covered on second day||On the second day of the vaccination drive that was conducted in 63 vaccine session sites in Bengaluru Urban and one site in Udupi, the State achieved an overall coverage of 58.4%. While Udupi recorded 40% coverage, Bengaluru Urban recorded 57.7% coverage. On the first day on Saturday, the State had achieved nearly 62%. Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar said vaccination would continue in more centres from Monday onwards. Speaking to presspersons after visiting the vprogramme at Manipal Hospitals here on Sunday, where 4,055 healthcare workers were targeted to be covered at 41 sites, the Minister said the second phase of vaccination in the State will start only after both the doses are administered to targeted healthcare workers. The first will be given to all healthcare workers in the next ten days, he said. “As of now the State has received 8.14 lakh doses and we plan to use this for both the doses for registered healthcare workers in a gap of 28 days. The next phase will be taken up only after that,” he said. On the technical snags in the Co-WIN app reported in most vaccine centres across the State on Monday, the Minister said: “Such teething problems are bound to occur when we are conducting such a massive drive. All such issues will be set right by Monday,” he said. He asserted that the no major adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) had been reported in the State. “People should not let their guard down and continue following precautions even after vaccination. Immunogenecity will develop 45 days after taking the vaccine,” he said. Alcohol consumption The Minister said a detailed study would be conducted to find out if alcohol consumption should be avoided for 45 days after vaccination. “The chairman of our COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) has on Saturday said that alcohol should not be consumed till 45 days. We will get this studied by experts and issue an official circular in this regard,” he said. TAC chairman M.K. Sudarshan had told The Hindu on Saturday that consumption of alcohol is known to affect the immune response. “This has been seen in other vaccines. There is also a mention of this in the use of Sputnik V vaccine given in Russia. Hence, to maximise the benefits of vaccination, alcohol should not be consumed till 45 days after vaccination,” he had said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/584-covered-on-second-day/article33596727.ece
18 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Vaccination of all healthcare workers registered in first phase in a week: BBMP||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) is hoping to complete vaccination of all healthcare workers registered in the first phase in a week. A total of 1.82 lakh healthcare workers have been registered to be vaccinated in the first phase. However, the percentage of coverage was 65% on Saturday and 58% on Sunday. Speaking to reporters after inspecting vaccination sites at Manipal Hospital on Sunday, BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad said that, on Monday, vaccinations will be taken up in the civic body’s 141 PHCs (primary health centres), 106 private hospitals and nine medical colleges in the city. “There are 7,300 beneficiaries under the 141 PHCs, 42,000 beneficiaries who are staff of 106 private hospitals and around 28,000 beneficiaries of the nine medical colleges,” he said. Claiming that vaccination of 7,300 beneficiaries under the 141 PHCs would most likely be completed on Monday, he said it may take at least five days to cover staff of the private hospitals. On Sunday, the vaccine was administered in these locations from 9.30 a.m. to 5.30 p.m. According to information provided, at the 41 sites in Manipal Hospital for 4,055 beneficiaries, 2,704 were vaccinated. Of the 700 beneficiaries at St. Philomena Hospital and Nursing College, 165 were vaccinated at seven sites. Vaccinations were taken up in 14 sites at Baptist Hospital for 1,376 beneficiaries, of whom 758 were vaccinated. Of the 98 beneficiaries at the BBMP’s Maternity Hospital in Cox Town, 32 were vaccinated. Mr. Prasad justified the percentage of coverage, saying 58% was not low, especially given that it was a Sunday. “Some of the reasons for beneficiaries not turning up could be that some of them are still in the wait-and-watch mode, some may be travelling, a few are on leave on the weekend after Sankranti festival. Another reason could be that mobile numbers are wrong and some people could not be informed,” he said. He, however, said he would discuss with the hospital administrations with regard to improving coverage. “We have received 1.05 lakh doses of the COVID-19 vaccine. We have registered a total of 1.82 lakh healthcare workers to be vaccinated in the first phase. More vaccines are likely to be allocated to BBMP by the State government when the second batch arrives shortly,” he said and added that hopefully, the healthcare workers would all be covered in a week’s time. The civic chief reiterated that apart from technical issues, no other problems were encountered. To counter the technical issues, the health department had given the BBMP permission to take up some processes manually. “Due to certain issues, we were able to send messages to just around 475 beneficiaries, of whom 345 were vaccinated,” he said. H. Sudharshan Ballal, chairman, Medical Advisory Board of Manipal Hospitals Group, said they were hoping to cover 80% of the staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vaccination-of-all-healthcare-workers-registered-in-first-phase-in-a-week-bbmp/article33596721.ece
18 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||80-year-old takes the jab||Despite increasing safety concerns about the COVID-19 vaccine with regard to the elderly with serious underlying health conditions, especially in the wake of the deaths in Norway, an 80-year-old specialist in emergency medicine at St. Philomena’s Hospital took the jab on Sunday. The doctor — K. Subbalakshmi — who is the hospital’s Casualty Medical Officer, was the first one to get vaccinated. She is the senior-most person in the State to get vaccinated so far. “I wanted to be the first one to take the shot to boost the confidence in our young medical fraternity, who are the prioritised group for vaccination in the first phase,” she told The Hindu . Stating that the medical fraternity has suffered a lot ever since the pandemic hit the country early last year, the doctor said, “We have reached the final stage of our battle against COVID-19. When the vaccine is offered, we should have faith and take it without fear. It is for our own good.” Dr. Subbalakshmi, who retired from the Department of Atomic Energy in 2000, joined St. Philomena’s in 2009. She has hypertension and hypothyroidism, apart from osteoporosis. “I have undergone six surgeries, including three complex spinal procedures. Despite this, I took the jab to instil confidence in our youngsters. It has been hours since I got injected and I have not experienced any side-effects,” she said. Hospital Medical Director Shankar Prasad, who also got vaccinated, said two more doctors — R.S. Kamat (pathologist) and Taranath Shetty (paediatric neurologist) — aged above 75 also got the jab on Sunday. “Initially, there was fear and the staff were concerned about the safety of the vaccine. But, we cleared their doubts and motivated them to get vaccinated. Of the total 700 targeted staff members, the plan was to cover 300 on Sunday. Of this, more than half were vaccinated. Some, who had allergies, were left out. We will do another round on Monday to cover the remaining staffers,” Dr. Prasad said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/80-year-old-takes-the-jab/article33596725.ece
18 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||745 new cases, four deaths||The State on Sunday reported 745 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total number to 9,31,997. With four deaths, the toll rose to 12,166. This is apart from 19 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 855 persons were discharged on Sunday, taking the total number of recoveries to 9,11,232. Of the remaining 8,580, 178 were in the ICU. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.75%, CFR touched 0.53%. Bengaluru Urban reported 464 cases, taking its tally to 3,94,959. With one death in Bengaluru, the toll here rose to 4,360. Active cases in Bengaluru reduced to 5,703. As many as 98,479 tests were done in the last 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/745-new-cases-four-deaths/article33596889.ece
18 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Co-op. farm loan disbursal surpasses last year’s figures||The State has managed to disburse about 6.3% more agriculture loan in cooperative sector this financial year over the previous fiscal despite the financial constraints due to COVID-19. While Rs. 13,500 crore had been disbursed in the previous financial year, this year the agriculture loan in cooperative sector stood at Rs. 14,420 crore benefiting about 19.17 lakh farmers, a statement from Cooperation Minister S.T. Somashekar said on Sunday. “Though during the initial days it looked difficult to disburse the loan due to economic slowdown caused by COVID-19, the State is well on course to meet the target this year,” he said. Loan target The cooperative sector loan target has been kept at Rs. 15,300 crore to benefit 24.4 lakh farmers during 2020-2021. “We are hoping to reach out to all 24.4 lakh farmers with loan disbursal shortly,” the Minister said, adding that the grievances of loan disbursal being irregular has been addressed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/co-op-farm-loan-disbursal-surpasses-last-years-figures/article33596735.ece
18 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bangalore University begins online PG admission process||Bangalore University has started the online admission process for postgraduate courses for 2020-21. A press release by the university stated that it had received 15,539 applications which is about 20% more compared to the previous year. There are 58 PG departments and 14 PG certificate/diploma courses. The seat allocation process will begin on Monday and end in the first week of February. Annual convocation The Bangalore University has decided to conduct its 55th annual convocation on Saturday at 11.30 a.m. in Jnana Jyothi Auditorium, Palace Road, Central College premises. A press release by the university stated that K. Sivan, chairman, Indian Space Research Organisation, Bengaluru, and Secretary, Department of Space, Government of India, will be the chief guest and deliver the convocation address.  The university has also decided to conduct its 55th annual convocation on Saturday at 11.30 a.m. in Jnana Jyothi Auditorium||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bangalore-university-begins-online-pg-admission-process/article33596737.ece
18 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HDK fulfils auto driver’s wish by attending his funeral||In a strange incident, a follower of former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy left a death note requesting the JD(S) leader to attend his final rites. An auto driver by profession, Jayaramu of Bommachanahalli in Ramanagaram taluk, kept the note in his pocket when he died. In the emotional note, Jayaramu also wanted the JD(S) leader to financially help his son, who suffers from mental illness. On Sunday, Mr. Kumaraswamy, accompanied by his son Nikhil K. visited Jayaramu’s and paid their last respects. The deceased’s wife informed Mr. Kumaraswamy that over the last six months, the family had been in financial distress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hdk-fulfils-auto-drivers-wish-by-attending-his-funeral/article33596736.ece
18 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Woman caught stealing baggage at KIA||The BIAL police arrested a 25-year-old woman for allegedly stealing the bag of another passenger from the conveyor belt on November 13. Came in search of work According to the police, the accused, Sakshi Rathod from Jaipur, had come to the city seeking work. While leaving the airport, she took a bag that belongs to a resident of Mysuru. The bag contained jewellery and cash totally amounting to Rs. 2.5 lakh. Sakshi spent the cash and returned home by road with the gold valuables. Based on a complaint, the police analysed the CCTV camera footage to identify the accused and arrested her on Sunday. The police recovered gold jewellery weighing 50 grams and booked her for theft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/woman-caught-stealing-baggage-at-kia/article33596715.ece
18 January 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||‘Proposal on RAF unit was sent when I was Minister’||Congress leader G. Parameshwara on Sunday said the proposal for a Rapid Action Force (RAF) unit in Karnataka was sent to the Centre when he was Home Minister and land was allotted for the purpose under Congress rule. At a press conference in Shivamogga, he said Union Home Minister Amit Shah had told lies to the people of Bhadravati during his speech after laying the foundation stone for the RAF unit on Saturday. “I have documents to show that the proposal was submitted and land was earmarked for the purpose in Bhadravati during my tenure as Home Minister of the State. I don’t know if officers misguided the Minister,” he said. Mr. Parameshwara said the Congress would stage a protest against amending the APMC law on January 20. He said the amendment would harm farmers, who were already facing many problems. “The Centre has said minimum support price (MSP) will continue. But farmers have no faith in its assurance. The corporate forces have already entered the agricultural market. The new laws introduced by the Centre will benefit them,” he said. He said the Congress would stage a protest in Bengaluru and submit a memorandum to the Governor. White paper The former Minister also demanded that the State government release a white paper on the financial state of Karnataka. The government has been under financial stress as the Centre has not released GST compensation, he said. He also said the government had stopped funds for many schemes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/proposal-on-raf-unit-was-sent-when-i-was-minister/article33597056.ece
18 January 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Mega event in October: RPI leader||Republican Party of India State president M. Venkataswamy has said a mega event of lakhs of people embracing Buddhism will be held in Bengaluru on October 14 to pay tribute to the architect of Indian Constitution B.R. Ambedkar. Speaking at a programme organised by the Hassan district unit of Vishwa Buddha Dhamma Sangha on Sunday, Mr. Venkataswamysaid Dr. Ambedkar had embraced Buddhism along with five lakh people on October 14, 1956. “To mark the 65th anniversary of the event, we are organising a mega event in Bengaluru on the day, where 10 lakhpeople will embrace Buddhism,” he said. Dr. Ambedkar, on resigning from the Central Cabinet in 1951, had made a statement that he did not wish to continue in Hindu religion as it did not allow women to have rights on a par with men. Five years later, he held a mega rally with his supporters and accepted Buddhism. “If Dr. Ambedkar could mobilise five lakh people to accept Buddhism in those days, it will not be difficult for us to organise 10 lakh people now. At least 50,000 people from Hassan should attend the mega rally.” He added that the event would be non-political.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mega-event-in-october-rpi-leader/article33597054.ece
18 January 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Demand for widening bypass road gets louder||While five of the survivors of the ghastly accident on the Hubballi-Dharwad Bypass Road continue to battle for life in various hospitals in Hubballi and Bengaluru, the voice for widening the bypass road is getting louder day by day with various organisations petitioning the government in this regard. As per the data available, the 30-kilometre bypass road between Narendra Cross in Dharwad and Gabbur Cross in Hubballi has witnessed 422 accidents (major and minor) resulting in the death of 164 persons in the past one decade. These accidents also have left 645 persons injured. In 2020, the bypass road witnessed 33 road accidents killing 16 persons and injuring 55. And, in the first month of the year, 11 persons have lost their lives and five are battling for life in hospitals. The demand for widening the bypass road is not a new phenomenon. It has been raised by different organisations and individuals, including Ministers, on different occasions in the last few years, but to no avail. In fact, Union Minister Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari is aware of the issue and has even held several rounds of discussion with the former MLA and Director of Nandi Highway Developers Limited Ashok Kheny on the issue of road widening. But there seems to be a technical issue, which continues to remain unresolved leaving the people to suffer. In fact, on the day of the accident, the issue was raised by both Union Minister Pralhad Joshi and Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar during the bhoomi puja of two national highway projects in Hubballi, in which Mr. Gadkari and Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa participated through a video link. Already, various Congress leaders have demanded that the Chief Minister and also the Union Minister to take up road widening, as the road is part of National Highway (No 4). A protest is planned on Monday to highlight the problems. While Congress leader and KPCC media analyst is taking out a padayatra, urban and rural district unit presidents of the party are staging protests seeking road widening and other safety measures to prevent further loss of lives on the narrow bypass road stretch which is connected to six-lane roads at both ends. Hubballi Dharwad Goods Transporters and Lorry Owners Association too has appealed to Prime Minsiter Narendra Modi, through a memorandum, to take corrective measures to prevent further loss of lives at the earliest. In between, an online petition (http://chng.it/zd2STtK4) started by Prashant Mastiholi has started receiving widespread support with more signing it. The online petition to Union Minister Pralhad Joshi, Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar, Department of Public Works, Karnataka, National Highway Authority of India and Chief Minister of Karnataka was started 11 months ago when a series of accidents were reported on the two-lane bypass road, which has become a sort of bottleneck. After Friday’s accident, scores of netizens began signing the petition and by Sunday evening, the number of people who had signed the petition was nearing 19,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/demand-for-widening-bypass-road-gets-louder/article33596885.ece
18 January 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Railway job aspirants cautioned against fraudsters||Following instances of fraudsters duping gullible persons promising them jobs in the Railways, the South Western Railway (SWR) has appealed to the general public to be cautious about such persons. In a press release issued here, Chief Public Relations Officer of South Western Railway has said that it had come to the railway’s notice that some fraudsters were duping innocent candidates by promising jobs in different offices of Indian Railways. “It is reiterated that jobs in the Railways are offered only on passing examinations which are conducted by RRB and RRC after well publicised notifications. RRB NTPC Phase 1 Computer Based Test (CBT) is over and Phase 2 CBT began on Jan. 16, 2021,” the release said. South Western Railway has made an appeal to railway job aspirants to be cautious against criminals who promised them railway jobs in exchange for money. All relevant information is available on RRB/RRC/South Western Railway websites which may be accessed from time to time for genuine information, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/railway-job-aspirants-cautioned-against-fraudsters/article33596886.ece
18 January 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Fund collection opposed||Opposing the fund collection drive launched by Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust for the construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya, senior Dalit leader Gurushant Pattedar said the BJP-led government’s move to collect funds for this was unconstitutional. Addressing presspersons here on Sunday, hesaid that PM Modi was collecting funds from common people through the trust in the name of constructing Ram temple. Te government should instead focus on using public funds for the comprehensive development of society, Mr. Pattedar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fund-collection-opposed/article33596890.ece
18 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Gram panchayat found dumping solid waste on riverbank||An instance wherein a gram panchayat that was duty-bound to protect the environment itself indulging in environment pollution has come to light in Hejmadi in Udupi district where solid waste from the neighbouring Padubidri Gram Panchayat limits was being dumped on the banks of the Shambhavi. Local residents and fishermen of Hejmadi in Udupi district and Mulki in Dakshina Kannada district who did not wish to be named said that they began witnessing floating of substantial quantity of plastic waste in the river about four months ago. Shambhavi flows between Hejmadi and Mulki. A resident said that when he went in search of the source of plastic waste in the river recently; he came across a waste dumping site on the banks of the river on its northern bank, to the east of the bridge on NH 66. All kinds of municipal waste, including plastic and non-biodegradable as well as wet waste, were dumped on the land while periodically they were being rolled down to the earth. An average of one truckload of waste from Padubidri Gram Panchayat was being dumped every day on the site from where leachate has already begun flowing into the river. This was in addition to non-biodegradable waste joining the river, he said. Quoting a local fisherman as saying, the resident said that fishermen too have not been getting adequate catch in the river. Panchayat Development Officer of Padubidri Gram Panchayat Panchakshari said that since the panchayat did not have adequate space at its Solid and Liquid Resource Management Centre, it had outsourced wet waste handling to a contractor in June last. While the panchayat was paying Rs. 53,000 a month to the contractor for waste handling, the latter had said that he was dumping the garbage on his private land. The Panchayat Development Officer, however, said that he was not aware about the location of the dumping site. He said that he was away for four months due to ill health. Udupi Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer Y. Naveen Bhat told The Hindu that the action was deplorable and he was not shown this particular place during his recent visit to identify waste management dumping yard for the gram panchayat. Stringent action would be taken against the Panchayat Development Officer and the contractor besides arranging for removal of the dumped waste from the river bank, Dr. Bhat said. He was sending a team to assess the quantum of dumped waste.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gram-panchayat-found-dumping-solid-waste-on-riverbank/article33597037.ece
18 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||CM to inaugurate new free darshan pathway in Udupi temple today||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Monday will dedicate Vishwapatha, the new pathway for darshan of Lord Krishna in Sri the Krishna Temple/Mutt in Udupi. This new pathway starts from the mutt’s north entrance near Rajangana. Devotees will cross the “Kattige Ratha” and the golden roof atop the sanctum sanctorum before coming down the steps to have their darshan at Navagraha Kindi. Devotees then have to climb a flight of steps to go to the dining hall and then, exit from the temple. Dedication of this new pathway is among the several programmes lined up as part of the 500th year of the biennial Paryaya system, Temple administrator Govindaraj told reporters in Udupi on Sunday. Paryaya denotes transfer of power of the exclusive right of worshipping Lord Krishna and managing Sri Krishna Mutt/Temple from one seer to another of the Astha Mutts once in two years. The biennial Paryaya system began in 1522. Mr. Govindaraj said that Mr. Yediyurappa will inaugurate the new pathway at 5.15 p.m. Then, he will inaugurate the national level exhibition-cum-sale of works of artisans from different parts of the country. Mr. Yediyurappa will also take part in a programme of Paryaya Admar Mutt seer Sri Eeshapriya Thirtha Swami to honour people associated with the Paryaya in various capacities. There will be a grand procession of works of Sri Madhwacharya and Sri Vadiraja from Jodukatte to Ratha Beedi, which will start at 4 p.m. Devotees from different parts of the country will take part in this procession. Only those holding passes will be allowed entry to the felicitation programme, Mr. Govindaraj said. Karamballi meeting Mr. Yediyurappa will also take part in a religious meeting to be held on the penultimate date of the nine-day Brahmakalashotsava rituals at the old Sri Venkataramana Temple in Karamballi. This ritual is being held in the wake of renovation of shrines of Ganapati, Umamaheshwara and other deities on the temple premises. Vidyadheesha Thirtha of Palimar Mutt and Vishwaprasanna Thirtha of Pejawar Mutt will also take part in the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-to-inaugurate-new-free-darshan-pathway-in-udupi-temple-today/article33597039.ece
18 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Nine students donate hair for cancer patients||As many as nine students, including two from primary classes, donated their hair recently in the city for cancer patients who suffer hair loss as a consequence of chemotherapy. Canara Organisation for Development and Peace (CODP), an NGO of the Mangalore Diocese of Catholic Christians, that runs Sparsha, a campaign against cancer by creating awareness about the disease, had organised the hair donation programme. The donated hair would be provided to poor patients as wigs in collaboration with Hair Bank, Thrissur, Kerala stated a release. Director-designate of CODP Vincent D’Souza said that donating hair was an act of charity. In his introductory address, Fr. D’Souza appreciated the donors for taking the initiative. CODP Director Oswald Monteiro, speaking about the sufferings faced by cancer patients congratulated the donors for bringing a smile back on the faces of poor patients. Viola Nia Lobo, a Class 1 student, and Jalin Mishal Dlima, a Class 4 student, were among the youngest of the donors. The other students who donated hair are Alrine Clevita D’costa, Sharel Vinitha Menezes, Sharitha Menezes, Shrada S.Bhat, Zeena Wilma Concessao, Rosmy M.Shaji and Mohitha T.Bhandary. Felicitated The donors were felicitated with a memento by Fr. Monteiro. Sparsha Coordinator Shilpa D’Souza and Pushpaveni from the organisation were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nine-students-donate-hair-for-cancer-patients/article33597042.ece
18 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||New waste segregation plant in the offing||Padubidri, a developing town on National Highway 66 located between Mangaluru and Udupi, has been facing solid waste management yard for quite some time. The once sleepy village began witnessing development following the establishment of Udupi Thermal Power Corporation Ltd. (UPCL) in the nearby Nandikur village. Till about a couple of years ago, waste was being dumped at an open place inside the town that grew into a mound and became a source of nuisance to residents. Thereafter, the present contractor took over solid waste management of the gram panchayat, said a resident. Udupi Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer Y. Naveen Bhat said that a detailed project report for a segregation plant on the 17 cents of land granted by the Deputy Commissioner was being prepared. While dry waste would be segregated and sold, wet waste would be converted into compost at the new site, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-waste-segregation-plant-in-the-offing/article33597035.ece
18 January 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Educators’ input will boost NEP’||Administrators and policy-makers are looking forward to analysis and input from educators to leapfrog the educational system with National Education Policy (NEP), said Mangalore University Registrar Raju Mogaveera said here on Sunday. Speaking at the annual general meeting of the Association of Mangalore University College Teachers at St. Agnes College, he said academicians must take proactive initiative with regard to NEP. Inputs by educators will boost NEP, he said. Appealing to public and private universities to adopt a minimum of five schools, he said varsities should support schools in academics and meeting infrastructure needs. “If private and government universities adopt schools and enable them with basic resources, skills, or by providing volunteer services – their capacity-building effort will be manifold,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/educators-input-will-boost-nep/article33597043.ece
18 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||MIT students ace IIT Bombay’s TechFest||A team of four students from Manipal Institute of Technology (MIT), Manipal, recently won the first place at the TechFest conducted by IIT, Bombay, for developing a model that could prevent the spread of COVID-19. A release from MAHE said that IIT Bombay’s annual technical event, TechFest, wanted students to innovate and find ways to stop the spread of the virus and distribute vaccines after its successful invention. The event was sponsored by L&T Electrical and Automation. The problem statement was to develop a model that could be put in place to achieve the goal by devising methods that were practical, applicable and cost-effective. The team’s solution was to introduce a vest consisting of wearable electronics and sensors that could be used to keep track of various physiological data of the user’s body, including heart rate, pulse rate, oxygen content and body temperature. The data was then transferred wirelessly to a cloud server through WiFi or through SMS, if WiFi was not available, along with user’s location. The idea was judged on creativity, scalability, cost/ market value and other factors.  An abstract of the idea, a detailed report on the working of the model and an 18-minute pre-recorded presentation were judged in the three rounds that started on November 3 and ended on January 5. The team comprised Paresh K.V., fourth year student, ECE, Sai Arvind Chinthanippu, fourth year, Mechatronics, Anukul Jindal, fourth year, ECE, and Sreerag Mahadevan Cheeroth, fourth year student, Mechanical.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mit-students-ace-iit-bombays-techfest/article33597034.ece
18 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Two cases of mild AEFI in Udupi||Two cases of mild symptoms of Adverse Events Following Immunisation (AEFI) were reported in Udupi, while Dakshina Kannada did not have any such cases during the two days of national COVID-19 vaccination programme. According to Udupi district health authorities, one each case of AEFI was reported from TMA Pai Hospital and Urban Health Centre in Udupi. The two vaccine-recipients complained of mild stomach ache, which, the authorities said, was caused because of anxiety following vaccine jab. It had nothing to do with the vaccine, the authorities said. Both were fine and vaccination will continue on Monday, the authorities added. While 286 health workers were given COVID-19 vaccine on Saturday, 40 health workers were given the vaccine on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-cases-of-mild-aefi-in-udupi/article33597040.ece
18 January 2021||Mini Tejaswi,KARNATAKA||Wistron may resume operations in three weeks: Labour Minister||Wistron, the Taiwanese firm that makes iPhone-7 and iPhone SE for Apple at Narasapura in Karnataka’s Kolar district is currently in the process of conducting background checks and police verification on its 8,500 temporary workers as a precursor to its reopening, likely in three weeks. It may be recalled that a little over a month ago, thousands of contract workers employed by Wistron through six third-party providers had resorted to violence and vandalism and brought the company’s operations to a standstill after it failed to honour their salaries and overtime allowances for several months. “After the initial harassment that led to untoward incidents, the company is now treating us like criminals. We are asked to produce police verification documents, a consent letter from our families and also a certification from a gazetted officer. We were not asked for all these documents at the time of our joining,” said an employee. As per another employee at Wistron, only permanent workers are currently attending work while all contract workers are asked to stay away until the background checks are completed. “The company, globally, has acknowledged its mistake, still, we don’t see any empathy from the management or from the State government,” he added. State Labour Minister Shivaram Hebbar told The Hindu that, “It is certain that the company is involved in multiple labour law violations, but the government’s current priority is to get it restarted as early as possible so that thousands of jobs are reinstated. All other course corrections and disciplining can happen after that.” According to the Minister, the Wistron management may be able to complete the repair work and restart operations within three weeks. A Wistron official who refused to be identified, said, “We are rebuilding and it is taking time as the damage has been quite much.” Emphasising the labour law violations committed by Wistron, M. Satyanand, Secretary, All India Trade Union Congress-Bengaluru, said, as per rule any work that is permanent in nature should be given to permanent workers. However, all temporary workers at Wistron were deployed on core functions i.e.: assembling iPhones and related works, he alleged. “Most production jobs are permanent in nature, bringing such jobs under contract is a blatant violation, all over the world. I’ve checked labour contract licenses issued to all these six contractors and found that Wistron has flouted the rule and that needs to be corrected even before they restart the operations,” insisted Mr. Satyanand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/wistron-may-resume-operations-in-three-weeks-labour-minister/article33596723.ece
18 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||After three-year battle, Army veteran’s widow has her pension restored||The family pension of Amaravathi Bai, widow of the late Ganesh Rao Bawle, who served in the Indian Army from 1948 to 1965, had been discontinued more than three years ago. It was finally restored last month. Though Ms. Bai was receiving the family pension due to her ever since her husband’sdeath in March 2006 from the K.R. Nagar branch of the erstwhile State Bank of Mysore (SBM), it was stopped abruptly in July 2017 after the bank’s merger with the State Bank of India (SBI) following confusion over the notificationof her name in the Pension Payment Order of her late husband. Ms. Bai, an octogenarian, was made to run from pillar to post for the restoration of her family pension till VeKare Ex-Servicemen’s Trust (VKET), Mysuru, took up the case and intervened on her behalf. “The wrongly denied family pension for well over threeyears, amounting to Rs. 5,97,584 for the period July 2017 to December 2020, was credited on December 28, 2020,” said M.N. Subramani, president of VKET. TheHindu had carried a report on the widow’s struggle in the edition dated December 10, 2020. Though Mr. Subramani acknowledged the bank’s swift response to the appeal for resuming Ms. Bai’s family pension, he said the widow had requested VKET to ask the bank’s Central Pension Processing Centre to credit the cumulative interest and penalty for the denied/delayed payment of family pension from July 2017 till November 2020, as per the guidelines of the Reserve Bank of India. The matter will be taken up with the bank authorities, Mr. Subramani said. Medical allowance He also said that Ms. Bai had not been paid her fixed medical allowance (FMA) from the day her deceased husband and she became entitled for it — December 1, 1997, and March 17, 2006. “The present FMA per month is Rs. 1,000 and the total amount due to her as on December 31, 2020, is Rs. 83,028 since neither her deceased husband nor she had opted to become members of the Ex-Servicemen Contributory Health Scheme (ECHS) since the day it came into existence, as both of them lived in the remote village of Gawadgere in K.R. Nagar taluk,” he said. Mr. Subramani also said VKET wouldhelp the widow put up an application online for membership in the ECHS and only then could the Pension Disbursing Authority stop crediting thefixed medical allowance to her account.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/after-three-year-battle-army-veterans-widow-has-her-pension-restored/article33597053.ece
18 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||A calendar on ‘forgotten foods’||Sahaja Samruddha, an organisation engaged in promoting agricultural diversity with focus on conservation of indigenous varieties of paddy, has released a desktop calendar for 2021 throwing light on traditional and alternative foods and herbs to promote immunity. The theme of the calendar is “window to forgotten foods”. The calendar has a wealth of information on alternative foods reckoned to be rich in vitamins that are vital during the current, pandemic-plagued times. Krishnaprasad, of Sahaja Samruddha, said the calendar has been brought out in collaboration with NABARD and Sahaja Organics to popularise the indigenous and neglected food systems rich in vitamins vital for boosting immunity. “The indigenous food system of India is a rich source of vitamins in its natural form, but has been fast supplanted by junk and fast food that are proven to be unhealthy. This is aside from the excess focus on rice and wheat,” he said. Hence, a calendar was conceived with traditional and forgotten foods as the theme so that it could be a ready reckoner on their benefits, he added. There is even a section on edible flowers, including pumpkin flowers, butterfly pea, and moringa. Mr. Krishnaprasad pointed out that flowers are used in prayers, rituals and as decorations, while their importance as food has seemingly disappeared from public memory. Every sheet in the calendar is a treasure trove of information on forgotten foods and will help in reviving their consumption, he said. Sahaja Samruddha has been publishing theme-based calendars over the past 10 years. Their earlier themes include desi rice, roots and tubers, and millets. The text in the calendar has been edited by Meenakshi Boopathi, who has a dedicated page on forgotten foods on Facebook. The calendar is bilingual, with information presented in both English and Kannada. The calendar cost is pegged at Rs. 100. For details, contact Sahaja Samruddha on 91081 28123.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-calendar-on-forgotten-foods/article33597051.ece
18 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Tribute to T. Chowdiah: Online concert by Anasuya Kulkarni||Ganabharathi has organised an online concert based on the compositions of Mysore T. Chowdiah on January 19 by H.S. Anasuya Kulkarni, his disciple. The programme will start at 10 a.m. and Vidwan Haricharan will render vocal support. Vidushi Anasuya Kulkarni will be accompanied on the violin by Vidushi Jyothsna Manjunath, on the mridangam by Vidwan B.N. Ramesh and on the Angklung by Kumari Tapasya and Kumari Jahnavi. A release stated that this is a guruvandana on the occasion of her guru Chowdiah’s death anniversary. The programme is available on YouTube channel https://youtu.be/Wv8vIIqMBRo. Anasuya Kulkarni a disciple of Mysore T. Chowdiah. She started her initial learning under R.R. Keshavamurthy and later trained under Chowdiah. Angklung T.S. Venugopal, secretary, Ganabharathi, said Anasuya Kulkarni is known for adopting angklung, an Indonesian bamboo instrument to Carnatic music and is the only Indian to play classical Carnatic music on this instrument. Dr. Kulkarni, has a PhD in Comparative Studies of Musical Instruments and has won many awards and accolades for her innovation and for her contribution to the field of music. The organisers said she taught music in several universities under exchange programmes. She has an extensive collection of around 300 musical instruments, according to the organisers. Jyothsna Manjunath who is accompanying Anasuya Kulkarni on violin, is an AIR artist and proficient in playing both 4 and 7 stringed violin. In this concert, she has played 7 stringed violin to pay her respects to Mysore T. Chowdiah.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tribute-to-t-chowdiah-online-concert-by-anasuya-kulkarni/article33597057.ece
18 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Even the educated are swayed by caste: Siddaramaiah||Former Chief Minister and Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah said on Sunday that the scourge of casteism can be eliminated from society only through social and economic empowerment. Speaking at a function held to mark Kanaka Jayanti, he expressed regret that even members of the educated class were swayed by caste and put emphasis on the social background of individuals. Though people claim to follow the philosophy of inclusiveness in public, they tend to exclude people from the “so-called lower castes” in private, he said. He opined that such practises would cease only through social and economic emancipation, besides education. He also mooted the idea of establishing a statue of saint Kanakadasa on the campus of the University of Mysore. G. Hemantha Kumar, VC, was also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/even-the-educated-are-swayed-by-caste-siddaramaiah/article33596892.ece
18 January 2021||January 18 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Worker killed at construction site||A 36-year-old worker was killed in an accident in an under-construction building in Kalasipalyam on Saturday. The deceased has been identified as Beerappa, a resident of Girinagar and a native of Yadgir district. Beerappa was working at a site on R.V. Road. Around 11 a.m., he was loading cement mixture in a trolley. The material was being lifted to the sixth floor. The Kalasipalyam police have taken up a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/worker-killed-at-construction-site/article33596717.ece
18 January 2021||January 18 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Awareness campaign||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/awareness-campaign/article33596719.ece
18 January 2021||January 18 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Constables booked||Two constables attached to the Government Railway Police (GRP) are in the dock for allegedly detaining a 26-year-old man in the police station and torturing him for several hours demanding a ransom of Rs. 2 lakh. Based on a complaint, the city railway police, on Friday, registered assault and criminal intimidation charges against constables Ajith and Kempanna, along with Shankar, an employee of a hotel in the railway station, and his supervisor Girish. The alleged incident occurred when Karan arrived at the city railway station from Davanagere. While walking out on platform no. 1, he met Shankar, an old acquittance who had a grudge against him. Following a heated argument, Shankar called his associates for help. Within minutes, Ajith and Kempanna, along with Girish, allegedly surrounded him and took him to the station. As soon as he entered the station, the constables allegedly took away his bag, disrobed him and began to beat him up, the police said. The policemen accused Karan of being part of a prostitution case and threatened to send him to jail if he did not pay Rs. 2 lakh. The accused made Karan call his friend Umesh to arrange the money, and after a few hours, took him to Koramangala to get the money. After reaching the place, Karan asked to get down from the vehicle to get the money. But Umesh said that he could not arrange the money at such a short notice and sought more time. When Karan told the others, the accused left after telling him to get the money fast and took away his mobile phone as surety. Karan approached an advocate who asked him to get a medical examination before filing a complaint with the SP, Railway.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-constables-in-the-dock-for-torturing-man-for-ransom/article33596716.ece
18 January 2021||January 18 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||READER’S MAIL||Sir, — The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike authorities have laid pedestrian platforms on most of the streets of Rajajinagar at a very elevated level. It is difficult for senior citizens and children to climb and walk easily. Also, on most of the roads, they are not laid uniformly and there are many ups and downs, forcing pedestrians to use the road instead. The raised platforms really pose a danger to elders, who may fall. There are schools around this area and it endangers children as well. I request the authorities to set right the pedestrian platforms and lower the height so that they can be used for the purpose for which they were laid. A. Parthasarathy, Bengaluru    Sir, — The Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation has identified People Tree Hospital as a strategic location for its bus stop on Tumakuru Road-Gorguntepalya Junction. However, this location is rather unscientific, considering the heavy flow of traffic towards Tumakuru Road.The BMTC bus stop located next to People Tree Hospital is thus causing inconvenience to the movement of traffic. The bus stop also gets congested because of the oncoming traffic from Hebbal in order to move towards Tumakuru Road, thus leading to chaos at the hospital traffic junction. The BMTC should shift the bus stop in the interest of passenger safety. Varun Dambal, Bengaluru    Sir, — The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike is going ahead with erecting concrete and stone sculptures at traffic junctions in many parts of the city, on a misplaced belief that they will enhance the aesthetics of the city. Recently, I saw two huge ready-to-unveil lion sculptures erected on a concrete pedestal at two traffic circles in Basavanagudi. At the busy South End Circle, one such sculpture has been constructed at the very spot where an old statue is already standing, thus obstructing it! When a myriad civic issues are crying for attention, the authorities must resist the pull of sanctioning such wasteful projects. If the purpose is to showcase art, roads and traffic junctions are not the ideal place for it. Many urban experts have already flagged down such structures as they lead to visual obstruction and attention diversion of motorists and pedestrians, causing more traffic violations and accidents. Moreover, in view of the increasing vehicular traffic, many of the traffic junctions and circles may have to be redesigned in the future, thus requiring the removal of these structures. KAMAL LADDHA, Bengaluru  Readers can write    to letters.bangalore    @thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/readers-mail/article33596728.ece
18 January 2021||January 18 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||CoP||Former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah’s(in picture)eating habits are a constant source of “news” for television channels. What he likes to eat, what he eats before or after going to a temple etc. never fail to hit headlines. Meat eating, in particular, is constantly scrutinised and judged. Recently, Mr. Siddaramaiah sought to clearly state his eating preferences. Talking to a new channel, he said, “I have eaten fish, mutton, and chicken. For the record, I do not eat beef or pork. All I am saying is that nobody can question one’s right to eat what he/she eats. If someone wants to eat greens it’s fine, but don’t ask the others to also eat only greens and nothing else,” he said. As the TV journalist continued to probe, he said with an amused smile, “I know you like to make me say things and others to oppose it. It’s good for your TRP rating, isn’t it?”   Newly-inducted Minister and six-term MLA S. Angara(in picture)recently said that he had been offered a bribe of Rs. 20,000 to refuse the BJP ticket when he contested the election for the first time in 1989. Addressing workers at the BJP’s Mangaluru office, the Minister said his party’s State unit headed by B.B. Shivappa had shortlisted two workers, including him, to contest from Sullia Assembly. Finally, the party declared him as the candidate. The other party worker, whom he named as Ramachandra Rane (who finally did not get selected), approached him on the same night and offered the bribe to refuse to contest. The Minister said he did not relent and accepted it as a challenge and contested, but lost the election to Congress. Next election onwards, Mr. Angara won from Sullia for six terms. He said even after winning, people had mocked him that he might desert the BJP like Bakila Hukarappa, the first BJP MLA from Sullia in 1983, for the sake of power. Without making the circumstances clear, Mr. Angara said that he had been made to shed tears while working on building the party. The Minister, from the constituency reserved for a candidate of the Scheduled Castes, said he had worked as a daily wager earlier.   Misogynist remarks come as no surprise from politicians, but Sanjay Patil(in picture), former BJP MLA, took it to another level recently. He told a party workers’ meeting in Belagavi that he had lost the 2018 Assembly election “as he was of dark complexion”. The voters chose a “fair-skinned candidate” over him, he claimed, hinting at the victory of Lakshmi Hebbalkar of the Congress in Belagavi Rural constituency. His remarks evoked a round of laughter. Mr. Patil, who makes speeches in Kannada and Marathi, is no stranger to controversy. He regales crowds with what he believes are “jokes”. In an event to felicitate party workers who had won gram panchayat polls in Ganesh Bag recently, he compared the party symbols of the BJP and the Congress. “While you take the lotus in your hand and walk towards victory, you don’t use the Congress symbol for good things. You use the hand only to clean yourself,” he said. No wonder the Election Commission issued him a notice for using unparliamentary language against his opponent in the 2018 election. Bageshree S. Raviprasad Kamila Rishikesh Bahadur Desai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cop/article33596734.ece
18 January 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||MBA graduate follows his inner call to manage the field||Philip K. Chacko studied Master of Business Administration (MBA), but his love for organic farming steered him towards a career in agriculture. A native of Muhamma in Alappuzha, the 31-year-old quit his job as a plantation company manager in 2019 to follow his inner desire to become a farmer. More than a year later, he is now busy growing 22 varieties of vegetables and fruits on 36 acres of leased land at Kanjikuzhy and Muhamma. Mr. Chacko says that he wanted to practise agriculture after completing MBA in 2013, but lacked the courage to tell his parents about the wish. “I joined a real-estate firm in Ernakulam and continued there for three years. Later, I worked as a manager in a tea and rubber plantation group. Finally, I decided to follow my inner calling in December 2019,” he says. After quitting the job, he took up organic vegetable cultivation on 12 acres last year with the support of his wife and family members. Finding success in the initial efforts, he later expanded the farm project. His cherished agriculture journey is, however, not without hurdles. Up to 80% of seedlings he planted at the turn of 2021 got destroyed in heavy downpour. Over the past couple of days, he put up a show of grit and determination to replant everything. Not to be discouraged Mr. Chacko says that he has invested all his life savings in agriculture and that he could not be discouraged in the face of adversities. “With replanting now completed, the farm is now running full-fledged. The only pain is that the harvest will be delayed, which will, in turn, prevent the second round of cultivation before the monsoon rains,” he says, adding that he will further expand farming to 100 acres in the near future. The young farmer says his experience in business administration will come handy in marketing the farm produce. He is growing spinach, long beans, brinjal, pumpkin, potato, bitter gourd, okra, onion, shallot, sesame, green gram, cucumber, watermelon and so on in his farm. Besides, he is rearing buffalo and fish.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mba-graduate-follows-his-inner-call-to-manage-the-field/article33597007.ece
18 January 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Sudhakaran quashes rumours||Public Works Minister G. Sudhakaran on Sunday quashed rumours that he would contest the upcoming Assembly polls from the Kayamkulam constituency. Referring to his defeat in Kayamkulam in 2001, Mr. Sudhakaran said he had been backstabbed once and would not go there again to contest the Assembly polls. “Kayamkulam MLA U. Prathibha is doing a good job,” he told reporters here. On contesting the Assembly polls again from the Ambalappuzha Assembly constituency, Mr. Sudhakaran said that the party would take a call on it. “Pinarayi Vijayan will become Chief Minister for a second term. But whether I will return as the Public Works Minister after the elections is unknown. The Communist party of India (Marxist) is yet to start talks on candidates for the polls,” the Minister said. Mr. Sudhakaran also criticised the omission of Kayamkulam MLA’s name from the inauguration poster of the Muttel bridge. Ihe Minister said the government was focussed on ensuring overall development of the State. The Muttel bridge connecting the Devikulangara grama panchayat and some areas of Krishnapuram grama panchayat with Kayamkulam town was constructed at a cost of Rs. 7.55 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sudhakaran-quashes-rumours/article33596989.ece
18 January 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||January rain keeps Idukki water level high||The unexpected rain in January has contributed to a high storage level in the Idukki reservoir, which the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) authorities consider as one of the highest levels during the period. Normally, rainfall is not expected in the first week of January. It is hoped that the high storage level could help the State tide over power shortage during the peak summer season. When compared to the water storage in the first two weeks of January, it is the highest storage recorded during the last 10-year period. The water level in the Idukki reservoir as recorded on Sunday was 2,386.08 ft, which is 81% of the total storage level.  Power generation up Power generation at the Moolamattom powerhouse remained above normal, which was 8.17 mu (million unit) on Saturday. The unexpected rainfall and low consumption in the wake of the COVID-19 situation are the main reasons for the high storage level in Idukki reservoir, according to KSEB officials. Following the increase in the power generation at Moolamattom power house, the water level started declining. It reached near the full reservoir level in the last southwest monsoon season. In 2019 and 2020, the water level in the Idukki reservoir in the middle of January was around 2,378 ft. This situation was followed by the two floods and the dam had to be opened during the 2018 floods. Main dams The water level in the main hydel dams in the State are also at a high level. The present storage level in major projects: Pampa-Kakki: 87%, Sholayar: 98%, Edamalayar: 73%, Kundala:96%, Mattuppetty:91%, Kuttiyadi:39%, Thariyod:61%, Anayirankal:100%, Ponmudi: 95%, Neryamangalam: 60%, Peringalkuth: 51%; and Lower Periyar: 77%.  High storage level may help State tide over power shortage during peak summer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/january-rain-keeps-idukki-water-level-high/article33596992.ece
18 January 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Museum on Gandhi||Minister for Ports and Archaeology Ramachandran Kadannappally inaugurated the Gandhi Memorial Museum at Payyanur on Sunday. Set up by the Department of Archaeology is the first government museum in the district. Besides objects used by Gandhiji and his rare photographs, the museum has descriptions of agrarian struggles of Malabar such as Karivellur, Munayankunnu, Korom.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/museum-opened-at-payyanur/article33596942.ece
18 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||CIAL commissions major floating solar power plant||Cochin International Airport Limited (CIAL) on Sunday commissioned one of the biggest floating solar power plants in the State with a capacity of 452 KWh. The project is part of the company’s efforts to sustain the power-positive airport by using green energy. With the new installation going on stream, the total installed capacity of the airport has gone up to 40 MWp, helping it generate around 1.60 lakh units of power a day, said a communication here. The daily consumption stands around at 1.30 lakh units. Interestingly, CIAL’s tryst with experiments in generating green energy achieved yet another milestone with the installation, as the company has introduced cost-effective high-density polyethylene floats using French technology. A total of 1,300 photovoltaic panels were mounted and laid over two artificial lakes located in the 130-acre CIAL golf course. The plants covering a total area of one acre are connected to the KSEB grid which is to be banked on when needed. Pre-commissioning trials showed that the panels which cost around Rs. 2 crore generated power with maximum output efficiency among the eight solar power plants installed by CIAL on the airport premises. V.J. Kurien, founder managing director, CIAL, attributed the success of the plant to the company’s relentless efforts to bring in new technologies and its working philosophy which is at par with global standards. “CIAL has been reinventing itself since its formative days. One of our innovations which proved that relying upon green energy is possible even for high energy consumers like an airport has won us the Champions of the Earth Award instituted by the United Nations. We are committed to the protection of nature and are trying our best to reduce carbon footprint,” Mr. Kurien was cited as saying in the communication. CIAL had successfully executed the idea of Total Sustainability Management in its golf course where treated water from the sewage treatment plant of the airport is used for water harvesting with the help of 12 artificial lakes. Water from the lakes are used for irrigating the golf course lawns. CIAL aims to become the second largest power producer in the State after KSEB. Work on a 12-MWp plant is under way at Payyannur in Kannur, the communication added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cial-commissions-floating-solar-power-plant/article33596930.ece
18 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Steep decline in bird count||Birders of Kochi could count less number of birds this year during the annual water bird count. It was six days ago that bird enthusiasts of Kochi fanned out to 10 wetland locations to count birds as part of the Asian Waterbird Census 2021. The event was organised by Cochin Natural History Society in association with eBird, Birdcount India, and Wetlands International. While there has been a spike in the number of bird species encountered this time when compared to those in the previous years, the number of birds has nosedived this year, says the report. As many as 108 species, including Curlew Sandpiper, Black-headed Gull, Pallas’s Gull, Spot-billed Pelican, and Eurasian Spoonbill were spotted in the 10 locations. Though birders would count 6,445 individuals in 2019, it dropped by half last year to 3,087. The total count for the current year was 4,763, which is slightly higher than that of 2020, but significantly lower that the 2019 figures, said a report prepared by K. Vishnupriyan Kartha, secretary of the Society. The fall in numbers calls for a long-term study and analysis, the report said. Flooding, siltation, and change in weather patterns might have also influenced the bird population. Wetland sites visited by birds were almost flooded, which restricts feeding of birds belonging to the category of Waders or shore birds. The birds of the category, which are found along shorelines, look for food such as insects or crustaceans in mud or sand. During tilling and sowing, large congregations of birds are often seen along shorelines, the report said. Though birders did not encounter any case of bird flu at the surveyed sites, heavy pollution caused by plastic refuse was visible, it added. Lesser Whistling Duck was the most recorded species, as 924 individuals were counted on the day followed by Whiskered Tern (363).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/steep-decline-in-bird-count/article33596967.ece
18 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Money not a constraint in building Kochi infra: Isaac||Finance Minister Dr. T.M. Thomas Isaac said here on Sunday that money constraints would not stand in the way of the development of world-class infrastructure for Kochi, which represents the progress of the entire State. He said there were complaints that funds had not been allotted for major infrastructure projects announced for Kochi in the budget. “Even if not allotted in the budget, money will not be a problem,” he said. Dr. Isaac was addressing representatives of trade and business and the political leadership here. The interactive session, ‘Dhanamantri Kochikkoppam’, was organised by the Kochi Corporation. Mayor M. Anilkumar welcomed the gathering. The Minister said the LDF government had done the groundwork for the transformation of the State. He added that assured power supply and broadband connectivity are two essential ingredients for attracting investments. “Kochi stands to gain from the building of infrastructure, as the city is central to Kerala’s development. Kochi is Kerala’s only metropolis, and that is an important point,” Dr. Isaac said. The Minister also said the Water Metro would address traffic congestion in Kochi. “Broadband connectivity could help in the future, as COVID-19 had taught everyone a lesson. More people will work from home, and infrastructure is of great importance,” he added. Eradication of poverty through micro planning and providing means of livelihood to all are among the major targets for the future. Speaking on the occasion, the Mayor said he was satisfied with the budget, which “provided everything I asked for.” Suggestions that came up include de-clogging of drains and addressing traffic congestion and drinking water shortage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/money-not-a-constraint-in-building-kochi-infra-isaac/article33596963.ece
18 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||When a soccer legend reached out to his namesake||When Tony Jose Titan named his four-month-old boy Aguero, quite a few eyebrows were raised in his neighbourhood in the coastal village of Chellanam. Many found the name too alien, even a tongue-twister. But the newly-turned father stonewalled those reservations, and his family was not surprised. For, they knew the 28-year-old’s fanatic loyalty towards English Premier League football giant Manchester City and its legendary striker Sergio Aguero. What they never imagined was for the Argentine to reach out to probably one of his youngest ‘fans’ named Aguero Franz Allesh after him. But then the unthinkable happened shortly after midnight last Thursday when the legend shared a video on his loyal fan and son in his official Instagram page with a wish to meet them some day. Since Tony followed his idol, he was alerted the moment it happened, and he never slept that night. “It seemed so unreal that I checked multiple times whether it was his verified account. Then people started sharing it on City fans’ page, and it started sinking in slowly,” said Tony. It all started with Tony sharing on Instagram pictures of his son’s baptism in November, marking the occasion by presenting the toddler with a jersey of Aguero as done by the club when it announces the signing of a new player. The official Instagram page of Premier League for India shared it and later made a video on him. It was this video that Aguero shared. It was Tony’s love for Manchester City dating back to a time when it was never in the title race that made him an Aguero fan. “I would never forget that night when Aguero smashed in that winner against QPR in 2012 winning City’s first Premier League title,” said Tony who promised that night, some seven years before he eventually married, that if he ever had a son, he would be named after the striker who brought him so much joy. The father now wants his son to follow in the footsteps of the legend. And, if ever a name is needed to inspire him to take up the beautiful game then he has one that will make him stand out from the pack.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/when-a-soccer-legend-reached-out-to-his-namesake/article33596953.ece
18 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Bastion Bungalow museum to open in Feb.||After several delays, a museum at the Bastion Bungalow in Fort Kochi is set to be inaugurated next month, breathing life into a monument that has remained closed to the public for years, except for the courtyard around it. COVID-19-induced restrictions had set work back by around two months and delayed the inauguration, said R. Chandran Pillai, executive director, Keralam Museum, the nodal agency appointed by the government to set up and refurbish museums across the State. The building’s proximity to the sea would make it difficult to place metallic objects on display, he said. The museum will be a thematic one that is meant to tell the story of Kochi, mostly through copies of nearly 120 archival records from museums in London, Chennai, Kolkata, and others, Mr. Pillai said. Permissions are being sought from other museums that house these records to replicate them here. The bungalow, said to be nearly four centuries old, is a monument protected by the Archaeology Department. “Since it is a protected monument, structural changes cannot be made to it. The exhibits will all be standalone ones that will not alter the existing building in any way,” he added. Some civil and electrification work is yet to be completed and will be over in around three weeks. The project was to be executed at a cost of Rs. 3.5 crore. Sections of the bungalow were said to have been constructed by the Dutch over the relics of Fort Emmanuel, which was built by the Portuguese. The monument was briefly thrown open to the public a few years ago, with a few artefacts transplanted from the Hill Palace Museum. But it was shut again later, and has remained closed since.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bastion-bungalow-museum-to-open-in-feb/article33596954.ece
18 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Vaccination at nine centres today||Vaccination for COVID-19 in the district will take place at nine centres on Monday, the second day of the vaccination drive, targeting 900 health workers. Since the District Homeo Hospital and the District Ayurveda Hospital have inoculated health workers in their vicinity, they will no longer function as vaccination centres, Dr. Sivadas M.G., nodal officer for vaccination said. Additional centres Four additional centres will begin functioning from Tuesday onwards — one each at the Karuvelipady and Paravur taluk hospitals, Amrita Hospital, and at Adlux, Angamaly. Only minor effects of the vaccine like fever and body ache were reported from the district on Sunday, and they were anticipated reactions to the shot, Dr. Sivadas said. Health workers After 711 of the targeted 1,022 health workers were vaccinated on Saturday, health officials in the district are hoping that the numbers increase and more workers come forward to get themselves vaccinated despite some initial hesitation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vaccination-at-nine-centres-today/article33596951.ece
18 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Over 200 erring motorists booked||A total of 218 motorists were booked on Sunday in various parts of the district on the charge of using sun films or curtains on glass windows and windscreens of vehicles, under Operation Screen, a special fortnight-long drive undertaken by the Motor Vehicles Department (MVD). Those charged include a film actor from a neighbouring district, whose car was intercepted at Kundannoor. He too will have to pay Rs. 1,250 as penalty, MVD sources said. Action was initiated against both erring cars and vans. Their owners will have to remove the tinted sheets and produce the vehicles before the Regional Transport Office (RTO) concerned. MVD personnel attached to various RTOs and the office of the Enforcement RTO (Ernakulam) undertook the drive. Penalty was also imposed for offences like improper / fancy registration number plates, not having fitness certificate, evasion of vehicle tax, rash driving, and helmet-less driving. The drive will be intensified in the coming days, for which more squads will be deployed in arterial and side roads, said Babu John, Regional Transport Officer, Ernakulam. “ E-challan generated Under the new enforcement system, e-challan, which was recently given legal validity by the Central Motor Vehicle Rules, is generated once the offence is detected. Vehicle owners cannot cite excuses or challenge the action, since the rule violation along with the image of the vehicle is automatically uploaded on the Vahan website.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/over-200-erring-motorists-booked/article33596957.ece
18 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Smart labs inaugurated||It is imperative that government-run educational institutions are protected and their quality improved to attract more students, Hibi Eden, MP, has said. He was speaking after inaugurating six smart laboratories at Government Higher Secondary School, Elamakkara, on Sunday. The labs were set up using Rs. 93 lakh worth CSR funds from Cochin Shipyard. The smart labs for maths and geology are the first of their kind in government-run schools in Kerala, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/smart-labs-inaugurated/article33596958.ece
18 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Isaac refuses to comment||Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac said here on Sunday that he had no comments to make on the allegations raised by Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) Chairman and Managing Director (CMD) Biju Prabhakar against a section of the corporation employees. Mr. Prabhakar had, among other things, alleged that there was a Rs. 100-crore scam in the transport corporation. The Minister told reporters on Sunday that it was up to the Transport Department and the Minister concerned to look into the matter. AITUC flays remarks All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC) State general secretary and Transport Employees Union president K.P. Rajendran said that no one would be allowed to destroy the KSRTC. He criticised the remarks of Mr. Prabhakar. Mr. Rajendran termed the remarks ‘anti-employee and irresponsible.’ Making long-distance services and new buses part of the new company would, in effect, destroy the KSRTC, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/isaac-refuses-to-comment/article33597009.ece
18 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Birders complain of mangrove destruction||The social forestry wing of the Forest Department has launched an inquiry into the alleged destruction of mangrove vegetation at Thundathumkadavu near Varapuzha. The inquiry was initiated after a group of birders, who visited the area on Sunday as part of the annual bird count, took up the issue with the Social forestry wing. The mangrove vegetation near the Pokkali farmland and on the flanks of the road was found destroyed. Mud bund was also seen constructed at the area, which obstructed the natural flow of water. Fully grown coconut trees were found planted in the paddy wetland, which was a suspected attempt to alter the land use pattern of the farmland, said a complaint filed by birders. Such unscientific modifications and destruction of mangrove vegetation will upset wetland, besides disturbing the Pokkali ecosystem, which is essential for the breeding of various fish varieties and crustaceans, the complaint pointed out. Meanwhile, A. Jayamadhavan, Assistant Conservator of Forests, Social Forestry, said a range officer had been asked to look into the complaint. Legal action in such cases has to be initiated by the Divisional Forest Office, Malayattoor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/birders-complain-of-mangrove-destruction/article33596961.ece
18 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Major fire at Edayar industrial area||Two units manufacturing paints, thinner, and associated products were extensively damaged and a rubber reclaiming unit badly hit by a fire that broke out around midnight on Saturday in the Edayar Industrial Development Area. There was no loss of life in the incident. General Chemicals and Polymers, Orion Chemicals, and Sreekovil Industries were the units that were involved in the incident. Industries Department sources, quoting eyewitnesses, said the fire was apparently triggered by heavy lightning in Edayar and Kalamassery. The area witnessed heavy rain accompanied by lighting on Saturday. Fire tenders from Kalamassery and Aluva were among the 30 units that fought the blaze till around 3.30 a.m. Both the units, it appears, had stocks of highly inflammable organic liquids, both in the form of raw materials and finished products. The nature of chemicals stored in the first two units made firefighting a difficult task, as some items stored in the factory started to float over the rainwater, aiding the spread of the fire. Loss of life could be prevented, with a group of workers warning the others, who were inside the unit that caught fire, early enough. Nearly a dozen workers in a unit close to the one that caught fire first ran to safety finding smoke billowing out of the unit. Edayar Industries Association president Sojan Joseph said the units suffered extensive damage. The police are investigating the inciednt. An inspection by officials of the Electrical Inspectorate, Factories and Boilers Department, and the Fire and Rescue Services Department will be held on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/major-fire-at-edayar-industrial-area/article33596960.ece
18 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||767 new COVID-19 cases in district||Ernakulam district recorded 767 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday, taking the active case load to 10,200. Of them, 41 tested positive at Kalady, 30 each at Karukutty and Nedumbassery, 26 at Rayamangalam, and 22 at Thuravoor. Five health workers are among the newly infected. A total of 23,520 people remain in quarantine in the district. As many as 427 recoveries were recorded on Sunday. The active case load of the district has crossed 10,000 again, with 10,200 people currently being treated for the infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/767-new-covid-19-cases-in-district/article33596955.ece
18 January 2021||Kollam,KERALA||Kollam reports 439 new cases||Kollam reported 439 new COVID-19 cases and 176 recoveries on Sunday. Those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 include 430 contact cases, three NRIs, three persons from other States, and three cases without any known source. The district currently has 11,515 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 6,64,263. While 1,056 persons completed home quarantine on Sunday, the Health Department has traced 1,51,489 primary and 13,596 secondary contacts of the positive cases. 427 in Pathanamthitta As many as 427 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Sunday. Of the new cases, 413 persons contracted the virus through local contact and among these, the source of 34 cases were yet to be identified. Among the local bodies, Adoor reported 26 cases, followed by Koyipram with 23 cases. The disease claimed three more lives in the district and the victims were identified as a 38-year-old woman from Nedumbram, 85-year-old Pathanamthitta native, and a 66-year-old Adoor native. With 333 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 7,102 active cases. 399 in Kottayam As many as 399 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Sunday. Of the new cases, all but three contracted the virus through local contact. The cases also included 43 children and 78 persons aged above 60. With 59 cases, Kottayam municipality led the tally, followed by Ettumanur with 21 cases. With 367 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 5,362 active cases. 302 in Alappuzha The district reported 302 COVID-19 cases on Sunday. It also recorded two COVID-19-related deaths. The new cases include 287 people who contracted the disease through local transmission while the source of infection of 15 other people remains unknown. Meanwhile, 512 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district recovered. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district stands at 4,196.  (With inputs from Pathanamthitta, Kottayam, and Alappuzha bureaus)   The active caseload in Alappuzha district stands at 4,196,||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kollam-reports-439-new-cases/article33596998.ece
18 January 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Walk-in interview||IHRD Model Polytechnic College, Karunagappally, will conduct the interview for the post of Chemistry lecturer on January 18. The post is reserved for the Latin Catholic community and in the absence of candidates from the community, others will be considered. Interested persons with post-graduation and NET can walk in with original certificates and two copies to the college office at Maliyekkal Junction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/walk-in-interview/article33596990.ece
18 January 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||‘Check handrails’||National Highways engineers have been instructed to check the handrails of Neendakara bridge following reports of damage, said a statement issued by Minister G. Sudhakaran. “Normally it is Ministry of Road Transport & Highways that funds the construction, but they have informed that National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has invited tenders for the work and they will be in charge of maintenance works.” The Public Works Department has also directed the National Highways wing to complete repair works and mail the NHAI for starting the maintenance immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/check-handrails/article33596995.ece
18 January 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Five Youth Congress workers arrested||The police have arrested five Youth Congress (YC) workers for throwing stones at MLA K.B. Ganesh Kumar’s car near Chavara here on Sunday. Though the MLA was unharmed, the rear seat window was broken in the incident. A scuffle between the MLA’s aides and Congress workers had triggered tension on Friday and the party workers had alleged that they were manhandled by Mr. Ganesh Kumar’s former office secretary M. Pradeep Kottathala and driver. Pradeep Kottathala was earlier booked for threatening a key approver in the actor abduction and assault case. Reportedly, Youth Congress workers had waved black flag at the MLA for not inviting a Congress panchayat member during a public function, following which they were beaten up by Kerala Congress (B) [KC(B)] workers led by Pradeep Kottathala. Later, Congress workers had staged a sit-in protest in front of the Kunnicode police station demanding the arrest of KC(B) workers involved in the attack. March turns violent A protest march taken out by Congress workers to the MLA’s residence on Sunday against the attack on party workers had turned violent when the participants tried to breach the barricades erected by the police. In the clash that followed, the police had resorted to lathicharge and Youth Congress State secretary Saju Khan, KSU district president Vishnu Vijayan, and Youth Congress Pathanapularam block president Shakkim sustained injuries in the melee. The Congress had called for a hartal from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. in the Pathanapuram panchayat following the incident. Youth Congress State secretary Vishnu Sunil Pandalam had alleged that the police department had been working as the ‘B’ team of Mr. Ganesh Kumar and many senior Congress leaders had condemned the incident. “In the coming days, we will stage protests at all functions attended by K.B. Ganesh Kumar,” said Mr. Vishnu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/five-youth-cong-workers-held-for-attack-on-mlas-car/article33596711.ece
18 January 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||District Collector’s online adalat||District Collector’s online public grievances redressal adalat for the residents of Pathanapuram taluk will be held from 11 a.m. on January 25. Residents can register their complaints through Akshaya centres at Pathanapuram, Panampatta, Elambal Junction, Pattazhy, and Pattazhy Vadakkekara till 5 p.m. on January 20. The complaints will be heard online and maximum cases will be settled on the day itself.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/district-collectors-online-adalat/article33596993.ece
18 January 2021||Kollam,KERALA||Strong room for timber depot||Minister K. Raju inaugurated a strong room attached to Kulathupuzha timber depot here on Sunday. The strong room has a 87.5-sq ft sandalwood godown and 112.75-sq ft cleaning shed along with 122 meter compound wall. Anchal block panchayat president Radha Rajendran presided over the function while district panchayat member K. Anil Kumar and Kulathupuzha garma panchayat member P. Jayakrishnan were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/strong-room-for-timber-depot/article33596994.ece
18 January 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Leaders rush to claim credit||Pala, which has been in the eye of a political storm brewing within the Left Democratic Front (LDF), is now witnessing a different round of battle between the Nationalist Congress Party and the Kerala Congress (M). Setting the stage for this latest round of face-off is a proposal in the State Budget to raise the support price for natural rubber (NR) by Rs. 20. The announcement, apparently made with an eye on the upcoming Assembly elections, has now sent the two parties vying with each other to hog its credit. As per the proposal, rubber growers will get Rs. 170 a kg under the Rubber Production Incentive Scheme (RPIS), which was introduced by former Finance Minister K.M. Mani in 2015. While Mr. Mani had ensured Rs. 150 a kg for rubber while introducing RPIS, this is for the first time that the base price is being raised and the move is expected to benefit nearly a million small-scale rubber farmers in the State. The NCP leader and sitting MLA of Pala Mani C. Kappan was the first to stake claim for this ‘farmer-friendly’ initiative. In a message posted on his social media page, Mr. Kappan thanked both the Chief Minister and the Finance Minister for favourably considering his request to raise the support price for NR and also attached a copy of the memorandum submitted to the Ministers concerned in December 2020. Soon, Jose K. Mani of the KC(M) came up with a message on his social media page, expressing gratitude to the State government for accepting his proposal to raise the support price for NR. Interestingly, both the memoranda had demanded that the price be raised to Rs. 200.  Posters appear While it was yet to be clear whose proposal had actually been taken into consideration, the battle continued to rage and soon spilled over to the streets of Pala with the KC(M) coming up with posters congratulating Mr. Mani for the achievement. The UDF, meanwhile, has termed the move as a mere publicity stunt as the additional amount allocated would be insufficient to assuage the concerns of the farmers. While the debate continues to gain steam, LDF sources view the proposal as a clear signal of approval to the KC(M). “The coalition, which has been striving hard to breach the UDF bastions in Central Kerala, is investing heavily on the KC(M) so that it could continue the impressive performance staged during the recent local body elections,” a senior LDF leader said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/leaders-rush-to-claim-credit/article33596996.ece
18 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Locals oppose DDMA removing boulders from Chalippuzha||The Chalippuzha has been hosting the international kayaking championship in Kozhikode for five years. The river was chosen for the purpose, from among the rivers in the State, for its treacherous rapids. However, with the District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) demolishing boulders and levelling the river, it is highly unlikely that the Chalippuzha will ever host the championship again. The people in three wards of the Kodenchery grama panchayat have turned against the DDMA for destroying the natural flow of the river and its biodiversity. The DDMA started trenching the river and removing the boulders as a precaution against flooding. The boulders and trees that were washed away by the river during the floods in 2018 and 2019 had created a “dam effect” after they got stuck between the pillars of an irrigation bund in the river and the resultant flood had caused much damage. However, local people alleged that the river was being destroyed without conducting any scientific study. “They started the demolition when the election code of conduct was in place and hence none of us could intervene. The local people were scared to go against a body headed by the District Collector,” said Baby Kottupally, a former member of the panchayat. Recently, the All Kerala River Protection Committee visited the site and assessed the damage. “We cannot reverse the damage caused by this unscientific step even if we spend crores on it. But, further destruction needs to be averted,” said T.V. Rajan, State General Secretary of the committee. The people of the three tribal colonies nearby too are concerned about the destruction of the river as it is the means of their livelihood. “The tribal youth used to catch fish and crabs from the river for food and even bathed in it. But now, the crabs and fish have disappeared and the river has been reduced to a playground,” said Mr. Kottupally. Mr. Rajan alleged that the river has been converted into a “canal” for half a kilometre, destroying its natural flow. The trees along the river bank have also been cut down. Using compressors to break the boulders have caused cracks on the walls of nearby houses. Kayaking venues The kayakers on the other hand fear the loss of venues for the championship, which has found a place in the world tourism map and had attracted participation from around 25 countries in the previous seasons. “A straight flowing river is of no use for kayaking. The beauty of a river is when it flows over the boulders and creates rapids,” said Mr. Kottupally. The Kodenchery grama panchayat has taken a stand against changing the course of the river and plans to take up the issue with higher authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/locals-oppose-ddma-removing-boulders-from-chalippuzha/article33596926.ece
18 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Vehicle recovery woes at Ghat Road||The absence of an effective 24x7 vehicle recovery service on the Thamarassery Ghat Road is affecting the handling of vehicle breakdowns and accidents on the busy mountain pass. Inter-State lorry and truck operators and drivers of heavy goods-vehicles are the worst-affected by the absence of such an emergency service. The delayed repairing assistance, including towing support, replacement of damaged mechanical components, multiple tyre punctures and recovery of dead engines, also leads to traffic snarls that last hours on the route. Many a time, the recovery activities are carried out with the support of the Ghat Road Protection Committee members and the police. “For untrained local people, it takes hours to move a dead engine from the road and clear the traffic. If there is good towing facility, such unexpected situations can be met very easily,” says Anand Raj, an inter-State truck driver from Kozhikode city. KSRTC services Though the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) operates many services on the route, it is yet to consider introducing a quick vehicle recovery service. The KSRTC buses are often caught between unexpected breakdowns and other engine issues. Members of the Ghat Road Protection Committee say the management of heavy vehicles during accidents and breakdowns poses a big hurdle to resuming traffic on the route. Ambulances Emergency services, including ambulances, are also caught up in traffic snarls, which can be addressed only with the launch of a quick vehicle recovery service exclusively for the mountain pass, they add. The local police and fire service units are yet to get the required equipment for handling recovery calls. They mostly depend on the service of private operators who mostly do not offer 24x7 service.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lack-of-24x7-vehicle-recovery-service-hits-ghat-road-traffic/article33596941.ece
18 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Call for action against Corpn. engineers||The Calicut Chamber of Commerce and Industry has blamed the engineering wing of the Kozhikode Corporation for the dilapidated condition of the chimney at the Manari crematorium. Chamber secretary Rajesh Kunhappan has claimed that the Corporation officials had overseen the crematorium work and blaming just the contractors for the condition was ridiculous. The Corporation officials, including the secretary and experts from the engineering wing, had inspected the crematorium recently. They found that the foundation of the chimney was weak and stated that the peculiar nature of the soil was the reason for the dangerous condition of the structure. Before every construction, the safe bearing capacity of the soil was tested by expert engineers, said Mr. Kunhappan. For constructions related to the Corporation, the engineering wing of the civic body does the testing. The wing consists of overseers, assistant engineers, executive engineers and a chief engineer. The contractors carry out the construction based on the design and plan provided by them. Hence, it is unjust to blame the contractors alone for the lapse, said Mr. Kunhappan and demanded action against the engineers as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/call-for-action-against-corpn-engineers/article33596933.ece
18 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Paddy harvesting begins under Subhiksha Keralam project||The Vasantham and Niravu joint liability groups under the Kudumbashree Mission are the first to harvest paddy cultivated under the Subhiksha Keralam project in Kozhikode Corporation. The harvest on five acres in Kannadikkal, where the Mundakan crop was sown, began on Saturday and was opened by Mayor Beena Philip. Kudumbashree had cultivated paddy in 24 acres in the city under the Subhiksha Keralam project. But the crop is not yet ready in many areas due to variations in weather. ‘Profitable’ Those cultivating paddy under the project get Rs. 40,000 per hectare as subsidy from the Agriculture Department. Hence, the crop was profitable, said Sugatha, a member of the Vasantham group. Corporation welfare standing committee chairman P. Diwakaran said the civic body planned to expand the cultivation of paddy, tapioca, ginger, turmeric and vegetables to more fields in the next season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/paddy-harvesting-begins-under-subhiksha-keralam-project/article33596935.ece
18 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||MP for resuming emergency services at beach hospital||M.K. Raghavan, MP, has written to Health Minister K.K. Shylaja, seeking resumption of non-COVID treatment at the Government General Hospital, Kozhikode. A release quoting Mr. Raghavan said on Sunday that expert treatment was not being offered at the hospital now owing to COVID-19 spread. The General Hospital, ‘beach hospital’ in local parlance, is one of the two government hospitals in the district designated for COVID-19 treatment. The other such institution is the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode. Poor patients Mr. Raghavan pointed out that several poor patients from the city and outskirts were dependent on the beach hospital. However, after isolation wards were set up to treat COVID-19 patients, treatment for other diseases were suspended. The outpatient section, which had been functioning at the nearby Government School of Nursing, had recently been relocated to the hospital. “Disabled persons are the worst hit. Poor patients cannot afford to seek treatment at private hospitals. The government should begin emergency services at the beach hospital while adopting precautionary measures. Steps should also be taken to convene meetings of the hospital medical board, which have not been held since March last year,” Mr. Raghavan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mp-for-resuming-emergency-services-at-beach-hospital/article33596936.ece
18 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||677 cases in Kozhikode||As many as 677 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode district on Sunday and there were 457 recoveries. The daily test positivity rate surged to 13.47% when 5,045 samples were tested. According to the District Medical Officer, 659 of the fresh cases were through local transmission of the infection and the source was unknown in 15 others. Kozhikode Corporation had 190 locally acquired infections, Vadakara 44, Feroke 25 and Villiappilly 21. The active COVID-19 caseload is 6,716. A total of 5,229 people are in home isolation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/677-cases-in-kozhikode/article33596938.ece
18 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Stone laid for NCC’s naval unit boat house||As many as 1,700 select naval cadets from the Malabar region can be trained at the proposed Kerala Naval Unit Boat House of the National Cadet Corps (NCC) in Kozhikode, the foundation stone for which was laid by K.T. Jaleel, Minister for Higher Education, at Vengali here on Sunday. Mr. Jaleel said more people from the State would get the opportunity to serve in the Indian Navy through the facility. A release said that apart from basic training for the Indian Navy, cadets would be trained in swimming, kayaking, boat pulling, sailing expedition, rowing, surfing, scuba diving, yachting, and canoeing. Cadets from Kozhikode, Kannur, Kasaragod, Malappuram, Palakkad, and Wayanad districts would be benefited. A sum of Rs. 6.25 crore had been allocated for the construction of the boat house. Work on the approach road and fencing had been completed for Rs. 1.5 crore. M.K. Raghavan, MP, and Mayor Beena Philip, among others, were present.  Cadets from Malabar region, including Palakkad, will benefit||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stone-laid-for-nccs-naval-unit-boat-house/article33596928.ece
18 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Tractor rally in Kozhikode to support Delhi farmers||As part of the ongoing protests in support of the farmers’ agitation in New Delhi, the upland farmers from Kozhikode district will take part in a tractor rally covering various villages on Monday. Two tractors accompanied by many other vehicles will join the mass rally, which was flagged off from Kasaragod district on January 15. The two-day rally organised under the aegis of the Rashtriya Kisan Maha Sangh will call for better support from the State government to stand by the farmers and take up their demands with the Union government. The participants will also appeal to the newly elected local body members to pass resolutions against the new farm laws. Reception Arrangements have been made to accord reception to the participants of the rally in 12 locations in Kozhikode district. The main areas selected for the campaign are settler farmers’ belts such as Thiruvambady, Kodenchery, Thamarassery, Kattippara, Thalayad and Koorachundu. “Though we have been continuing with the rally for three days, the expected support from various political corners is yet to come. We have not restricted the entry of political supporters, but many are still with the opponents of farmers,” said Joy Kannanchira, State coordinator of the Rashtriya Kisan Maha Sangh. He said the protests across the country and the State were continuing with the active involvement of the farmers alone. Next delegation Mr. Kannanchira said the State-wide rally covering all districts would draw to a close at the Vizhinjam port on January 26. “After this, we will send the next delegation of farmers to join the Delhi agitation and think of other regional protests to keep alive the discussions,” he added. Under the Rashtriya Kisan Maha Sangh, 20 persons, including farmers and leaders of various farmers’ organisations, had left for Delhi earlier to join the protesters. This was apart from the delegations sent by the leaders of various other farm movements in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tractor-rally-in-kozhikode-to-support-delhi-farmers/article33596939.ece
18 January 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Stricter rules against tinted glass on vehicles||The enforcement wing of the Motor Vehicles Department launched a special vehicle-checking drive titled Operation Screen in the district on Sunday as part of a Statewide campaign against using curtains and tinted glass in vehicles. Regional Transport Officer (Enforcement) Sahadevan V.A. said the Supreme Court and the High Court had strictly warned against the use of vehicles with tinted glass and curtains. People had started taking this prohibition lightly as there was a lag in enforcement. Fine of Rs. 1,250 Mr. Sahadevan said that violation of the norms was found in 93 of the 250 vehicles inspected by four squads of the MVD enforcement. They were fined Rs. 1,250 each. The vehicle owners caught in the inspection were advised to remove curtains and screens and asked to produce the vehicle before the motor vehicle inspectors for re-examination. Those who do not pay the fine will be blacklisted, said Mr. Sahadevan. Motor vehicle inspectors P.M. Ravi Kumar, C.S. George and M.R. Sajeev led the Operation Screen in Palakkad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stricter-rules-against-tinted-glass-on-vehicles/article33597095.ece
18 January 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Session for tech entrepreneurs||The Kerala Startup Mission (KSUM) will hold an exclusive session for tech entrepreneurs on Tuesday as part of creating awareness among the entrepreneurs about the services and support system being provided by the KSUM incubation centre here. Registration Participants can explore the ecosystem at the incubation centre through the hour-long programme. They can register onhttp://bit.ly/supportatpkd. The session will be through Google Meet from 11 a.m. Programmes Experts will offer advice and tips on technical aspects and overall trade scene. The programmes at the Palakkad incubation centre include ‘Fail Fast or Succeed,’ ‘Meetup Café’ and ‘Membership in KSUM entrepreneurship.’ The centre here has been functioning for a year. Formed in 2006 as a nodal agency of the Kerala government for entrepreneurship development and incubation activities in the State, the KSUM undertakes planning, establishment and management of technology business incubators and accelerators so as to promote technology-based ventures by creating the infrastructure and environment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksum-session-for-tech-entrepreneurs/article33596944.ece
18 January 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Class 10 students may apply for scholarship||Akshara Foundation, a charitable trust working for the educational advancement of meritorious students from poor backgrounds in the district, has invited applications for its annual scholarships. Class 10 students who have a special interest in science can apply for the Akshara Foundation Scholarship, for which sixty students will be selected. They will get free classes in science during Plus One and Plus Two years, and can get an annual scholarship of up to Rs. 1 lakh for their higher studies. The last date to apply is February 20. For details about the scholarship and method of application, students can visit the websitewww.aksharapalakkad.orgor email the organisers ataksharapkd.office@gmail. comor call them at 6238786533. Selection process Anil Kumar K., chairman and managing trustee of Akshara Foundation, said awardees would be selected through written and oral screening tests. Students requiring genuine support would be chosen through a careful selection process and they would become part of the Akshara Cares project. He said the social commitment and responsibility of the students would also be considered for the scholarship. “We have been supporting a good number of students since 2012. As many as 85 of our students are studying in medical colleges, engineering colleges and other institutions of higher learning across the country,” said Mr. Anil Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/class-10-students-may-apply-for-scholarship/article33597093.ece
18 January 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Guruthi at Sabarimala tomorrow||Guruthi, one of the concluding rituals of the two-month pilgrimage season at Sabarimala, will be held on Tuesday . The offering, performed for propitiating the cohorts of Lord Ayyappa, will be held after the closure of the temple on Tuesday night. Prior to conducting the Guruthi ritual, the five-day long Vilakkezhunnellippu procession from the Manimandapam will conclude with a ceremonial procession to Saramkuthy on Monday. Though the Ayyappa temple will be opened at 5 a.m. on Wednesday, ‘darsan’ will be allowed only for the representative of the Pandalam royal family and the temple will be closed soon after. This will be followed by the customary key handing-over ceremony and the return journey of the sacred jewellery brought from the Pandalam Palace.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/guruthi-at-sabarimala-tomorrow/article33597010.ece
18 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Governor urged to save 150-year-old mango tree||A group of more than 100 residents of the city have written to Governor Arif Mohammed Khan seeking his intervention in protecting a 150-year-old mango tree on the Raj Bhavan premises from being cut down. The petition, endorsed by Mullakkara Ratnakaran, chairman of the environment committee of the Legislative Assembly; S.M. Vijayanand, former Chief Secretary; R.V.G. Menon; B.R.P. Bhaskar; S. Santhi; J. Devika; K.G. Thara; Achuthsankar S. Nair and organisations such as SEWA, Eco-solutions, and Tree Walk, urges the Governor to cancel the auction procedures under way for cutting the tree that has been identified as being in a ‘dangerous position’ by the garden supervisor and assistant engineer of the PWD civil wing. Tree Walk, a city-based collective of nature lovers, had petitioned the Governor’s office on the issue on December 21, the reply to which said the no-objection certificate for cutting the tree had been given by the Social Forestry Division. Highlighting the contribution of trees (some of them a few hundred years old as per the petition) on the Raj Bhavan campus in maintaining a micro-climate in the vicinity, the petition says the mango tree, behind ‘B’ type residential quarters, is part of a unique germplasm that is part of the heritage of the city and its loss cannot be compensated by planting new saplings. It urges the Governor to allow scientists from the Kerala Forest Research Institute in Thrissur to conduct a scientific assessment of the tree’s health, and its restoration by a team of tree doctors based in Kottayam. It also urges him to allow a few of the petitioners to view the tree. Reassessment The petition says that the NOC for cutting the tree was apparently given in 2018, and if the tree were unhealthy and dangerous, it would have fallen already. It also calls on the Governor to constitute a reassessment team comprising experts. The petitioners have also asked the Social Forestry wing to conduct a fresh assessment of the tree’s health.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/governor-urged-to-save-150-year-old-mango-tree/article33597128.ece
18 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State registers 5,005 cases||The State reported 5,005 new cases of COVID-19 on Sunday, when 52,310 samples were tested in the 24 hours. Test positivity rate was 9.57%, much higher than the past two days. The active case pool has risen to 68,991 and 4,408 recovered from the disease. 21 deaths The addition of 21 new deaths on Sunday to the official list has taken the State’s toll to 3,463. Pathanamthitta reported five deaths, Kollam three, Alappuzha, Thiruvananthapuram, Idukki, Thrissur, and Kozhikode two each while Kottayam, Wayanad, and Kannur reported one death each. Of the new cases reported on Sunday, in 68 cases, the Health Department has reported a history of travel outside the State while 4,937 are locally acquired infections. Amongst the locally acquired infections, in 388 cases the source of infection remains untraced while 43 health workers acquired the infection is 43. District-wise Among districts, Ernakulam continues to report the highest number of cases with 767 cases, Kozhikode 677, Malappuram 479, Kollam 439, Pathanamthitta 427, Kottayam 399, Alappuzha 302, Thiruvananthapuram 296, Thrissur 262, Kannur 239, Idukki 237, Wayanad 226, , Palakkad 348 and Kasaragod 79 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-registers-5005-cases/article33597005.ece
18 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||LDF prepares ground for seat-sharing||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) is bracing itself to navigate the “minefield” of Assembly seat-sharing delicately. The ruling front wants to preserve coalition unity as it makes an all-out bid for a second innings in power. According to a ruling front insider, informal talks are on between coalition partners. However, the LDF leadership is likely to start seat-distribution consultations by January end, probably after the Budget session of Assembly. The latest talking point in the LDF is reportedly the proposed merger between the Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD) and Janata Dal (S). Some leaders view the coming together of the parties could usher in a new calculus for seat-sharing, particularly in north Kerala. By some accounts, the merger proposal had caused an extent of uneasiness in the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)]. At least a few CPI(M) leaders had reportedly felt the JD(S) in Karnataka often displayed an “affinity” towards the BJP. A seemingly BJP-friendly JD(S) in the neighbouring State would provide ammunition to the Congress to attack the LDF at the hustings. Moreover, the LDF wanted to avoid the Vadakara constituency, a JD(S) stronghold, from becoming a bone of contention between the LJD and JD(S) factions in an amalgamated JD(S). The LDF is also keen to avoid a split in the State-unit of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) over accommodating Kerala Congress (M) leader Jose K. Mani’s aspiration to contest the Assembly elections from Pala. Mani C. Kappan who wrested Pala from the KC(M) in the Assembly byelection in 2019 has made it evident that he would quit the LDF than giving up the constituency. NCP State president T.P. Peethambaran had backed Mr. Kappan. However, Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran, another power centre in the NCP, reportedly held a different view. NCP leader Sharad Pawar is likely to arrive in Kerala to hold talks with LDF leaders. Congress leadership is reportedly keen to make Mr. Kappan jump ship. It has allegedly tested the water via intermediaries. The Congress is also monitoring the JD(S) developments with political intent. CPI’s demand The Communist Party of India (CPI) is also likely to seek more seats. Other coalition partners are also expected to put forward new demands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-prepares-ground-for-seat-sharing/article33597014.ece
18 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Global experts to take part in ‘Kerala Looks Ahead’||Exploring ways to boost its development by rewiring the economy, Kerala is to host a global conference next month to further enhance and modernise nine key sectors by seeking advice from international experts amid a changed world order and a new normal. The three-day ‘Kerala Looks Ahead’ (KLA) conference and consultation from February 1 looks at suggestions to achieve a paradigm shift in the State’s progress in the coming years, aiming at renewed work on the economic policy’s twin aspects — build on historic achievements in welfare and invigorate growth and development through technology. Nobel laureate economist Joseph Stiglitz and Soumya Swaminathan, Chief Scientist with World Health Organisation (WHO), are prominent among those who will address the inaugural session. Representatives of government, policymakers, experts and captains of industry, and heads of allied organisations will speak in the sectoral sessions. Nine themes Organised by the Kerala State Planning Board, the deliberations are set to focus on nine themes, locating their potentials and means to meet them best in a post-pandemic scenario. The sessions will cover the primary sector (agriculture, fisheries, and animal resources development); modern industrial possibilities; higher education (including international academic collaboration); skill development; tourism; information technology; e-governance; local governments; and federalism and development financing. “The State needs to strongly pursue development that can expand employment in various sectors with an emphasis on creating skilled jobs for the educated youth,” said Planning Board Vice Chairperson V.K. Ramachandran, as Kerala is set to initiate its 14th Five Year Plan. “We must strengthen and upgrade public education and health, capitalise on the network of social welfare, and add to the legacy of public action.” Venu V., Member Secretary, Planning Board, said Kerala’s famed achievements in human development merited a relook in the wake of the pandemic-induced crisis. “Not only do we need to modify our targets on health, education, social inclusion, and gender justice, but we must all the more employ modern science and technology in sectors such as agriculture, industry, IT, transport, and other large-scale infrastructure facilities.” Special session A special session on industry will be held on the final day, ahead of the concluding session. The inauguration on February 1 will be preceded by thematic sessions on software on January 24 and on hardware on January 27. Thematic sessions on agriculture and animal husbandry are also being planned on January 27 and 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/global-experts-to-take-part-in-kerala-looks-ahead/article33596924.ece
18 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Missing man found in godown near house||Two days after a woman had allegedly committed suicide in a pond, her differently-abled brother-in-law who was also suspected to have taken the extreme step was found in a godown nearby in Parassala on Sunday. Saraswathy, 60, of Thottinkara in Chenkal was found dead on Friday in a temple pond close to her house. After she had gone missing earlier in the day, a suspected suicide note was recovered from her home. In the letter, she purportedly claimed that the family was under the clutches of a money-lender from whom she had availed Rs. 2 lakh to send her son abroad two years ago. However, her inability to repay the mounting debt had prompted her to take the extreme step, it was claimed. She had purportedly decided to commit suicide along with her brother-in-law Nagendran, a differently-abled person. Her husband Nagarajan had died six years ago. While Saraswathy’s body had been found on the same day, an intensive search operation jointly conducted by the police and a scuba team of the Kerala Fire and Rescue Services could not trace Nagendran. The case took a strange turn on Sunday when a coconut tree climber found Nagendran sitting inside a godown close to the pond. He was subsequently hospitalised by the police. The police are yet to ascertain the circumstances that led to Nagendran’s disappearance for two days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/missing-man-found-in-godown-near-house/article33597134.ece
18 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Youth drowns in Kadhinamkulam lake||A 27-year-old youth from the city drowned in the Kadhinamkulam lake in the Chirayinkeezhu police station limits early Sunday morning. He was identified as Vignesh Akash, a resident of Udarasiromani Road, Vazhuthacaud. Vignesh and four of his friends who were on a drive had reached the lake, below the Azhoor bridge. After spending some time on the banks, Vignesh and another friend entered the water. A little way in, they got caught in the currents in a deep portion of the lake. While his friend was rescued by fishermen alerted by their cries, Vignesh who did not know swimming could not be found. The police and the Attingal Fire and Rescue Services too arrived but attempts to locate him at night failed. A scuba team of the fire force found his body in the morning from near the spot where he went missing. His body was taken to Government Medical College Hospital. The inquest was conducted and as the COVID-19 test emerged negative, the post-mortem examination will be conducted on Monday, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youth-drowns-in-kadhinamkulam-lake/article33597129.ece
18 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Gender budgeting touches Rs. 4,025-cr.||Gender budgeting in the State has continued to move in the right direction with allocations for women going to 19.54%, a huge improvement from 11.4% in 2017-18. The gross provision for women in the State budget in 2020-21 was 18.4%. While the allocation for women-specific schemes has come down from 7.3% in 2020-21 to 6.54%, indicating slower growth, that for composite schemes has risen from 11.1% to 13% in the same period. In 2020-21, Rs. 1,509.33-crore was allocated for women-specific schemes and Rs. 2,300.54-crore for composite schemes, taking the total gender budget for the year to Rs. 3,809.87 crore, which was 18.4% of the total Plan outlay. The total outlay for 2021-22 has increased to Rs. 4,025.4 crore (19.54%), with the allocation for women-specific components coming to Rs. 1,346.91 crore and that for composite schemes to Rs. 2,678.49 crore. The budget acknowledges that though slow, there has been a growth in flow of resources to women in 2021-22 despite the shortfall in GST revenues, fiscal constraints, and huge losses in production and employment. This is owing to the emphasis on women’s employment and livelihood support measures. Funds have been allocated for livelihood support projects for Kudumbashree, agriculture, animal husbandry, women and child development, and fisheries under the Rebuild Kerala Initiative. Though women have been included in composite schemes in agriculture and allied activities and sectors such as IT and ITes and industry and services, their share in employment generation though small is growing. It is expected that this year women will set up enterprises in select industrial parks, in nine of which women facilitation centres to support educated women’s participation in the workforce are proposed to be set up. A women entrepreneurship mission proposed by KSIDC, women entrepreneurship start-up programmes under the Kerala Startup Mission, Skill development and capacity building programmes, Gender Data Centre in collaboration with UN Women, a women football academy under the Kerala State Sports Council, building materials production unit by women, and allocation for civil defence of Kerala are some of the highlights of the gender budgeting this year. For Anganwadis The outlay for the Women and Child Development Department is Rs. 901 crore. Of this, Rs. 607 crore is for anganwadis. Monthly pension of anganwadi teachers has been increased to Rs. 2,000, and that of helpers to Rs. 1,500. Their monthly allowances too have been hiked. The outlay for women protection and development is Rs. 208 crore. Child friendly model grama panchayats will be encouraged. An amount of Rs. 84 crore has been earmarked for child protection and development.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gender-budgeting-touches-rs-4025-crore/article33596956.ece
18 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Gang attack: no arrests yet||No arrests have been made, but the police have identified the alleged perpetrators of the attack on the owners of a store near the post office at Anchuthengu on Saturday evening. The police said Pawan Prakash and a few others were responsible for the attack on Kiran Joseph, 19, and Jithin Joseph, 17, the owners of the men’s apparel store, around 7.30 p.m. The accused came on motorcycles and threw a country bomb near the apparel store. They then entered the store, ransacked it, and attacked Kiran and Jithin as well as Daniel, 21, who was inside at the time, with lethal weapons. After threatening the local people, they headed to a juice shop near the Meerankadavu bridge and attacked Akash, 17, and Arun, 18, after hurling another country bomb. They then went to other places and attacked other people too, the police said . Kiran, who is a CPI(M) Anchuthengu committee member, Jithin, and Daniel were taken to a private hospital in the city, while Akash and Arun were taken to Government Medical College Hospital and admitted to the intensive care unit. The Anchuthengu police said the accused would be arrested on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gang-attack-no-arrests-yet/article33597130.ece
18 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||District nursery nearing completion||The establishment of the district nursery is nearing completion on a one-acre plot held by the Kerala Prisons and Correctional Services Department in Poojappura. The facility, which is one among five such nurseries being launched across the State (the others being in Kasaragod, Palakkad, Pathanamthitta and Wayanad), is intended to supply seedlings throughout the year. The project, which is part of the government’s 100-day action plan, is likely to be inaugurated in February. The proposed nurseries will boost production of seedlings that has so far been limited to the central forest nurseries in Kulathupuzha (in Kollam), Chettikulam (in Chalakudy) and Karimpuzha (in Nilambur). According to Y.M. Shajikumar, Assistant Conservator of Forests (Social Forestry), Thiruvananthapuram, the nursery and sale counter is being readied up on a land, around 100 metres away from the petrol pump run by the Prisons Department in Poojappura. He pointed out that fruit-bearing and timber-yielding species will form a bulk of seedlings nurtured at the nursery. A plant library, which will adjoin the nursery, will provide extensive information about diverse plant varieties and is bound to attract numerous people, especially school students. The district nurseries are being established using funds sanctioned by the Compensatory Afforestation Fund Management and Planning Authority (CAMPA).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/district-nursery-nearing-completion/article33597133.ece
18 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Two held under POCSO||A 71-year-old man and his son were arrested by the Vellarada police for allegedly sexually abusing two minor girls. The accused were identified as Balaraj and his son Raj, 45, of Kudayal in Vellarada. They have been accused of sexually assaulting the sisters aged 11 and seven years in their house. The incident came to light when the children recounted their ordeal to their school teachers, who later tipped-off Childline. Booked under provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO) , the duo has been remanded to judicial custody, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-held-under-pocso/article33597000.ece
18 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Vaccination to resume today||COVID-19 vaccination will resume in the State on Monday on a regular basis, when the vaccine would be administered to health-care workers four days a week. Accordingly, vaccination would be held on Mondays, Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays. Wednesdays will be avoided so as not to disrupt the childhood immunisation which regularly takes place on this day. The State will continue to have 133 sites and the target will be to administer the vaccine to 100 persons at every site. Some vaccination sites will be re-located as on the launch day itself, the vaccination of the registered health workers had been completed. District administration will decide the sites or shift the sites as required. From Monday, vaccination will be held in the designated sites from 9 a.m. till 5 p.m. Registered health workers will receive an SMS message on the site allocated to them and time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vaccination-to-resume-today/article33597013.ece
18 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kudumbashree to market bottled water||The Kudumbashree has been entrusted with distribution of Hilly Aqua, the State government’s bottled water brand. Hilly Aqua is manufactured by Kerala Irrigation Infrastructure Development Corporation Ltd., a PSU under the Water Resources Department, at a plant in Aruvikkara. Twenty-litre cans of Hilly Aqua are now reaching the market through the Kudumbashree. A 20-litre can will cost Rs. 60. The plant can manufacture 2,720 20-litre cans a day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kudumbashree-to-market-bottled-water/article33596999.ece
18 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||296 COVID-19 cases in capital||The district registered 296 COVID-19 cases and as many as 431 recoveries as the number of active cases fell significantly to 3,407 on Sunday. While 4,317 people were subjected to testing during the last 24 hours, the test positivity rate stood at 6.8. Among the fresh cases, all except two imported cases have been attributed to local transmission. The source of infection in 100 cases were unknown. Five health workers were also among those who tested positive. The death toll in the district is currently 701. As many as 20,820 people in houses and 74 in various institutions are currently under quarantine in the district. While these included 1,523 who were included to the quarantine list on the day, as many as 1,215 people were excluded from restrictions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/296-covid-19-cases-in-capital/article33597132.ece
18 January 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||New zoo all set to welcome residents||The first phase of the zoological park at Puthur, one of the largest such parks in south India, which provides ample space and green cover for animals, will be ready for inauguration soon. Once the zoological park, being set up on 338 acres of land in Puthur, on the outskirts of Thrissur, is ready, animals will be shifted from the Thrissur zoo to the new facility. A bit of history The current zoo, situated in the heart of the city, was first established in Viyyur as ‘Viyyur Zoo’. As it failed to receive the expected number of visitors it was closed in 1898. Later it was relocated to Chembukkavu in the city, near the Cochin State Museum, in 1913. Situated in 13.5 acres of land, Thrissur zoo is one of the oldest such facilities in the country itself. Currently it is home to 50-odd varieties of wild animals. It includes a zoological garden, botanical Garden, Nakshathra Vanam, museum, and 3D theatre. Space constraints and unavailability of land for expansion in the city are the main reasons for the shifting of the zoo to Puthur. The work of the zoological park has been progressing with the KIIFB (Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board) fund. An amount of Rs. 269.75 crore was allotted from KIIFFB to the Rs. 360-crore zoo project. The rest of the amount will be given by the State government. The zoological park has been designed to provide a forest-like ambience to the wild animals. Instead of congested cages, the animals will get more space to roam about. Separated by glass, the viewer’s gallery provides a better view of animals in their natural habitat. It is expected that the animals can be shifted by mid-February. Twenty-three natural habitats are being set up for the animals in the park. Basic infrastructure for visitors, a zoo-hospital complex and parking facility are getting ready. The first phase has cages for birds, lion-tailed macaques, and bisons. Work of the administration block is also nearing completion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-zoo-all-set-to-welcome-residents/article33597138.ece
18 January 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||262 cases in Thrissur||A total of 262 COVID-19 cases were reported in the district on Sunday, while 433 people recovered from the pandemic. There are 5,192 active cases in the district. So far 81,504 COVID-19 cases have been reported in Thrissur and 75,923 people have recovered. According to official figures, 249 people, including four health workers, contracted the disease through local transmission on Sunday. On the day, 3,824 people were under home care and 108 hospitalised for COVID-19 treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/262-cases-in-thrissur/article33597091.ece
18 January 2021||January 18 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||This kitchen cooks up a timely storm||A leaking sink, uncomfortable close-up shots of leftover food, repeated shots of vegetables being cut, the smoke and fire of rice being cooked in a hearth, the clanging of the plates being washed and a drab, unremarkable kitchen that almost becomes solitary confinement for the female protagonist. These are the images that fill the screen for much of the run time in Jeo Baby’s The Great Indian Kitchen , streaming now on Neestream. It is clearly a conscious choice, for the intention here is not to please, but to disturb, to raise questions, and to make the proud practitioners of patriarchy squirm in their seats. No names As if to convey that this is a story that represents many, the characters have no names. The film begins from a typical ‘pennu kanal’ scene, where an awkward conversation later, two strangers (Nimisha Sajayan and Suraj Venjaramoodu) get married. From this point on, the woman, as well as the viewers, are confined to the kitchen mostly. She warms up to it initially, but the suger-coated imposing of more work by the father-in-law and the husband, who are averse to moving their muscles (other than for yoga), slowly gets to her. The father-in-law especially is a relic, who shuns all mechanical devices and prefers that she cooks the rice in a hearth and advises her against using the mixer grinder or the washing machine. While in mainstream movies of the past, this work was glorified as something that completes the woman, here the movie places it as something being imposed on her. A remarkable thing here is that both the men are not portrayed as angry or violent characters, but as soft-spoken ones who calmly impose their will on the woman, like slow, sweet poison. How the father-in-law asks her not to take up a job at a dance school, for example. This portrayal is potent, because it makes these characters more identifiable with a lot of people around us. In a breathtaking scene, Suraj displays controlled anger when asked about the difference in his table manners inside and outside the home. In the next scene, Nimisha is again lovingly forced to apologise against her will, just like how she involuntarily participates in sexual acts with him. The script also takes head on the regressive notions of impurity associated with menstruation, and places it firmly in the context of the Supreme Court verdict on women’s entry into Sabarimala. It does not shy away from taking a stand here. All through the film, one senses the rage welling up inside Nimisha, about to burst open. It does, and how, in two separate scenes in the climax, that can be hard to take for some. The repeated scenes set in the kitchen seem to be calculated, to tire out the viewer and give a sense of the sheer drudgery that many women go through. Through that, the film clinically strips away the greatness thrust upon this work by those who want to shirk it. S.R. Praveen||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/this-kitchen-cooks-up-quite-a-timely-storm/article33596988.ece
18 January 2021||January 18 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Back on the pitch||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/back-on-the-pitch/article33596932.ece
18 January 2021||January 18 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Charm of countryside||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/charm-of-countryside/article33597018.ece
18 January 2021||January 18 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Elected and elated||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/elected-and-elated/article33597003.ece
18 January 2021||January 18 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Bypoll campaign||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bypoll-campaign/article33597097.ece
18 January 2021||January 18 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Following traffic laws||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/following-traffic-laws/article33597127.ece
18 January 2021||January 18 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||No space to walk||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-space-to-walk/article33597136.ece
18 January 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vishnuvardhan alleges bid to remove temple ‘balipeetham’||A social media post by Bharatiya Janata Party State general secretary S. Vishnuvardhan Reddy alleging efforts by the municipal and district officials to remove ‘balipeetham’ of Kadiri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy Temple created a flutter in the district and people gathered around the structure abutting the ‘Mada streets’ on Sunday afternoon. When contacted, Temple Executive Officer D. Venkateswar Reddy told The Hindu that there was no such effort and it was spread on social media by some miscreants. “We opened the iron grill around it to do a ritualistic puja after the completion of ‘Sankranti’ festival and closed it again, which seems to have given an idea to people to spread such a rumour,” he pointed out. There was a proposal by the municipality to widen some of the streets around the temple, which also seems to have given rise to such a rumour. “The Lord is given rest at these balipeethams -- eight of which are there around the ancient temple, while the deities are taken out in procession during Bhrahmotsavams once a year in the Mada streets, occasionally ‘samprokhanam puja’ is done opening the protective grill,” Mr. Reddy said. Mr. Vishnuvardhan Reddy had alleged in his tweet with photos that government and officials seem to be deliberately disturbing Hindu temples and had questioned them as to what do they gain by attacking the temples. District In-Charge Collector A. Siri in a statement urged the people not to believe news about efforts to remove the ‘balipeetham’ in Kadiri temple and advised them not to spread falsehood on social media. In another such news on social media about the desecration of idols at Gagan Mahal in Penukonda (built by Vijayanagara kings), the State Archaeology Assistant Director Rajitha said all the idols were safe and in the same condition since 2014. She appealed to people not to spread such news.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vishnuvardhan-alleges-bid-to-remove-temple-balipeetham/article33597073.ece
18 January 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman dies, 17 hurt as auto-rickshaw overturns||A woman died and 16 people sustained injuries when an auto-rickshaw with 18 farm labourers on board overturned on the National Highway-67 close to Guntakal town in the early hours of Sunday. The labourers, all residents of Konakondla village in Vajrakarur mandal, were proceeding towards Gummanur village in Chippagiri Mandal of Kurnool district for work. The deceased has been identified as Ramanamma (36), while the condition of Suma (30) among injured is stated to be critical. The driver of the overloaded auto-rickshaw could not notice a heap of soil piled up on the under-construction stretch of the highway and ran the vehicle over it, leading to the accident, said Vajrakarur Sub-Inspector T.P. Venkataswamy. All the injured were shifted to Guntakal Government Hospital first and four people who sustained grievous injuries were sent to Kurnool GGH. Except for Ms. Suma, the other injured are stated to be out of danger.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-dies-17-hurt-as-auto-rickshaw-overturns/article33596682.ece
18 January 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Leopards’ movement worries villages||People of half a dozen hamlets in Kurabalakota mandal bordering the forests of Karnataka are on the edge after two leopards reportedly killed livestock during the last couple of days. Forest officials have confirmed the movement of two leopards at the fringe villages at the foot of a hill near Kurabalakota. The villagers deplored that after being hit hard economically due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the loss of livestock adds to the woes. According to information, two leopards were repeatedly sighted in the forest fringe villages. As cattle herders mostly depend on wild grass in the adjoining forests, they are a worried lot. Deputy Range Officer (Madanapalle) Madan Mohan said that field staff was sent to verify the facts in the affected villages. “The jungle terrain is so vast on both sides of Madanapalle range and Karnataka,” he said. Meanwhile, field officials observed that their visit to the rural side revealed that though there was a movement of leopards, there was no sign of the wild animals attacking the livestock.  Note of caution “It is possible that some miscreants might have taken away the sheep during the recent festivals. This might have been mistaken for leopards killing them. We have cautioned the villagers of forested belt not to keep their livestock outside for a considerable period,” a staff member said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/leopards-movement-worries-villages/article33596685.ece
18 January 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vendors in high spirits as demand shoots up for fish in Chittoor||The rising concern over consuming chicken and other poultry products due to bird flu scare, coupled with skyrocketing meat prices, have prompted public in the district to turn to the fish markets, catapulting the fortunes of fish sellers. After a lull of a couple of months due to the Karthika Masam and Dhanurmasam (November-mid January), when there was a decline in non-vegetarian consumption, the markets are seeing a steady rise in buyers again. But with the bird flu outbreak in the country and many States sounding an alert, the public is apprehensive about buying poultry products. The price of goat or sheep meat has also touched a high of Rs. 740 a kg, leaving no option for them but to go for fish. And much to their satisfaction, the fish prices remained normal as were before the festive season. Several varieties of tank fish stood at Rs. 140 a kg. The fish markets at Tirupati, Srikalahasti, Chittoor, Puttur, Nagari and elsewhere in the district saw huge crowds on Sunday. Babu Reddy, a fish vendor in Puttur, said that a number of tanks in the eastern mandals received good inflows after bountiful rain in the last six months. Rearing fish in all tanks is under brisk progress, he says. “We have almost all varieties of tank fish available now. The situation is expected to continue for several months. We find no need to increase the prices, though we can take advantage of the bird flu threat.” ‘Goat meat too pricey’ Uday, a police personnel in Tirupati, said that the price of mutton at Rs. 740 a kg is too much for a common man. “We find from a cross section of consumers that post the COVID-19 crisis, the purchasing power of several segments has come down. The bird flu scare has played the role of a catalyst to support fish markets. Moreover, dieticians too concentrated on protein-rich food.” Meanwhile, the chicken prices continued to remain at Rs. 150 a kg, despite a drastic fall in number of takers. “The plight of poultry for the current season would be clear in the next one week. Till then, the orders could be balanced to maintain the present tag,” said a chicken shop owner in Chittoor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vendors-in-high-spirits-as-demand-shoots-up-for-fish-in-chittoor/article33597085.ece
18 January 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Duo from Karnataka on ‘chain-snatching spree’||A motorbike-borne duo, believed to be from Karnataka, allegedly embarked on a chain-snatching spree in Yadamarri and Puthalapattu mandals on Saturday, committing four offences in a span of a few hours, with two women suffering minor injuries while being robbed by the miscreants. According to information, the two miscreants zeroed in on three points on the Bengaluru-Chennai National Highway in Yadamarri mandal, 20 km from here, snatching gold chains from three women hailing from different villages. Later, the duo reached a remote village in Puthalapattu mandal close to the Tirupati-Bengaluru NH, where a woman was robbed of her jewelry. Police personnel of respective stations immediately alerted the control room, where CCTV footage was verified. Two miscreants with their faces covered were seen zooming past on a motorbike at the village points where the four incidents were reported. Circle Inspector (Rural West) C. Lakshmikanth Reddy said that solid leads were obtained in all the four cases, pointing to the involvement of a two-member gang. “Preliminary investigation revealed that the duo was from Karnataka. A special team was formed to track them,” the police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/duo-from-karnataka-on-chain-snatching-spree/article33596684.ece
18 January 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bid to vandalise place of worship||Unidentified persons reportedly made a bid to vandalise a place of worship at Nagarireddipalle village of Gangavaram mandal in the early hours of Sunday. They set fire to the ceremonial cloth meant to cover the sacred tomb. However, they fled from the spot owing to public movement in the area. Palamaner sub-division police rushed to the village and inspected the place of worship. “There is no tension in the village. We spoke to the elders of all communities and prompted the villagers to lodge a complaint, considering the volatile situation elsewhere in the State. We are verifying some clues,” said Deputy SP Sridhar, adding that peace and village protection committees had been formed across the sub-division.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bid-to-vandalise-place-of-worship/article33596913.ece
18 January 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pedalandariki Illu: first model house inaugurated||Narasaraopet Member of Parliament Lavu Srikrishnadevarayulu inaugurated the first house constructed under the Pedarandariki Illu scheme at Komarapudi village in Sattenapalli mandal of Guntur district on Sunday. The MP, along with Sattenapalli MLA Ambati Rambabu, performed the housewarming of the residence owned by Narala Ratnakumari, who built the house with financial assistance of Rs. 1.80 lakh given by the State government. The layout, extending to 3.22 acres, has 117 plots. All beneficiaries were given the plots on December 25 last year, and Ratna Kumari has become the first person to build her house on 340 square yards. “I used to stay in a rented house by paying Rs. 200 per month. Now, I have my own house,” Ms. Ratna Kumari said. Mr. Krishnadevarayulu said that the beneficiaries would now be able to have a house of their own, and thanked Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy for the project. “The State government was able to procure land and make layouts in a record 18 months,” he said. Further, the State government would develop the layouts with all amenities and facilities like a modern gated community. The YSR Colonies will be developed as model colonies,” Mr. Krishnadevarayulu added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pedalandariki-illu-first-model-house-inaugurated/article33596687.ece
18 January 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kabaddi player dies on court||A kabaddi player died on the court during a match organised as part of a district-level meet in Vallur mandal on Sunday. The player, identified as Narendra hailing from Kondapeta in Chennur mandal, was a postgraduate in commerce. Having penchant for the sport, he participated in the event conducted at Ganganapalli village on Sunday. He was caught by the rival team members. After the referee blew the whistle, the rival team released him. Narendra got up to walk towards his team’s court and collapsed all of a sudden. He was rushed to Rajiv Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) at Kadapa immediately, where the doctors declared him brought dead. Post-mortem was performed on his body at the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kabaddi-player-dies-on-court/article33597074.ece
18 January 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Less than 50% turn up for vaccination on second day||The number of healthcare professionals and workers opting to get vaccinated for COVID-19 by taking a shot of Serum India’s Covishield in Kurnool and Anantapur districts dropped to a large extent on the second day of the massive exercise on Sunday. According to Kurnool District Medical and Health Officer Rama Giddaiah, while they were given a target of 2,495 shots on day two, only 1,025 persons turned up at one of the 27 designated session sites in the district. On Saturday too, against a target of 2,700 only 1,425 persons took the vaccination shot. The district received 40,500 doses of the Covishield vaccine for the first phase to run for 20 days. All the five persons who showed symptoms of nausea in the district on Saturday were doing well and none reported any adverse reaction on Sunday. In Anantapur, the number of persons, who took the vaccination shot on Sunday came down to 746 at 23 session sites in the district against a target of 2,047. On inaugural day on Saturday, out of a targetetted 2,300 healthcare professionals, only 1,616 turned up for vaccination. Meanwhile, the lone person who developed adverse symptoms, a health worker, Akhila Begum, was shifted to the general ward in Government General Hospital in Anantapur and was fine, doctors said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/less-than-50-turn-up-for-vaccination-on-second-day/article33597087.ece
18 January 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chinna Jeeyar begins ‘Chaitanya Yatra’ from Mantralayam||Sri Tridandi Chinna Srimannarayana Ramanuja Jeeyar Swami has appealed to the devotees to take up the responsibility of protecting the Hindu places of worship upon themselves and not just visit a temple and pray there. Before setting out on the State-wide ‘Chaitanya Yatra’ from Mantralayam in Kurnool district on Sunday to create awareness among the people on the need to desist from desecration of temples and other places of worship, Jeeyar Swami told the devotees that he had spoken to the Endowments Minister and the TTD Chairman seeking their intervention in protecting the places of worship, and that they had assured him of early action to protect all the temples. He began his journey from the Sri Raghavendra Swamy Mutt after having a word with its Peethadhipati Subudhendra Teertha. At Varugur in Mantralayam mandal, he visited the Lakshminarasimha Swamy temple, which was desecrated two months ago. He went to Kosigi and from there to Adoni for night halt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chinna-jeeyar-begins-chaitanya-yatra-from-mantralayam/article33597076.ece
18 January 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||APRA sees need for anti-superstition law||The Andhra Pradesh Rationalists’ Association (APRA) on Sunday demanded immediate enactment of an anti-superstition law to end the atrocities committed across the country. A resolution adopted at the APRA State conference noted that multi-ethnic India was a land of many superstitions. Its president N. Venkata Subbaiah expressed concern over the incidents of deaths related to witch-hunt, which were on the rise in the country. It also resolved to step up campaign by joining hands with like-minded organisations to promote scientific temper to usher in a progressive society, it said. The APRA lamented that the secular character of the Constitution was followed more in breach than in practice, and decried the alleged attempts being made to alter the basic structure of the Constitution by those in power. Noted atheist Samaram Gora objected to the legislative intervention to curb inter-faith marriages in Uttar Pradesh. Mr. Venkata Subbaiah was re-elected APRA State president. G.V. Krishnaiah from Kurnool was elected general secretary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apra-sees-need-for-anti-superstition-law/article33597077.ece
18 January 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Rowdy-sheeter’ stabbed to death||A 25-year-old ‘rowdy-sheeter’, Kanchipati Satish, was brutally murdered by his rivals following a dispute over a two-wheeler at his residence at Ademma Dibba area in Rajamahendravaram city late on Saturday night. Rajamahendravaram city III Town CI K. Durga Prasad said that Satish was stabbed to death by his rivals led by one Durga Prasad alias Buddha, also a rowdy-sheeter. “Post-mortem was performed at the District Government Hospital in the city and the accused are absconding,” said the CI. The rival group took the advantage of the dispute over a two-wheeler to perpetrate the crime, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/history-sheeter-stabbed-to-death/article33596915.ece
18 January 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Dongala Mandapam’ in a state of ruin||A structure that used to be a place of shelter for devotees visiting Tirupati for four centuries is now a pale shadow of its former self, thanks to the apathy of officials and public indifference. The 16th century structure located at Mangalam, once a deserted village and now in the eastern suburbs of Tirupati, is locally known as ‘Dongala Mandapam’. In fact, there are several such structures known by the name ‘Dongala Mandapam’ on the various routes towards Tirupati. The structure used to provide shelter to devotees arriving towards Tirumala from Srikalahasti and beyond. Built by the Vijayanagara kings for the benefit of the public, the pavilion abutting thick forests used to provide shelter to the trekking devotees from heat and rain, apart from ensuring safety from wild animals by facilitating night stay. The rock structure is now in a shambles with thick vegetation growth all over. Emani Sivanagi Reddy, noted archaeologist and Chief Executive Officer of Cultural Centre of Vijayawada and Amaravathi, paid a visit to the spot recently along with B.V. Ramana, a nature enthusiast, when, to his utter dismay, he found the structure in a dilapidated condition. Dr. Reddy appealed to the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) and State Department of Archaeology and Museums to safeguard the monument for posterity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dongala-mandapam-in-a-state-of-ruin/article33597089.ece
18 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||13,041 persons turn up to get the jab on Day 2||Only 47.8% beneficiaries who had registered themselves for vaccination against COVID-19 received the vaccine on the second day at 308 session sites across the State as of 8.30 p.m. on Sunday, the Health Department said. Officials planned to vaccinate 27,009 beneficiaries at 312 session sites, but only 13,041 of them received the shots. The remaining did not turn up due to various reasons. Two ‘adverse event’ cases Two cases of Adverse Event Following Immunisation (AEFI) were reported in Krishna and Nellore districts. In East Godavari, 1,959 persons were given the vaccine shots and in Vizianagaram, only 584 persons received the vaccine. On the first day too, only 61% of the beneficiaries were vaccinated. The department had asked the remaining beneficiaries to get themselves vaccinated on Sunday. The government planned to administer the vaccine to 100 persons per session site and 32,000 persons in a day across the State. There are 3.7 lakh healthcare workers eligible to receive the vaccine in the first phase, and most of them had registered themselves for vaccination. At present, Covishield vaccine was being administered as the State received 3.7 lakh doses. Only 20,000 doses of Covaxin doses were received.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/13041-persons-turn-up-to-get-the-jab-on-day-2/article33597071.ece
18 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP targeting Police Dept. over idol desecration issue: Minister||Endowments Minister Vellampalli Srinivas accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of targeting the Police Department over the attacks on the places of worship in the State. Addressing the media on Sunday, the Minister said it was unfortunate that the BJP State president Somu Veerraju and party’s MLC P.V.N. Madhav had trained their guns on the Police Department. “Mr. Veerraju has written a letter threatening the Director General of Police (DGP). Mr. Madhav has said that he will complain to the Central government. Let them lodge a complaint with the Centre. The DGP will provide evidence for the charges against the BJP leaders, who were involved in vandalisation of the temples. The government will take strict action if any one tries to extract political gain out of the issue,” said Mr. Srinivas. Further, the Minister questioned the BJP’s alliance with Jana Sena Party (JSP) alleging that its president Pawan Kalyan was hurting the sentiments of the Hindus. “Why were the BJP leaders silent when 40 temples were demolished in Vijayawada during the tenure of the previous government. Why were they silent when a chariot was burnt in Tadepalligudem?” he asked. The Minister said that the State government handed over the Antarvedi chariot burning case to the CBI on September 11, 2020. “The State government has also formed a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to probe into the offences at the places of worship. However, the opposition parties are trying to create communal divide for political gain,” he said. “There is no truth in the allegations levelled by the BJP that the government is encouraging religious conversions. Rather, it is providing financial assistance to the archakas, pastors and imams,” said Mr. Srinivas, adding that TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu had no moral right to speak on the Hindus and temples. Funds for temples “The TDP government sanctioned Rs. 150 crore for the development of temples between 2014 and 2019. The YSRCP government has sanctioned Rs. 168 crore for the development of temples in 18 months. Also, Rs. 70 crore has been sanctioned for development works at Kanakadurga temple in Vijayawada,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-targeting-police-dept-over-idol-desecration-issue-minister/article33597081.ece
18 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||One dies in Vizag, 161 new infections in State||The State reported one death and 161 new COVID infections in the 24 hours ending Sunday morning as 36,091 samples were tested during the period. The cumulative tally increased to 8,85,985 while the death toll reached 7,140, with a recovery rate of 98.98% and a death rate of 0.81%. In the past day, 251 patients recovered taking the total number of recoveries to 8,76,949 and leaving 1,896 patients under treatment across the State. Positivity rate The positivity rate of the tests conducted in the past day was 0.45% and the overall positivity rate of 1.257 crore samples tested so far was 7.04%. The lone death was reported in Visakhapatnam district. Chittoor has again reported the highest number of infections in the past day among the districts and the only district to see more than 50 new cases. 52 cases in Chittoor The district-wise new infections are as follows: Chittoor (52), Krishna (26), Guntur (19), East Godavari (12), Srikakulam (12), West Godavari (11), Visakhapatnam (7), Kurnool (6), Anantapur (5), Prakasam (5), Nellore (3) and Vizianagaram (3). Kadapa district reported no new infection. The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,24,067), West Godavari (94,103), Chittoor (86,785), Guntur (75,282), Anantapur (67,558), Nellore (62,261), Prakasam (62,115), Kurnool (60,729), Visakhapatnam (59,526), Kadapa (55,158), Krishna (48,335), Srikakulam (46,065) and Vizianagaram (41,106).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/one-dies-in-vizag-161-new-infections-in-state/article33597068.ece
18 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||LED bulbs to be distributed from next month||The State government is planning to distribute LED bulbs to households in the rural areas of Krishna district with the support of Energy Efficiency Services Ltd. (EESL) as part of its objective to promote energy efficiency from next month. The EESL will invest around Rs. 450 crore to distribute four high-quality LED bulbs to each family for the replacement of conventional and inefficient bulbs. According to Energy Department officials, the EESL will inaugurate the ‘Gram Ujala’ scheme in five districts: Varanasi (Uttar Pradesh), Vadnagar (Gujarat), Krishna (Andhra Pradesh), Nagpur (Maharashtra) and Arrah (Bihar) in February. Krishna district has been selected for distribution of around 8.84 lakh LED bulbs in villages. Energy Secretary N. Srikant stated in a press release that LED was a highly energy-efficient lighting technology and that residential LEDs consume at least 75% less energy and last 25 times longer than incandescent lights. The LEDs emit less heat compared to incandescent bulbs and CFLs which release 90% and 80% of their energy as heat respectively. EESL will distribute LED bulbs at subsidized prices in exchange of 60W / 7W LED bulb and 100 W / 12 W LED bulbs at a nominal price of Rs. 10 each. EESL executive vice-chairman Saurabh Kumar told Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy during a recent meeting that the State was considered one of the best States in implementing energy efficiency programmes and overall performance in the power sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/led-bulbs-to-be-distributed-from-next-month/article33596688.ece
18 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cement price hike will hit construction sector: TDP||TDP national spokesman K. Pattabhi Ram has slammed the State government for imposing a heavy burden on the commoner by increasing the prices of cement by up to Rs. 350 to Rs. 400 per bag. “It will be a big blow to the already ailing construction industry in the State,” Mr. Pattabhi Ram told the media on Sunday and alleged that the move was aimed at benefiting the Bharati Cements. “Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s family enjoys 49% stake in Bharati Cements. His wife, Bharati, is a director in the company,” he said. “The company’s latest financial report indicates that it has achieved ‘record profits’ thanks to the increase in the selling price in Andhra Pradesh,” the TDP leader said. Mr. Pattabhi Ram also accused the Chief Minister of encouraging the syndicate of cement companies in the State to jack up prices in the past 19 months, regardless of the fact that it was crushing the dream of the common man to build and own a house.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cement-price-hike-will-hit-construction-sector-tdp/article33597078.ece
18 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sisodia praises education reforms in State||Manish Sisodia, Deputy Chief Minister and Education Minister of Delhi, has said political will is key to usher in change and the Andhra Pradesh government has shown it to bring revolutionary changes in the education sector. Speaking at an educational conference organised remotely by the Department of Education, Delhi, on Sunday, Mr. Sisodia expressed willingness to send his team to the State to study the A.P. model . “When teams from other States visit Delhi to study our education model, I try to see the driving force behind them, whether it is mere curiosity and more than that. When I met the team from A.P., I could sense the political will to transform the sector,” he said and went on to explain that Delhi and A.P. had been working together, sharing ideas. State Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh appreciated Mr. Sisodia for creating a platform through the conference to share the best practices being followed by various States in the education sector. He said the common goal was to address the challenges of accessibility, affordability, quality, equity and accountability to usher in a paradigm shift in the education ecosystem. Mr. Suresh said much before the National Education Policy (NEP)-2020 was rolled out in July, AP had appointed an Educational Reforms Committee and implemented its recommendations, most of which were in line with the NEP. The State constituted two statutory bodies -- AP Regulatory and Monitoring Commission for School Education and Higher Education, tasked with finalising fee structure and other key aspects like infrastructure facility, uniformity and pedagogy. “We also created planning boards to design a uniform curriculum and roped in experts, including administrators, academicians and policy-makers from across the country,” he said, stating that the government put in place structural reforms to streamline the regulatory and monitory mechanism, which had started giving good result. Welfare schemes Referring to welfare schemes like Amma Vodi and Jagananna Vidya Kanuka, he said teachers, parents and children were motivated to come into the education fold by incentivising them.The Minister said education, along with agriculture and medical and health were the priority areas of the government. “The fact that 16% to 18% of the total budget is being allocated to the education sector speaks of our commitment to improve the scenario,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/delhi-dy-cm-praises-education-reforms-in-state/article33597149.ece
18 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||MLC aspirant promises to work for repeal of CPS||P. Venkata Mallikarjuna Rao, the State Teachers’ Union (STU)-backed MLC candidate from Krishna-Guntur teacher constituency in the ensuing elections to the Legislative Council in March, said on Sunday said that besides working to find solutions to the problems faced by the teachers, he would work for revocation of the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS). Mr. Rao said through the junior college he had established in Guntur, he extended education facility to scores of students and worked as a visiting faculty in many degree, MBA and MCA colleges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mlc-aspirant-promises-to-work-for-repeal-of-cps/article33597082.ece
18 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Why no action against pastor, asks Bandaru||The AP Police has failed to initiate action against pastor Praveen Chakravarthy for purportedly making derogatory comments against the Hindu religion in a video that has gone viral, TDP leader Bandaru Satyanarayana Murthy has alleged. Addressing the media on Sunday, Mr. Murthy said the pastor’s comments had exposed the deep conspiracy behind the attack on Hinduism in the State. “Strangely, the police are implicating the people posting their comments in the social media demanding protection of temples and idols,” the TDP leader alleged. The DGP did not respond despite being cautioned by TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu, he alleged. The police had wasted one full year without arresting the pastor despite his “hate speech,” the TDP leader alleged. “The DGP should explain why he had not ordered an inquiry into the activities of the pastor,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/why-no-action-against-pastor-asks-bandaru/article33597079.ece
18 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Meat shops do brisk business during Sankranti in the district||Meat shops did brisk business during the last couple of days. Long queues were seen at many meat shops since morning on Friday in the district on the occasion of Kanuma. On Sunday, there was a similar situation. People stood in long queues to purchase chicken and mutton since early morning. According to the president of Poultry Association of Visakhapatnam district, T. Apparao, the chicken sales dropped slightly in the city on Saturday while there was increase in the rural areas of the district. Most of the city folk have gone to their native places to celebrate Sankranti, due to which the sales have dropped. However, the chicken stalls witnessed good sales again on Sunday as many people returned. “Generally on Sunday, there will be a sale of about 2.30 lakh birds, but on Sunday, there was a 20% extra sale in the city limits. On Friday, there was a 40% extra sale compared to normal days in rural areas,” says Mr. Apparao. Liquor sales up Meanwhile, liquor sales also witnessed an increase in the district during Sankranti. According to the statistics available on the CM dashboard, from January 1 to January 15, the depots from the district sold about 1,29,469 cases of IML and 47,886 cases of beer. Last year, the figures in the same period were 1,18,059 and 54,096. The revenue generated this year was Rs. 141.09 crore, while in 2019, it was about Rs. 98 crore. “Only sale of IML cases increased this year, while sale of beer cases saw decline. We find increase in revenue just because prices on liquor was increased,” said an official from the Excise Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/meat-shops-do-brisk-business-during-sankranti-in-the-district/article33597154.ece
18 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP seeks White Paper on govt. pay to pastors||BJP State president Somu Veerraju has alleged that the State government is paying salaries to pastors in the State and demanded that it come out with a White Paper on the matter. Addressing the media here on Sunday, Mr. Veerraju wondered whether they were being paid to convert people from other religions. He said it was wrong to utilise public money to fund such activities. Referring to the reported social media post of a pastor, Praveen Chakravarthy, who reportedly said that salaries were being paid to pastors for religious conversions, the BJP State president questioned what was the need for the government to build churches, as they were already plush with funds. He demanded a survey on the number of churches in the State and the assets in their possession. The BJP would also conduct an independent survey in this regard and submit a report to the State and Central governments, he said. Quoting official statistics, Mr. Veerraju said that only 1% of the population in the State were Christians, but many were retaining their Hindu names, after conversion, to avail themselves of the benefit of reservation. Saying that they were depriving the poorer sections among Hindus of their right, he also demanded a probe into it. He said that the BJP leaders were being dubbed as anti-secular, when they talked of protection of temples. He wondered whether building churches and paying salaries to pastors by the government was not a religious issue. He said that Hindus were more tolerant and respect all faiths, contrary to the accusations being made against the community. ‘Remove DGP’ The BJP president alleged that the party workers were being implicated in the temple attack cases to divert the attention of people. Describing it as an ‘insult’ to the BJP cadre, he demanded that the Chief Minister remove the Director General of Police Gautam Sawang in this regard. Later, at the BJP Core Committee meeting held under the auspices of Mr. Veerraju, the party leaders are said to have discussed various issues like strengthening the party, failure of the government in protecting temples and its ‘attempt’ to cover it up by blaming BJP cadre for the attacks and the way forward for Tirupati bypoll.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-seeks-white-paper-on-govt-pay-to-pastors/article33596609.ece
18 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Services of special trains extended||The services of special trains have been extended by East Coast Railway (E Co R). The trains originating/terminating in Visakhapatnam, which have been extended are: Train no.02851 Visakhapatnam-Nizamuddin biweekly special Express, leaving Visakhapatnam on Mondays and Fridays, is extended up to March 29 and 02852 Hazrat Nizamuddin-Visakhapatnam biweekly express, leaving Hazrat Nizamuddin on Wednesdays and Sundays, is extended up to March 31. Train no. 02887 Visakhapatnam-Hazrat Nizamuddin weekly special express leaving Visakhapatnam on Tuesdays, Wednesdays,Thursdays,Saturdays and Sundays has been extended up to March 31. Train no.02888 Hazrat Nizamuddin-Visakhapatnam weekly express, leaving Hazarat Nizamuddin on Thursdays, Fridays, Saturdays, Sundays and Tuesdays will be extended up to April 2. Train no. 02869 Visakhapatnam-Chennai weekly special express leaving Visakhapatnam on Mondays will be extended up to March 29. In the return journey, 02870 Chennai Central-Visakhapatnam weekly special express, leaving Chennai Central on Tuesdays, will be extended up to March 30. Train no. 02857 Visakhapatnam-Lokmanya Tilak Terminus via Rayagada weekly special express, leaving Visakhapatnam on Sundays, will be extended up to March 28. In the return journey, 02858 Lokmanya Tilak Terminus-Visakhapatnam via Rayagada weekly special express, leaving Lokmanya Tilak Terminus on Tuesdays, will be extended up to March 30. Train no. 08501 Visakhapatnam-Gandhidham weekly special express, leaving Visakhapatnam on Thursdays, will be extended up to March 25 and 08502 Gandhidham-Visakhapatnam weekly special express, leaving Gandhidham on Sundays, will be extended up to March 28. Train no. 07488 Visakhapatnam-Kadapa daily special express will be extended up to March 31 and 07487 Kadapa - Visakhapatnam daily special express, will be extended up to April 1. Train no.02831 Visakhapatnam-Lingampalli daily special express will be extended up to March 31 and 02832 Lingampalli-Visakhapatnam daily special express will be extended up to April 1. In addition to these trains, six other trains, originating in Bhubaneswar and Puri have also been extended. Senior Divisional Commercial Manager of Waltair Division A.K. Tripathi has appealed to the public to make use of the special train services. Passengers have to adhere to COVID-19 health protocol like wearing masks and maintaining social distance, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/services-of-special-trains-to-and-from-vizag-extended/article33597113.ece
18 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CITU opposes Indian Ports Bill||The Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) said the proposed Indian Ports Bill–2020 will deprive the State governments of their power over minor ports. Speaking to the media here on Sunday, CITU State president Ch. Narasinga Rao, city general secretary M. Jaggu Naidu and the national vice-president of the Water Transport Workers Federation V.S. Padmanabha Raju said the States would lose the revenue they are presently getting from the minor ports and the Centre would gain hegemony over them. The takeover of the powers of the States by the Centre, is a violation of the federal spirit of the Constitution, they said. The State Maritime Boards have to function under the Maritime Port Regulatory Authority, appointed by the Centre. At present, the minor ports in the nine maritime states of the country are functioning under the State Maritime Boards through the respective State governments, the CITU leaders said. They alleged that the Union government was planning to hand over all the ports in the country to the Adani group. The Major Ports Authority Bill – 2020 was approved by the Lok Sabha and all the 11 Major Ports, including Visakhapatnam Port Trust, which were presently under the control of the Centre, would be handed over to the Adani group, they alleged. They alleged that the Adani group had no concern for the welfare of their employees and the general public. Citing the example of the Krishnapatnam Port in Nellore district, they alleged that the port had not benefited the local people or the employees. The promise of provision of one permanent job to each family in Muttukur mandal has not been implemented to this day. The displaced persons were given a mere Rs. 10,000 an acre for the land acquired for the port. Contract jobs were given to the locals and 1,200 women were being paid a meagre Rs. 170 a day as wages. The CITU State committee has called upon all workers to observe a State-wide protest on January 20 demanding implementation of labour laws in Krishnapatnam Port and reinstatement of 500 workers, who they alleged were illegally dismissed from service.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/citu-decries-indian-ports-bill/article33597112.ece
18 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vaccination: don’t believe in rumours, Minister tells people||Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao inspected the COVID-19 vaccination programme at Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS) here on Sunday. He appealed to people not to believe in rumours on the vaccination producing adverse results. Inspecting the vaccination programme, Mr. Srinivasa Rao interacted with VIMS Director K. Satya Varaprasad and learnt about the number of people being given COVID-19 vaccine shots per day, number of vaccine shots available and any issues cropping up during the procedure. He then observed the vaccination procedure and asked the health workers how they were feeling to which the latter replied that they were fine. Mr. Srinivasa Rao attributed the success in containing COVID-19 in the State to the conduct of a large number of tests and initiating remedial measures apart from conducting awareness programmes by the State government. District Medical & Health Officer P. Surya Narayana and a few others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vaccination-dont-believe-in-rumours-minister-tells-people/article33597148.ece
18 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||NGO holds vaccine safety programme||A COVID-19 prevention and vaccine safety programme was organised by Aarohan, a Delhi-based NGO, at Musirgada village of Dumbriguda block, in the district, as part of Sankrati Sambaralu, on Sunday. During the day-long event, Aarohan raised awareness about COVID-19 preventive measures as well as other health-related and sanitation issues like menstrual hygiene and nutrition. Medical kits consisting of sanitisers, reusable masks and sanitary napkins were distributed. The event was followed by a community feast. Tribal artistes performed Dhimsa dance to the beats of drums and folk songs. Aarohan president Rani Patel noted that the objective was to send a positive social message concerning health, while the Sankranti festival was on. She raised concern about the lack of knowledge of basic rights among the tribal people. Aarohan aligns its work with the United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals to reduce poverty and provide social protection to the poor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ngo-holds-vaccine-safety-programme/article33597151.ece
18 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees seven new cases and one death||The district reported seven new COVID-19 cases and one death in the last 24 hours, according to the bulletin released on Sunday. The cumulative tally and the death toll has increased to 60,038 and 530 respectively, according to the bulletin. The single-day tally reported on Sunday is said to be the least since the last seven months. The number of active cases is 158 and recoveries are 59,350 respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-sees-seven-new-cases-and-one-death/article33597155.ece
18 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||17 held for ‘taking part’ in rooster fights, gambling||The district police arrested 17 persons for allegedly being involved in rooster fights and gambling at several places on Sunday. A team led by Anakapalle (Rural) Sub Inspector D. Eswara Rao conducted raids at an isolated place near Venkupalem and arrested eight persons while they were organising and playing rooster fights. Police seized four roosters and Rs. 9,300 cash. Another team of police conducted raids at Turakalapudi village in Butchayyapeta mandal and arrested four persons for allegedly conducting rooster fights. The police seized four roosters and Rs. 2,030 from them. Five persons were arrested at Butchayyapeta mandal for allegedly indulging in gambling. Police seized Rs. 4,240 from them. Golugonda police conducted a raid at Ananthasagaram village and destroyed about 400 litres of fermented jaggery wash here on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/17-arrested-for-taking-part-in-rooster-fights/article33597114.ece
18 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||IMA endorses efficacy of vaccines||Indian Medical Association (IMA), AP State president N. Subramanyam and honorary State secretary Nanda Kishore have said that all the members of IMA and infrastructure facilities of IMA branches across the country will be available voluntarily for the vaccination programme. In a statement issued here on Sunday, Dr. Subrahmanyam and Dr. Nanda Kishore said that the IMA believes in getting vaccination not only to protect the individuals but also to develop herd immunity to the community thereby raising the hope to control the corona pandemic. They appealed to the public not to be misled by rumours being circulated on social media casting aspersions on the efficacy of the two indigenous vaccines – Covaxin and Covishield. They commended the hard work of Indian scientists, modern medicine doctors and the Union government for bringing out the two vaccines against the COVID-19. They noted that the IMA has already appealed to its 3.5 lakh members across 1,800 local branches to voluntarily get vaccinated first to create confidence among the public on the safety and efficacy of the vaccines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ima-endorses-efficacy-of-vaccines/article33597150.ece
18 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP trying to divert people’s attention, alleges YSRCP||Anakapalle MLA (YSRCP) Gudivada Amarnath has alleged that the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) leaders from the region are making baseless allegations against the ruling YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) leaders, unable to digest the government action on land grabbers. Addressing the media here on Sunday, Mr. Amarnath said that ever since YSRCP has taken charge, 171 acres of government land worth Rs. 2,000 crore, including valuable lands at GITAM, Rushikonda and Anandapuram, which were mostly encroached by TDP leaders and their followers, was recovered. The TDP leaders were making false allegations of corruption to divert the attention of people, Mr. Amarnath alleged. Mr. Amarnath accused the TDP and the BJP leaders of fanning religious passions to derive political mileage. Pendurthy MLA A. Adeepraju criticised former TDP MLA Bandaru Satyanarayana Murthy for his remarks against Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy. He also refuted allegations of land encroachment at Vada Cheepurupalli panchayat in Parawada mandal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-trying-to-divert-peoples-attention-alleges-ysrcp/article33597156.ece
18 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three missing children traced||Police personnel from the Beach Control Room traced three children who had gone missing at Beach Road here on Sunday. According to Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Ch Adinarayana, in one case, M Yeswanth (6) and in another M. Nitya Sahithi (11) had gone missing at Pandurangapuram. In another case, Parthasaradhi (6), of S.Kota mandal in Vizianagaram district, had gone missing, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-missing-children-traced/article33597157.ece
18 January 2021||January 18 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tusker tramples shepherd to death||“We have arranged tom-tom in all the vulnerable villages to give up night vigil in the fields and avoid coming out along lonely roads,” Mr. Ravi Shankar, Divisional Forest Officer, said. The human casualty was the fourth in the western mandals since June 2020. Herd raids crops Meanwhile, the three-member herd of wild elephants, which strayed into Chittoor district from Tamil Nadu forest three weeks ago, continued to raid crops at the villages in Vadamalapeta mandal. On Sunday, the forest personnel resumed their assignment to drive the herd back into the nearby thickets. Since the herd had travelled over 150 km through the new terrain along forested land and denuded jungles, efforts to drive it back into its habitat turned impossible. At the same time, diverting the jumbos towards the Seshachalam ranges also turned tough considering the terrain with fields and orchards in between Vadamalapeta and Panapakam, or any nearest point of the Tirumala hills.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tusker-tramples-shepherd-to-death/article33597067.ece
18 January 2021||January 18 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Standing tall||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/standing-tall/article33597159.ece
18 January 2021||January 18 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Correction||The headline ‘BJP speaking in two voices on Divi’s: CPI’ that was published on Page 2 of January 17 edition should read as ‘BJP speaking in two voices on Divi’s: CPI(M)’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/correction/article33597084.ece
18 January 2021||January 18 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Back to work||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/back-to-work/article33596691.ece
18 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Collectors to get time lines to dispose of land cases||The State government has resolved to set time lines for district collectors, who are entrusted with land administration issues, to deal with it in a systematic and time bound manner. The Chief Commissioner of Land Administration issued a series of guidelines to district collectors for disposal of various issues, including revenue court cases by special tribunals, pending mutations (including sold out cases), registration of land in the name of companies/institutions/trusts, issuing Pattadar passbooks (PPBs) to NRIs without Aadhaar linkages. Detailed instructions have also been issued to the collectors relating to missing extents in PPBs, LTR cases, updation of prohibited properties, sadabainama applications and other land related matters. The instructions follow the meeting of district collectors and senior officials convened by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on January 11, where much of the deliberations were centred on improving service delivery of land administration through Dharani and other instruments. Accordingly, district collectors were made solely responsible for disposal of these matters and they should clear all the land matters with nothing pending. The collectors were instructed to adhere to the time lines fixed for disposing of each of these subjects and should electronically record all the orders passed for resolving the land related issues. The CCLA had also circulated specified formats through which applications could be made in Dharani portal for ensuring that the cases are disposed of speedily without scope for any delay. According to the latest instructions, the special tribunal should dispose revenue cases within 30 days and the same deadline has been set for the disposal of cases pertaining to LTR lands. A time limit of one week has been set for disposal of cases pertaining to pending mutations, registration of land in the name of companies/institutions/trusts, registrations for NRIs without Aadhaar linkage, missing extents in PPBs and updation of prohibited properties. The circular said there were cases where registrations took place in respect of certain agricultural land, but mutations had not been done in favour of purchasers and procedure had been specified for disposal of such cases. Accordingly, the purchaser should make an application on Dharani portal in the prescribed format furnishing all the details of the seller and the registered documents through which he acquired the land. The application would be transferred to the collector’s login and the system would make available summary table containing the comparison of applicant’s claim, details as per registration records and details as per the ROR (record of rights). The collector should verify the applicant’s claim with reference to the registered documents as well as the ROR. In case, there was a single and direct sale by the existing Pattadar to the applicant and a clear case, the collector should approve the claim. In the event of multiple registered documents for the same land, the collector should cause further inquiry as may be necessary to verify the case. This would be followed by an SMS sent to the applicant by the system on approval/rejection and the applicant should book the slot based on the SMS received. Likewise, the procedure that should be adopted in other cases too had been prescribed in detail in the circular.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/collectors-to-get-time-lines-to-dispose-of-land-cases/article33596904.ece
18 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Session sites for COVID vaccination increased||Telangana Health officials have increased the number of session sites for COVID-19 vaccination from 140 on Saturday to 324 for the immunisation drive on Monday. The number of beneficiaries per site too was increased from 30 to 50. Altogether, the officials aim to inoculate 16,200 healthcare workers on January 18. The first day of the drive was conducted at 140 session sites across the State. Of the 4,296 healthcare workers who were listed as beneficiaries, 3,962 were administered first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on Saturday. Only Covishield was used on the first day. Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao said no further adverse events than the 11 reported on Saturday were noted anywhere in the State and all those who were vaccinated were doing well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/session-sites-for-covid-vaccination-increased/article33596911.ece
18 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Overwhelming attention for vaccine recipients||Healthcare workers who took the COVID-19 vaccine on Saturday are flooded with calls and messages from family and well-wishers who have been curiously enquiring about their health post the jab. On the first day of the vaccination drive on Saturday, as many as 3,962 out of the 4,296 listed Healthcare Workers (HCW) across Telangana were given the first dose of COVID-19 vaccine. Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao said only 11 mild Adverse Event Following Immunisation (AEFI) cases were reported from across the State. “Only 11 mild AEFI cases were reported with reasons like pain, giddiness and sweating, which are common in any vaccination programme,” the senior official said on Saturday.  On Sunday, Dr Srinivasa Rao said no more adverse events were reported from anywhere in the State. The vaccine recipients, who spoke to mediapersons after getting the first dose, have received the maximum enquiries. Centre of attention S. Kishtamma, a 42-year-old sanitation worker at Gandhi Hospital, said her neighbours, friends and family members have been constantly checking on her. “Those who saw my photos or videos in the media have asked how I was doing. I have informed them that I am fine,” she said. An associate professor of Pulmonology at Gandhi Hospital, T. Pramod Kumar said he too has received a barrage of messages from near and dear ones. Sure shot “I had informed my family before taking the vaccine and they were quite encouraging. Even if they had discouraged me, I would have counselled them and taken the shot,” said Dr Pramod, who has been attending COVID-19 patients right from the time the first case was reported in the State on March 2, 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/overwhelming-attention-for-vaccine-recipients/article33596909.ece
18 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Party’s focus is to dethrone TRS regime, says BJP chief||BJP Telangana president Bandi Sanjay Kumar made it clear that the focus of the party was to dethrone the “corrupt dictatorial regime of TRS” and hoist the saffron flag on Golconda Fort in the next elections to “save Telangana State”. “We are not hankering for power, but the TRS has thrown assurances on funds, water and jobs, aside. So, we have to ensure the sacrifices of the martyrs do not go in vain by defeating it in the hustings,” he said. Delivering the inaugural address at the State executive meet on Sunday, he demanded the government to come out with a white paper on the number of industries it had attracted and jobs created in the last six years. Charging the Chief Minister with taking ‘U’ turns in every action and negligent on issues of concern, he pointed towards the downplaying of the coronavirus threat in the beginning, allowing free run to private hospitals, and not ensuring medical insurance like Aarogyasri or Ayushman Bharat for COVID treatment. Top leaders such as National General Secretary Tarun Chugh, K. Laxman, N. Ramchander Rao, and Raja Singh also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bandi-sanjay-bjps-focus-is-to-dethrone-dictatorial-trs-regime/article33596902.ece
18 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CMs of TS, Andhra urged to help shift native employees||The Association of Telangana Native Employees Working in Seemandhra has requested the Chief Ministers of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh to come to an understanding and shift AP-native employees working in Telangana to AP and vice-versa. President of the association K. Raghavanand said here on Sunday that about 300 Telangana-native employees selected through AP Public Service Commission in combined AP were allotted to AP and several AP-native employees were allotted to Telangana following bifurcation of the State. However, such employees were discharging their duties in fear and were facing discrimination. Although State-cadre and mutual transfers were effected, such mutual transfer of employees had not taken place at zonal and multi-zonal level such as lecturers, junior lecturers, teachers, Group-2 employees, Mr. Raghavanand explained. He stated that there was a large number of vacancies in both States and the number of employees willing to come to Telangana was just 300.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cms-of-ts-andhra-urged-to-help-shift-native-employees/article33596907.ece
18 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Sankranti made sweeter||I would like to appreciate the journalists covering some special news stories, one of them being, “A royal letter for the Nizam on Sankranti”. In that, it was recollected how the Dynasty of Indore on January 15, 1883, had sent gifts of sweets to sixth Nizam Mir Mahbub Ali Khan on Sankranti festival to reaffirm friendship between two princely states even though Nizam was not celebrating but his Hindu subjects were. Moreover, his comparison of Sankranti with Shab-e-Barat observed by Muslim community shows his big pure heart with broad mind. Such was the love between two faiths. But these days there is no such goodwill but polluted hearts and communal mindset without any love and harmony. Though we come across State programmes on festivals of all faiths, they are all without any purity of heart and filled with political interests. We all have to learn a lot from the then princely states — heads of Indore and Hyderabad for their friendship. In another story on helmets, DCP-Traffic Vijay Kumar S.M. boldly said political leaders at all levels must refrain from prevailing over the police from looking the other way. He rightly questioned politicians if they can bring back lost lives and come to the rescue of bereaved families. Thanks to both journalists for good stories on Sankranti and for bringing awareness on communal harmony and traffic rules on helmets. J.P. Reddy, Nalgonda||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sankranti-made-sweeter/article33596912.ece
18 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Telangana’s COVID tally up by 299 cases||Telangana recorded 299 COVID-19 cases on Saturday, taking the total to 2,91,666. While 33,298 people were examined, results of 516 were awaited. Two more patients died. The new 299 cases include 57 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation, 26 from Medchal- Malkajgiri, 24 from Karimnagar, 18 from Rangareddy. No case was reported in Narayanpet, and one was detected from Mahabubnagar. From March 2 of 2020 to January 16 of this year, 74,61,687 people were put through tests and 2,91,666 were detected with coronavirus. Of the total cases, 4,191 were active cases, 2,85,898 have recovered, and 1,577 people have died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/telanganas-covid-tally-up-by-299-cases/article33596908.ece
18 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Virus patient found dead||A septuagenarian on Sunday was found dead on the premises of a corporate hospital in Kondapur where he was undergoing treatment for COVID-19 infection. Madhapur police said the victim identified as K Narayana (77), a resident of Kondapur, ended his life by jumping from the second floor of the hospital building. A native of Vemulawada in Rajanna-Sircilla district, he had been admitted to the hospital on January 13 and since then, he was reportedly depressed over his health. There is always someone to listen at: +914066202000 or 6666 1117 in case of any emotional breakdowns at this Hyderabad-based suicide intervention centre, Roshni.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/virus-patient-found-dead/article33596914.ece
18 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TSRTC logs improved mileage||The Telangana State Road Corporation clocked an improvement of 2.33% in terms of kilometers run per litre, translating into a saving of 24 lakh litres of high speed diesel and costs of Rs. 18 crore. The feat earned the transport juggernaut second place in the Best State Transport Undertaking in the KMPL category for October 2019 to September 2020 as compared to the same period in the previous years organised by Petroleum Conservation and Research Association. TSRTC was awarded a cash prize of Rs. 3 lakh and a plaque.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tsrtc-logs-improved-mileage/article33596916.ece
18 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||(briefly) Plea to fill up vacancies in KVs||State Planning Board Vice-Chairman and former MP B. Vinod Kumar has urged the Central government to fill up the vacancies in Kendriya Vidyalayas (KVs) in Telangana and also appoint full time teachers rather than contract teachers. In a letter to Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal, he said that out of the 1,208 sanctioned strength in 35 KVs in Telangana, only 959 were appointed apart from the 131 contractual staff. This still leaves a balance of 128 posts that should be filled at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/briefly-plea-to-fill-up-vacancies-in-kvs/article33596906.ece
18 January 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||5-km human chain seeking repeal of farm laws||The main thoroughfares of this fort town, which served as a hub of various historic mass movements of the peasantry in the past, turned into a sea of humanity on Sunday with hordes of people from different spheres of life forming a mammoth human chain demanding scrapping of the Centre’s new agricultural laws. Pledging their support to the ongoing agitation by farmers at the Delhi borders, hundreds of people lined up on the main streets of the town as part of the 5-km-long human chain across the length and breadth of the town. Rythu Sangeebhava Samiti, an umbrella body of around 100 different organisations of farmers, agricultural labourers, women, students, teachers, journalists, advocates and others representing a cross section of society, organised the human chain. Rising above political affiliations, a host of senior leaders of various political parties, barring the TRS and the BJP, took part in the programme. CPI (M) State secretary Tammineni Veerabhadram, CPI State executive member B Hemantha Rao, CPI (ML-New Democracy) State assistant secretary P Ranga Rao and others participated in the human chain at Mayuri Centre near the bus stand. CLP leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka, along with several cadre of the party frontal organisations, took part in the human chain. Children clad in traditional attire of farmers staged a novel demonstration to highlight the plight of farmers. The human chain was organised along the edges of the main streets from Mayuri Centre to Sri Sri Circle.  Noted educationalist I V Ramana Rao, one of the members of the steering committee, along with other organisers supervised the smooth formation of the human chain. The laws are intended to ‘surrender’ the farm sector to big corporate entities under the garb of reforms, leaders alleged. They vowed to spearhead peaceful protests in various forms until the three farm laws are withdrawn.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/5-km-human-chain-seeking-repeal-of-farm-laws/article33597125.ece
18 January 2021||January 18 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Mutton prices command ‘festival premium’||Last week meat consumers had to shell out quite a bit more to cook their favourite recipes at home in view of the festival. The boneless mutton was sold anywhere between Rs. 800 and Rs. 1,000 a kg while the government norms were strict that the price could not exceed Rs. 700 a kg under any circumstances. On the other hand, the lower grade varieties of fish which normally are sold at Rs. 120 to Rs. 150 kg was available at Rs. 180 to Rs. 220 a kg. The chicken prices, however, were stable at under Rs. 100 a live bird of one kg. The mutton prices were generally pegged around Rs. 600 a kg in the limits of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation. Since purchases of goats and sheep are restricted from Andhra Pradesh during Sankranti, the mutton prices spiked as also sales in Hyderabad. Not only the price went up from Rs. 600 to Rs. 800 - Rs. 1,000 a kg, the sale of mutton also shot up from 60 to 70 tonnes a day to 170 tonnes a day in GHMC limits last week as per official estimates. In the past, the sales never exceeded 100 tonnes a day during Sankranti. Secretariat, a prohibited place? Has the State Secretariat become a prohibited place for even the employees and their representatives leave alone the common people? A delegation of the employees unions is saying so. Representatives of the pensioners’ joint action committee, State teachers’ union and other associations recounted the experience they had in the Secretariat the other day where their efforts to meet the Chief Secretary went in vain. The staff representatives said they could enter the premises with difficulty, but were not allowed to meet the Chief Secretary to know about the status of the Pay Revision Commission recommendations. They were told to leave the premises after waiting for considerable time on the pretext that there was no prior appointment. Entry for media has been restricted quite some time ago and now it is the turn of the employees themselves. Teething problems for CoWin The COVID vaccination drive has commenced across the country successfully after several rounds of testing of efficacy of the vaccine. Officials concerned, however, were said to have faced some difficulties in operating the CoWin App, the Covid Vaccination Intelligence Network, developed by the Centre. Technical glitches were reported in some places while uploading the data about beneficiaries receiving the vaccine in some sites in different parts of the country as the system was said to have slowed down. No clarity yet on farm laws Although the Supreme Court has stayed the implementation of the three new controversial farm laws, it appears that clarity is eluding on their implementation or rather non-implementation, at least in Telangana. In tune with the new farm laws, the State government has made it clear on several occasions already that there would be no procurement of the farm produce by it this agricultural season since there would be no minimum support price (MSP) announcement by the Centre. Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy stated on Saturday that the government would not open the procurement centres this season for major crops such as paddy, maize, bengal gram, sunflower and sorghum as the farm laws are in force. When contacted, a senior official of the Agriculture Department said there is no clarity on MSP announcement in spite of the suspension of the new laws by the Apex Court and the arrival of crops such as bengal gram which would begin from February itself.  (N. Rahul, M. Rajeev and B. Chandrashekhar)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mutton-prices-command-festival-premium/article33596905.ece
18 January 2021||January 18 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Homebound||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/homebound/article33596918.ece
18 January 2021||MUMBAI,||Startups invited to solve civic issues in Kolhapur||The Maharashtra government has initiated steps to harness the potential of startups and innovators to solve civic issues in Kolhapur. Minister of State for Home (Urban), and Information Technology Satej Patil recently unveiled the Kolhapur Startup Mission with a nationwide Innovation Challenge. The mission aims to invite and empower startups in Kolhapur and encourage self-employment among the youth. The mission is being conducted in partnership with the Kolhapur Incubation Center and with the support of the DY Patil Education Group, and the Startup Incubation and Innovation Centre at IIT Kanpur. The mission is said to be a pioneering initiative to ignite the spark of innovation and entrepreneurship among the youth of Kolhapur. Under this mission, selected startups and innovators will be awarded up to Rs. 5 lakh for implementing their technology product and services in the district through the Kolhapur Incubation Center. In the current call for applications, the focus areas are water management, waste management, air quality management, education, public health, e-governance, agriculture, and mobility and transportation for the city. Entries are open till January 24 and Indian startups, innovators or anyone with an idea can apply. Mr. Patil said, “Kolhapur has historically been a very enterprising city. Through Kolhapur Startup Mission, we want to invite young startups to our city, facilitate testing of their ideas and bring in innovative solutions to civic problems of Kolhapur through national engagement. We shall provide our full support to the blooming startups in Kolhapur and I am confident this initiative will make Kolhapur one of the top startup destinations of India.” Noted scientist Dr. R.A. Mashelkar said the mission was a fantastic initiative to promote innovative solutions to grassroot problems. Municipal Commissioner of Kolhapur, Dr. Kadambari Balkawade said, “We extend our full support to startups to implement their solutions in Kolhapur city and scale up nationwide.” MLA of Kolhapur (South) Ruturaj Patil is spearheading the mission. Startups can apply atwww.kolhapur start upmission.com  This initiative will make Kolhapur one of the top startup destinations of the country Satej Patil Minister of State for Home (Urban), and Information Technology||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/startups-invited-to-solve-civic-issues-in-kolhapur/article33596975.ece
18 January 2021||Mumbai,||Sena, Cong. spar over renaming Aurangabad||The Shiv Sena and the Congress, which are allies in the Maha Vikas Aghadi government, on Sunday sparred over renaming Aurangabad city. The Sena said it is not “secular” behaviour if one finds “cruel and religiously blind” Mughal emperor Aurangzeb “dear”. Hitting back, the Congress accused the Sena and the BJP of playing politics over renaming and asked them why they did not remember the issue while they were in power in Maharashtra for the past five years. State Congress president Balasaheb Thorat, however, maintained that the government in is stable. He said the government works as per the common minimum programme and there is no scope for the “politics of sentiment”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/sena-cong-spar-over-renaming-aurangabad/article33596982.ece
18 January 2021||Mumbai,||No side effects of vaccine so far, says Health Minister||There has been no case of adverse reaction or side effects of the COVID-19 vaccine in Maharashtra so far, State Health Minister Rajesh Tope said on Sunday.   Mr. Tope said, “There has been no report of any adverse reaction or side effects of the vaccine following the drive on Saturday. Everything was safe, it will be safe.” The Maharashtra government on Saturday evening announced suspension of the COVID-19 vaccination drive till Monday owing to problems in the CoWIN app, used for managing registration for inoculation. Mr. Tope said it is expected that a “small technical glitch” in the app will be addressed by Sunday or Monday. He said, “There will be improvement by today or tomorrow. From Tuesday, we will conduct the drive.” “Anyways, we have to conduct the drive for four days in a week. So, we can undertake it from Tuesday to Friday,” Mr. Tope added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/no-side-effects-of-vaccine-so-far-says-health-minister/article33596984.ece
18 January 2021||Mumbai,||Avian flu: 836 birds found dead in State||Deaths of 836 birds were reported across Maharashtra and samples have been sent for tests in laboratories in Pune and Madhya Pradesh’s Bhopal, officials said on Sunday. The deaths include that of 745 poultry birds, with Nagpur and Amravati districts reporting deaths of 290 and 75 birds respectively. In Beed in Marathwada and Gondia in Vidarbha, 50 poultry birds each died. Thirty-two other birds like herons, sparrows and parrots, as well as 59 crows, including 33 from neighbouring Thane, also died on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/avian-flu-836-birds-found-dead-in-state/article33596978.ece
18 January 2021||Mumbai,||Raut: Sena will contest West Bengal polls||The Shiv Sena has decided to contest the Assembly elections in West Bengal, party MP Sanjay Raut said on Sunday. He said the decision was taken after holding discussions with Chief Minister and Sena president Uddhav Thackeray. “So, here is the much-awaited update. After discussions with Party Chief Shri Uddhav Thackeray, Shiv Sena has decided to contest the West Bengal Assembly Elections. We are reaching Kolkata soon...!! Jai Hind, Jai Bangla!” Mr. Raut tweeted. He, however, didn’t specify the number of seats the Sena will contest in West Bengal. Elections in the State are due in April-May this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/raut-sena-will-contest-west-bengal-polls/article33596983.ece
18 January 2021||Nagpur,||Farmers prepared to protest till May 2024, says BKU leader||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Sunday said farmers are prepared to protest against the Centre’s new farm laws “till May 2024”, and termed the ongoing agitation by peasants at Delhi borders an “ideological revolution”. Addressing a press conference in Nagpur, Mr. Tikait said they want a legal guarantee on Minimum Support Price (MSP). Mr. Tikait said, “We are prepared to sit in protest till May 2024... our demand is that the three laws be taken back and the government provide a legal guarantee on the MSP.” The next Lok Sabha elections in the country will be due around April-May 2024. Dismissed allegations that the protest was being fuelled by “rich farmers”, Mr. Tikait said people from villages and various outfits have joined the protest. “This is an ideological revolution of farmers started from Delhi and will not fail. Farmers from villages do not want us come back until the three farm bills are taken back,” he said. “The government is adamant on its stance of not withdrawing the laws and this agitation will continue for long,” Mr. Tikait added. He welcomed the SC’s decision on staying the implementation of the farm laws, but said the committee formed by the apex court has members who “supported” the farm laws. “We do not want to go before the committee formed by the court. The government has also said that the government and farmers will find a solution on this issue,” he said. Mr. Tikait also said the Opposition parties were weak and that is why farmers had to start this agitation against the Centre’s new laws. On National Investigation Agency’s notices to some people supporting the protest, he said, “Those who want to be part of the agitation must be ready for court cases, imprisonment and sealing of property.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/farmers-prepared-to-protest-till-may-2024-says-bku-leader/article33596980.ece
18 January 2021||Nagpur,||Pistols, bullets seized, 2 held in Nagpur||Two people were held in connection with the seizure of two country-made pistols and bullets in Jaripatka area of Nagpur, police said on Sunday. A car was stopped on Saturday night on a tip-off and the firearms and ammunition were seized, an official said. “The firearms were smuggled from Indore in Madhya Pradesh. The car driver, Chetan Meshram, was arrested. He named a history-sheeter, Vicky Meshram, as the supplier, and he too was held on Sunday,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/pistols-bullets-seized-2-held-in-nagpur/article33596981.ece
18 January 2021||New Delhi,||‘Explore crowdfunding to help two children with rare disease’||In an uncommon order, the Delhi High Court has ordered the Health Ministry to explore “crowdfunding” to help two children, who are suffering from a rare disease known as Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy, in importing exorbitantly priced medicines. Justice Prathiba M. Singh opined that just because of the exorbitant price of the drug or treatment, patients, especially children, suffering from a rare disease ought not to be deprived of treatment for their condition. AIIMS had submitted a report that the children are unlikely to show improvement even with the treatment. Improving chances Justice Singh, however, said it was “incumbent on society in general and authorities in particular to ensure that the life of such children is not compromised, even if there is a small window of improving their chances of survival or even providing a better quality of life”. ‘Right to Health and Healthcare’ is a fundamental right which has been recognised by the Supreme Court to be a part of the ‘Right to life’ of the Constitution, Ms. Singh remarked. The HC also directed the Secretary, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare to give a specific timeline in respect of the finalisation and notification of the Draft Health Policy for Rare Diseases, 2020. The draft policy says that in certain cases since the government cannot fully finance the treatment, the gap can be filled by seeking donations from prospective individuals or corporate donors. But the policy, which was introduced in 2020 has still not seen the light of the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/explore-crowdfunding-to-help-two-children-with-rare-disease/article33596798.ece
18 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Capital to see gradual rise in temperature||It was a cold and foggy day in the Capital with the maximum temperature settling at 15.3 degrees Celsius, which was five degrees below normal for this time of the year. The minimum temperature settled at 5.7 degrees Celsius, which was one degree colder than normal. The IMD said that there will be a gradual rise in temperatures by 2-4 degrees Celsius in the next 48 hours and then a fall by 2-4 degrees thereafter. It said that a western disturbance is likely to effect the Himalayan region from January 22. The weatherman has forecast partly cloudy sky for Monday with shallow to moderate fog in the morning with possibility of very light rain, drizzle. The air quality was recorded in the ‘very poor’ category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/capital-to-see-gradual-rise-in-temperature/article33596799.ece
18 January 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra records over 3,000 new COVID-19 cases||Maharashtra reported just 2,342 COVID-19 recoveries on Sunday as opposed to 3,081 fresh cases as the active case tally again rose incrementally to 52,653. The total case tally has now reached 19,90,759. With 50 more fatalities, the State’s total death toll climbed to 50,438. The cumulative recoveries stand at 18,86,469. The State’s recovery rate is 94.76%, while its case fatality stood at 2.53%. “Of 1,38,06,387 laboratory samples tested thus far, 19,90,759 (with the case positivity rate down to 14.42%) have returned positive with over 63,000 samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate. Pune reported nearly 500 new cases to take its total case tally to 3,82,157. Ten deaths saw the total death toll rise to 7,865. As per district administration figures, the active case tally stands at 5,335, while the district’s recovery rate stands at 96.19%. 531 cases in Mumbai Mumbai reported 531 new cases to take its total case tally to 3,02,757, of which just 6,779 are active. Seven fatalities saw the city’s death toll reach 11,244. Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported more than 300 new cases, taking the district’s total case tally to 1,32,099, of which 4,745 are active. Ten deaths saw the death toll reach 3,299. In western Maharashtra, Satara reported no deaths while 72 fresh cases saw the total case tally rise to 55,567, of which just 783 are active. Neighbouring Sangli reported 49 cases and no deaths as well as the district’s reported cases reached 50,608, of which just 494 are active. Its death toll stands at 1,776. Kolhapur reported eight cases and zero fatalities as its tally reached 48,974, of which just 153 are active. The death toll stands at 1,669. In north Maharashtra, Nashik district reported more than 250 cases and a single death as its total case tally reached 119,080, of which 1,483 are active. Its death toll stands at 1,964. Jalgaon reported 78 new cases and no deaths as its total case tally reached 56,990, of which only 600 are active, while its toll stands at 1,467. A total of 2,25,308 people across the State are in home quarantine and 2,045 are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtra-records-over-3000-new-covid-19-cases/article33596977.ece
18 January 2021||Pune,||NFAI acquires Vijaya Mulay’s personal collection||In yet another treasure trove acquisition, National Film Archive of India (NFAI) has received the personal collection of prominent documentary filmmaker, renowned film historian and educationist Vijaya Mulay. The collection includes rare books on diverse topics — from film criticism to cinema history — a number of 16 mm films, educational documentaries and a collection of World Cinema classics. One of the pioneers of the Film Society movement in India, the late Mulay’s close friendships with such luminaries as directors Satyajit Ray, Louis Malle and Mrinal Sen afforded her a unique perspective on Indian film and documentary filmmaking. She was especially noted for her innovative documentaries on education. The valuable collection was presented by her daughter, award-winning actor Suhasini Mulay. “We are delighted and truly honoured to receive this substantial collection which will be of enormous use to researchers and historians. A highlight in this treasure trove is a 16 mm print of an educational film, Kishan And His Magic Chariot (1980) , which was produced by Vijaya Mulay. The film talks about ways of learning and teaching by emphasising on the need to unleash curiosity within students to explore the world,” said NFAI director Prakash Magdum. The collection includes more than 200 books in different languages, films in 16 mm format, and multiple VHS tapes. The books range on a myriad of film topics — from Indian cinema to biographies of legendary filmmakers. They also include magazines, journals, film dictionaries, and official documents of film festivals across the globe. Some films include a copy of the 1921 German silent film, The Indian Tomb , which was scripted by legendary filmmaker and director Fritz Lang, who helmed classics like Metropolis (1927) and M (1931). Others include Malle’s stunning documentary film Calcutta (1969), and Moving Pictures (2000) by Colin Law, another documentary which is a visual exploration of Law’s personal collection of war images. “A highlight among the VHS tapes is a French TV series J’ai fait un beau voyage . The episodes in this series features interviews with the legendary Italian filmmaker Roberto Rossellini, who directed such masterpieces as Open City and Paisan . The series broadcasted from January to August 1959,” said Mr. Magdum. The collection includes a documentary film directed by Suhasini Mulay, Tapan Bose and Salim Shaikh on the December 1984 Bhopal gas leak titled, Bhopal: Beyond Genocide (1986) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/nfai-acquires-vijaya-mulays-personal-collection/article33596974.ece
18 January 2021||Washington,||On Day 1, Biden to reverse Trump orders||In his first hours as President, Joe Biden plans to take executive action to roll back some of the most controversial decisions of his predecessor and to address the raging coronavirus pandemic, his incoming chief of staff said Saturday. The opening salvo would herald a 10-day blitz of executive actions as Mr. Biden seeks to act swiftly to redirect the country in the wake of Donald Trump’s presidency without waiting for Congress. On Wednesday, following his inauguration, Mr. Biden will end Mr. Trump’s restriction on immigration to the U.S. from some Muslim-majority countries, move to rejoin the Paris climate accord and mandate mask-wearing on federal property and during interstate travel. Those are among roughly a dozen actions Biden will take on his first day in the White House, his incoming Chief of Staff, Ron Klain, said in a memo to senior staff. Other actions include extending the pause on student loan payments and actions meant to prevent evictions and foreclosures for those struggling during the pandemic. “These executive actions will deliver relief to the millions of Americans that are struggling in the face of these crises,” Klain said in the memo. “President-elect Biden will take action — not just to reverse the gravest damages of the Trump administration — but also to start moving our country forward.” “Full achievement” of Mr. Biden’s goals will require Congress to act, Mr. Klain wrote, including the $1.9 trillion virus relief bill he outlined on Thursday. Mr. Klain said that Mr. Biden would also propose a comprehensive immigration reform bill to lawmakers on his first day in office. Providing a path to citizenship for millions of immigrants in the U.S. illegally will be part of Mr. Biden’s agenda, according to people briefed on his plans. Ali Noorani, president of the National Immigration Forum and among those briefed, said immigrants would be put on an eight-year path. There would be a faster track for those in the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program (DACA), which shields people from deportation who came to the U.S. as children, and for those from strife-torn countries with temporary status. Pandemic rescue plan On Thursday, the new President’s second day in office, Mr. Biden would sign orders related to the COVID-19 outbreak aimed at reopening schools and businesses and expanding virus testing, Mr. Klain said. The following day, Friday, will see action on providing economic relief to those suffering the economic costs of the pandemic. In the following week, Mr. Klain said, Mr. Biden would take additional actions relating to criminal justice reform, climate change and immigration — including a directive to speed the reuniting of families separated at the U.S.-Mexico border under Trump’s policies. Incoming Presidents traditionally move swiftly to sign an array of executive actions when they take office. Mr. Trump did the same, but he found many of his orders challenged and even rejected by courts. Mr. Klain maintained that Mr. Biden should not suffer similar issues, saying “the legal theory behind them is well-founded.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/on-day-1-biden-to-reverse-trump-orders/article33596594.ece
18 January 2021||Kabul,||Gunmen kill 2 women judges of Afghanistan’s top court||Gunmen shot dead two Afghan women judges working for the Supreme Court in an ambush in the country’s capital on Sunday, officials said, an attack the top U.S. envoy in Kabul blamed on the Taliban. Violence has surged across Afghanistan in recent months despite ongoing peace talks between the Taliban and government — especially in Kabul, where a new trend of targeted killings aimed at high-profile figures has sown fear in the restive city. The latest attack, which U.S. Charge D’Affaires Ross Wilson blamed on the Taliban, comes just two days after the Pentagon announced it had cut troop levels in Afghanistan to 2,500, the fewest in nearly two decades. The attack on the judges happened as they were driving to their office in a court vehicle, said Ahmad Fahim Qaweem, a spokesman for the Supreme Court. “Unfortunately, we have lost two women judges in today’s attack. Their driver is wounded,” Mr. Qaweem said. There are more than 200 female judges working for the country’s top court, the spokesman added. Kabul police confirmed the attack, which no group has claimed so far. Afghanistan’s Supreme Court was a target in February 2017 when a suicide bomb ripped through a crowd of court employees, killing at least 20. The latest attack drew widespread condemnation, with Mr. Wilson blaming the Taliban directly as he called for an investigation. “The Taliban should understand that such actions for which it bears responsibility outrage the world and must cease if peace is to come to Afghanistan,” wrote Mr. Wilson on Twitter. Taliban demands The shooting came just hours after a high-level meeting between the Taliban negotiation team and U.S. special envoy for Afghanistan Zalmay Khalilzad, along with the head of U.S. forces in Afghanistan, General Scott Miller, according to tweets by a Taliban spokesman. During the sit-down, spokesman Mohammad Naeem said the insurgents called again for the release of the group’s remaining jailed fighters, along with the removal of the Taliban from the UN blacklist.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/gunmen-kill-2-women-judges-of-afghanistans-top-court/article33596595.ece
18 January 2021||Washington,||Biden ropes in 20 Indian-Americans, 17 in key White House positions||U.S. President-elect Joe Biden has nominated at least 20 Indian-Americans, including 13 women, to key positions in his incoming administration, a record for the small ethnic community that constitutes one per cent of America’s population. As many as 17 of them would be part of the Biden administration in the powerful White House complex. The January 20th inauguration, where Mr. Biden, 78, would be sworn in as the 46th President of the U.S., is already historic as it is for the first time ever that a woman, Kamala Harris, would be sworn as the Vice-President of the country. Ms. Harris, 56, is also the first ever Indian-origin and African-American to be sworn in as the Vice-President of the U.S. It is also for the first time ever that so many Indian-Americans have been roped into a presidential administration ever before the inauguration. Mr. Biden, a Democrat, is still quite far away from filling all the positions in his administration. Topping the list is Neera Tanden, who has been nominated as Director of the White House Office of Management and Budget and Dr. Vivek Murthy, who has been nominated as the U.S. Surgeon General. Vanita Gupta has been nominated as Associate Attorney General Department of Justice, and on Saturday, Mr. Biden nominated former foreign service official Uzra Zeya as the Under Secretary of State for Civilian Security, Democracy and Human Rights. “The dedication that the Indian-American community has shown to public service over the years has been recognised in a big way at the very start of this administration! I am particularly pleased that the overwhelming majority are women. Our community has truly arrived in serving the nation,” Indiaspora founder M.R. Rangaswami told PTI. Mala Adiga has been appointed as Policy Director to the future First Lady Dr. Jill Biden and Garima Verma would be the Digital Director of the Office of the First Lady, while Sabrina Singh has been named as the White House Deputy Press Secretary. Kashmir connect For the first time, the Indian-Americans nominated for Biden administration include two who trace their roots to Kashmir: Aisha Shah, who has been named as Partnership Manager at the White House Office of Digital Strategy and Sameera Fazili, who would occupy the key position of Deputy Director at the US National Economic Council (NEC) in the White House. White House National Economic Council also has another Indian-American, Bharat Ramamurti, as Deputy Director. Gautam Raghavan, who served at the White House in the previous Obama administration returns to the White House as Deputy Director in Office of Presidential Personnel. Among Mr. Biden’s inner circle is his top confidant for years Vinay Reddy, who has been named as Director Speechwriting. Young Vedant Patel is all set to occupy a seat in the White House lower press, behind the briefing room, as Assistant Press Secretary to the President. He is only the third-ever Indian American to be part of the White House press shop. Three Indian-Americans have made their way to the crucial National Security Council of the White House, thus leaving a permanent imprint on the country’s foreign policy and national security. They are Tarun Chhabra: Senior Director for Technology and National Security, Sumona Guha, Senior Director for South Asia, Shanthi Kalathil: Coordinator for Democracy and Human Rights. Sonia Aggarwal has been named Senior Adviser for Climate Policy and Innovation in the Office of the Domestic Climate Policy at the White House and Vidur Sharma has been appointed as Policy Adviser for Testing for the White House COVID-19 Response Team. Two Indian-American women have been appointed to the Office of the White House Counsel: Neha Gupta as Associate Counsel and Reema Shah as Deputy Associate Counsel. Also, for the first time in any administration, the White House would have three other South Asians in key positions — Pakistani-American Ali Zaidi as Deputy National Climate Adviser at White House; Sri Lankan American Rohini Kosoglu as Domestic Policy Advisor to the Vice-President and Bangladeshi-American Zayn Siddique as Senior Adviser to the White House Deputy Chief of Staff. During the campaign, Mr. Biden had indicated that he would rope in a large number of Indian-Americans. Biden’s promise “As President, I’ll also continue to rely on Indian-American diaspora that keeps our two nations together, as I have throughout my career,” Mr. Biden said in an address during an Independence Day event on August 15, 2020. “My constituents in Delaware, my staff in the Senate... which had more Indian-Americans than any other administration in the history of this country and this campaign with Indian Americans at senior levels, which of course includes the top of the heap, our dear friend (Harris) who will be the first Indian-American Vice-President in the history of America,” Mr. Biden had said in his address.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-ropes-in-20-indian-americans-17-in-key-white-house-positions/article33596598.ece
18 January 2021||COLOMBO,||India ‘intervened’ on Jaffna varsity memorial issue||A message from India to the Sri Lankan leadership on the controversial demolition of a memorial for war victims at the Jaffna University appears to have contributed to authorities’ decision to “rebuild” the structure on campus. A day after news of the late-night destruction of the monument broke, Indian High Commissioner to Sri Lanka Gopal Baglay met Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa. The meeting was kept under wraps, amid murmurs in Colombo of India intervening. “The Indian High Commissioner met the PM [last weekend] and they discussed the Jaffna University memorial matter,” PM Rajapaksa’s media secretary Rohan Welivita told The Hindu on Sunday. Sharp criticism It all began late evening on January 8, when Jaffna University authorities bulldozed a memorial erected two years ago, to commemorate the scores of civilians killed in the final phase of Sri Lanka’s civil war in Mullivaikkal, in 2009. The sudden, overnight removal of sculpture — of several hands held out of water — set off spontaneous student protests, and drew sharp criticism of the attempt to stifle Tamils’ right to remember their loved ones lost in war. In a complete U-turn by early morning on Monday, the University’s Vice-Chancellor, who had earlier given order for the demolition, met students on a hunger strike, and promised to “rebuild” a monument at the same spot, and even laid the foundation stone for the structure. The change in his stance raised questions, as other protests by Tamils in Sri Lanka’s post-war context — by students, by families of forcibly disappeared persons, or those trying to reclaim military-held land — rarely saw such a swift response from authorities. VC S. Srisatkunarajah, who earlier told The Hindu that his demolition order followed instructions from “defence, intelligence, Education Ministry, everyone”, later said authorities wanted him to “diffuse the situation”. Speaking of reactions abroad, he said “Tamil Nadu is boiling.” Tamil Nadu leaders, including Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, DMK president M.K. Stalin and MDMK general secretary Vaiko, had condemned the move. Pointing to the development a day after External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar concluded his visit to Sri Lanka — during which time he urged the Sri Lankan government to address Tamils’ concerns — Mr. Stalin urged Prime Minister Modi to “strongly condemn” the demolition. While New Delhi made no official comment on the development, diplomatic channels were activated, it appears. Colombo-based weekend newspaper Sunday Times reported that High Commissioner Baglay told Premier Rajapaksa that the demolition “could lead to protests erupting in the southern Indian State of Tamil Nadu.” “Premier Rajapaksa went into action promptly,” according to the newspaper’s political column on Sunday. Prof. Srisatkunarajah has said the rebuilt monument would commemorate “peace” rather than war. “We have a constituted a committee, including student members, to look into erecting the structure,” he told The Hindu on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/india-intervened-on-jaffna-varsity-memorial-issue/article33596592.ece
18 January 2021||London,||U.K. urges China to grant UN access to Xinjiang||Britain’s government on Sunday pressed China to allow UN rights inspectors to visit Xinjiang after raising anew allegations of “appalling” human rights abuses against the Uighur minority people. Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab last week introduced import controls on firms that may have sourced goods from the region in northwest China using forced labour from the mainly Muslim Uighur community. Speaking on the BBC, he decried reports of “slave labour effectively, forced sterilisation, appalling human rights abuses”. “Whether or not it amounts to genocide has to be determined by a court. The bar has been set incredibly high,” Mr. Raab said. “And frankly we shouldn’t be engaged in free-trade negotiations with countries abusing human rights well below the limit of genocide,” he added, implicitly attacking the European Union for securing an investment pact with China last month. Mr. Raab’s government opposes efforts underway in Parliament to give U.K. courts the power to declare a genocide in Xinjiang, which would bar the government from proceeding with any free-trade agreement with China.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/uk-urges-china-to-grant-un-access-to-xinjiang/article33596599.ece
18 January 2021||WILMINGTON,||US--Harris-Senate Resignation||Vice President-elect Kamala Harris will resign her Senate seat on Monday, two days before she and President-elect Joe Biden are inaugurated. Aides to the California Democrat confirmed the timing and said Gov. Gavin Newsom was aware of her decision, clearing the way for him to appoint fellow Democrat Alex Padilla, now California’s Secretary of State, to serve the final two years of Ms. Harris’ term.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-harris-senate-resignation/article33596663.ece
18 January 2021||January 18 2021 00:00 IST,||The unravelling of liberal globalism||Few Presidents have tried to alter the fundamentals of American foreign policy since the end of the Second World War like Donald Trump has done in the past four years. Mr. Trump broke with the Washington consensus on what western policymakers and strategists call the liberal internationalist order. He put his ‘America First’ doctrine in the driving seat of his foreign policy wagon. He decried the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO), the bedrock of the trans-Atlantic military cooperation, pulled the United States out of international organisations and multilateral treaties, and launched tariff wars with both friends and foes alike. Barring a series of normalisation agreements between Israel and some Arab countries, Mr. Trump does not have any major foreign policy achievement to his credit. But he is more of a disruptor than an achiever. And he has caused disruptions in America’s foreign policy which could outlive his presidency. When Joe Biden assumes the White House very soon, the biggest foreign policy challenge he faces is whether he could unmake the Trump legacy and take Washington back to its liberal international consensus. America and isolationism America’s isolationism did not start with Mr. Trump. He was rather harping on an old foreign policy doctrine that shaped and drove American policy before the Second World War when he pulled the U.S. back from the stage of global leadership. Before the war, the U.S., an emerging economic and military power, was largely an isolated country that was focused on its own rise and expansion. The economic catastrophe caused by the Great Depression and the losses it suffered in the First World War prompted the American isolationists, including progressives and conservatives, to push for a policy of non-involvement in European and Asian conflicts — a policy Washington had largely followed throughout the 19th century. The Wilsonian imprint The roots of the liberal internationalist order can be traced to the ideals of the 28th American President, Woodrow Wilson. Wilson, who led the U.S. to the First World War, called for a rules-based global order governed by international institutions in which countries could cooperate and achieve peace (what he called “an organised common peace”) rather than going to war to meet their goals. The Wilsonian principles on self-determination, rule of law within and between countries, liberal capitalist economic model and freer trade and emphasis on human rights would lay the foundations of the liberal global order which the West would wholeheartedly embrace after the Second World War, but they did not have many takers in the U.S. during the inter-war period. The U.S. was not even a member of the League of Nations. Washington unearthed the values of Wilsonian globalism only after it suited America’s strategic interests during the Cold War. When the world was divided between the capitalist and communist blocs and when the communist and socialist parties (under the patronage of the Soviet Union) started making advances into Asian and European countries, the U.S. turned to liberal globalism and took up the leadership of the western world. It called itself and its allies the “free world”, claiming moral superiority over the communist and socialist dictatorships. While this remained the larger narrative, it did not stop them from embracing the dictators who were opposed to the red bloc. Basically, liberal internationalism embodied the transborder cooperation of western democracies and their allies in their fight against the socialist internationalism of the rival bloc. When the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991, many pundits and policymakers saw it as a triumphant moment for liberal internationalism. Some even predicted “the end of history”. The U.S. stepped up its leadership role: It started wars to protect human rights, export democracy and defeat jihadists. But history did not proceed as the end-of-history theorists had prophesied. Structural shifts From a normative point of view, the geostrategic charm of the liberal moral argument about freedom has diminished in the post-Cold War world. On the other side, with the rise of religious terrorism, even liberal democratic governments started arming themselves with more powers that often clashed with civil liberties. The liberal promise of ‘minimum government’ stayed confined to the economic realm, while the security state kept expanding its powers. On the global stage, the U.S.’s repeated military adventures have tested its own hard power superiority. The U.S. effected a regime change in Yugoslavia in 1999, but the campaign eventually led to the disintegration of the country. In Iraq, the U.S. never won a conclusive victory. In Afghanistan, after 19 years of war, the U.S. has struck a deal with the Taliban and is badly looking for an exit. In Libya, the country “liberated by NATO”, there are two governments and two armies and many militias backed by rival regional powers. When it comes to Iran and North Korea, the U.S. is not as confident as it was with Iraq and Afghanistan on using force. This inability to win wars and prolonged military campaigns turned foreign interventions unpopular again. The biggest blow to the western liberal order, however, came from within. The crisis in capitalism that broke out in 2008, has weakened the U.S. and western Europe (the guarantors of the post-war order) economically, and unleashed political changes. The focus shifted away from human rights and civil liberties to fighting terrorism and stopping immigration in many of these countries. Illiberal, far-right and anti-immigrant Islamophobic parties started rising. They challenged post-war internationalism, mobilised the public based on cultural nationalism and vilified immigration and the flow of refugees (which was in part triggered by the wars the globalists fought in poorer countries). From Trump to Biden The rise of Mr. Trump to power in the U.S., the leader of the western liberal order (and the Brexit vote in the United Kingdom) was the sharpest manifestation of this tectonic shift that has been under way. Unsurprisingly, Mr. Trump, a product of the crisis in globalised capitalism, took the U.S. back to pre-war isolationism. It may not be a coincidence that Mr. Trump is the first American President since Jimmy Carter who has not launched a new war. Mr. Biden’s foreign policy would be different from Mr. Trump’s. He would seek to strengthen alliances and build a more consistent foreign policy approach to the myriad problems America is facing. He could undo some of the policy decisions of Mr. Trump’s such as the U.S.’s withdrawal from the Paris Climate Accord or its exit from the World Health Organization. But could Mr. Biden, a liberal internationalist himself, revive the western liberal international order? Could he revert to liberal trade, embrace globalisation like, say, Bill Clinton did, or launch wars in the name of protecting human rights or exporting democracy? Could he establish the U.S. hegemony over a fast-diversifying international system? The forces of history are against him. After the Second World War, there was a trans-Atlantic consensus among the ruling elites of North America and western Europe on how to tackle the challenges from the Soviet Union. Now, there is no such consensus on how to tackle the challenges they face. There could be broad agreements on issues such as climate change or the fight against COVID-19, but on critical strategic issues such as the rise of China and the challenges from Russia, there is a huge gap between the old globalists and the new populists. Mr. Trump has been defeated, but not Trumpism and the anti-globalist politics it has unleashed. Even if Mr. Biden overcomes the currents of isolationism at home, he could face similar challenges across the Atlantic where a bunch illiberal populist leaders and cultural nationalists such as Marine Le Pen of France, Matteo Salvini of Italy, Norbert Hofer of Austria and Geert Wilders of the Netherlands are on the ascent. Like Mr. Trump, none of them represents the old order. stanly.johny@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-unravelling-of-liberal-globalism/article33596581.ece
18 January 2021||January 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Financial boom at a time of economic stagnation||Divergences between the booming financial and the stagnant real sectors, which appear rather confounding as well as disconcerting, warrant an explanation. Enumerating the facts in India’s major secondary stock market, the Sensex (the benchmark index of the BSE Limited, or formerly the Bombay Stock Exchange Ltd.) has been found tracking an upward path, from 40817 on January 8, 2020 to 48569 a year later, on January 8, 2021. In between, the temporary downward slides were responses to the pandemic-related lockdowns during early 2020. Jubilant upward strides in the stock market continued, along with speculatory financial transactions in real estate, gold and even commodities. However, we notice that financial gains booked in the market on transactions do not originate from productive activities in the real economy, a fact which contrasts the floating of shares by enterprises, as initial primary offerings (IPOs) for capacity expansions. With the start of the novel coronavirus pandemic during April-June (Q1) of 2020, India’s GDP growth rate in real terms sank to a low of minus 23.1%. The deceleration in the second quarter continued at minus 7.5%. The official advance estimate for 2020-21 as a whole also stands at a negative again, of minus 7.5%. GDP in India has been subdued even before the pandemic, declining from 6.12% in 2018 to 4.18% for 2019, while the financial sector has continued moving up. In advanced economies too The paradox of the continuing financial boom with the real economy going through a stagnation has been found to be replicated in other developing as well as advanced economies. These include the major emerging economies such as Brazil and Argentina along with advanced economies such as the United States and the United Kingdom. Simultaneously, the story of employment in countries has been dismal, with jobs at levels much less than what is needed . The discord within countries between the real and financial activities clearly imparts a dissonance within economies. Thus in India, the bonanza reaped in the stock market bears no testimony to the dark side of the economy — these include the uprooting of migrants following the pandemic lockdowns, protesting farmers on land rights and the vast stream of the jobless in the country. It remains an open question whether this can continue. An answer, if negative, casts a gloom not only on those having large exposures in the financial market but also for the economy as a whole. To understand a little bit more the magical properties of the on-going prosperity in the financial sector and to question its sustainability over time, we need to recognise the circuit of financial flows beyond the real economy.  Flows of finance  Finance as above, having no counterpart in the productive sector, was identified, first by Karl Marx, as fictitious capital. Flows of fictitious finance consist of credit in circulation, bonds on the basis of future earnings, interest on loans (at the cost of foregone consumption or from surplus value when loans permit an access to productive resources). Earnings from fictitious capital include interests, dividends and capital gains as well as profits on derivatives such as forwards and futures used to hedge against uncertainty in de-regulated markets. All the above come in the category of unearned or rentier capital. Despite the fact that flows of fictitious finance do not originate from the real economy, their accumulation, however, leaves a mark by generating financial wealth for those with access to the financial circuit. Interestingly, financial assets, sold with capital gains at higher prices, are met with a rising rather than with the usual declines in demand. Evidently, possibilities of accumulating assets turn even brighter with the high value assets (used as collaterals), fetching credit for further business. As for the stock prices, which reflect the stream of dividends over time discounted by interest rates, lower rates can help pitch stock prices higher. We recall that cuts in interest rates are often preferred as tools under mainstream prescriptions limiting expansionary policies, which evidently helps stock prices. A journey as above for the financial circuit continues, is subject to market confidence, along a concentric circle which widens with rising asset prices, asset incomes and capital gains. The ingrained uncertainty in de-regulated markets works as a barometer for setting the pace of expectations and decisions. The market may suddenly stall when expectations turn adverse. The standard computer-run packages in the market available for investment decisions, while based on the rather erroneous calculation of probabilities, fail to work to attain the desired goals of profitability. Recent examples include instances of the financial collapse with the dot-com bubble or the sub-prime crisis of 2008, inflicting large social costs of unemployment and poverty in the real economy. Link to state Finally, to look at how finance has attained its present status as the major happening sector within economies, especially, as a major force in the power relations, we need to look at the evolving pattern of the alliances between finance and the ruling state. The path started with the sweeping pace of financial de-regulation in the late-1990s when banks were allowed to profit by dealing with securities and with the emergence of hedging devices such as futures and options in the market. It also reflects the rise of non-bank financial institutions as well as shadow banks operating beyond regulations even at cost for the regular banks which had large exposures to the non-banks. The state’s close proximity to big finance is also evident in the revamping of downhill finance, even with bailouts in the name of restoring financial stability. It speaks even more of the pro-finance stance of the state in the benign official neglect of upswings in the financial sector despite the continuing downslides in the real economy. Alternative policies, caution Possibilities of a sudden collapse of confidence in the financial sector, incurring financial losses borne by those holding such assets go further with social costs borne by the economy as a whole — a reality which cannot be ignored. Catastrophes, as mentioned above, highlight the need for alternative policies on the part of the state as well as a bit of caution on part of individual investors — in a bid to usher in a sustainable and equitable path of growth for the economy as a whole. Sunanda Sen is a former Professor of Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/financial-boom-at-a-time-of-economic-stagnation/article33596574.ece
18 January 2021||January 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Bridging the gulf between dream and reality||Celebrating the lives of visionary leaders who left an indelible imprint on thought and action not only refreshes our memories of their transformative impact but also rekindles hope. Among those who influenced American society and inspired many across the world in the 20th century, Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. stands out. Reflecting on the legacy that Dr. King left in setting the U.S. on the path to a more inclusive society and polity assumes significance in the context of persisting racism leading to the death of innocent African-Americans coupled with the rise of the Black Lives Matter movement. As Americans celebrate his life in the U.S., it is befitting to reflect on his lasting legacy in India too, focusing particularly on the ideas he articulated and the movement he led, which have enduring and universal appeal, particularly at a time when some of those ideas are under threat. Dr. King’s dream If there is one idea that captures the essence of Dr. King’s contribution, it is his dream of an inclusive America. Though the election of Barack Obama as the first African-American President in 2008 was a major stride towards the fulfilment of this dream, Dr. King’s dream was much more grandiose in its breadth and scope. He expanded the horizons of the dream both in its conceptualisation and actualisation in the 1950s and 1960s. In his 1963 oration at the Lincoln Memorial, Dr. King eloquently unpacked his vision for an inclusive and equitable America, which is famously remembered as the “I have a dream” speech. Acknowledging the contribution of President Abraham Lincoln who signed the Emancipation Proclamation that set the African-Americans free from slavery, he underscored that “the life of the coloured American is still sadly crippled by the manacle of segregation and the chains of discrimination.” Given persisting racial injustice even after a hundred years since 1863, he gave a clarion call saying: “Now is the time to lift our nation from the quicksands of racial injustice to the solid rock of brotherhood.” The spirit of Jesus Christ’s Sermon on the Mount and the Gandhian method of nonviolence burst forth beautifully when he cautioned his community not to “satisfy the thirst for freedom by drinking from the cup of bitterness and hatred.” He raised a perceptive question: “When will you be satisfied?” And he answered it saying, “We can never be satisfied as long as our children are stripped of their selfhood and robbed of their dignity.” From thereon he made the world spellbound with his inimitable oratory by expounding the dream that he had for America. “It is a dream deeply rooted in the American dream that one day this nation will rise up and live out the true meaning of its creed… that all men are created equal.” He unfolded the dream further by saying, “I have a dream my four little children will one day live in a nation where they will not be judged by the colour of their skin but by the content of their character.” He ended the speech with the old Black spiritual that gave them hope against all hopes, “Free at last! Free at last! Thank God Almighty, we are free at last!”  The Civil Rights Movement Dr. King’s contribution to the Civil Rights Movement was remarkable. There have been many African-American leaders who have propagated the message of freedom and dignity since the mid-19th century. Among them, Dr. King was unique; he changed the very architecture of the movement. He added flesh to these insightful ideas by leading a relentless and nonviolent movement. He was fully aware that his majestic dream could never be realised without galvanising all those who have the same vision. The movement adapted ideas from India’s forays into civil disobedience. The 381-day Montgomery bus boycott demonstrated the potential for nonviolent mass protest and galvanised the Civil Rights Movement. He tirelessly worked with Rosa Parks, E. D. Nixon, Jo Ann Robinson, Ralph Abernathy, Ella Baker, John Lewis, Andrew Young, Jesse Jackson and C.T. Vivian and many others. Right through the movement, Dr. King strived to be the conscience and unifier of a nation that was deeply divided on racial lines. He bridged the gulf between the dream and reality. Dr. King’s major contribution to the U.S. in general and African-Americans in particular is in invigorating the benchmarks of equality, justice and dignity. The power of these illuminating ideas and the tenacious movement eventually resulted in a number of path-breaking laws such as Civil Rights Act of 1964 and Voting Rights Act of 1965, which ended several vestiges of racial discrimination and led to the empowerment of African-Americans like never before. In the process of realising this glorious dream he was jailed almost 30 times, his house was bombed, he was stabbed once, and finally assassinated. He sacrificed his life for the dream of a better and inclusive America. Both in life and death, he was a beacon of hope for America. May India, where there are continuing atrocities on the Dalit, tribal and minority communities due to a hierarchical social structure, as well as the marginalised communities across the world, draw inspiration from Dr. King and strive for a more inclusive, just and equal society. Varaprasad S. Dolla is Professor in Chinese Studies, School of International Studies, JNU. Martin Luther King Jr. Day is celebrated on the third Monday of every January||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/bridging-the-gulf-between-dream-and-reality/article33596589.ece
18 January 2021||January 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Corrective measures are not tied to incumbency||Four significant developments in the first fortnight of 2021 underline the need for an effective regulatory framework to ensure free speech without harming public good. The first was the decision of some platform companies to suspend U.S. President Donald Trump’s accounts in the wake of the violence at Capitol Hill. The second was the constantly shifting definition of hate speech and its relationship to free speech by a privileged section in the context of the U.S. election. The third was the supplementary chargesheet filed by the Mumbai Police while investigating the tampering of TRPs. The transcript of WhatsApp conversations between Republic TV Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami and the former Broadcast Audience Research Council CEO Partho Dasgupta, who was recently arrested, was revelatory. The fourth was the migration from messaging application WhatsApp to rival platforms such as Signal and Telegram due to privacy concerns. Normalising bigotry It would be rather naïve to applaud Silicon Valley conglomerates for suspending Mr. Trump’s accounts for his insidious social media posts. These powerful companies, since the time Mr. Trump became the presumptive presidential candidate in 2016, permitted him to normalise irrational behaviour, subvert democratic norms and replace civilised public interaction with toxic belligerence. They created space for many strongman leaders across the globe to subsume the independence of various institutions that were expected to provide checks and balances. The point is not that they acted against the U.S. President in his last days in office; it is that they are not willing to act against incumbent leaders who relentlessly use these platforms to polarise societies and normalise bigotry. The so-called independent companies have always tied their fortunes to the ruling regimes across the world. In the case of information companies, this opportunistic relationship creates a huge democratic deficit. The romanticisation of the ruling regimes by these platforms creates an environment where the quest by credible media publications to hold those in power accountable is projected as a partisan political act. It was disturbing to see many of the President’s apologists invoke free speech and the First Amendment for his illogical questioning of the integrity of the election process. Though it may be difficult to spell out where free speech ends and hate speech begins, it is quite easy to sense these vital boundaries. The operational portion of Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg’s January 7 statement read: “The shocking events of the last 24 hours clearly demonstrate that President Donald Trump intends to use his remaining time in office to undermine the peaceful and lawful transition of power to his elected successor, Joe Biden. His decision to use his platform to condone rather than condemn the actions of his supporters at the Capitol building has rightly disturbed people in the US and around the world. We removed these statements yesterday because we judged that their effect -- and likely their intent -- would be to provoke further violence.” But when similar harmful statements were pointed out earlier, Facebook refused to take any corrective action. It played along with many polarising figures in power to cleave our society. Poisoning the information well For nearly a decade, media scholars have been pointing out that the frenzied debates on Indian TV news networks and the scant regard of these networks for self-regulation are poisoning the information well. The blurring of lines in the intercepted exchanges between Mr. Goswami and Mr. Dasgupta is a fine pointer to realise the difference between independent journalism and client journalism. In these debates, we rarely recognise the agency of citizens. They are not passive consumers of the poisoned chalice. They may not express their views and expectations on a regular basis. They tend to give a much bigger leeway to almost all institutions — legislature, judiciary, executive, and the media. But the moment they realise that their rights are being trampled upon, they act in unison. Telegram’s founder Pavel Durov made an important point when he said that the world is witnessing the ‘largest digital migration in human history’ when people began abandoning WhatsApp in favour of other messaging apps. The fact that WhatsApp opted to publish front-page advertisements in newspapers following the migration is both a moral and an existential story. readerseditor@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/corrective-measures-are-not-tied-to-incumbency/article33596585.ece
18 January 2021||January 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Injecting confidence||India began the largest vaccination drive in its history with over 2 lakh people vaccinated across the country in 3,350 sessions on the first day. Covishield manufactured at the Serum Institute of India was available in all States whereas only 12 States had vaccination sites where Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin was administered. In the first tranche of vaccines, there are 11 million doses of Covishield and 5.5 million of Covaxin that will be administered to health-care workers, sanitation workers and municipal workers in the coming days. The first day of the vaccine programme, inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, included ceremonial inoculations across the country. It is significant that India has not lagged behind any other country in ensuring that frontline personnel stand to get vaccinated. It is only a year since the first reports of the novel coronavirus pandemic approaching India surfaced and that just 12 subsequent months of uncertainty, tragedy and upheaval have resulted in promising vaccines with the potential to save many lives and spark hope and optimism in millions. This is a commendable achievement. However, one cannot lose sight of the fact that this is a marathon. The optimism of day one has almost no bearing on the days that lie ahead. India’s immediate plan, as has been announced, is to inoculate 3 crore frontline health workers, and later 27 crore of those most vulnerable to the disease by July. A lot is expected to change even before this deadline. Establishing the efficacy based on final analysis of phase-3 trials and full licensure may take months. Till then, it is rational and scientific on the part of anyone to choose or decline a vaccine on the basis of whether the potential risks outweigh the benefits. Given India’s experience with childhood immunisation and administering millions of doses in extremely diverse geographical conditions, there is reasonable confidence that the country has the executive ability to scale up vaccination. The approval of the vaccines earlier this month has seen divisions among scientists and doctors themselves on the sagacity of the government promoting both Covishield and Covaxin as being equivalent to one another. They are not. Covaxin is being administered as part of a clinical trial and its efficacy is not established. All the vaccines on offer in the United States or the United Kingdom have some — insufficient, nonetheless — efficacy data and therefore inspire greater confidence. Rather than dismiss concerns as ‘rumour mongering’ and ‘politically motivated’, the government has to work doubly hard to ensure that an honest appraisal of the vaccine’s prowess is rapidly disseminated. Those lining up for shots are adults — and a significant fraction of them far more medically literate than the average Indian — and all arms of government must treat them so. It is their experience that will percolate and influence adoption of the vaccines among the larger population.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/injecting-confidence/article33596575.ece
18 January 2021||January 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Update debate||WhatsApp’s decision to delay the update of its privacy policy, following a backlash from its users, is an implicit acknowledgement of the increasing role played by perceptions about privacy in the continued well-being of a popular service. Problems for the Facebook-owned app started earlier this month when it announced an update to its terms of service and privacy policy, according to which users would no longer be able to opt out of sharing data with Facebook. February 8 was kept as the deadline for the new terms to be accepted. This triggered a mass exodus from WhatsApp, the likes of which it has never encountered, not even in the aftermath of the Cambridge Analytica scandal, which did bring a lot of bad press to its parent, or when the messaging app’s co-founders called it quits a few years ago. The WhatsApp policy update has clearly spooked many users, who, concerned about their privacy getting compromised, have shifted to alternative platforms such as Signal and Telegram. In recent weeks, according to media reports, messaging app Signal has topped the app store charts in India and many other countries. Interestingly, WhatsApp uses the same end-to-end encryption protocol as Signal. An under-fire WhatsApp, on its part, has tried to allay fears about privacy being compromised because of the updates. It has put out numerous messages and taken out advertisements to convey that the changes are “related to optional business features on WhatsApp, and provides further transparency about how we collect and use data”. Millions of business interactions take place every day on WhatsApp, and the new privacy updates are supposedly to make these easier while also enabling personalised ads on Facebook. After all this, WhatsApp has pushed the update to May 15. The change will ultimately be inevitable, given that WhatsApp, bought by Facebook for a whopping $19 billion and having subsequently given up plans to charge its users, would be betting on its handling of business interactions to make its big monies. Even then, it cannot force these changes on its users in Europe. For, Europe’s stringent General Data Protection Regulation, more popularly called GDPR, prevents such sharing between apps. Users there are in control of their data much more than anywhere else in the world. India could do with such a law. All it has is a draft version of a law, and it has been so for a few years now. Privacy of a billion citizens is too important a thing to be left just to the practices of a commercial enterprise. It will be reassuring if it is guaranteed by a strong law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/update-debate/article33596576.ece
18 January 2021||January 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Rise of shadow entrepreneurship||Recently, a professor at a business school allegedly misused his faculty position to provide fake certificates to students whom he had compelled to attend an online course that he taught. He essentially took advantage of India’s rising pre-pandemic gig economy in education. When authorities at the institution discovered the racket, they suspended him. This is a cautionary tale for the global rise of shadow entrepreneurship, not just in education but other sectors such as finance (for easy loans), the betting economy (online games) and healthcare (e-pharmacies). Given the potential perverse consequences of shadow entrepreneurship in the long run for consumer welfare, regulation is needed to monitor quality of services. Supply and demand shock What might drive the rise of shadow entrepreneurship? When there is a supply and demand shock as momentous as COVID-19, a new market may open up to tackle the shifting inwards of markets, owing to rising prices and lower quantities available. Shadow entrepreneurs, offering the allure of technology-mediated services, can help release the associated distortions and frictions in the market by offering complementary services that traditional service providers may be constrained to offer or consumers might not be able to access due to lockdown constraints. This could produce a redistribution of old consumers towards these new markets provided through technology and also entry of new consumers. While markets may self-correct using the invisible hand principles, the initial spike in demand and ensuing lock-in effects might imply higher market power for early movers. The manifestation of such market power will happen through a variety of ways beyond the obvious price setting effects. Small firms will get acquired by large firms. First movers in the space with deep pockets could generate irrationally high valuations. This may also show up with cross-border and national security implications as recently reported about shady loans being provided by Chinese instant loan providers online. Such technology-mediated shadow entrepreneurial platforms could also harbour less than safe spaces as is happening with harassment in Indian telemedicine platforms. It will also mean that unscrupulous individuals who are not entrepreneurs per se but are complementary service providers will potentially take more advantage of these post-pandemic market constraints, extracting money from consumers by means such as document forgery. Clearly, while such shadow entrepreneurialism may spike short-run welfare effects with technology mediated access, they could create perverse welfare consequences in the long run. The way forward What is then the way forward to regulate such activity? As research by Amit Seru at Stanford University and his colleagues found through studying shadow finance in the U.S., or research by the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad found in the world of private coaching houses in Indian education, strong monitoring of quality would be essential. This needs to be complemented with non-compliance being punishable with a jail term, clamping down on services and related strict consequences. Those shadow firms that comply are more than welcome to join the dominant mode of service delivery with non-shadow firms. But without regulation, the situation could spiral out of control, given monitoring needs of public goods distribution for the developing world. There also needs to be an associated harmonisation of activities between competition authorities of governments (in India’s case the Ministry of Corporate Affairs in regulating shadow entrepreneurship and government departments in healthcare, education or finance). The big question though is, caught in the stress and fatigue of trying to manage the virus, will governments worldwide pay attention? If not, we may be in for the non-COVID-19 adverse welfare consequences of COVID-19, given the rise in shadow entrepreneurship around the world. Chirantan Chatterjee is a faculty member at IIM Ahmedabad and Visiting Fellow at Hoover Institution, Stanford University||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/rise-of-shadow-entrepreneurship/article33596586.ece
18 January 2021||January 18 2021 00:00 IST,||India and the League (From an Editorial)||Writing on the subject of India’s representation on the governing body of the International Labour Organisation, we exposed some months back the complacent indifference with which the Council of League of Nations contrived to shelve the question. The Council could easily have secured, as indeed it ought to have done under Article 4 of the covenant, an Indian delegate to give expert evidence for a conclusive decision, but chose instead to be perfunctory and covered the evasion by manufacturing a catalogue of reasons as ingenious as they are unconvincing. The Council decided that India should wait for its chance till 1922 when the governing body will be reconstituted. The Assembly of the League of Nations, which a few days back, closed its first meeting at Geneva, disposed of the Indian question in a far easier manner; it discovered a technical excuse to get rid of the nuisance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/india-and-the-league-from-an-editorial/article33596582.ece
18 January 2021||January 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Victory for good sense (From an editorial)||The freedom of choice of the medium of instruction in colleges in Tamil Nadu, recommended by a committee of experts and accepted by the State Government, is a victory for good sense. The students and parents have won the first round of their battle to safeguard their careers and intellectual interests. But they have had to pay a heavy price for what should never have become a matter for controversy or governmental interference. And for aught one knows, the price to pay might have been far heavier than the valuable study hours lost on the eve of examinations and the bones of some students broken but for the intervention of the mid-term elections. Having worked itself into an untenable position and faced with mounting popular opposition, the Government set up the experts committee. And it resorted to the classic device of a committee not only to gain some time during which roused tempers could cool but also to enable it to reverse the gear before the issue messed up the electoral prospects of the D.M.K. It is reasonable to expect that most of the thousands of Tamil medium places in the P.U.C. and degree classes will have to be converted into English medium ones if the “opportunity” to choose the medium is made available fully and without any mental reservations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/victory-for-good-sense-from-an-editorial/article33596583.ece
18 January 2021||January 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Planning for the preventable||If immunisation is insurance against disease, what about insurance for immunisation? I just checked my policy and immunisation procedures such as vaccination and inoculation are expressly excluded. Some policies exclude them except after a bite, as in the case of rabies. To be fair, it is a hospitalisation policy and does not cover out-patient procedures but listed day-care procedures. Even those have initial waiting periods before coverage kicks in. Many general insurance companies offer vaccination cover only as part of maternity benefits under the hospitalisation policy. Vaccination expenses for the new-born, up to a limit, typically Rs. 10,000, is covered under the policy. So, what does one do? If your company offers vaccinations as an add-on cover, it makes sense to opt for it. There could be a waiting time for you to become eligible. If you are buying health insurance anew, you can try to buy a policy that offers this as part of the basic cover and there are options available and here, you can claim immediately when the policy commences for some types of vaccines. When it is a part of the basic cover, the premium is built in and there is a separate limit for immunisation costs so it does not cut into your sum assured. Fortunately, claim for vaccination will also not affect your no-claim bonus. Insurance for immunisation is not so much a COVID-19 vaccination requirement, because clarity is yet to emerge on it being free or otherwise. But the thing is, we have largely forgotten vaccinations after that dreaded painful shot in our school days that gave us fever and an ugly scar. Only a few of us have taken adult vaccinations for Hepatitis, typhoid or rabies and fewer still have had even annual flu shots. Exceptions may be when visa applications require it or we become concerned after a conversation with our doctor.  Jabs for children Vaccinations for children has become universal only recently in India and it’s been quite an achievement to get rid of small pox, whooping cough, polio and that ilk of heart-rending childhood afflictions. In the same breath, let us see an often-forgotten perk in your hospitalisation policies. Once in block of a certain number of claim free years, your insurance company will pay for your preventive health check. There is an upper limit, usually pegged to your sum assured, and it will defray your expenses partially at least. Availing this too will not affect your no-claim bonus. Of course, a preventive health check benefits both you and your insurer as you can take corrective measures and save yourself major health problems in the future and save them a claim. They should start approaching vaccination also similarly as the benefits will only be larger!  (The writer is a business journalist specialising in insurance & corporate history)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/planning-for-the-preventable/article33596569.ece
18 January 2021||January 18 2021 00:00 IST,||ASK US||Q.I am a 64-year-old retired bank employee-cum-pensioner. My spouse (59) is a housewife with nil income. My total income for FY2019-2020 is Rs. 10.70 lakh. My net taxable income is Rs. 8.14 lakh after various deductions. The following is extended to retirees by my erstwhile employer : 1) Rs. 4,700 as reimbursement towards Mediclaim policy premium ( Though my actual premium paid is Rs. 12,000) 2) Rs. 4,000 in medical aid 3) Rs. 3,500 for annual health check up for self and spouse against submission of bills ( Not treated as taxable income by my bank ) All along I have been claiming only Mediclaim premium (less Rs. 4,700 reimbursed by the bank) under Sec 80 D. I have the following queries: 1) I have been spending about Rs. 2,000 - Rs. 2.500 p.m. towards cost of medicines. We both do not suffer from any specified diseases as per Income Tax Rules. Can I claim relief for the pharmacy bills amounting to Rs. 30,000 under medical expenses as per Sec 80 D? Also, I have been incurring regular expenses towards doctor’s fee for regular check-ups and diagnostics such as x-rays 2) Can I claim Rs. 5,000 relief under preventive health check-up under Sec 80 D? N. Sundaresan A.(Reply to Query 1) Under Section 80D, only those senior citizens who do not have any health insurance policy in force in their names are allowed to avail deduction for the medical expenses incurred by them. As you already have a health insurance policy, you are not eligible for claiming expenses incurred for medical purposes. It does not depend on the benefits offered by your health insurance policy. Reply to Query 2 An amount spent towards preventive health check-ups can be claimed up to Rs. 5,000 subject to the overall limits as provided under Section 80D. Your former employer is treating the amount paid to you and your spouse as reimbursement as the amount disbursed to you is not being added to your total income. Hence, any amount spent over and above Rs. 3,500 (received from your former employer) can be claimed as deduction for the purpose of preventive health check-up subject to maximum limit of Rs. 5,000 and overall limits as provided. Q.My parents-in-law, both senior citizens, are joint holders of some FDs with a nationalised bank. My father-in-law expired last year. We were advised to continue the FDs in the current format as they were begun when interest rates were higher. However, when we attempted to submit Form 15-H for the current financial year, we were informed that it would not be possible as the first holder had died. The options given to us were to either continue the FDs till maturity and have the TDS deducted or close the FDs, make fresh deposits solely in my mother-in-law’s name and accept the lower interest rates. While my mother-in-law has a PAN, she has never submitted an ITR and her annual income is below Rs. 4 lakh. Is there any way out?   Sujaya A.Banks are required to deduct TDS once the interest pay out exceeds a certain limit. Your 26AS will reflect the amount of interest credited and the amount of corresponding TDS. Respective ITR is to be filed in order to claim the TDS deducted. If the total income, including the interest received from bank, is below the basic exemption limit (Rs. 5 lakh for assessees aged 80 and above), refund of the TDS so deducted can be claimed. As long as the income received from all sources, including the bank interest, is properly disclosed in the correct ITR (as applicable in your case) there should not be any problem irrespective of the age of the assessee.  (The author is parnter, GSS Associates, Chartered Accountants, Chennai)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ask-us/article33596565.ece
18 January 2021||January 18 2021 00:00 IST,||loose change||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/loose-change/article33596571.ece
18 January 2021||Brisbane,||Washington and Shardul put Youth Brigade’s mettle on display||A pair of unlikely third-day batting heroes on Sunday gave India a fighting chance of securing the draw it needs in the fourth Test to retain the Border-Gavaskar Trophy. Debutant Washington Sundar and Shardul Thakur, in just his second Test, put on 123 for the seventh wicket — a record for India at the Gabba — taking their team from a precarious 186 for seven to 309 before Shardul was bowled by Pat Cummins for 67. Guiding the tail Washington batted well with the tail until he guided a Mitchell Starc short ball to Cameron Green at gully after making 62. By the time Mohammad Siraj was bowled by Josh Hazlewood, giving him figures of five for 57, India had reached 336, only 33 runs behind Australia's first innings total of 369. Australia openers Marcus Harris and David Warner survived six testing overs as Australia finished the third day on 21 without loss, a lead of 54 runs. Washington and Shardul smashed the previous seventh-wicket record of 58 for India at the Gabba, set by Kapil Dev and Manoj Prabhakar in 1991. India began the extended morning session on 62 for two, with Cheteshwar Pujara and Ajinkya Rahane at the crease. Both men looked to keep the scoreboard ticking, in contrast to Saturday afternoon, where they were more intent on survival. They saw off Starc and Cummins, but Hazlewood was introduced into the attack and produced a brilliant over which led to Pujara's downfall. Hazlewood had Pujara in trouble when a short ball followed him as he tried to evade it, the ball hitting his glove and falling short of Cameron Green at gully. But two deliveries later Hazlewood got a ball to angle in and straighten, forcing Pujara to nick behind. Rahane and Mayank Agarwal steadied the ship but with the lunch break in sight, Rahane couldn't resist playing at a wide ball from Starc and edged to Matthew Wade at fourth slip. The Indians began the second session at 161 for four with Mayank and Rishabh Pant at the crease. Both fell to injudicious shots. Mayank slashed at a wide delivery from Cummins to fall for 38, caught at second slip by Steve Smith. Pant did the same to Hazlewood, only to be caught at gully by Green for 23. At that stage Australia was in command, but Washington and Shardul had other ideas and defied the attack with a mixture of solid defence and attractive stroke-making.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/washington-and-shardul-put-on-display-youth-brigades-mettle/article33596651.ece
18 January 2021||MUMBAI,||Pondicherry stuns Mumbai||Santha Moorthy, the 41-year-old swing bowler from Madras Cricket Club, ripped through a formidable Mumbai batting line-up to set up Pondicherry’s second famous win in three nights in the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy on Sunday. Thanks to Moorthy’s five-wicket haul (five for 20), Pondicherry shot out Mumbai for 94 in 19 overs at the Wankhede Stadium. The fledgling southerners overhauled the target with six wickets and an over to spare. Pondicherry registered its second win in Group E. Mumbai, on the other hand, found itself at the bottom with four losses in as many outings.  The scores: Elite E (Mumbai): Mumbai 94 in 19 overs (Santha Moorthy 5/20) lost to Pondicherry 95/4 in 19 overs.   Kerala 112/4 in 20 overs (Sachin Baby 51 n.o.) lost to Andhra 113/4 in 17.1 overs.   Delhi 182/4 in 20 overs (Nitish Rana 66) lost to Haryana 183/5 in 18.2 overs (Rohit Sharma 48 n.o., Rahul Tewatia 31 n.o.).   Elite D (Indore): Goa 154/7 in 20 overs bt Rajasthan 117 in 19.3 overs; Saurashtra 180/4 in 20 overs (Samarth Vyas 66 n.o., Prerak Mankad 57) lost to Madhya Pradesh 181/4 in 19 overs (Venkatesh Iyer 88 n.o., Rajat Patidar 52).   Vidarbha 150/7 in 20 overs lost to Services 153/2 in 17.2 overs (Lakhan Singh 66, Rahul Singh 55 n.o.).   Plate (Chennai): Manipur 105/8 in 20 overs (Amod Yadav 4/17) lost to Bihar 107/1 in 17.1 overs (Shasheem Rathour 60 n.o.).   Arunachal Pradesh 84/8 in 20 overs lost to Meghalaya 88/1 in 14.5 overs; Chandigarh 204/6 in 20 overs (Shivam Bhambri 75) bt Sikkim 73/4 in 20 overs.   Nagaland 178/6 in 20 overs (Rongsen Jonathan 51) bt Mizoram 101 in 19.1 overs.   Monday’s matches: Elite A (Bengaluru): J&K vs Railways; Punjab vs Tripura; UP vs Karnataka, all at noon.   Elite B (Kolkata): Odisha vs Assam; Jharkhand vs Hyderabad, both at noon; Tamil Nadu vs Bengal, 7 p.m.   Elite C (Vadodara): Gujarat vs Baroda; Chhattisgarh vs Uttarakhand; Himachal vs Maharashtra, all at noon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pondicherry-on-a-roll/article33596696.ece
18 January 2021||MUMBAI,||Haryana’s run continues||Rahul Tewatia (31 n.o., 16b, 3x4, 2x6)and Rohit Sharma (48 n.o., 21b, 2x4, 3x6) combined to help Haryana maintain its winning streak in Group E of the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy tournament. Riding on the duo’s unbroken 78-run partnership for the sixth wicket off just 34 balls, Haryana made a meal of the target of 183 set by Delhi at the Wankhede Stadium on Sunday night. The five-wicket win, with 10 balls in hand, means Mohit Sharma’s men have one foot in the quarterfinals. Shikhar Dhawan-led Delhi, on the other hand, will have to return home after the concluding group fixtures on Tuesday. Left reeling When off-spinner Lalit Yadav struck thrice in nine balls in the middle overs, leaving Haryana reeling at 105 for five, Delhi would have hoped of keeping its campaign alive. However, Rohit and Tewatia played some smart cricket to take the match away. With 26 required from three overs, the two targeted left-arm pacer Pradeep Sangwan to help themselves to three sixes off pull shots. The first one — by left-handed Tewatia — was misjudged by Lalit who had an outside chance of pulling off a difficult catch. Rohit then took over and virtually sealed the game with successive sixes behind the wicket off the last two balls of the over. The duo’s pyrotechnics meant Nitish Rana’s (66, 34b, 11x4, 2x6) sensational knock went in vain. Laying the foundation Not only did he resurrect Delhi after Dhawan was cleaned up by his counterpart in the first over, but also stitched together a 103-run partnership with opener Hiten Dalal (49, 41b, 3x4, 3x6) to lay a foundation for the big-hitters. Anuj Rawat and Lalit Yadav did just that as Delhi added almost 60 runs in the last six overs.   Monday’s matches   Elite A (Bengaluru): J&K vs Railways; Punjab vs Tripura; Uttar Pradesh vs Karnataka, all at noon.  Elite B (Kolkata): Odisha vs Assam; Jharkhand vs Hyderabad, both at noon; Tamil Nadu vs Bengal, 7 p.m.  Elite C (Vadodara): Gujarat vs Baroda; Chhattisgarh vs Uttarakhand; Himachal vs Maharashtra, all at noon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/haryanas-run-continues/article33596804.ece
18 January 2021||KOZHIKODE,||Andhra coasts to win||The law of averages finally caught up with Kerala on Sunday. After winning three matches on the trot, Sanju Samson’s men suffered their first defeat at the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy T20 tournament, going down to Andhra by six wickets in Mumbai. Kerala crawled to 112 for four after being put in. Openers Robin Uthappa and Mohammed Azharuddeen as well as captain Sanju Samson were back in the dugout inside the seventh over with just 30 runs on the board.  When Vishnu Vinod, too, left, Kerala slumped to 38 for four with nearly half the overs used up. Sachin Baby (51 not out, 34b, 1x4, 4x6) and Jalaj Saxena (27 not out, 34b, 1x4) ensured that the team at least went past 100, with an unfinished fifth wicket stand of 74, but it took them 62 balls. Andhra romped home with 2.5 overs to spare, riding on fine knocks from opener Ashwin Hebbar (48, 46b, 6x4, 1x6) and Ambati Rayudu (38 n.o, 27b, 4x4, 1x6).  The scores: Elite E (Mumbai): Kerala 112/4 in 20 overs (Sachin Baby 51 n.o.) lost to Andhra 113/4 in 17.1 overs.   Mumbai 94 in 19 overs (Santha Moorthy 5/20) lost to Pondicherry 95/4 in 19 overs.   Delhi 182/4 in 20 overs (Nitish Rana 66) lost to Haryana 183/5 in 18.2 overs (Rohit Sharma 48 n.o., Rahul Tewatia 31 n.o.).   Elite D (Indore): Goa 154/7 in 20 overs bt Rajasthan 117 in 19.3 overs; Saurashtra 180/4 in 20 overs (Samarth Vyas 66 n.o., Prerak Mankad 57) lost to Madhya Pradesh 181/4 in 19 overs (Venkatesh Iyer 88 n.o., Rajat Patidar 52).   Vidarbha 150/7 in 20 overs lost to Services 153/2 in 17.2 overs (Lakhan Singh 66, Rahul Singh 55 n.o.).   Plate (Chennai): Manipur 105/8 in 20 overs (Amod Yadav 4/17) lost to Bihar 107/1 in 17.1 overs (Shasheem Rathour 60 n.o.).   Arunachal Pradesh 84/8 in 20 overs lost to Meghalaya 88/1 in 14.5 overs; Chandigarh 204/6 in 20 overs (Shivam Bhambri 75) bt Sikkim 73/4 in 20 overs.   Nagaland 178/6 in 20 overs (Rongsen Jonathan 51) bt Mizoram 101 in 19.1 overs   Monday’s matches: Elite A (Bengaluru ): J&K vs Railways; Punjab vs Tripura; UP vs Karnataka, all at noon.   Elite B (Kolkata ): Odisha vs Assam; Jharkhand vs Hyderabad, both at noon; Tamil Nadu vs Bengal, 7 p.m.   Elite C (Vadodara ): Gujarat vs Baroda; Chhattisgarh vs Uttarakhand; Himachal vs Maharashtra, all at noon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/andhra-coasts-to-win/article33596896.ece
18 January 2021||Galle,||Sri Lanka strikes but England on top||Sri Lanka rattled England with three quick wickets late on the fourth day of the first Test in Galle on Sunday, but the visitors remained favourites to win the match with just 36 more runs needed and seven wickets in hand. England was expected to comfortably close in on a victory after Sri Lanka finished with 359 in its second innings, leaving the visitors needing only 74 to win. But Sri Lanka struck early, with Dom Sibley (2) and Zak Crawley (8) falling to left-arm spinner Lasith Embuldeniya. Captain Joe Root was run-out for one after a mix-up with Jonny Bairstow. Bairstow and Dan Lawrence took a nervous England to 38-3 as bad light brought an early end to proceedings.  Earlier, England’s spinners had claimed three key wickets to tighten the noose around the hosts in their second innings. Thirimanne hits ton Angelo Mathews struck 71 after hitting his 36th half-century in Tests to hold fort at one end after opener Lahiru Thirimanne made 111.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sri-lanka-strikes-but-england-on-top/article33596648.ece
18 January 2021||Rovaniemi (Finland),||Podium finish for Team MRF||Team MRF Tyres’ Emil Lindholm and Mikael Korhonen took third place in the Arctic Lapland Rally, a round of the Finnish National Championship, here on Saturday. The final day started with a 42km test with temperatures dipping to -8 degrees Celsius and loose snow making the conditions quite tough. Both the Team MRF Tyres’ crews tamed the conditions, with Lindholm and Korhonen finishing second in the stage, five seconds off the winner Juha Salo & Mikko Markkula. The final three stages were also tough making the conditions unpredictable. Despite this, Lindholm & Korhonen got a second and two fourth-place places to cement a podium finish. The other MRF Tyres team of Niclas Gronholm and Antti Linnaketo finished sixth overall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/podium-finish-for-team-mrf/article33596653.ece
18 January 2021||January 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Am no bunny with the bat: Shardul||Shardul Thakur may have looked like an unlikely hero on Sunday after top-scoring with 67 and helping India salvage the situation, but the Mumbai pacer said he was always confident of his batting abilities and was prepared for such a moment. “I have some batting talent. Whenever the throw-down specialists are available, I practise. These are the moments you train and wait for and you could do something for the team,” said Shardul, who along with Washington Sundar added 123 for the seventh wicket. Commenting on what the duo discussed, Shardul said, “The idea was to spend some time. We knew their bowlers were tiring a bit. So it was a matter of hanging in there for one hour. We knew we would be on top. “When one was playing a rash shot, the other would immediately speak and try to stick to basics,” he added. Letting the game slip Meanwhile, Australia pacer Josh Hazlewood, who starred with a five-wicket haul, credited Shardul and Washington, and felt the home team had let the game slip away. “We probably did not execute as well as we could have in that period but we created a few little half-chances. “On any other day, we take those, but credit to those two guys (Shardul and Washington). They batted beautifully and I think it just shows that the wicket is pretty good,” said Hazlewood. The speedster conceded that the Aussie bowlers erred with their line and length, allowing Shardul to score freely. “It is a bit frustrating obviously, when you reduce a team to six-down and are on your way to knocking them over. Credit to him (Shardul). We missed our marking a bit in that little period. Probably bowled a touch short and a bit wide here and there,” said Hazlewood. The 30-year-old said David Warner will hold the key on day four and would determine how soon Australia can force a declaration to give itself enough time to push for a win. “It depends on the weather as well. A bit of rain [is] forecast in the afternoon on both days. We will bat normally for the first two sessions and see where we are.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/am-no-bunny-with-the-bat-shardul/article33596656.ece
18 January 2021||London,||United stays top after stalemate||Leicester City maintained its impressive form as a 2-0 home win against Southampton extended its unbeaten Premier League run to five games to lift it into second place on Saturday. Goals from James Maddison and Harvey Barnes saw off the Saints. A day after Premier League chief Richard Masters called on players to set the right example by not celebrating goals with the usual hugs, both Leicester’s scorers adhered to the rules. “I said to them there is lots of negativity around it but see it as a positive and be creative,” Leicester manager Rodgers said of Maddison’s imaginary handshake routine. There was also an important win for Chelsea which got back on track after a dreadful run of form with a 1-0 victory at Fulham. Chelsea had won only one of its previous six league games, slipping way off the pace, and it laboured against a tiring Fulham side, which was reduced to 10 men when Antonee Robinson was sent off in the 44th minute for a foul on Cesar Azpilicueta. But just when it looked as though Fulham might hold out for a sixth successive Premier League draw, Mason Mount rifled in a 78th minute winner after a mistake by keeper Alphonse Areola. Lorenzo Insigne scored twice and produced a dazzling assist as Napoli stormed into third place in Serie A with a crushing 6-0 victory over Fiorentina on Sunday. Gennaro Gattuso’s side was clinical and the scoreline left struggling Fiorentina stunned, as Napoli had six shots on goal to the visitors’ five in the first half but found the net with each of their four efforts on target. Napoli climbed above AS Roma on goal difference into third place on 34 points. Fiorentina is 14th with 18 points.  The results: Premier League: Sheffield United 1 (McGoldrick 59) lost to Tottenham 3 (Aurier 5, Kane 40, Ndomble 62).   Serie A: Napoli 6 (Insigne 5, 72-pen, Demme 36, Lozano 38, Zieliński 45, Politano 89) bt Fiorentina 0.   Saturday: Premier League: Fulham 0 lost to Chelsea 1 (Mount 78); Leicester 2 (Maddison 37, Barnes 90+5) bt Southampton 0.   Bundesliga: Hoffenheim 0 drew with Arminia Bielefeld 0; Cologne 0 drew with Hertha Berlin 0; Werder Bremen 2 (Gebre Selassie 84, Agu 87) bt Augsburg 0; VfB Stuttgart 2 (Gonzalez 58, Wamangituka 90+6-pen) drew with Borussia M’Gladbach 2 (Stindl 35-pen, Zakaria 61).   Serie A: Bologna 1 (Orsolini 19-pen) bt Hellas Verona 0; Torino 0 drew with Spezia 0; Sampdoria 2 (Candreva 67-pen, Torregrossa 81) bt Udinese 1 (De Paul 55).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/leicester-jumps-to-second-spot/article33596661.ece
18 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Gurpreet, Niveditha reign||Olympian Gurpreet Singh beat Neeraj Kumar by one point in the men’s 25-metre rapid fire pistol event in the National shooting selection trials at the Dr. Karni Singh Range on Sunday. Gurpreet had topped qualification with 580 before clinching the low- scoring final with 21 points. Shivam Shukla was third, while Harpreet Singh, Anirudh Singh Rana and Udhayveer Sidhu finished fourth to sixth respectively. In the newly introduced women’s rapid fire pistol event, Niveditha Nair of Tamil Nadu topped with 540, beating Abhidnya Patil by one point. Olympian Annu Raj Singh was third after being tied on 533 with Neha. The National Rifle Association of India (NRAI) is conducting the rapid fire pistol event for women, without any final, as it would be fielding a mixed team in the World Cups. Quite thoughtfully, the national federation has also stopped the three shooters — Rahi Sarnobat, Manu Bhaker and Chinki Yadav in the fray for the Olympics in women’s sports pistol — from competing in the new event.  The results:   25m rapid fire pistol: Men: 1. Gurpreet Singh 21 (580); 2. Neeraj Kumar 20 (577); 3. Shivam Shukla 17 (571).   Women: 1. Niveditha Nair 540; 2. Abhidnya Patil 539; 3. Annu Raj Singh 533 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gurpreet-niveditha-reign/article33596802.ece
18 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Nishant, Sanjana given pride of place||International tennis is back at the DLTA Complex, albeit with minimum foreign participation, in the ITF grade-4 junior tennis tournament. Nishant Dabas and Sanjana Sirimalla start as the boys and girls top seeds. Nishant has pushed his international rank to 138 and should be eyeing entry in the junior Grand Slams by stepping up his game. There are other interesting players in the field like Aman Dahiya, Chirag Duhan, Denim Yadav and Ajay Malik. Remarkable work Sanjana has worked remarkably to hone her game and fitness. The other good players in the girls draw include Reshma Maruri, Riya Uboveja and Bhakti Shah.  The seedings:   Boys: 1. Nishant Dabas, 2. Sanjith Devineni, 3. Nikhil NIranjan, 4. Aman Dahiya, 5. Chirag Duhan, 6. Denim Yadav, 7. Dhruv Tangri, 8. Ajay Malik.   Girls: 1. Sanjana Sirimalla, 2. Reshma Maruri, 3. Riya Uboveja, 4. Veda Raju Prapurna, 5. Hetvee Chaudhari, 6. Suhitha Maruri, 7. Bhakti Shah, 8. Rutuja Chaphalkar (US).   The results (qualifying event third and final round): Boys: Ronin Lotlikar bt Rishi Jalota 6-1, 6-2; Manas Dhamne bt Agriya Yadav 2-6, 7-6(6), 6-1; Aryan shah bt Raghav Harsh 6-2, 5-7, 7-5; Sarthak Gandhi bt Deep Munim 6-2, 6-3.   Girls: Sanjana Devineni bt Riya Sachdeva 6-4, 6-2; Janani Ramesh bt Harnoor Sidhu 6-1, 7-6(5); Anjali Rathi bt Lakshmi Prabha 6-1, 7-6(4); Shruti Ahlawat bt Ruma Gaikaiwari 6-3, 6-3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nishant-sanjana-given-pride-of-place/article33596805.ece
18 January 2021||Hyderabad:,||It’s Forever Splendour vs. Ashwa Bravo||Forever Splendour and Ashwa Bravo should fight out the finish of the HRC Golconda 2000 Guineas (Gr. 2), the stellar attraction of Monday’s (Jan. 18) races. There will be no false rails.  CYNDY PLATE (Div. II) (1,400m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 12.55 p.m.: 1. Alliston (6) Abhay Singh 60, 2. Mark My Day (9) B.R. Kumar 58, 3. Barbosella (5) Surya Prakash 56.5, 4. Just Incredible (8) Ajeeth Kumar 56.5, 5. Promiseofhappiness (4) Kiran Naidu 55.5, 6. Polonsky (11) Ashad Asbar 53, 7. Blickfang (1) Akshay Kumar 52.5, 8. Turf Monarch (2) Kuldeep Singh 52.5, 9. Destined To Be (10) Gaddam 52, 10. Blue Cruise (12) R.S. Jodha 51.5, 11. Lightning Fairy (7) R. Manish 51.5 and 12. Super Act (3) Santosh Raj N R 50.5.  1. BLICKFANG, 2. JUST INCREDIBLE, 3. ALLISTON   STARRY SCENE PLATE (1,100m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 1.25: 1. Bedford (2) Kiran Naidu 60, 2. Aibak (3) Mukesh Kumar 58.5, 3. Different (7) Srinath 56.5, 4. Elegant Stroke (4) B.R. Kumar 56.5, 5. India Gate (10) R. Manish 56, 6. Kapell Bruke (13) G. Naresh 56, 7. Royal Green (5) Ajit Singh 55.5, 8. Win Vision (12) Sandesh 55.5, 9. Beauty On Parade (8) Akshay Kumar 55, 10. Fantastic Show (Ex. Queen Of Love) (6) Ashad Asbar 55, 11. Greek Soul (14) Santosh Raj N R 54.5, 12. Break The Ice (1) C.P. Bopanna 54, 13. Farmville (9) Ajeeth Kumar 54 and 14. Fleur (11) Surya Prakash 54.  1. WIN VISION, 2. DIFFERENT, 3. FARMVILLE   GLOBAL STUD MILLION (1,200m), 3-y-o only, 1.55: 1. Ashwa Jauhar (3) Suraj Narredu 56, 2. Ashwa Raudee (7) Trevor 56, 3. Falcon Edge (1) Akshay Kumar 56, 4. Greek’s Ace (2) Mukesh Kumar 56, 5. Indie (4) Sandesh 56, 6. Kingston (6) B.R. Kumar 52, 7. Knotty Dancer (8) Zervan 52, 8. Proud (9) Ashad Asbar 52 and 9. New Look (5) Ajit Singh 50.5.  1. ASHWA RAUDEE, 2. ASHWA JAUHAR, 3. FALCON EDGE   CYNDY PLATE (Div. I) (1,400m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 2. 30: 1. Ulysses (2) Mukesh Kumar 60, 2. Angel Tesoro (9) Abhay Singh 58.5, 3. Tiger Of The Sea (5) Surya Prakash 57, 4. Trump Star (10) B.R. Kumar 56.5, 5. Lagos (8) Akshay Kumar 55, 6. Unstoppable (4) R. Manish 54.5, 7. Red River (6) C.P. Bopanna 53.5, 8. Tapatio (12) Kuldeep Singh 53.5, 9. Bravo (1) Ashad Asbar 51.5, 10. Thunder Road (11) Ajit Singh 51.5, 11. Diesis Dream (3) Ajeeth Kumar 50.5 and 12. Glendale (7) G. Naresh 50.5.  1. LAGOS, 2. DIESIS DREAM, 3. TRUMP STAR   SILKY BABY PLATE (1,600m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II), 3.05: 1. Ashwa Yashobali (10) Suraj Narredu 61, 2. Ruletheworld (8) Srinath 58.5, 3. That’s My Magic (1) Zervan 58.5, 4. Spicy Star (6) Mukesh Kumar 57.5, 5. Kesariya Balam (5) Sandesh 55, 6. Lockhart (2) Ashad Asbar 55, 7. Rhythm Selection (3) Kuldeep Singh 55, 8. Big Brave (9) Santosh Raj N R 54, 9. Gusty Look (7) Abhay Singh 52.5 and 10. Peaky Blinders (4) Akshay Kumar 50.  1. KESARIYA BALAM, 2. ASHWA YASHOBALI, 3. RULETHEWORLD   TARAMATI PLATE (1,200m), rated 60 to 85 (Cat. II), 3.40: 1. Trump Girl (11) Abhay Singh 60, 2. Pontius Pilate (3) Trevor 58, 3. Classic Remark (5) Surya Prakash 56.5, 4. Agni (2) Akshay Kumar 55, 5. Long Range (8) Ashad Asbar 55, 6. Mon General (6) Gaddam 55, 7. Happy Together (10) Santosh Raj N R 54.5, 8. Strategist (9) Suraj Narredu 54.5, 9. That’s My Class (1) Ajeeth Kumar 54, 10. Starlight (4) G. Naresh 53.5, 11. Galloping Gangster (7) Kuldeep Singh 52, 12. Warrior Supreme (14) Zervan 52, 13. Shaquille (13) B.R. Kumar 51.5 and 14. Southern Legacy (12) Gopal Singh 51.  1. PONTIUS PILATE, 2. STRATEGIST, 3. AGNI .  HRC GOLCONDA 2000 GUINEAS (Gr. II) (1,600m), (Terms) 4-y-o only, 4.15: 1. Ashwa Bravo (4) Suraj Narredu 57, 2. Bellator (1) Akshay Kumar 57, 3. Forever Splendour (2) Trevor 57, 4. General Patton (6) S. John 57, 5. Hidden Hope (5) Kuldeep Singh 57, 6. Horus (3) Zervan 57, 7. Katana (8) Chouhan 57 and 8. Tigrio (7) Srinath 57.  1. FOREVER SPLENDOUR, 2. ASHWA BRAVO, 3. TIGRIO   CHAITANYA RATHAM PLATE (1,400m), rated up to 25 (Cat. III), 4.50: 1. Amaretto (3) Gaddam 60, 2. Big Day (2) B.R. Kumar 60, 3. Cephalonia (11) G. Naresh 60, 4. Classy Dame (14) Abhay Singh 60, 5. Proud Legacy (5) Deepak Singh 60, 6. That’s My Star (13) Mukesh Kumar 60, 7. Twenty Twenty (9) Ajeeth Kumar 60, 8. Hip Hop (6) Kuldeep Singh 59.5, 9. N R I Gift (12) Chouhan 58, 10. Satin Symphony (1) Gopal Singh 57.5, 11. Kintsugi (4) Akshay Kumar 56, 12. Sheldon (7) Santosh Raj N R 55, 13. Moment Of Silence (Ex. Vijays Maestro) (10) R. Manish 54 and 14. Hopscotch (8) Ashad Asbar 52.5.  1. N R I GIFT, 2. KINTSUGI, 3. AMARETTO  Day’s best: LAGOS  Double: ASHWA RAUDEE — N R I GIFT  Jackpot: 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8. Treble: (i) 1, 2 & 3; (ii) 3, 4 & 5; (iii) 6, 7 & 8. Mini jackpot: (i) 2, 3, 4 & 5; (ii) 5, 6, 7 & 8. Tanala: All races.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/its-forever-splendour-vs-ashwa-bravo/article33596692.ece
18 January 2021||Frankfurt,||Bundesliga to finish season without fans||Fans are highly unlikely to return to German soccer stadiums before the end of the season. Christian Seifert, CEO of the German Football League, said he presumes there will be no change to the policy before the end of the season, in comments published Sunday by the Frankfurter Allgemeine Sonntagszeitung newspaper. “In any case (of a fan return), not in a significant number. If we had ruled out games without fans from the start as some people demanded, the system would have collapsed,” Seifert said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bundesliga-to-finish-season-without-fans/article33596945.ece
18 January 2021||BENGALURU,||Chandrasekhar hospitalised||Former India cricketer B.S. Chandrasekhar has been hospitalised following a health scare here on Sunday. According to hospital sources, the spin legend’s health is being closely monitored.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chandrasekhar-hospitalised/article33596667.ece
18 January 2021||LOS ANGELES,||Harden debuts in style for Nets||Kevin Durant scored a season-high 42 points as the James Harden-era began for Brooklyn Nets with a triple double and a 122-115 NBA victory over Orlando Magic on Saturday. Harden finished with 32 points, 14 assists and 12 rebounds in his debut.  The results: Toronto Raptors bt Charlotte Hornets 116-113; Memphis Grizzlies bt Philadelphia 76ers 106-104.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/harden-debuts-in-style-for-nets/article33596654.ece
18 January 2021||MELBOURNE,||Virus attack will not delay Australian Open: Tiley||Doubles star Rohan Bopanna was among 25 players forced into a hard quarantine after a fellow passenger on a charter flight from Doha tested positive for COVID-19. Bopanna cannot leave his hotel room for 12 more days and until medically cleared.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/virus-attack-will-not-delay-australian-open-tiley/article33596659.ece
18 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Harikrishna held by Vachier||P. Harikrishna missed out on a win against Maxime Vachier-Lagrave in the first round of Tata Steel Masters chess tournament in the Dutch town of De Moriaan.  Other results (first round): Magnus Carlsen (Nor) bt Alireza Firouzja (FIDE); Fabiano Caruana (USA) drew with Jorden Van Foreest (Ned).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/harikrishna-held-by-vachier/article33596660.ece
18 January 2021||January 18 2021 00:00 IST,||NEUFC posts first win in eight games; ATK MB held||Ashutosh Mehta’s first goal in the Indian Super League and Deshorn Brown’s strike on debut saw NorthEast United FC (NEUFC) earn a 2-1 win over Jamshedpur FC (JFC) at the Tilak Maidan Stadium in Vasco on Sunday. NEUFC, winning for the first time in eight games, climbs to the fifth spot with 15 points from 12 games while Jamshedpur slips to eighth. Ashutosh put the Highlanders ahead in the 36th minute with a thumping header off Federico Gallego’s corner. This was the 28-year-old defender’s first goal in over three years. Brown, who joined NEUFC two days ago, capped off the win at the hour-mark. The Jamaican got at the end of Gallego’s through-ball and slotted it past the ’keeper with finesse. Peter Hartley offered JFC a lifeline with a goal in the 89th minute. Super sub Ishan Pandita’s opportunistic strike enabled FC Goa to pull off a 1-1 draw against ATK Mohun Bagan in an Indian Super League match at the Fatorda Stadium. Edu Garcia’s goal off a free kick had put Mohun Bagan in the lead.  The results: NEUFC 2 (Ashutosh 36, Brown 61) bt JFC 1 (Hartley 89); FC Goa 1 (Pandita 84) drew with ATK Mohun Bagan 1 (Garcia 75).   Monday’s match: Chennaiyin vs East Bengal (7.30 p.m.) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/neufc-posts-win/article33596694.ece
18 January 2021||Bangkok,||Marin, Axelsen triumph||Reigning Olympic champion Carolina Marin of Spain defeated top seed Tai Tzu-ying of Taiwan 21-9, 21-16 to claim the Thailand Open badminton women’s title on Sunday. Fourth seed Viktor Axelsen of Denmark took the men’s crown beating Hong Kong's Angus Long, ranked eighth, 21-14, 21-14. Imposing force Spaniard Marin, 27, a former world number one, was an imposing force with razor-sharp smashes, clever net work and an unmatched level of aggression and agility.  She screamed in delight as she won match point in the second set after steam-rolling her 26-year-old opponent from Taiwan 21-9, 21-16 in 42 minutes. “I wanted to show her from the beginning that I wanted to win,” Marin said. Tai admitted she wasn't able to keep pace and her condition wasn’t up to scratch.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/marin-axelsen-win/article33596700.ece
18 January 2021||January 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Exceptional mothers||The name Vasupradah in the Vishnu Sahasranama occurs twice, in succession, in the same verse. Parasara Bhatta, in his commentary, gives two different meanings for the name, said M.A. Venkatakrishnan, in a discourse. Vasu means wealth. Parasara Bhatta says that the first Vasupradah means the Lord gave Himself to Devaki and Vasudeva. For the second Vasupradah, he says it means He gave Vasudeva and Devaki the great blessing of being His parents. While Devaki was blessed to have borne the Lord for twelve months and to have given birth to Him, she did not have the blessing of bringing Him up. That blessing went to Yasoda and Nandagopa. If Devaki was unique in being the birth mother of Krishna, Yasoda too was unique, for she had the boon of caring for Krishna. Andal celebrates both mothers of Krishna, when She says ‘oruthi maganai pirandu … oruthi maganai valarndu’ — born to one exceptional mother, brought up as the son of another exceptional mother. We desire riches, hoping to enjoy the same. In the case of Devaki and Yasoda, Devaki prayed for the Lord to be born as her son. But she did not enjoy the wealth she had asked for. Enjoyment of the childhood of Krishna was given to Yasoda, and not to Devaki. Vasudeva means rich man, and indeed Vasudeva was rich, for His son was Lord Krishna. Nandagopa means one who is joyous. And the name suits Krishna’s foster father perfectly, for who will not be joyous if he is addressed as father by Krishna? A Rg Vedic hymn uses the words Atmadaa and Baladaa for God. Atmadaa means He who gives Himself. Baladaa means He who gives the strength to enjoy Him. Krishna is Atmadaa, for He gave Himself to Devaki and Vasudeva; He is baladaa, because He gave Yasoda and Nandagopa the experience of bringing Him up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/exceptional-mothers/article33596647.ece
18 January 2021||January 18 2021 09:31 IST,||Sudoku - January 18, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-january-18-2021/article33597638.ece
18 January 2021||Jammu,||Restore 4G connection in J&K, Farooq tells PM||National Conference (NC) president Farooq Abdullah on Sunday requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to restore 4G mobile internet services in Jammu and Kashmir as he highlighted various problems due to lack of the facility and the harsh winter in the Union Territory. He prayed for the success of the COVID-19 vaccine and urged people to maintain communal harmony and brotherhood at all costs for overall prosperity and development. “The Prime Minister is saying 5G is coming in India while we are deprived of 4G (mobile internet service). May he come and live here after leaving the chair and see how we are living under 2G (service),” Mr. Abdullah, the former Chief Minister of the erstwhile State, said at a book release function here. The 4G mobile internet service was snapped across Jammu and Kashmir in August 2019 following revocation of special status and bifurcation of the erstwhile State into two Union Territories. While the service was restored in two districts, Udhampur in Jammu and Ganderbal in Kashmir, after over a year, it is still suspended in rest of the 18 districts. The well-attended function was organised by Gurjar Desh Charitable Trust to release the biography of its patron-in-chief Masud Ahmad Choudhary, a retired Additional Director General of Police and ex-Vice-Chancellor of Baba Ghulam Shah Badshah University (Rajouri). “Students are sitting in their homes and getting education through internet and the businessmen are also dependent on internet connectivity. My request to the Prime Minister is that if you are saying this place is on the path of development, give us 4G for the sake of god so that we too can benefit and our children move forward,” Mr. Abdullah said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/restore-4g-connection-in-jk-farooq-tells-pm/article33596818.ece
18 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||After low turnout on Day 1, Jain says cannot force anyone to take vaccine||Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Sunday said 53.3% of the front-line workers, who were scheduled to receive the jab in the Capital on the first day, showed up at the centres. He added that the government cannot force anyone to take the shot as it was completely voluntary. “Some people decided not to turn up at the last moment. The vaccination programme is completely voluntary. We cannot ask anyone to compulsorily take the shot even if the person has registered for it.” Mr. Jain said while briefing reporters. On being asked if the government would be taking steps to ensure that more front-line workers show up, Mr. Jain said a similar trend was observed across the country with around 50% of those registered getting the jabs on the first day. He added that the vaccine had been cleared by the Central government after following a rigorous process that adhered to all protocols. He said 51 people, who took the vaccine, developed minor cases of AEFI (adverse events following immunisation) and were sent home almost immediately. A security guard at AIIMS had developed an allergic reaction after receiving the vaccine and was kept under observation overnight. A source in the Delhi government said the guard was “absolutely fine and had been discharged”. Vaccination centres Mr. Jain said the number of vaccination sites will be increased from 81 to 175 over the next few days and the government is targeting 1,000 centers here. He said due to the ongoing strike by the civic bodies, some vaccination sites were omitted from the list. On Sunday, 246 fresh COVID-19 cases were reported in the city with eight deaths, the health bulletin stated. Also, 67,463 tests were conducted with a positivity ratio of 0.36%. There are currently 2,544 active cases out of which 1,154 are under home isolation. The total cases now stands at 6,32,429 cases with 10,746 deaths. No vaccinations were carried out on Sunday. They will continue on January 18 at 81 sites — all of which are listed by the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/after-low-turnout-on-day-1-jain-says-cannot-force-anyone-to-take-vaccine/article33596827.ece
18 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||More farmers arrive at borders for ‘Kisan Parade’ on January 26||Ahead of the Republic Day parade planned for January 26, more farmers have started pouring into Delhi borders from Western U.P., Punjab and Haryana. “We will definitely bring out a ‘Kisan Republic Day Parade’ on Jan. 26. We will ensure that it is peaceful and does not disrupt the R-day parade at Rajpath. It will be a symbolic parade to remind the government that we won’t settle for less than the rollback of farm laws,” said Kishan Pal, a protester. A large group of farmers from Uttrakhand and Sambhal district arrived at Ghazipur border on Sunday morning. “We have come to support our brothers who have been protesting for the past 53 days. During this period, around 73 farmers have died. The ninth round of talks between the farmers and the Centre remained inconclusive. We will take part in the farmers’ tractor parade to make the government feel the presence,” said Ramesh Singh, a farmer. The farmers said that they will not return home until the laws are repealed and will keep attending the meeting session called by the Central government. “We never imagined the kind of public support we are getting in Delhi. Even police personnel deployed at the site are very friendly and understand our pain,” said Vikram Kumar, a farmer. “We will decorate tractors with the Tricolour and erect a tableau in trolleys that will roam around Delhi. It will be an eye-catching parade that people in this country have never witnessed. We won’t breach security or cause any disruption. It will be to wake up the government from slumber,” said Shivkumar Rathi, a farmer from Sambhal. The protesters have been told to not carry any weapons and hold provocative speeches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/more-farmers-arrive-at-borders-for-kisan-parade-on-january-26/article33596832.ece
18 January 2021||Patna,||MBA graduate arrested in Bihar for supplying illicit liquor||An MBA graduate was arrested on the intervening night of January 14-15 in Patna for supplying illicit liquor. Atul Singh, 28, had employed over three dozen youths in his ‘business’, the police said Over 1,100 litres of liquor worth Rs. 21 lakh, a bag containing Rs. 1.75 lakh in cash, passbooks and documents related to monetary transactions were recovered from his rented three-bedroom accommodation in Patna. “A diary seized from Atul’s possession revealed that he sold liquor of several brands worth Rs. 9 lakh daily in various parts of Patna. His delivery agents were unemployed youths,” said Patrakarnagar police station in-charge Manoranjan Bharti. “He used to pay Rs. 500 to them after every delivery,” Mr. Bharti added. Two of his associates, Indrajit Singh and Sanjiv Kumar, were also arrested. Later, another associate, Vishal Kumar, was also arrested and sent to 14-day judicial custody, he said. Atul Singh, originally from Alwalpur village in Patna district, allegedly told the police that after completing his MBA, he entered into the illicit liquor business as it was the only business “proliferating in Bihar”. The stringent Bihar Prohibition and Excise (Amendment) Act had come into effect in April 2016, under the Chief Minister Nitish Kumar-led government, with the provision of a minimum 10 year jail term for violators. However, the ban had opened several channels for smugglers to supply liquor in the dry State at rates two-three times higher than the original price. So far, over 2 lakh persons, mostly from the marginalised sections, have been arrested under the new law and over 30 lakh litres of alcohol confiscated. ‘Hub for brokers’ Recently, BJP MP from Aurangabad Sushil Kumar Singh had said prohibition in the State was a failure and that police stations had become a hub for “brokers” involved in the illegal supply of liquor. “Despite prohibition, police stations have become a hub for brokers involved in the illegal business of selling liquor in the State. Police officers patronise the sale of illegal liquor in their respective areas and only those who are weak are falsely implicated under the law. Prohibition is a failure in the State,” he said. As many as 52 police officers in the State have been facing inquiries under the new law. The National Family Health Survey-5 for the year 2019-20, released on December 12, had revealed that 15.5% men above the age of 15 years still consumed alcohol in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/mba-graduate-three-others-held-in-bihar-for-supplying-illicit-liquor/article33596820.ece
18 January 2021||New Delhi,||HC stays order summoning travel company CEO in cheating case||The Delhi High Court has stayed a trial court order summoning online travel company Make My Trip’s (MMT) CEO Deep Kalra in a cheating case filed by a lawyer. Justice Anu Malhotra passed the interim direction on Mr. Kalra’s plea seeking quashing of the trial court’s March 3, 2020 order and the proceedings emanating from it. “The matter be re-notified for February 10, till which date the impugned order against the applicant [Mr. Kalra] is stayed,” the High Court said. The High Court also issued notice to the government, and the lawyer seeking their response on Mr. Kalra’s plea by February 10, the next date of hearing. Conspired to cheat The complainant-lawyer had filed a cheating complaint alleging that Make My Trip, its CEO and one of its employees, who had planned his holiday package, conspired to cheat him. Mr. Kalra’s lawyer argued that after carrying out an initial enquiry, the police had in 2014 said the dispute was purely of civil nature and no cognisable offence was made out. The magisterial court had directed registration of an FIR and therefore an FIR for the offences of cheating and criminal conspiracy was lodged against Make My Trip, Mr. Kalra and the employee, the petition said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-stays-order-summoning-travel-company-ceo-in-cheating-case/article33596821.ece
18 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi police hold security review meet ahead of R-Day parade||Ahead of Republic Day, Delhi Police held a security review meeting on Saturday to take stock of the situation and arrangements during the parade. There will be a random check of identity cards of people visiting New Delhi on January 26. Delhi Police Commissioner S.N. Shrivastava held the meeting and instructed all policemen to be vigilant on Republic Day, while farmers are protesting at the borders. There will be a multilayer, ground-to-air security cover with thousands of armed personnel keeping a tight vigil over it, including the celebration venue, Rajpath. A senior police officer said that entry for the Republic Day will strictly be through invitation card/ticket only. The Ministry of Defence has conveyed that in view of the COVID-19 scenario, only 25,000 spectators are being invited for the ceremony on January 26. No standing spectators will be allowed. Children aged only above 15 will be allowed to attend the ceremony. “Since all spectators are being invited through invitation cards, no uninvited spectators will be allowed to enter Rajpath seating area during the Republic Day parade. Kindly pass this information as much as possible so that the public is not harassed unnecessarily,” said the officer. “We have inputs that some terrorist organisations may carry out unwanted activities on January 26. Keeping this in mind, we have taken a few steps, including putting up of posters of wanted terrorists. We have beefed up security in sensitive areas, including market places. We request people coming for the parade to carry ID cards,” said Siddharth Jain, Assistant Commissioner of Police (Connaught Place). A senior police officer said that policemen have been briefed to be vigilant and keep watch on anti-social elements. There were intelligence inputs that protesters might attempt to disrupt the parade this year. The intelligence wing is also keeping a watch on protests going on in the city. There will be more than 40,000 security personnel in New Delhi area during the parade. Drones, CCTV cameras “We have deployed drones and hundreds of CCTV cameras and facial recognition devices on the ground to keep watch on any suspicious activity in 8-km circle of Rajpath,” said the officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-police-hold-security-review-meet-ahead-of-r-day-parade/article33596829.ece
18 January 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Cargo theft racket busted in Odisha||The Special Task Force (STF) of the Odisha Crime Branch has busted an organised racket involved in the theft of cargo in Cuttack district. A heap of such illegally unloaded low ash metallurgical (LAM) coke weighing about 32 metric tonnes, nine trucks loaded with coke, one earth moving vehicle, some resealed and repacking materials and incriminating materials were seized from the arrested accused at the spot. According to the STF, 54 metric tonnes of lam coke worth Rs. 13.50 lakh were found to have been stolen and kept stored by the accused illegally for sale.  STF raid On the basis of reliable information regarding organised cargo theft and illegal unloading of costly materials and cargo from inter-State transport vehicles by miscreants on both sides of the NH-55, the STF had conducted a raid at a place under the Choudwar police station limits. “Trucks loaded with lam coke were found at the spot, where voluminous quantity of coke had been illegally stored.,” it said. Ten persons have been arrested. “The detection is just the tip of the iceberg. Criminals used to intercept trucks loaded with mineral and non-mineral goods. Drivers were threatened to offload certain amount of their goods before being allowed to go,” said Jai Narayan Pankaj, STF DIG. Mr. Pankaj said, “Since a small portion of the goods was being stolen, the affected parties were not lodging complaints.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cargo-theft-racket-busted-in-odisha/article33596816.ece
18 January 2021||New Delhi,||‘Parents of road accident victims should be compensated’||The Delhi High Court said parents are dependent on their children at some stage of their lives and it would be inequitable to deny compensation to those who lost their ward in a road accident. Loss of dependency Justice J.R. Midha made the observations while awarding compensation for loss of dependency to a woman, who lost her 23-year-old son in a road accident in 2008, and enhanced the award amount from Rs. 2.42 lakh to Rs. 6.80 lakh. The court said even if parents are not dependent on their children at the time of an accident, they will certainly be dependent, both financially and emotionally, upon them at the later stage of their life. In this case, the motor accident claims tribunal had held that though the accident occurred due to rash and negligent driving of the offending vehicle, the parents of the victim were not entitled to compensation for loss of dependency but only to compensation for loss of the estate. The tribunal had held that the victim’s father was a Sub-Inspector with the Delhi Police and hence was not dependent upon the deceased. It had also said the deceased’s mother cannot be said to be dependent as her husband was employed with the Delhi Police. The court said it was of the view that parents of the deceased are considered in law as dependent on their children, considering that they are bound to support their parents in their old age, when the parents would be unable to maintain themselves. “...It would therefore be unfair as well as inequitable to deny compensation for loss of dependency to a parent, who may not be dependent on his/her child at the time of accident per se but would become dependent at him or her later age,” the court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/parents-of-road-accident-victims-should-be-compensated/article33596823.ece
18 January 2021||Agartala,||Attack on PCC chief: Cong. calls for Tripura bandh||The Congress has called a 12-hour general strike in Tripura on Monday to protest against alleged attack on its State president Pijush Kanti Biswas in Bishalgarh in Sepahijala district on Sunday. It said Mr. Biswas and his personal security guards had sustained injuries and blamed BJP supporters for the attack. It said Mr. Biswas went to Bishalgarh to inaugurate a party office.  ‘Rescued by police’ Party leaders Harekrishna Bhowmik and Baptu Chakraborty said: “His vehicle was damaged. The police rescued him and took him to a local hospital.” The CPI(M) alleged that its leader and Rajya Sabha MP Jharna Das Baidya was attacked and her security staff were manhandled by the BJP supporters at Hafania locality near here. Party leader Pabitra Kar said at least 10 activists of the party’s youth and students’ fronts had sustained injuries. “The residence of Jharna Das Baidya was also ransacked. The BJP is trying to demolish democracy.” He said their party office at Hafania was also damaged in simultaneous attacks. The BJP has opposed the strike call and denied involvement of party cadre in any of the incidents.  The residence of MP Jharna Das Baidya was also ransacked. The BJP is trying to demolish democracy Pabitra KarCPI(M) leader||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/attack-on-pcc-chief-cong-calls-for-tripura-bandh/article33596813.ece
18 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||8 Rohingya migrants caught in Delhi: police||Eight Rohingya migrants were caught from different parts of Delhi after they failed to show valid visa documents, the police said on Sunday. In east Delhi, six people, including two minors were detained from outside Anand Vihar Railway Station and sent to detention centre after questioning, they said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (East) Deepak Yadav said that an information was received about six suspected Rohingyas coming to Delhi through train from Tripura on January 6. “Out of the six, three were minors. They were detained outside Anand Vihar railway station. They were sent to detention centre after questioning,” he said. “An FIR under Foreigners Act has been registered at Patparganj Industrial Area police station and an investigation is on,” he added. Two Rohingya migrants were found living illegally in Dwarka district’s Uttam Nagar and were arrested on Friday, said another senior police officer. They were identified as Hamid Hussain (23) and Nabi Hussain (22), he said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena said a case was registered under Foreigners Act on the complaint of Head Constable Neeraj Kumar of FRRO and an investigation was taken up. “During the course of investigation, it was revealed that both the accused are permanent residents of Myanmar and entered India illegally on November 1, 2020 from Bangladesh border,” said the DCP. “The officer said both the arrested men belong to Mayanmar’s Buthidong and were living in Hastal village in Uttam Nagar without any legal passport or visa,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/8-rohingya-migrants-caught-in-delhi-police/article33596830.ece
18 January 2021||CUTTACK,||Mother loses child’s custody for torture||The Orissa High Court has allowed a father to take custody of his 15-month-old son observing that continuance of the custody of the child with the mother, who is now staying separately, would be detrimental to the child’s mental and physical development. The court’s direction came on the evidence of a video, showing the mother repeatedly torturing and beating the child. A Division Bench of Justices S.K. Mishra and Savitri Ratho on Friday allowed a writ of habeas corpus filed by one Chakradhar Nayak of Puri district and directed Chakradhar’s wife Rosalin to hand over the child to his father within seven days. “In case of her failure to do so, the police shall take appropriate steps,” the High Court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/mother-loses-childs-custody-for-torture/article33596815.ece
18 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Government’s conference on education ends||The government’s inaugural Delhi Education Conference concluded on Sunday with Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia calling for Education Ministers from all States to work together. Mr. Sisodia was in conversation with Minister of Education Andhra Pradesh Audimulapu Suresh at the concluding session. The Ministers discussed how to change the existing rote-learning set up and work on inculcating positive mindsets in students. The conference, which lasted for seven days, saw several panel discussions where the importance of teacher training was highlighted along with the need for student learning to move away from heavy content-based syllabi to a reduced interactive curriculum. For enhancing teacher training, suggestions like setting up cadre of specialist teachers, collaborative professional development, and engaging with parents on a deeper level were brought up. Presentations on Class IX’s low pass percentage and how to improve it was among the discussion with Mr. Sisoida saying that those children, who are struggling with education and dropout to pick up jobs, need to be skilled. The Minister said the government is exploring how it could provide them with skill development training.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/governments-conference-on-education-ends/article33596824.ece
18 January 2021||Bhopal,||Curfew in parts of Bhopal||The Bhopal district administration on Sunday imposed curfew in three police station limits and prohibitory orders in some other areas as a precautionary measure over a construction work by a community in the old city area. The order, issued by Bhopal District Magistrate, said a community is carrying out construction in the old city and there is a possibility of opposition by locals. The capital is “sensitive from communal point of view”, hence the decision to impose curfew has been taken, the order said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/curfew-in-parts-of-bhopal/article33596814.ece
