20 January 2021||New Delhi,||SC panel lays out road map on farmers’ issue||The Supreme Court-appointed committee on farmers’ issues has decided to meet the State governments and the State Agricultural Marketing Boards along with the farm unions and cooperatives to seek their views on the farm reform laws, starting January 21. The panel has laid out a two-month road map for consultations after their first meeting on Tuesday. At the Singhu border, leaders of the protesting unions again met senior Delhi Police officials, who suggested that it might be better to hold the Republic Day tractor parade on the peripheral expressways outside Delhi rather than entering the city. The Supreme Court will hear the issue again on Wednesday, just hours before union leaders and Central Ministers meet for the 10th round of talks. The talks were supposed to be held on Tuesday, but were postponed. Portal for feedback The SC-appointed panel began work on Tuesday, chalking out a plan to hold wide-ranging consultations on the contentious farm laws, including a proposal to set up a portal to accept online feedback. Asked whether this plan was meant to compensate for the lack of consultations before the laws were introduced in Parliament, as is the usual practice, panel member Pramod Kumar Joshi said they were simply following the top court’s mandate. “That is the legislature’s part. The Supreme Court has very clearly written that we need not enter into the legislature’s part. So we will not comment on that, whether consultation was to be done or not done. That is not our view,” Mr. Joshi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-panel-lays-out-road-map-on-farmers-issue/article33613672.ece
20 January 2021||MANGALURU,||New fisheries harbour at Hejamadi Kodi likely to be ready in two years||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa said on Tuesday that he is confident that the new fisheries harbour at Hejamadi Kodi in Udupi district will be ready in two years from now. Addressing a gathering after laying the foundation stone for building the harbour at an estimated cost of Rs. 180.84 crore, which includes Rs. 13.24 crore for acquiring 12.20 acres of private land, the Chief Minister said that he has instructed the department concerned to complete the project in two years. He said that he had announced the launching of the project in the Budget for 2020-21. The Chief Minister said that of the project cost, the Union government will give Rs. 69.30 crore and the share of the State government stood at Rs. 111.54 crore. The Union government has already released Rs. 13.86 crore for the project from its share. Once commissioned, the new port will reduce pressure on fisheries harbours both at Malpe and Mangaluru. Funds will not be a constraint to complete the project, he said and added that there should be no compromise on the quality of works and there should not be any delay, Mr. Yediyurappa said. The State with a coastline of 320 km and with around 8,000 hectares of inland waters has played a key role in boosting the economy through fisheries. He said that the State government is implementing various schemes for socio-economic uplift of fishermen. The government led by him has waived around Rs. 60 crore loans availed of by fishermen. The budgetary outlay for fisheries development in the State budget of 2020-21 was Rs. 251.57 crore with Centrally-sponsored schemes accounting for Rs. 200 crore. The State is providing Rs. 135 crore on subsidising diesel for fishing boats. Referring to the other demands of fishermen community, he said that they will be addressed in due course of time. Earlier, he visited the Mahalakshmi Temple at Uchchila along National Highway 66. After laying the foundation stone, the Chief Minister participated in a 1008 Naarikela Ganayaga organised at Vinayaka Temple at Kumbhasi near Kundapur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/new-fisheries-harbour-at-hejamadi-kodi-likely-to-be-ready-in-two-years/article33614302.ece
20 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Mullappally also in the ‘reckoning’||Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president Mullappally Ramachandran on Tuesday pointedly declined to scotch or validate widespread speculation that he would contest the coming Assembly elections. Mr. Ramachandran’s caginess about the issue of his candidacy appeared to lend credence to the theory that he would also be in the reckoning for the leadership of the Congress Legislative Party (CLP) alongside former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy and Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala after the polls. Certain quarters in the Congress indicated that the All India Congress Committee (AICC) was keen on having Mr. Ramachandran on the party ticket from Kalpetta in Wayanad. The reports also fuelled theories about an upcoming change in the KPCC leadership. When pressed, Mr. Ramachandran told journalists that he had always bowed to the diktat of the AICC. The national leadership would decide “who would lead the party”, he said. Leadership question Mr. Ramachandran’s possible entry into the electoral fray appeared to add a new dimension to the question of the future leadership of the CLP. Some leaders felt that Mr. Ramachandran could be a dark horse for the mantle. The AICC had recently tapped Mr. Chandy to head the electoral campaign. It was keen on the Congress presenting a united face to the electorate. However, some Congress insiders said they perceived distant rumblings of dissent in the party already. Some sections felt the party had sidelined Mr. Chennithala and undervalued his role in bringing the government to heel on a whole range of issues, including gold smuggling and corruption. Mr. Chennithala had dismissed the rumours publicly. He echoed Mr. Ramachandran and Mr. Chandy and reiterated the AICC would settle the leadership question.  Leaders sceptic Few leaders had also expressed scepticism about the rationale of leaving the question of CLP leadership open-ended. In stark contrast, the Left Democratic Front (LDF) had made it abundantly clear that Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan would lead the coalition into the thick of the impending electoral battle. By one account, the AICC has reportedly accorded a prominent role to Shashi Tharoor, MP, in devising an electoral strategy to bring apolitical votes to the Congress fold. The party felt Mr. Tharoor could use his considerable social media clout to reach out to students and young professionals.  I have always bowed to the diktat of the AICC||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mullappally-also-in-the-reckoning/article33613841.ece
20 January 2021||R. AvadhaniSANGAREDDY,||SCR proposes 87-km Patancheru-Medak rail line||If everything goes well, the railway line between Patancheru and Medak via Sangareddy may become a reality in the near future, said Ganga Joginath Gupta, leader of Railway Line Sadhana Samiti and former chairman of Agriculture Market Committee, Jogipet. The South Central Railway (SCR) has made proposals at an estimated cost of Rs. 1,764 crore for laying the railway line between Patancheru and Medak. The line will commence at Nagulapalli and pass through Indrakaran, Sangareddy, Chakriyal, Choutkur, Jogipet, Dumpalakunta, Ghanapur, Machavaram and Medak, covering about 86.7 kilometres. The SCR General Manager Gajanan Mallya sent proposals to this extent on December 31, 2020 to the Railway Board. Now, it is the turn of the State government to come forward and express its willingness to bear half of the project, as mandated by the Railway Board. That means the State government has to shell about Rs. 900 crore to realise the project. Mr. Joginath has met several leaders including former Prime Minister late Atal Bihari Vajpayee and other top leaders like Nitish Kumar, Mamata Banerjee, Lallu Prasad Yadav, Bangaru Lakshman and Piyush Goyal to press his demand for the railway line. He feels that this railway line will become the lifeline for economic activity in the erstwhile Medak district, presently Sangareddy and Medak. “I am confident that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao will surely aid the project. With the help of Lok Sabha members K. Prabhakar Reddy and B.B. Patil, MLAs G Mahipal Reddy, Kiranthi Kiran and M. Padma Devender Reddy, we will make this a reality,” Mr Joginath told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/scr-proposes-87-km-patancheru-medak-rail-line/article33614277.ece
20 January 2021||Mumbai,||Arrest Arnab, demands Maharashtra Cong.||The Maharashtra Congress on Tuesday demanded the arrest of Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami, alleging that the WhatsApp chats between him and former CEO of BARC Partho Dasgupta amounts to treason. The State Home Department is seeking legal opinion as the issue was related to national security. “How did Goswami get the information about the military action three days before the event, on February 23, 2020? He himself has said that the person who gave him this information is a big person in the Modi government. All of this needs to be investigated. The way Arnab Goswami acted amounts to violation of the Official Secrets Act, 1923,” said Congress general secretary Sachin Sawant, who led a party delegation to meet the State’s Home Minister Anil Deshmukh. He said the State government had the power to take action under the Act. “The Maharashtra government should arrest Arnab Goswami immediately,” demanded Mr. Sawant. Mr. Deshmukh said the State government was aware of the leak of information that was important in terms of national security. “We will also take legal advice on this matter, as it is evident that they were privy to the plan related to national security. The State government will take further legal action after discussions with senior police officials,” he said. “Mr Goswami and his Republic TV have committed a number of illegal acts,” said Mr. Sawant. “They have also caused a loss of crores of rupees to Prasar Bharati by illegally using Doordarshan’s satellite frequencies. Republic TV has committed a crime by using their frequencies without paying,” he said. On Tuesday evening, a delegation of Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) also met Union Information and Broadcasting Minister Rajyavardhan Rathore demanding probe into the ‘conspiracy’ behind leaking secret information and using it to increase TRP, which resulted in financial gains through advertisements. “When only a few select individuals in the government should have known about the government’s planned attack, how did Goswami know about it? This is an indication that information concerned with national security is being leaked. It needs to be probed thoroughly,” said the NCP chief spokesperson Mahesh Tapase.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/arrest-arnab-demands-maharashtra-cong/article33614334.ece
20 January 2021||MYSURU,||MUDA to complete pending infrastructure, civic works in its residential layouts||Pending civic and infrastructure works in the layouts developed by the Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) are expected to be completed under a “one-time settlement” scheme to be approved by the government. This came to the fore during an inspection of various MUDA layouts by district in-charge Minister S.T. Somashekhar on Tuesday. Mr. Somashekhar was apprised of the imperatives of transferring scores of MUDA layouts to the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) but the latter was reluctant to accept it pending completion of civic and infrastructure works. Besides, MUDA does not have financial powers to utilise the resources it generates through auction of site etc. without the consent of the government. As a result, thousands of people residing in various MUDA layouts within the city have been deprived of amenities due to them from the MCC. Hence, Mr. Somashekhar suggested to MUDA to present a detailed plan listing out the pending works that need to be completed area wise, including asphalting of roads, completion of UGD work, development of parks, and street lights, and the same would be approved as a “one-time settlement”. This is a major financial relief for MUDA which was unable to take up the civic works all these years and hence the transfer of layouts to the MCC was pending. MUDA chairman H.V. Rajeev said once approved, the scheme would benefit people in scores of MUDA layouts so far deprived of civic amenities. Earlier, Mr. Somashekhar, who visited Vijayanagar Layout, said he was aware of the issues that were impeding the transfer of the layouts from MUDA to the MCC and would strive to resolve the issue through the “one-time settlement” scheme. Mr. Somashekhar said if MUDA was given financial powers to utilise the resources generated by it through auction of sites, then it would hasten the development of the layouts. “I will discuss the issue with the Minister for Urban Development B.A. Basavaraju to resolve the issue,” said Mr. Somashekhar. He promised to get the one-time settlement scheme approved “within one day” if the comprehensive report on the layout developments was submitted to him after taking all stakeholders into confidence. The Minister urged the officials to complete the main water tank at Vijayanagar so that it is ready for inauguration within a month. He later visited R.T. Nagar and was apprised of issues related to power supply while he called on the residents of Shantaveri Gopal Gowda Nagar, Lalitadrinagar, and Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Nagar, and promised to resolve the problems faced by the residents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/muda-to-complete-pending-infrastructure-civic-works-in-its-residential-layouts/article33613944.ece
20 January 2021||HYDERABAD,||CJ takes serious note of delayed responses in pleas||Delayed responses by litigants and their counsels, be it in filing replies, petitions, counter affidavits or applications, will not be allowed any more. Telangana High Court Chief Justice Hima Kohli made this crystal clear to petitioners and lawyers on Tuesday while hearing some writ appeals and other matters. The CJ expressed dismay after learning that there was delay of hundreds of days in filing responses or petitions in some matters. In a writ petition filed by Hyderabad Metro Water Supply and Sewerage Board seeking to declare an office note passed by District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum as arbitrary, the CJ found that the respondents’ counsels did not file responses even after nine months. The counsels sought some more time to reply to the notices. “What is happening?..This is becoming a mockery...You are just assuming we will give time...” the CJ remarked. Observing that it was a fit case to impose costs for delayed response, the CJ expressed disappointment over the counsels seeking time even after lapse of nine months. Stating that it was a last opportunity for the counsels to file their replies, the matter was posted after six weeks for next hearing. In another writ appeal filed by TSRTC challenging a single-judge order over service matter of an employee, the CJ found fault with the counsel for filing the appeal late. The counsel admitted that there was “delay”. “Not delay, stupendous delay”, the CJ remarked. The labour court passed an order in favour of the worker in 2002. Four years later, a writ petition was filed by TSRTC challenging the order. A single judge confirmed the Labour Court order in 2018. After nearly 18 months, the TSRTC filed the writ appeal condoning the delay of over 600 days. In another writ appeal challenging a single judge order over allotment of land to an industrial unit owner, the CJ observed it was another example of laggard response. The petitioner’s counsel explained that there was no land available for allotment. But the CJ said that was not the point relating to the appeal and it was the petitioner who failed to make payments to secure the land. Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy, who was on the division bench headed by the CJ, said the Telangana HC was liberal in granting time to petitioners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cj-takes-serious-note-of-delayed-responses-in-pleas/article33614259.ece
20 January 2021||HYDERABAD,||Chief Minister wants guidelines for all water projects across the State||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has directed the Water Resources department to prepare operational guidelines for all projects across the State and ensure their implementation on timely basis so that water stored in them can be harnessed for fulfilling the farmers’ aspiration of two crops a year. The Chief Minister wanted the officials concerned to complete the construction of all major projects like Tupakulagudem and Dummugudem barrage of Sitarama project expeditiously drawing inspiration from Kaleshwaram project which is completed within the time lines set. The Chief Minister on Tuesday visited Lakshmi Barrage of Kaleshwaram project, constructed at Medigadda to inspect the project and review the progress of works. Prayers offered The Chief Minister, accompanied by his wife Shoba, visited the Kaleshwaram temple and offered prayers before arriving at Medigadda where they offered prayers to Godavari river. The Chief Minister expressed happiness that Kaleshwaram has been completed and water is being pumped uninterrupted as planned. He complimented the Water Resources department officials, staff of the line departments and working agencies for their efforts in completing the project on fast track. The officials concerned should take steps to fill tanks and reservoirs this summer with the water stored through Kaleshwaram project where barrages reached full levels. The project, he recalled, was the first priority of the government to ensure that decades-long hardships of farmers were solved once and for all and water was provided in adequate measure for two crops. Accordingly, plans were drawn up to construct barrage at a point downstream after the merger of Pranahita with the Godavari where more water could be stored and could be pumped to downstream projects for more time. Reputed agency WAPCOS was entrusted with the technical survey and it zeroed in on Medigadda for construction of barrage. It was proposed that construction of barrage at Medigadda to a height of 100 metres would enable storage of 16.17 tmcft of water and this could be pumped for seven months a year. The plans were fructifying with 16.17 tmfct being stored at a height of 99.7 metres enabling pumping of water without interruption. Construction of the barrage had also ensured that there was live storage of water for 54 kms in Pranahita and 42 kms in Godavari throughout the year. The Chief Minister said steps would be taken to pump water from Medigadda to Yellampalli, Mid and Lower Manair, Mallannasagar, Kondapochamma sagar, Baswapur and Gandhamalla reservoirs every year. Arrangements were being made to pump Kaleshwaram water to Nizamsagar and if need be, to SRSP too. The project had redrawn the irrigation map of Telangana and the government was committed to complete all the major projects in a time bound manner to end the hardships of farmers. Ministers Koppula Eshwar, Gangula Kamalakar and E. Dayakar Rao, government’s chief adviser Rajiv Sharma, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, DGP M. Mahender Reddy, Water Resources department principal secretary Rajat Kumar and host of MLAs and elected representatives were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-wants-guidelines-for-all-water-projects-across-state/article33614262.ece
20 January 2021||GUNTUR,||Jagan discusses key issues with Shah||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy called on Union Home Minister Amit Shah in New Delhi on Tuesday evening. In the meeting that lasted one-and-a-half hour, Mr. Jagan and Mr. Shah had a wide range of discussions on key issues concerning Andhra Pradesh, including Polavaram. Mr. Jagan appealed to Mr. Shah to accord administrative sanction to the Polavaram project’s revised cost estimate of Rs. 55,656.87 crore. The Chief Minister apprised the Home Minister of the cost escalation in view of the increase in the land to be acquired from 1.02 lakh acres to 1.55 lakh acres. “The increase in land acquisition is due to implementation of the Land Acquisition Act-2013,” Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy explained. The Chief Minister appealed to the Centre to release Rs. 1,644.23 crore pending disbursal since December 2018. Reiterating the State government’s resolve to decentralise the administration, Mr. Jagan said his government was committed to establishing Executive capital in Visakhapatnam, Legislative capital in Amaravati and Judicial capital in Kurnool. The AP Decentralisation and Comprehensive Development of all Regions Act was passed in August 2020, he said. The Chief Minister also appealed to Mr. Shah to issue a re-notification for setting up High Court in Kurnool and reminded him that the BJP had listed the issue in its election manifesto in 2019. The Chief Minister also appealed to the Home Minister to take measures towards setting up a Tribal University in Vizianagaram district, and said the State government had identified 250 acres for the purpose. Mr. Jagan raised the issue of Special Category Status, and said that granting it was vital for the development of the State. Mr. Jagan raised the issue of revenue deficit, and said though the State government had identified a deficit of Rs. 22,948.76 crore in 2014-15, the Centre had agreed to disburse Rs. 4,117.89 crore, of which Rs. 3,979.50 crore had been released. He urged the Centre to ensure that the remaining balance of Rs. 18,830.87 crore was released. Vaccination drive The Chief Minister submitted a letter in which he explained about the COVID-19 vaccination and the measures being taken by the State government to scale up the health sector. Paddy procurement arrears Mr. Jagan said the Centre owed Rs. 4,282 crore to AP State Civil Supplies Corporation and added that the money would be helpful in paying MSP to farmers. He urged Mr. Shah to increase the man days under NREGS from 100 to 150, and also take measures to release pending arrears of Rs. 3,707.77 crore under the scheme. Mr. Jagan raised the issue of disbursing arrears due to local bodies under the 14th Finance Commission and appealed for release of Rs. 1,312.5 crore due to local bodies. He urged the Home Minister to release Rs. 2,255.7 crore in view of severe damage caused by Cyclone Nivar and said the money would be used to pay input subsidy. He further urged the Centre to accord consent for Disha-19 and Special Courts Bill and also presidential consent for AP Land Titling Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jagan-discusses-key-issues-with-shah/article33614440.ece
20 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||State reports one COVID-19 death and 179 new infections||The State reported one COVID-19 death and 179 infections in the 24 hours ending Tuesday morning, taking the toll to 7,142 and the tally to 8,86,245. The number of recoveries increased to 8,77,443 with 231 patients recovering during the period. The recovery rate reached 99.01%. The number of active cases was put at 1,660. The overall positivity rate of the 1.264 crore samples tested so far came down to 7.01%. In the last one day, 39,099 samples were tested. The lone death was reported in Guntur district. Chittoor district reported the highest single-day tally of 40 cases. It was followed by Krishna (35), Guntur (24), Visakhapatnam (18), East Godavari (15), Kurnool (11), Kadapa (9), West Godavari (9), Srikakulam (6), Anantapur (4), Prakasam (4), Nellore (3) and Vizianagaram (1). The overall district-wise tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,24,085), West Godavari (94,114), Chittoor (86,840), Guntur (75,319), Anantapur (67,562), Nellore (62,265), Prakasam (62,125), Kurnool (60,744), Visakhapatnam (59,551), Kadapa (55,186), Krishna (48,376), Srikakulam (46,075) and Vizianagaram (41,108). Of the total active cases, nearly 80% were present in seven districts – Krishna (266), Guntur (260), East Godavari (193), Kadapa (184), Nellore (141), Chittoor (138) and Visakhapatnam (138).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-reports-one-death-and-179-new-infections/article33613661.ece
20 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Devineni Uma’s hunger strike bid foiled||Police took former Irrigation Minister and TDP leader Devineni Umamaheswara Rao into custody when the latter tried to observe hunger strike protesting against the remarks made by Civil Supplies Minister Kodali Sri Venkateswara Rao (Nani) against him. The hunger strike attempt by the former Minister was foiled and he was shifted to police station. A couple of days ago, the Minister slammed the TDP leader for making allegations against Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and dared him to share a platform to discuss the development works. Alleging that Mr. Nani made derogatory remarks against him, the former Minister announced that he would go on one-day hunger strike at NTR statue in Gollapudi on Tuesday. The former Minister blamed the Chief Minister and his Cabinet colleagues for using unparliamentary words against TDP leaders. Tense situation Tension mounted at Gollapudi as hundreds of activists of Telugu Desam and YSR Congress parties thronged the centre, raised slogans and entered into arguments. Police arranged barricades to prevent the activists from entering the former Minister’s house. Police said that Section 144 CrPc was in force and there was no permission for any protests, rallies and relay fasts in the city. “Mr. Umamaheswara Rao violated the prohibitory orders and started fasting at NTR Statue. To prevent any untoward incident and control the situation, the former Minister and a few of his followers were taken into custody,” a police official said. The protesters tried to obstruct the police vehicles in which the former Minister was shifted. Tension prevailed at Ibrahimpatnam and Pamidimukkala police stations when the TDP activists thronged the stations demanding release of Mr. Umamaheswara Rao unconditionally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/police-foil-tdp-leaders-hunger-strike-plan-take-him-into-custody/article33613612.ece
20 January 2021||LUCKNOW,||FIR lodged against makers of web series Mirzapur||An FIR has been lodged in Uttar Pradesh against the makers of web series Mirzapur on charges of outraging the religious feelings and portraying a particular community as linked to crime. The FIR was lodged at Mirzapur’s Kotwali Dehat police station on a complaint of Arvind Chaturvedi, a local journalist who has also written a book on the life of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. In his police complaint, Mr. Chaturvedi says the plot and dialogues of the web series have hurt his “religious, social and regional sentiments” and that it has provided a wrong portrayal of the Mirzapur city in Uttar Pradesh. The FIR names executive producers of the series Ritesh Sidhwani, Farhan Akhtar and Bhaumik Gondaliya and Amazon Prime Video platform, where the series has been running. Registered on January 17, it invokes Sections 295A (deliberate and malicious intention of outraging the religious feelings of any class of citizens), 34, 504 and 505 of th IPC and Section 67a of the IT Act. In the FIR, Mr. Chaturvedi alleges that the web series portrays a specific community as linked to crime, shows illicit relationships and incest, slangs and abuses and caste discord. The series also projects the judicial system as “false and polluted”, he says. Ajay Kumar Singh, Superintendent of Police, Mirzapur, said the FIR was lodged and legal action taken. ‘Fight will go on’ Mr. Chaturvedi said he wanted the name of Mirzapur to be removed from the series. “This fight will go on till the name of the Mirzapur web series is changed,” he told the media. The FIR follows the case lodged against Tandav on charges of hurting the religious sentiments of Hindus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fir-lodged-against-makers-of-web-series-mirzapur/article33613993.ece
20 January 2021||CHENNAI,||Cancer care pioneer no more||A pioneer in cancer care in the country, and the chairperson of the Adyar Cancer Institute, V. Shanta breathed her last in Chennai early on Tuesday morning. She was admitted to Apollo Hospitals after she complained of chest pain on Monday night. She was 93. A crusader for cancer research and making cancer care affordable for all, Dr. Shanta and her mentor S. Krishnamurthi built the Cancer Institute from a cottage hospital into a 500-plus bedded institution, offering state-of-the-art care to people across the income spectrum. Only 40% are paying beds and the remaining are general beds where patients are boarded and lodged free of cost. Even among outpatients, 40% patients are treated totally free and the remaining patients pay a nominal amount. Dr. Shanta was the recipient of several honours and awards through her life, recognising her devotion to oncology care and research. The Padma Vibhushan and Ramon Magasaysay awards were among them. Dr. Shanta encouraged research into cancer care, even as she stressed building awareness in the community, to prevent cancer. She was laid to rest with State-accorded police honours in the evening, with thousands participating in her funeral procession.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cancer-care-pioneer-no-more/article33613675.ece
20 January 2021||HUBBALLI,||Sudhakar: People can choose between Covaxin and Covishield||Commenting that initial apprehension was natural during vaccination, Minister for Health and Family Welfare K. Sudhakar on Tuesday clarified that there was no force on anyone to take Covaxin. He made it clear that people could choose between Covishield and Covaxin. ‘No one being forced’ Speaking to presspersons before a review meeting at KIMS in Hubballi on Tuesday, the Minister clarified that the choice of the vaccine was left to the person taking it. “They can choose between Covishield and Covaxin and there is no pressure to choose any one particular vaccine. Nobody is being forced and if someone doesn’t want to take Covaxin, let them not take it,” he said. He noted that Covaxin had been permitted after adequate clinical trials and that it was safe. Dr. Sudhakar said that after getting the vaccine, immunity against the virus would increase. “Permission has been given after adequate trials. There will be initial apprehension.But once they see vaccinated persons leading normal life, the apprehension will disappear. Noted doctors such as Dr. Devi Prasad Shetty, Dr. Bhujang Shetty, Dr. Ballal, and Dr. Sudharshan have got themselves vaccinated, which shows the trust they have on the vaccine,” he said.  ‘Not vaccine related’ On the death of a COVID-19 warrior in Ballari a day after getting vaccinated, the Minister clarified that the death had nothing to do with the vaccine. “The post-mortem report has termed the death as due to cardiac arrest. There is no need for the people to panic,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sudhakar-says-people-can-choose-between-covaxin-and-covishield/article33613782.ece
20 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||‘Insider trading’ of lands in Amaravati: HC quashes CID FIR||The Andhra Pradesh High Court has quashed the FIR registered by the CID against some individuals and companies accused of resorting to insider trading of lands in the Andhra Pradesh capital region (Amaravati). In the order pronounced on Tuesday, a single-judge Bench consisting of Justice Ch. Manavendranath Roy said the right to acquire property was a Constitutional and legal right of the petitioners against whom the CID booked cases for allegedly purchasing lands in Amaravati from farmers deceptively reportedly having had prior information by virtue of their acquaintance with important people in the previous government on the location of the State capital. He ruled that private sale transactions could not be criminalised as the petitioners purchased lands from the sellers, who sold their holdings willingly and voluntarily for valid sale considerations under registered deeds. Justice Manavendranath Roy observed that the concept of an offence of insider trading, which was essentially an offence in the field of stock markets relating to selling and buying the securities and bonds, could not be applied to offences under Sections. 420, 409, 406 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code. He further stated that the petitioners were under no legal obligation to disclose the information relating to latent advantages in purchasing the land to the sellers at the time of buying their lands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/insider-trading-of-lands-in-amaravati-hc-quashes-cid-fir/article33613664.ece
20 January 2021||BELAGAVI,||Four members of family found dead in Ramdurg||Four members of a family were found dead in Ramdurg town of Belagavi district on Tuesday. The names of the deceased were given as Praveen Ramesh Shettar (37), his wife Rajeshwari (28), children Amruta (8) and Advit (6). Their neighbours found them dead in their house located at Navipet in Ramdurg on Tuesday morning. Praveen Shettar had a seeds and fertilizer business and was reportedly doing good business. The police, who inspected the scene, suspected consumption of pesticide as the cause of the death. The reason for the extreme step is not immediately known. Local MLA Mahadevappa Yadwad visited the spot and consoled the relatives of the victims. Deputy Superintendent of Police Shankaragouda Patil, Circle Inspector of Police Shashikant Verma and others visited the spot. Ramdurg Police have registered a case. Meanwhile, Superintendent of Police of Belagavi district Laxman Nimbaragi has said that a detailed inquiry would be carried out to find out the reasons for the incident. ( Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani on Ph: 104 for help. )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/four-members-of-family-found-dead-in-ramdurg/article33613778.ece
20 January 2021||MANGALURU,||Two Gou Shalas in each taluk of the State||The State government intends to have at least two Gou Shalas in each taluk of the State to protect cattle from slaughter, Minister for Animal Husbandry Haj and Wakf Prabhu B. Chavan said here on Tuesday. Talking to reporters after a review meeting at the office of the Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner, Mr. Chavan said that the State government has passed the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Ordinance, which is a strong law against slaughter of cattle. “We need to take care of cattle for which we need at least two Gou Shalas in each taluk. One of these Gou Shalas should be managed by the government. For the other such Gou Shala, the government will give grants,” Mr. Chavan said. While stating his intention to follow the Uttar Pradesh Government’s way of taking care of cattle wherein the government has opened 11 lakh Gou Shalas, Mr. Chavan said that with shortfall in the revenue of the State government, it is difficult to get more funds. “But, I am trying to get more allocation for animal husbandry in the forthcoming budget,” he said. The Minister said that he will also address problems of Gou Shalas in getting grants from the government. During the meeting, Mr. Chavan asked the police not to book cases against those who give information about illegal transportation of cattle. Whenever incidents of illegal cattle transportation are reported, the police should register an FIR, he said. He directed officials from the Animal Husbandry Department and elected representatives to hold programmes to make people aware of the ordinance passed by the government. Superintendent of Police B.M. Laxmi Prasad and Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra said that there is a need to have a designated vehicle in each taluk for transportation of cattle. While asking the district administration to take action against illegal slaughterhouses operating in Mangaluru, Mangaluru City South MLA D. Vedavyas Kamath said that the police should have a check-post to prevent illegal slaughter at abattoir in Kudroli. Mangaluru City North MLA Y. Bharath Shetty expressed the need for a mechanism to test the meat that was being brought illegally into the city from neighbouring districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-gou-shalas-in-each-taluk-of-the-state/article33613779.ece
20 January 2021||Mumbai,||Power defaulters to face disconnection||With power bill arrears in the State touching a whopping Rs. 63,740 crore by December 2020, the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (Mahadiscom) has issued directions to cut power connections of defaulters. In a meeting held on Tuesday with the State’s Power Minister Nitin Raut, the Mahadiscom said it would undertake an awareness drive for defaulters and ask them to pay the arrears, failing which their power connections would be cut. “Mahadiscom has plunged into severe financial crisis. The rising arrears have halted day-to-day functioning of the department. Paying salaries and interest on debt has also become difficult. We have to take drastic steps to improve the financial situation of the company,” said a senior official from the State’s Power department. He said Mahadiscom has to pay power suppliers daily to ensure supply remains uninterrupted. According to government data, bills worth Rs. 45,498 crore are unpaid from agriculture pump users while Rs. 8,485 crore is due from commercial, domestic and industrial customers. The high voltage customers have an arrears of Rs. 2,435 crore. “Mahadiscom had decided not to cut power connections from March 2020 to December 2020 due to lockdown condition, despite customers not paying bills,” said the official, adding that this was as per Mr. Raut’s instructions. “We had given consumers the option of paying arrears in installments. Despite that the arrears continued to rise. Therefore. all officials have been instructed to run this campaign in their respective areas,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/power-defaulters-to-face-disconnection/article33614328.ece
20 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Punjab, T.N. register poor vaccination coverage||Punjab, Puducherry and Tamil Nadu have registered low coverage of COVID-19 vaccination so far, with India reporting 0.18% adverse events following immunisation and 0.002% hospitalisation, the Health Ministry said on Tuesday. While only 27.6% of the beneficiaries have received the shot in Punjab, the figures for Puducherry and Tamil Nadu stood at 34.6% and 34.9%, respectively. At the other end of the spectrum are Lakshadweep (89.3%), Sikkim (85.7%), Odisha (82.6%), Telangana (81.1%), Arunachal Pradesh (75.4%), Uttar Pradesh (71.4%) and Rajasthan (71.3%). “We have seen vaccine hesitancy during polio and measles and this isn’t a new phenomenon. We will address this through dialogue and ensuring that the concerns are cleared,” Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said at a briefing. “We are in constant touch with all these States that have registered below 50% uptake to address various issues that they may be facing including technology glitches or vaccine hesitancy,” said Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan at the briefing. While the Health Ministry noted that Indian regulators are now looking at trial approvals for a possible nasal vaccine for COVID, V.K. Paul, member (Health) with NITI Aayog said, “people will not be fulfilling their societal responsibility if a vaccine brought to them is not being taken.” “The concerns about adverse effects and serious problems as of now, because of the vaccine, seem to be insignificant. Data show that we are in a comfortable situation and we would like to reassure you that the two vaccines are safe. The whole world is clamouring for the vaccine. I request the doctors and nurses to accept the vaccine,’’ he said adding that vaccine hesitancy should be extinguished.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/punjab-tn-register-poor-vaccination-coverage/article33613673.ece
20 January 2021||January 20 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Expression of views not bias’||Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde on Tuesday orally observed during a hearing that there was a “peculiar lack of comprehension” on the constitution of committees. He said a person’s views earlier about a subject did not disqualify him from being a part of a committee formed to examine a particular issue. An expression of views by a person on a subject did not mean bias. The remarks came as the social media was rife with criticism about the court’s choice of members of the panel on the farm laws.page 11||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/expression-of-views-not-bias/article33613659.ece
20 January 2021||January 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Riding high||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/riding-high/article33613987.ece
20 January 2021||lucknow,||FIR against web series Mirzapur||An FIR has been lodged in Uttar Pradesh against the makers of web series Mirzapur on charges of outraging the religious feelings and portrayal of a particular community as linked to crime. The FIR was lodged on a complaint by Arvind Chaturvedi, a local journalist who has also written a book on the life of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. In his complaint, Mr. Chaturvedi says the plot and dialogues of the web series have hurt his “religious, social and regional sentiments” and that it has provided a wrong portayal of Mirzapur city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fir-against-web-series-mirzapur/article33614329.ece
20 January 2021||January 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Some glitches, but drive on||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/some-glitches-but-drive-on/article33614332.ece
20 January 2021||MANGALURU,||Permission must to fly drones in city||To regulate the use of drones, the police have made it mandatory for all drone-users to take the permission of Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) before using the gadget. In a press release, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) Hariram Shankar said that those flying drones without permission will be prosecuted. Flying of drones has been prohibited as per the guidelines of Directorate-General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) in the city that has temples, educational institutions, international airport and other sensitive installations. Those who want to permission to use drones should produce UIN/UAOP issued by the DGCA. They should also produce documents such as specifications of drone, drone operator training certificate, permission of land/property owner (only for land used for take off/landing of drone, insurance for damage to third party resulting from the use of drone, valid police clearance certificate and valid reasons for operating drone, he said in the release. Further, while talking to reporters here on Tuesday, Mr. Shankar said that guidelines have been issued to prevent the misuse of drones. “We are compiling a list of drone users in the city and regulate its usage,” he said. The need for these guidelines arose after drones were used during a protest march in the city on January 16. The police found a third party agency using a heavy duty drone that carried camera. The drone was seized. The police released the device after the operator registered the device with the DGCA. The operator, Mr. Shankar said, was unaware of the norms associated with usage of drones. With lot many using drones for marriages and other events, Mr. Shankar said that the police are now making operators aware of the norms associated with the usage of drones. They were working towards making users comply with the norms. “In the coming days, we will start initiating penal action for violation of norms,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/permission-must-to-fly-drones-in-city/article33614303.ece
20 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Couple caught with Rs. 74.8 lakh in cash at KIA||Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) was the scene of much drama on Tuesday morning after a couple was caught carrying Rs. 74.8 lakh in cash and expensive gadgets which they could not account for while clearing security. The wife, upon realising that they were about to be caught, ran to the washroom and attempted to get rid of Rs. 10 lakh by dumping the notes in a trash can. ‘Claims to be a customs officer’ According to security officials at KIA, the husband, identified as Mohammed Irfan Ahmed, 35, claimed to be a Customs officer from Chennai. He and his wife Mumtaz had arrived from Chennai and were boarding a flight to Lucknow, said officials. They reached the security check around 9.30 a.m. and stood in separate queues. “When it was his turn, Irfan identified himself as Customs officer, a superintendent, and tried to get his luggage inside bypassing security checks. He claimed that it wasn’t necessary for their bags to be checked,” said a source. However, CISF security personnel insisted that as per protocol his bag had to be scanned and insisted that they be loaded on the belt. When the bag was scanned and later checked, they found that it was stuffed with wads of currency notes, around Rs. 37 lakh. Mumtaz, who was standing in the ladies queue, suddenly ran to the washroom with her bag claiming she wasn’t feeling well. However, secure personnel followed her. “She was caught dumping approximately Rs. 10 lakh in cash in a trashcan,” said an official. CISF Security personnel recovered the cash, and recalled the couple’s checked-in luggage. When they opened the bags, they found more cash, along with gold jewellery, two expensive wrist watches valued at around Rs. 2 lakh each, and electronic gadgets including iPhones and an Apple watch. The couple was taken into custody and questioned by both Income Tax and Enforcement Directorate officials who had been alerted. “The accused officer claims to have been serving in the Customs department since 2009. The couple hails from Chennai and said they were travelling to Lucknow to purchase land, which was why they were carrying cash. However, the source of the cash is yet to be ascertained,” said the source.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/man-and-wife-caught-with-rs-748-lakh-in-cash-at-airport/article33613787.ece
20 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Assembly elections likely in April||Indications are that the Assembly elections in the State will be held in April. While the Election Commission is yet to take a final decision on the matter, the present indications are that the State will go to polls in April, Teeka Ram Meena, Chief Electoral Officer, Kerala, said on Tuesday. Schools unavailable Early elections are likely due to a combination of factors, including the schedule of the CBSE exams. “The CBSE exams are planned in May and June, so the schools may not be available to us. Most of our polling stations are in schools,” Mr. Meena said. The Ramzan fasting begins in mid-April, which too will be taken into account by the commission when finalising a decision.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/assembly-elections-likely-in-april/article33613844.ece
20 January 2021||January 20 2021 00:00 IST,||All for its fallen kin||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/all-for-its-fallen-kin/article33613846.ece
20 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Vehicles for door delivery of rations all set to roll out||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will flag off a fleet of 2,500 ration door delivery vehicles at Benz Circle here on January 21, District Collector A. Md. Imtiaz has said. Mr. Imtiaz, along with other officials, inspected the arrangements at the venue here on Tuesday. The vehicles that will be flagged off at 10.25 a.m. belong to Krishna, Guntur and West Godavari districts. From February 1, provisions such as rice, dal and other items that are at present being given at the fair price shops will be delivered at the doorstep of the beneficiaries in these vechicles. Civil Supplies Commissioner Kona Sasidhar also reviewed the arrangements in a video-conference with the Collectors of all the districts. In Krishna district, 817 vehicles will be delivering the goods. VMC Commissioner V. Prasanna Venkatesh was among others present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-to-flag-off-vehicles-for-door-delivery-of-rations-tomorrow/article33613663.ece
20 January 2021||New Delhi,||Health workers not on daily list can get vaccine||A total of 4,936 healthcare workers were vaccinated in the Capital on Tuesday — the highest till now — and there were 16 ‘minor’ Adverse Events Following Immunisation, said a Delhi government spokesperson. This is 48.75% of the target of 10,125 beneficiaries listed for inoculation on Tuesday. Of the 16 adverse events, 15 beneficiaries we-re vaccinated with Covishield and one with Covaxin. A change in rule has helped hospitals get a higher number of health workers vaccinated. Though each of the 81 vaccination sites has a list of about 100 beneficiaries, health workers whose names are not on the list but are registered on the CoWIN platform, are now being vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/health-workers-not-on-daily-list-can-get-vaccine/article33613990.ece
20 January 2021||HYDERABAD,||Congress Raj Bhavan gherao turns tense||A gherao planned by the Congress at Raj Bhavan to express the party’s solidarity with the farming community protesting on the outskirts of Delhi against the three new controversial farm laws for nearly two months now turned out to be tense with police obstructing party leaders’ march at different places and also arresting them. The protest was taken up by the State Congress in response to a call given by the All India Congress Committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/congress-raj-bhavan-gherao-turns-tense/article33614236.ece
20 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Couple caught with Rs. 74.8 lakh at airport||A couple was caught at Kempegowda International Airport on Tuesday carrying Rs. 74.8 lakh in cash and expensive gadgets which they could not account for. The wife, upon realising that they were about to be caught, ran to the washroom and attempted to get rid of Rs. 10 lakh by dumping the notes in a trash can.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/couple-caught-with-rs-748-lakh-at-airport/article33614168.ece
20 January 2021||Srinagar,||Sajad Lone pulls out of Gupkar alliance||Sajad Lone’s Peoples Conference on Tuesday pulled out of the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, a grouping of six Jammu and Kashmir regional parties fighting for the pre-August 5, 2019 position, saying “no party was willing to sacrifice”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sajad-lone-pulls-out-of-gupkar-alliance/article33613994.ece
20 January 2021||KALABURAGI,||Status report on Kannada knowledge sought||Taking note of complaints about bank employees not speaking Kannada, Chairman of Kannada Development Authority T.S. Nagabharana has directed the Lead Bank of Kalaburagi to submit a report on the status of Kannada knowledge among bank employees in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/status-report-on-kannada-knowledge-sought/article33613789.ece
20 January 2021||Mumbai,||Mumbai nearby||Senior advocate Anand Grover on Tuesday informed the Bombay High Court about 81-year-old poet Varavara Rao’s medical condition and argued for his medical bail as he continued to remain in a private hospital for treatment. Mr. Grover submitted Mr. Rao’s medical report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mumbai-nearby/article33614330.ece
20 January 2021||BENGALURU,||Land denotification case: closure report filed||The Lokayukta police have filed a closure report in the Bellandur IT Corridor denotification case in which Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa is an accused. The High Court of Karnataka had recently ordered a trial court-monitored probe into the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/land-denotification-case-closure-report-filed/article33613945.ece
20 January 2021||CHENNAI,||Class 10,12 students return to school||Schools across Tamil Nadu reopened for Classes 10 and 12 on Tuesday, after nearly 10 months. Strict COVID-19 prevention norms were in place, with the entry of students staggered to avoid crowding. The temperature of students was checked and they were given hand sanitisers before being let in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/class-1012-students-return-to-school/article33613705.ece
20 January 2021||Chennai,||India loses a crusader who revolutionised cancer treatment||It was in the early hours of Tuesday, before much of the city had woken up, that information began to percolate about the passing of a pioneer in cancer care in the country and the chairperson of the Adyar Cancer Institute, Dr. V. Shanta. The news broke on social media and as the loss started to sink in, all of Tamil Nadu sank into mourning one of its most prominent and respected personalities. The crowds that gathered at her funeral procession, spoke volumes of the impact that Dr. Shanta has had on various segments of society. Tributes from PM, V-P Tributes poured as the day progressed, with patients, colleagues, and political leaders talking of how she had touched their lives and improved the field of oncology. All of them were clear that Dr. Shanta occupied a unique space that will now be a void with her passing. Among those who paid tributes to her were Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Vice-President Venkaiah Naidu and Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, apart from State leaders, and healthcare professionals from across the country. Dr. Shanta was rushed to hospital after she complained of chest pain on Monday night at about 9 p.m. She initially insisted on being medically managed on campus, but colleagues at the Cancer Institute took a call to rush her to a private hospital, as the Institute is not a cardiac care centre. They said examinations showed she had a massive block that could not be rectified, and the end came shortly before 4 a.m. Her body was placed in the old Cancer Institute premises, which she helped build along with her mentor S. Krishnamurthi, and several patients, their relatives, nurses, doctors and members of the public paid their homage. Dr. Shanta was active until her hospitalisation, colleagues said, even though she had been feeling under the weather for a couple of days. Arvind Krishnamurthy, professor and head, Surgical Oncology, Cancer Institute, said Dr. Shanta never wanted to leave the Institute for treatment outside and was not for invasive ventilation. “She was quite active till the very last day considering her age and frailty. She preferred medical management. She did not want any final rituals to be performed, and wished that her ashes should be sprinkled all over the Institute... She continued to be in control till the very end,” he added. Right through the pandemic, Dr. Shanta continued to be concerned about the new challenges to health care brought on by the lockdown and expressed them eloquently in communication she sent to The Hindu . It deeply troubled her that many sick people could not be treated during the peak of the lockdown, and she was looking for multiple safe options to open up services again. Affairs relating to the Institute — funding, infrastructure upgradation, helping more people with cancer, awareness generation activities — occupied her time wholly. She lived in a single room within the Cancer Institute premises, so that she would be available for patients round the clock. It was in April 1955 that Dr. Shanta joined the Cancer Institute as its resident medical officer. She completed her MBBS in 1949 and M.D. in Obstetrics and Gynaecology in 1955. While she was selected to the post of assistant surgeon at the Women and Children’s Hospital, Madras by the Madras Public Service Commission, she joined the Cancer Institute, which was established in 1954 by the Women’s Indian Association Cancer Relief Fund under the leadership of another medical pioneer, Dr. Muthulakshmi Reddy. In her medical career spanning over 60 years, she focussed on organising care of cancer patients, study of the disease, its prevention and control, creation of specialists and scientists in different aspects of oncologic sciences. She played a key role along with Dr. Krishnamurthi in the development of the Institute from a cottage hospital of 12 beds to a comprehensive cancer centre, according to the Institute. Dr. Shanta came from a family of eminent scientists, including two Nobel laureates in Physics — C.V. Raman and S. Chandrasekhar. She was responsible for the recognition and practice of medical oncology as a speciality and the creation of a separate medical oncology division at the Institute. The first super specialty course in surgical and medical oncology in India was introduced at the institute in 1984. Dr. Shanta was on the World Health Organisation Advisory Committee on Cancer till March 2005. She was also convenor of the State Advisory Board on Cancer, and has been member of many ICMR committees. Dr. Shanta was the recipient of Padma Shri in 1986, Padma Bhushan in 2006 and Padma Vibhushan in 2016. She was conferred the Ramon Magsaysay Award for Public Service in 2005. She has received many national and international awards.  Service on her mind Doctors of the institute recalled her journey with Dr. Muthulakshmi Reddy and Dr. Krishnamurthi, and her efforts in building the institute brick by brick. She always emphasised on the ethos of the Institute as providing service for all and care for the needy. She often stressed on the need to pursue research and recalled Dr. Krishnamurthi’s passion for research and his driving mantra: “Today’s Research, Tomorrow’s Treatment”. In one of the communications to The Hindu , she said, “The Cancer Institute has survived crises and come through stronger. Through all the difficult times, we never lost sight of our vision of top quality service to all, particularly the economically weaker sections”. Dr. Shanta has also pointed out that the challenge in cancer today was early detection and prevention. “We have screening centres in Villupuram, Tiruvannamalai, Gummidipoondi and Pudukottai because we want to dispel the fear of cancer in people by enabling them to understand that if you come early, cancer can be cured,” she said during an interview. Dr. Shanta did not lose any opportunity to reiterate the need for tobacco control and government support to implement the regulations. On December 28, 2020, she participated in the launch of Tamil Nadu Cancer Registry Project Report 2020, a collaborative study by Cancer Institute and Department of Health and Family Welfare, Government of Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/country-loses-a-crusader-who-revolutionised-cancer-treatment/article33613616.ece
20 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Expression of views not bias: CJI||Chief Justice of India (CJI) Sharad A. Bobde on Tuesday orally observed during a hearing that there was a “peculiar lack of comprehension” on the constitution of committees. The CJI said a person’s views earlier about a subject did not disqualify him from being a part of a committee formed to examine a particular issue. An expression of views by a person on a subject did not mean bias, he added. “There is some confusion in understanding the law. One person may have an opinion before being a part of the committee, but his opinion can change... There is no way that such a member cannot be part of a committee,” he stated. The oral remarks came even as social media was rife with criticism about the court’s choice of members of the expert committee it set up on January 12 to negotiate between farmers protesting the agri-marketing laws and the government. There was criticism on social media that these members had supported the farm laws. One the four members, Bhupinder Singh Mann, national president, Bhartiya Kisan Union, had recused himself from the committee, which has to commence talks between the agitating farmers and the government, and submit a report to the court within two months. The CJI, however, did not refer to the controversy surrounding this particular committee during the hearing. His remarks came when senior advocate Siddarth Luthra, who was tapped by the court to act as amicus curiae in a case concerning physical court hearings in the Delhi High Court, notified the court that his earlier opinion in favour of virtual court conferences, were already on record. “Just because a person has expressed a view on the matter, that is not a disqualification to be a member of committee. Generally, there is a peculiar lack of comprehension about the constitution of a committee. They are not judges,” Chief Justice Bobde said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/expression-of-views-not-bias-cji/article33613619.ece
20 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||India to fly out vaccines to neighbours||India will begin to ship out lakhs of doses of the novel coronavirus vaccine to neighbouring countries beginning Wednesday, with the first batches expected to reach Bhutan and the Maldives among several countries by special planes as a grant or gift. “India is deeply honoured to be a long-trusted partner in meeting the healthcare needs of the global community,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi said, announcing the shipments, while External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar said the “pharmacy of the world will deliver to overcome the COVID challenge”. The External Affairs Ministry said shipments to Bhutan, the Maldives, Bangladesh, Nepal, Myanmar and the Seychelles would commence this week, while those to Sri Lanka, Afghanistan and Mauritius are awaiting “necessary regulatory clearances”. The release of the shipments is part of the government’s “Neighbourhood First” initiative, and will make India the first country to reach COVID-19 vaccines in South Asia, ahead of China, which has promised but not so far delivered, and the World Health Organization and GAVI’s vaccine alliance programme. The region’s preference for Indian vaccines including the Covishield from the Serum Institute of India (SII) developed with Oxford University and Astra Zeneca, and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin are due to cost, easier storage requirements and the geographical proximity, the officials said, adding that Pakistan has neither requested nor is India discussing supplies to it at present. Bhutan programme Bhutan will receive the first shipment of 1,50,000 Covishield vaccines on Wednesday morning. Sources told The Hindu that the government hopes to ship about 1 million doses to Thimphu, the country it shares the closest ties with in the neighbourhood. Bhutan’s Prime Minister Lotay Tshering said his government has decided to stockpile the vaccines to roll out a mass vaccination programme for its targeted population of 5,33,000 people. The Maldives is due to receive its first shipment on Wednesday at 2.30 p.m., with about 1,00,000 doses meant to reach Male’s Velana international airport by an Air India flight. NITI Aayog member Vinod Paul, who heads the committee overseeing the distribution, said the details for each country “should happen soon,” while stressing that the government will continue to “ensure enough for India’s domestic requirement”. Bangladesh’s Health and Family Welfare Ministry announced that Dhaka will also receive the batch of 20 lakh doses of Covishield, as part of a “friendly gesture”, which will be delivered on Thursday. Beximco, one of the largest Bangladeshi pharmaceutical companies, will procure about 30 million vaccines from the SII on a commercial basis as well. Nepal’s Foreign Minister Pradeep Gyawali is expected to announce the shipment schedule on Wednesday. Colombo is expecting the vaccines to arrive in about two weeks, as officials said it has not completed “internal processes to receive them” yet. In addition to signing up for the COVAX facility, through the World Health Organization, Sri Lanka has been in talks with China and Russia for vaccines. The only exception to India’s regional vaccine diplomacy would be Pakistan, which has cleared the Astra Zeneca vaccine for use, but has neither requested nor discussed any doses from India yet.  (With inputs from Kallol   Bhattacherjee, Meera   Srinivasan and Jacob Koshy)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-to-fly-out-vaccines-to-neighbours/article33613647.ece
20 January 2021||New Delhi,||‘Repeal of farm laws only solution’||Ahead of the 10th round of talks between the protesting farmers and the Union government, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday alleged that the new farm laws were “designed to destroy” agriculture and create monopolies by three-four capitalists. Releasing a booklet on the farm laws — Kheti ka khoon (murder of farming) — to highlight the plight of farmers, he said “repealing” them was the only solution to break the deadlock. The farm laws would destroy the mandi system and the farmers won’t get the price they deserved. Hitting back at BJP president J.P. Nadda, who posed a series of questions to him on Twitter before his press conference began, Mr. Gandhi said he was not scared of anyone, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and “they can’t touch me”. “The biggest business in this country is agriculture… Now we are seeing the last bastion which was protected from monopoly being overrun by these new laws. They are designed to destroy Indian agriculture by destroying the mandi, the Essential Commodities Act and by making sure that no farmer can go to court to protect himself,” he said. Referring to Mr. Nadda’s tweets, in which the BJP chief accused the Congress of misleading farmers, he alleged that they were an “attempt at distraction”. “Who is he? Is he my professor that I have to keep answering him? I will answer the country or the farmers if they pose questions,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/repeal-of-farm-laws-only-solution/article33613624.ece
20 January 2021||MYSURU,||Tusker entangled in fishing nets rescued from reservoir||A wild tusker stranded in Nugu reservoir, close to Bandipur, with its legs entangled in fishing nets, was rescued by Forest Department personnel on Tuesday. The elephant was first sighted around 6 a.m. in the reservoir. Initially it did not receive much attention as the movement and presence of elephants in the Nugu reservoir and surrounding areas, which constitute the buffer zone to Bandipur Tiger Reserve, was common. However, locals began suspecting that something was amiss when they realised that the elephant appeared to be stranded for a long time. Forest personnel and teams from Bandipur, Sargur, and Nugu areas reached the spot along with a unit of the Special Tiger Protection Force. They pressed a motorboat into service to get a close view of the jumbo and found that it was not moving despitethe disturbance caused by their presence.“The elephant was in the same spot for almost three hours and was not moving, which was unusual and reinforced our suspicion of it being trapped by fishing nets,” said a forest official. S.R. Natesh, director, Bandipur Tiger Reserve, said the rescue team used bamboo and hooks to sweep the area to remove any net in the vicinity to free the jumbo’s legs. The operation lasted nearly five hours and the tusker swam to the shore of the reservoir and heaved itself out of the water before walking back into the forest. Experts said this was a trickysituation as any rescue operation entailing an animal in water, especially elephants, was fraught with risk for the animal as well as the rescue personnel. Furthermore, tranquillisers cannot be usedin such situations. Fishing in the backwaters abutting national parks and wildlife sanctuary poses a risk to animals and birds, which can get entangled in the nets. “This is a problematic issue as the dams came earlier and notification declaring some of the forests as national parks and tiger reserves came much latter. Hence, the Irrigation Department continues to have jurisdiction over the reservoirs and is vested with the right to award contract for fishing. But no steps have been taken to regulate fishing in forest peripheries,” a source said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/wild-elephant-caught-in-fishing-nets-rescued/article33613603.ece
20 January 2021||MALAPPURAM,||17-year-old sexually abused by over 40 men||A 17-year-old girl from Kerala’s Malappuram district was raped by dozens of men over four years, it has been found. Initial investigations found 44 accused. The police arrested 33 of them, and slapped various charges under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act on them. A special investigation team headed by DySP of Perinthalmanna has been formed to look into the case that involved alleged lapses and lack of care from those who should have been caring for and protecting the child. The girl from an “extremely vulnerable family and social background” had been rescued three times and shifted to the Nirbhaya short stay home since 2016. The Child Welfare Committee (CWC) released her and sent her back to her family each time on the basis of reports from the District Child Protection Unit. 29 cases registered It was found that the authorities neither formulated an individual care plan for the girl nor did they appoint a supporting person to follow up on her rehabilitation after her release from the Nirbhaya home. The large-scale sexual abuse came to light after the police looking into a missing person case located her and offered her counselling with the help of the CWC. CWC chairperson Shajesh Bhaskar said the girl had not revealed anything about the abuse until the last counselling they offered her. The police registered 29 cases of sexual abuse following her revelation. The police are now investigating different angles, including the possibility that the girl was sold. The girl was first abused in 2016, when she was 13 years old, by a man from Thiruvananthapuram. Although she was rescued and the accused booked under POCSO Act, she was allowed to rejoin her family within a few days. She was abused by other men in 2017 and was rescued by the CWC. During her long stay at Nirbhaya home, she reportedly displayed signs of mental distress and was treated at the Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (IMHANS), Kozhikode. Under distress She was released from the Nirbhaya home after she was found to be stable. However, the authorities have been accused of failing to evaluate the child’s social vulnerability before allowing her to go. Police sources said that the number of persons involved in abusing the girl could be more than four dozen. The girl is reportedly under distress as she was subjected to tests and made to give statements in connection with the 32 FIRs filed so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/17-year-old-sexually-abused-by-over-40-men/article33613613.ece
20 January 2021||New Delhi,||Budget session to have Question Hour||The Question Hour, which had been suspended by the government during the monsoon session, will resume when Parliament meets for the Budget session from January 29. The government had claimed that the suspension of the Question Hour, which gives the Opposition an opportunity to hold the government accountable, was an additional precautionary measure to tackle the COVID-19 pandemic. The suspension had been strongly criticised by the Opposition. As during the monsoon session, the Rajya Sabha and the Lok Sabha will meet at alternate sessions to ensure that all the three chambers — Rajya Sabha hall, Lok Sabha hall and the Central Hall — were available for both Houses to seat members in keeping with the physical distancing norms. Between sessions The Rajya Sabha will meet from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. and the Lok Sabha in the second half from 4 p.m. to 8 p.m. The two hours between the sessions will be used to sanitise the area. At a press conference on Tuesday, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla said, “Question Hour will be allowed during Parliament session for an already fixed time of one hour.” Parliamentarians will sit in all the three chambers when President Ram Nath Kovind addresses the joint session of Parliament at the start of the session. Mr. Birla said all MPs will be requested to undergo a COVID-19 test before the start of the Budget session. The Lok Sabha Speaker said all the arrangements had been made for RT-PCR tests to be done near their residences too. Mr. Birla said food served in Parliament canteens for MPs and visitors will cost more as the subsidy allotted for it has been withdrawn, though he did not clarify the financial implications of the move. The subsidy on food supplied at the canteen cost nearly Rs. 8 crore, senior Lok Sabha officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/budget-session-to-have-question-hour/article33613623.ece
20 January 2021||AHMEDABAD,||15 migrant workers run over by truck||As many as 14 people, all labourers from Rajasthan, were killed after a truck ran over them in Surat district late on Monday. A year-old-girl also died in the accident, taking the fatalities to 15, the police said. Those killed include eight women and a migrant worker from Madhya Pradesh, police said. While 12 of them died on the spot, three died during treatment at a hospital, police added. They were sleeping on a pavement at the time of the accident, according to the police. The dumper truck killed 14 of them on the spot. One person died later in hospital. Several others who were injured have been hospitalised. As per initial details, the truck first collided with a sugarcane-loaded tractor, after which the driver lost control of the vehicle and ran over the migrant labourers near Kosamba village, around 60 km from Surat, police said. The truck driver has been booked under sections of the IPC and Motor Vehicles Act, the police said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted his condolences and said,“The loss of lives due to a truck accident in Surat is tragic. My thoughts are with the bereaved families. Praying that the injured recover at the earliest.” Ex-gratia of Rs. 2 lakh each (from PMNRF) will be given to the next of kin of those who lost their lives and Rs. 50,000 each would be given to the injured. The Rajasthan government also on Tuesday announced financial assistance of Rs. 2 lakh each from the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund to the next of kin of the migrant labourers from Banswara district of the State killed in the accident. Those injured will get Rs. 50,000 each. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot expressed his condolences and prayed for the speedy recovery of those injured. “The tragedy in Surat is heart wrenching. [I am] deeply saddened to know that the labourers from Banswara have lost their lives after a truck ran over them as they were sleeping near the road,” Mr. Gehlot tweeted. The victims hailed from four villages of Kushalgarh block in Banswara district, bordering Gujarat. Six of the deceased were members of one family.  (With inputs from Mohammed Iqbal in Jaipur)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/15-migrant-workers-run-over-by-truck/article33613643.ece
20 January 2021||HYDERABAD,||Premium lounge opened at RGIA domestic departures||A round-the-clock revamped plaza premium lounge spread over 773 sqm accommodating around 222 passengers was opened at the domestic departures of GMR Hyderabad International Airport by CEO Pradeep Panicker on Tuesday. It is equipped with state-of-the-art facilities like work stations with Wi-Fi, private seating zone for VIPs and special guests, lounge seating etc. Massage and wellness facilities are available for those wanting to relax and rejuvenate. The facility is safe and sanitised with shower facilities to freshen up before a long flight. View of runway Offering a panoramic view of the airport runway with comfortable recliner seats, an array of world class brands of drinks are available at the bar. The dining area features a wide spread of buffet for travellers, and live food counters are also an option for passengers to check out. Zone-wise music control, ambient temperature setting for enhanced comfort and special chairs for children are some of the new features along with baby care facility plus an exclusive washroom for passengers with limited mobility. Flight information can be accessed on the multiple screens set up at the lounge to keep passengers updated on their flight schedules. The place is secured with continuous monitoring by CCTV cameras, said a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/premium-lounge-opened-at-rgia-domestic-departures/article33614248.ece
20 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Lokayukta police file closure report||The Lokayukta police have filed a closure report in the Bellandur IT Corridor denotification case in which Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa is an accused. The High Court had recently ordered a trial court-monitored probe into the case. The case pertains to alleged illegal denotification of eight acres and 10 guntas of land from the IT corridor project when Mr. Yediyurappa was the Deputy Chief Minister. Based on a private complaint in 2013, the court ordered an FIR in 2015, which was being probed by the Lokayukta police. Mr. Yediyurappa had challenged the FIR, a petition that was dismissed by the High Court on December 22, 2020, ordering for a court-monitored probe. On the first day of hearing of the case at the Lokayukta Special Court after the recent High Court order, the Lokayukta police filed a 27 volume closure report, sources confirmed. The Lokayukta police refused to comment on the same. Senior advocate K.V. Dhananjay, counsel for complainant Vasudeva Reddy, sought time to file objections over the closure report. The court adjourned the case to February 2. “The High Court in its December 22 order observed the Lokayukta Police had not investigated the case for years, despite there being no stay order. In less than a month, they have completed the probe and filed a closure report. We will appeal to the court to reject the report and make the accused stand trial,” Mr. Dhananjay said. He also added that he would file an application in the court to review the investigation carried out by the agency to arrive at this conclusion. It can be recalled that High Court judge Michael Cunha in his judgment had made critical observations about the Lokayukta police in the case. “Though, at this juncture, it cannot be said that the Lokayukta police succumbed to pressure from Mr. Yediyurappa, who holds the position of Chief Minister. However, being an independent and impartial body entrusted with the duty to enquire into the misconduct of public servants objectively, they cannot give rise to an impression in the minds of the public that it is playing into the hands of the political bigwigs,” he had said. Probe into two more denotification cases had recently been reopened against the Chief Minister on the orders of Karnataka High Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lokayukta-police-file-closure-report/article33613600.ece
20 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Nadda poses series of questions to Rahul on farmers’ issue, China||BJP president J.P. Nadda on Tuesday took to Twitter to question Rahul Gandhi on the Congress’s stance on the farmers’ issue, China and its about-turn on the traditional Pongal sport of jallikattu (bull-taming). Soon after Mr. Gandhi indicated that he would be addressing a press meet in the afternoon, Mr. Nadda said he, too, had questions for Mr. Gandhi that he would like answered. “Now that Mr. Gandhi has returned from his monthly vacation, I would like to ask him some questions. I hope he will answer them in today’s press conference. Rahul Gandhi has been spreading lies that all APMC [Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee] Mandis will be closed down. But wasn’t action against the APMC Act a part of the Congress manifesto? Would that not have closed down mandis?” the BJP president tweeted.  On China “When will Rahul Gandhi, his dynasty and Congress stop lying on China? Can he deny that thousands of kilometres, including the one in Arunachal Pradesh he is referring to, was gifted by none other than Pandit Nehru to the Chinese? Time and again, why does Congress surrender to China?” he stated. Mr. Nadda referred to an MoU signed between the Congress and the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) and said, “Does he intend to return the Chinese largesse to trusts controlled by his family?” He had strong words on Mr. Gandhi’s recent visit to poll-bound Tamil Nadu and watching a jallikattu after the UPA government had banned the sport earlier. “Rahul Gandhi enjoyed jallikattu in Tamil Nadu. Why did his party ban it and insult Tamil culture when they were in power? Is he not proud of India’s culture and ethos?” the BJP president tweeted. Mr. Nadda also pointed to Mr. Gandhi’s silence on India’s declining curve of COVID-19 cases and the launch of the vaccination drive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nadda-poses-series-of-questions-to-rahul-on-farmers-issue-china/article33613626.ece
20 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Military specialists to get S-400 training in Moscow||As India prepares to receive the first batch of S-400 long-range air defence system by year-end, the first group of Indian military specialists are scheduled to depart for Moscow soon to undergo training courses on the S-400, the Russian Embassy here said in a statement. “S-400 supplies initiative is one of the flagship projects in the Russian-Indian military and military-technical cooperation, which historically constitutes the main pillar of the special and privileged strategic partnership between our two friendly countries,” said Russian Ambassador Nikolay R. Kudashev, hosting the Indian team at an event in the embassy. He further stated, “Currently Russia and India are deeply involved in joint development and production of military equipment, components and spare parts as well as technologies sharing, improving after-sales service system. We have developed an advanced legal base for this purpose.” In October 2018, India signed a $5.43-billion deal with Russia for five S-400 Triumf regiments despite objections from the U.S. and the threat of sanctions under Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA). U.S.’ concern In the farewell address early this month, outgoing U.S. Ambassador Kenneth Juster declined to comment on whether the U.S. would proceed with CAATSA sanctions against India over the S-400 purchase, but said India should consider the impact of such purchases that constrain “technology transfers” and other defence cooperation between India and the US. On defence cooperation, Mr. Kudashev said along with the S-400, the two sides successfully were moving towards the implementation of a AK-203 rifle contract and 200 Ka-226T utility helicopters supplies among others. They are looking forward to an early implementation of the spare parts joint production agreement. “Work also is going on the mutual logistics support agreement, strengthening maritime cooperation, including in the Indian Ocean,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/military-specialists-to-get-s-400-training-in-moscow/article33613629.ece
20 January 2021||New Delhi,||Students with just pass in Class 12 can take JEE-Main||The eligibility criterion for JEE-Main 2021 has been relaxed, allowing students who scored less than 75% in their Class 12 examinations to attempt the entrance test for admission to the National Institutes of Technology (NITs), Indian Institutes of Information Technology (IITs), Schools of Planning and Architecture (SPAs) and other Centrally funded technical institutes. This is in line with the earlier decision to waive the 75% eligibility criterion for JEE-Advanced, which is used for admission to the elite Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs), Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank said in a tweet on Tuesday. This means that a simple pass in Class 12 will be sufficient for applicants to the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE-Main) this year. In a statement earlier on Tuesday, the Education Ministry clarified that the syllabus for the JEE-Main, as well as for medical entrance test NEET, will not be reduced in 2021. As several boards have cut down their syllabi this year, both entrance tests will offer more choices in their question paper patterns. Students will be allowed to answer 75 questions out of 90, that is 25 out of 30 questions each in physics, chemistry and mathematics in JEE. In 2020, all 75 questions were to be answered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/students-with-just-pass-in-class-12-can-take-jee-main/article33613634.ece
20 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||India asks WhatsApp to revoke changes in its privacy policy||The Union government has asked WhatsApp to withdraw the proposed changes to its privacy policy, stating that it raised “grave concerns” over the implications of the choice and autonomy of Indian citizens. In a letter to WhatsApp chief executive officer Will Cathcart, the government pointed out that by not giving the option to opt out of data-sharing with Facebook companies, Indian users were being treated differently from those in Europe. “Whether this [the new policy] will enable better provision of service to users or not is beside the point, the issue is the impact it has on informational privacy, data security and user choice,” the letter said, adding that sovereign independence of India’s distinct identity and its people must be properly respected and any unilateral changes to WhatsApp terms of service and privacy would not be fair and acceptable. The government also asked the Facebook-owned platform to reconsider its approach to respect the informational privacy, freedom of choice and data security of Indian citizens. “The privacy policy offered by WhatsApp to its European users specifically prohibits the use of any information shared with a Facebook company for that companies’ own purposes, while this clause is not present in the privacy policy offered to Indian users. This differential and discriminatory treatment of Indian and European users is attracting serious criticism and betrays a lack of respect for the rights and interest of Indian citizens, who form a substantial portion of WhatsApp’s user base,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-asks-whatsapp-to-revoke-changes-in-its-privacy-policy/article33613636.ece
20 January 2021||NEW DELHI/Kolkata,||Netaji’s birth anniversary to be celebrated as ‘Parakram Divas’||The Union Culture Ministry on Tuesday announced that January 23, birth anniversary of Subhas Chandra Bose, would be celebrated as “Parakram Divas”, day of courage, every year. In a notification, the Ministry said the government had decided to celebrate the 125th birth anniversary year starting from January 23, 2021 in a “befitting manner at national and international level”. Later, at a press conference, Culture Minister Prahlad Singh Patel said Prime Minister Narendra Modi would preside over the inauguration of the celebrations in Kolkata, where a permanent exhibition on Netaji would be opened at the Victoria Memorial. A programme would be held in Cuttack, birthplace of Netaji. The Trinamool Congress and the All India Forward Bloc demanded that the day be observed as ‘Desh Prem Divas’. “January 23 should be announced as a national holiday. It is our long-standing demand. As he was a national leader and head of the Azad Hind Fauj, these two aspects are not reflected through ‘Parakram Divas’,” Trinamool leader Saugata Roy said. All India Forward Bloc State secretary Naren Chatterjee said the party had been demanding observation of Desh Prem Diwas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/netajis-birth-anniversary-to-be-celebrated-as-parakram-divas/article33613638.ece
20 January 2021||Bengaluru,||K.S. Bhagavan’s book withdrawn from library purchase list||Following a social media campaign by Hindutva right wing, the Public Library Book Selection Committee has withdrawn its recommendation to purchase writer K.S. Bhagavan’s 2018 book Rama Mandira Eke Beda? (Why should there be no Rama Mandira?). The committee, led by Kannada writer Doddarange Gowda, issued a statement to this effect on Tuesday evening. This came close on the heels of Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar directing the committee to review the list. “The government will not buy any book that hurts the sentiments of sections of society,” Mr. Kumar said in a Facebook post on Monday night. The controversy comes amidst a Vishwa Hindu Parishad fund-raising drive, for the Ram temple, in the State from January 15 to February 5.  Rama Mandira Eke Beda? is a collection of critical essays on the epic Ramayana and the politics around Ram temple. “People from VHP had come to my house seeking donations for the temple in Ayodhya. I made the same argument as in my book and asked them to read it,” Prof. Bhagavan told The Hindu.  Opposing the dropping of his book from the library purchase list, Prof. Bhagavan said public libraries cannot be held hostage to one ideology that is in power. “A public library needs to give readers all arguments allowing them to make an informed opinion of their own. If the RSS and BJP don’t agree with my argument, they can counter it with another book, not censor my book. The book has already seen three editions in two years and is going for a fourth edition and has not created any trouble. I have no intention to hurt any religious sentiments. I have only argued my case within the precincts of Valmiki Ramayana,” he argued. Dr. Gowda, also associated with the BJP, said the committee had initially excluded the book from the selection list on the grounds that “it hurt religious sentiments of a large section of society”. But, deciding on a review petition by the publisher, the committee decided to recommend it for purchase. “We thought the book could be part of our public libraries as one of the arguments on the matter, providing readers various points of views, though we may not agree with it,” he said. However, “with public objection” to this decision, it has decided to withdraw the recommendation, the statement said. “More than the argument, it’s the way Prof. Bhagavan makes that argument that seems to incite extreme reactions. The Kannada world has accepted harsher criticism than his on our epics,” he noted. Basu Sulibhavi, publisher of the book, said they had not applied for a review petition for the book at all. “We did not file for a review of the committee’s decision and did not know the book was eventually selected,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ks-bhagavans-book-withdrawn-from-library-purchase-list/article33613793.ece
20 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||1.7 lakh health workers get COVID-19 vaccine||A total of 6,31,417 healthcare workers were vaccinated against COVID-19 in 11,660 sessions till 6 p.m. on Tuesday, a provisional report said. A total of 3,800 sessions were held and 1,77,368 beneficiaries were vaccinated till 6 p.m. on Tuesday, the fourth day of the nationwide vaccination, till 6 p.m., noted a release issued by the Health Ministry. The final report for the day will be completed later. “A total of nine AEFI [adverse events following immunisation] required hospitalisation. In Delhi, three cases have been discharged, whereas one is under observation at the Rajiv Gandhi Hospital in Shahdara. One case from Uttarakhand has been discharged. In Karnataka, one person is discharged and another person is stable and under observation at the District Hospital, Chitradurga. In Chhattisgarh, one person is discharged, while in Rajasthan, one case is of suspected anaphylaxis is fine and under observation at the District Hospital, Bangar,” the Ministry said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/17-lakh-health-workers-get-covid-19-vaccine/article33613640.ece
20 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Centre targets Delhi govt. over Yamuna pollution||The Centre on Tuesday accused Delhi of being a “habitual offender” in polluting the waters of the Yamuna. The State of Haryana, on the other hand, objected to Delhi’s accusations about it releasing untreated effluents into the river due to faulty treatment plants, saying the “problem is not with Haryana, but within Delhi”. A three-judge Bench led by Chief Justice Sharad A. Bobde gave Haryana a week’s time to file its affidavit. The Centre has also been asked to place on record its views. The Bench was hearing an urgent petition filed by the Delhi Jal Board (DJB), represented by advocate Shadan Farasat, to “immediately stop” Haryana from discharging pollutants into the Yamuna, which is causing an alarming increase in ammonia levels in the water. The Board said the increased ammonia level has impaired its water treatment plants and a drinking water and health crises loom large in Delhi. The DJB said the national capital’s woes were made worse with Haryana not releasing the full quantity of water entitled to Delhi at Wazirabad. Instead of releasing at least 450 cusecs downstream from Wazirabad, only 330 cusecs have been released. “Due to lesser water being released, the concentration of ammonia in the water reaching Delhi has increased,” the DJB said. Sparring neighbours Senior advocate Shyam Divan, for Haryana, said the DJB petition was not “maintainable at all”. “We are supplying from our share of water far more than what is required. What DJB is saying is completely incorrect. I need a week’s time to put in a response,” he submitted. The DJB petition had said the “actions/inactions constitute a violation of the principle of cooperative federalism. It amounts to an upper riparian State taking undue advantage of a shared river for irrigation and industrial purposes while effectively not allowing a lower riparian State to access water for drinking”. Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati, for the Centre, said Delhi was a “habitual offender”. Senior advocate and amicus curiae Meenakshi Arora intervened to say that the case should focus on “what States are doing as regards the pollution of water” rather than restrict itself to the quantum of water shared between Haryana and Delhi. Ms. Arora said the amount of ammonia in the Yamuna has considerably lowered to .3 ppm as of January 18. The tolerable level is .9 ppm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-targets-delhi-govt-over-yamuna-pollution/article33613992.ece
20 January 2021||Ghaziabad,||U.P. police file one more FIR against Tandav||The Gautam Buddha Nagar police in Uttar Pradesh has registered an FIR against the cast and crew of Amazon Prime’s Tandav for allegedly disturbing communal amity and peace. Lodged late on Monday night, the FIR has come after the Lucknow police registered a similar one against the cast and crew of the web series starring Saif Ali Khan, Zeeshan Ayyub, Dimple Kapadia and Sunil Grover. The FIR has been lodged on the complaint of Balbir Azad of Raunija village under Rabupura police station of Greater Noida. In the complaint, Mr Azad said the series depicted Uttar Pradesh and its police in a poor light. He had claimed the series was shot in Rabupura and in the first episode showed actors in police uniform consuming liquor and using abusive language. It further said the series had deliberately denigrated Hindu gods and goddesses. The Prime Minister of India has been depicted going against democratic norms and deliberate comments have been made to disturb caste and communal amity.  ‘Remarks against Dalits’ Mr. Azad alleged that some of the lines in the script were against the Dalit community. The makers of the series wanted to disturb the peace and tranquillity with the aim of making money, he said. Besides the lead actors, the FIR also names director Ali Abbas Zafar, writer Gaurav Solanki and Amazon Prime India head Aparna Purohit. Mr. Azad, who described himself as a worker of the Bahujan Samaj Party, said an apology was not enough and that the series should be banned so that nobody would dare to use caste-laced comments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/up-police-file-one-more-fir-against-tandav/article33613997.ece
20 January 2021||Kochi,||Bail plea of accused in actor rape case rejected||The bail applications of three accused in the 2017 actor rape case were turned down by the special court here on Monday. The applications of Sunilkumar, Vijeesh, and Manikandan, who are in custody for over four years, were rejected as the court found that nothing had changed to entertain their bail applications, which had been rejected earlier. The continuation of the accused in custody was required as the examination of the witnesses was not complete. Only 80 witnesses had been examined so far and the prosecution had scheduled the examination of 116 others in the coming days. The trial had to be completed by March 17, this year, special judge Honey M. Varghese said. It appeared, the court noted, that two of the accused had played a significant role in the abduction and helping the first accused rape the victim in a moving car. They were also instrumental in recording the crime on a mobile phone. The court may pronounce its order on the plea of the prosecution to cancel the bail granted to actor Dileep, the eighth accused in the case, on January 21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bail-plea-of-accused-in-actor-rape-case-rejected/article33613608.ece
20 January 2021||January 20 2021 00:00 IST,||SC panel lays out road map on farmers’ issue||Dr. Joshi is the former South Asia director for the International Food Policy Research Institute. “Our mandate is only to meet with all those who are affected by the three laws... all farmers, aggrieved or non-aggrieved, happy or neutral, central as well as State governments, State marketing boards, farmer producer organisations, cooperatives, self-help groups,” he said. A list of those to be consulted will be finalised on Wednesday morning, with the first invitations being sent out for meetings on Thursday. “We are planning to meet at least 20 organisations on January 21. We are sending invites to organisations from different States,” said another panel member Anil Ghanwat, who is president of pro-reforms farm union Shetkari Sangathan. The third member of the panel is agricultural economist Ashok Gulati. For those who cannot come to Delhi, consultations will be held over online platforms such as Zoom. A website is also being set up to invite views from any other interested parties who have relevant feedback on the laws. A written invitation will also be sent to the unions protesting on the Delhi border. “We hope they will come. We are not the government, we are appointed by the Supreme Court, so we will request them to join. And through us, they can reach the Supreme Court,” said Dr. Joshi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-panel-on-farm-laws-to-begin-talks-from-jan/article33613614.ece
20 January 2021||January 20 2021 00:00 IST,||T.N., Punjab report lowest vaccine numbers||“We are in constant touch with all these States that have registered below 50% uptake to address various issues that they may be facing including technology glitches or vaccine hesitancy,” Mr. Bhushan said. While the Health Ministry noted that Indian regulators are now looking at trial approvals for a possible nasal vaccine for COVID, V.K. Paul, member (Health) with NITI Aayog said, “people will not be fulfilling their societal responsibility if a vaccine brought to them is not being taken.” “The concerns about adverse effects and serious problems as of now, because of the vaccine, seem to be insignificant. Data show that we are in a comfortable situation and we would like to reassure you that the two vaccines are safe. The whole world is clamouring for the vaccine. I request the doctors and nurses to accept the vaccine,’’ he said adding that vaccine hesitancy should be extinguished. The Health Ministry also noted that each vaccination centre across the country is mapped to record AEFI. “The State-level AEFI committees recently met in U.P. and Karnataka, where deaths were reported, following vaccination, but found that the deaths were not related to vaccination,” said Mr. Bhushan. Follow-up of AEFI The Health Secretary added that there is a system in place to ensure a follow-up for the people in adverse-event cases. “For Covishield vaccine recipients there is passive monitoring, the onus is on the beneficiary to report any adverse event. In the case of Covaxin, there is active follow-up. A doctor rings you up on daily basis,” he said. “Vaccines,’’ he said are distributed to the States based on the proportion in which the Union Government gets the supplies. “Also which vaccine will go to which vaccination site — this decision is left entirely to the States,” he added. Also speaking at the briefing, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) Director General Balram Bhargava said, “As we approach the half a million number of vaccinations it is clear that both the COVID vaccines are very safe”. “Vaccine does not cause COVID-19, it prevents COVID-19 and it prevents COVID-19 deaths. Time to take the vaccine is now, we can break the chain of transmission” he said. Meanwhile, India on Tuesday reported a total of 10,064 daily new COVID cases in the last 24 hours with 141 persons found positive so far with UK strain of COVID-19. The Health Ministry on Tuesday said the number of daily COVID cases has fallen to this level after seven months. The daily new cases were 10,956 on 12th June, 2020 and India’s total active caseload has dropped to 2 lakh (2,00,528) currently.The country has recorded less than 140 fatalities (137 fatalities) in the last 24 hours after approximately eight months, added the Ministry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tn-punjab-report-lowest-vaccine-numbers/article33613617.ece
20 January 2021||Srinagar,||Sajad Lone pulls out of Gupkar alliance||Sajad Lone’s Peoples Conference (PC) on Tuesday pulled out of the Peoples Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), a grouping of six Jammu and Kashmir regional parties fighting for the pre-August 5, 2019 position, saying “no party was willing to sacrifice”. “Every party had to sacrifice on the ground in terms of giving space to fellow allies. No party is willing to cede space, no party is willing to sacrifice. We fought against each other in Kashmir province and not against the perpetrators of August 5. And those who perpetrated August 5 and their minions are now vocally gleeful,” he said in a letter addressed to Dr. Farooq Abdullah, the Gupkar alliance chairman and the president of the National Conference (NC). Mr. Lone said there had been a breach of trust between the partners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sajad-lone-pulls-out-of-gupkar-alliance/article33613621.ece
20 January 2021||Ghaziabad,||Another complaint filed against Tandav in U.P.||The Gautam Buddha Nagar police in Uttar Pradesh has registered an FIR against the cast and crew of Amazon Prime’s Tandav for allegedly disturbing communal amity and peace. Lodged late on Monday night, the FIR has come after the Lucknow police registered a similar one against the cast and crew of the web series starring Saif Ali Khan, Zeeshan Ayyub, Dimple Kapadia and Sunil Grover. The FIR has been lodged on the complaint of Balbir Azad of Raunija village under Rabupura police station of Greater Noida. In the complaint, Mr Azad claimed that the series depicted Uttar Pradesh and its police in a poor light. He also alleged that the series had deliberately denigrated Hindu gods and goddesses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/up-police-file-one-more-fir-against-tandav/article33613628.ece
20 January 2021||LUCKNOW,||FIR lodged against web series Mirzapur||An FIR has been lodged in Uttar Pradesh against the makers of web series Mirzapur on charges of outraging the religious feelings and portraying a particular community as linked to crime. The FIR was lodged at Mirzapur’s Kotwali Dehat police station on a complaint of Arvind Chaturvedi, a local journalist who has also written a book on the life of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. In his police complaint, Mr. Chaturvedi says the plot and dialogues of the web series have hurt his “religious, social and regional sentiments” and that it has provided a wrong portayal of Mirzapur city. The FIR names executive producers of the series Ritesh Sidhwani, Farhan Akhtar and Bhaumik Gondaliya and Amazon Prime Video platform, where the series has been running. Registered on January 17, it invokes Sections 295A (deliberate and malicious intention of outraging the religious feelings of any class of citizens), 34, 504 and 505 of th IPC and Section 67a of the IT Act. In the FIR, Mr. Chaturvedi alleges that the web series portrays a specific community as linked to crime, shows illicit relationships and incest, slangs and abuses and caste discord. The series also projects the judicial system as “false and polluted,” he says. Ajay Kumar Singh , SP Mirzapur, said the FIR was lodged and legal action taken. Mr. Chaturvedi said he wanted the name of Mirzapur to be removed from the series. “This fight will go on till the name of the Mirzapur web series is changed,” he told the media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fir-lodged-against-web-series-mirzapur/article33613633.ece
20 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Karnataka to create 20 lakh jobs in 5 years||Karnataka has set a mandate to attract investments to the tune of Rs. 5 lakh crore and to create 20 lakh new jobs in the next five years. In order to push this ambitious five-year growth, the government has unveiled a new industrial policy. Large and Medium Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar said, “Keeping the investor-centric approach, our government has launched the New Industrial Policy 2020-25, to build a prosperous Karnataka and create large-scale employment opportunities. We aim to reach the third position in merchandise exports in the next five years and also want to maintain an industrial growth rate of 10 per cent per annum.” According to the Minister, the new policy is forward-looking and it entails several incentives and regulatory reforms such as land access and labour market regulation. It aims at holistic development and looks beyond Bengaluru to promote tier-2 and tier-3 cities as engines of economic growth. The policy has grouped the districts into three zones to incentivise investments. Industrially, backward districts are classified in zones 1 and 2, and Bengaluru Urban and Rural districts are classified in zone 3 for better execution of development plans, he further said. Business reforms In terms of business reforms, the State has taken various steps to improve stakeholders’ business climate. They include land reforms, labour reforms, auto-renewal of different licences/clearances and central inspection system. “Promoting our State’s economic and industrial development has always been a top priority for our government,” Mr. Shettar added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/karnataka-to-attract-rs-5-lakh-cr-investments/article33613601.ece
20 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Cong. trying to scuttle talks, says Javadekar||The BJP on Tuesday accused the Congress of using “obstructionist tactics” to scuttle the talks between the government and the farmers’ unions, in response to Congress MP Rahul Gandhi’s strong statements against the Modi government’s handling of the agitation and national security. Union Minister Prakash Javadekar, at a press conference at the BJP headquarters here, said the Congress had resorted to obstructionist tactics. Mr. Javadekar also accused Mr. Gandhi of running away from the questions posed to him by BJP president J.P. Nadda on Twitter, adding that the Congress leader displayed his “familiar indecency” while referring to the party chief. “The Congress does not want the talks to succeed... That is why it has adopted the tactic of obstruction.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-trying-to-scuttle-talks-says-javadekar/article33613620.ece
20 January 2021||New Delhi,||Cong. seeks more seats in Bengal tie-up||The Congress wants a larger share of seats in the alliance in the West Bengal Assembly election. For this, it has quoted the changing political equations and the shrinking presence of the Left parties, which became evident during the Lok Sabha polls when they failed to win a single seat in the State. According to sources, it is now demanding 130 seats. The first seat-sharing talks between the Congress and the Left front took place on Sunday. The next round is on January 25. The Left wants the sitting seats retained by the winning party along with the seats where it came second. “Two-thirds of the seats should go to the Left front and one-third to the Congress. There is no confusion in that,” a senior Left leader from West Bengal said. The Congress was not keen to follow this. Rajya Sabha member and member of the negotiating team of the Congress Pradeep Bhattacharya said while the formula was acceptable, the Congress should get more. CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said the decision-making process was left to the party’s State unit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-seeks-more-seats-in-bengal-tie-up/article33613627.ece
20 January 2021||New Delhi,||SII issues fact sheet on Covishield||People who are severely allergic to any ingredient of the COVID-19 vaccine ‘Covishield’ are advised not to take it, the Serum Institute of India said in a fact sheet on Tuesday. The ingredients of Covishield are “L-Histidine, L-Histidine hydrochloride monohydrate, Magnesium chloride hexahydrate, Polysorbate 80, Ethanol, Sucrose, Sodium chloride, Disodium edetate dihydrate (EDTA), Water for injection,” it said. The recipient should also tell the healthcare provider about any medical conditions The recipients should also mention to the health-care provider, if they have fever, if they have a bleeding disorder or are on a blood thinner and also if they are immuno-compromised or are on a medicine that affects your immune system. The fact sheet also says if a person is pregnant or plans to become pregnant or is breastfeeding, she should inform the health-care provider before taking the jab.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sii-issues-fact-sheet-on-covishield/article33613630.ece
20 January 2021||New Delhi,||Health team rushed to Lakshadweep||Lakshadweep has reported its first case of COVID-19 on January 18, said the Health Ministry on Tuesday with the Ministry now rushing a multi-disciplinary team to the island.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/health-team-rushed-to-lakshadweep/article33613637.ece
20 January 2021||Jaipur,||Centre asked to extend GST grant period||The Rajasthan government has urged the Centre to extend the period for grant of Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation to the States by five years, from June 2022 to June 2027, in view of the weak financial condition of States during COVID-19. Minister Shanti Dhariwal represented the State at a pre-Budget consultation meeting with Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-asked-to-extend-gst-grant-period/article33613998.ece
20 January 2021||New Delhi,||Senior TV journalist Nidhi Razdan files complaint with Delhi Police on phishing scam||The Delhi police’s cybercrime cell will investigate a complaint received from senior TV journalist Nidhi Razdan, who said she was a victim of a phishing scam in which she was given a fraudulent offer for the position of an associate professor at Harvard University. Ms. Razdan filed the complaint with the Delhi police on Monday. A senior officer said an investigation would be undertaken.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/senior-tv-journalist-nidhi-razdan-files-complaint-with-delhi-police-on-phishing-scam/article33613631.ece
20 January 2021||New Delhi,||Kiren Rijiju gets additional charge of Ayush Ministry||Ministry for Sports and Youth Affairs Kiren Rijiju has been given the additional charge of the Ayush Ministry, the Rashtrapati Bhavan said on Tuesday. The arrangement would continue during the treatment of Shripad Yesso Naik, who recently met with a road accident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kiren-rijiju-gets-additional-charge-of-ayush-ministry/article33614164.ece
20 January 2021||New Delhi,||Red Fort closed after dead crow shows bird flu infection||The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) closed the Red Fort to visitors on Tuesday after a sample taken from dead crows found on the premises tested positive for bird flu. The sample was sent for testing to the Animal Husbandry Unit of the Delhi government’s Development Department. According to an official, the ASI ordered the closure of the monument till January 26, Republic Day. “Fifteen crows had died there and we sent one sample for testing. On January 17, the result of the sample came back positive for bird flu. We then informed authorities to declare it a surveillance zone,” an official of the Animal Husbandry Department said. A total of 24 samples from nine locations in the city have tested positive for bird flu till now, the official added. The site remains closed every year from January 22 till January 26, the ASI official added. Apart from the Red Fort, officials in charge of all Centrally-protected monuments were asked to remain vigilant, especially at sites with waterbodies, the ASI official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/red-fort-closed-after-dead-crow-shows-bird-flu-infection/article33613641.ece
20 January 2021||New Delhi,||Sharing official secrets a criminal act, says Rahul||Breaking his silence over the leaked WhatsApp conversations of Republic TV anchor Arnab Goswami, former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday said that sharing of information protected under the Officials Secrets Act (OSA) is a “criminal act” and “the receiver and giver of such information should go to jail”. Mr. Gandhi said only top leaders of the nation would have been privy to a secret like the Balakot air strike.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sharing-official-secrets-a-criminal-act-says-rahul/article33613645.ece
20 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||A role model for women, says Governor||Tributes poured in for V. Shanta, chairperson of Cancer Institute (WIA), who passed away on Tuesday. Governor Banwarilal Purohit said a fine human being, having dedicated over 60 years of her life to cancer care, Dr. Shanta had always emphasised compassion and sympathy while treating patients. He said she was a role model for the entire women community in the world. Her demise was an irreparable loss to the people of Tamil Nadu, especially to the medical fraternity and poor cancer patients. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami recalled that she had joined the Cancer Institute in 1955 and served in several key posts. With her selfless service, she obtained support from various quarters and added advanced facilities to the institute that was started with 12 beds, thereby providing free and advanced care to poor patients. Dr. Shanta took up several researches on cancer and created awareness among the public of the need for regular screening for cancer detection. Her service to medicine earned her plaudits worldwide. In 2013, former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa presented her with ‘Avvaiyar Award’, he said. The Chief Minister lauded Cancer Institute’s humanitarian approach, providing free treatment to the poor not only from Tamil Nadu but also from the other States. Her death was a great loss to medicine and to Tamil Nadu, he said. Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K.S. Alagiri said Dr. Shanta’s death was an irreparable loss. He said the TNCC Trust had donated Rs. 40 lakh to the Adyar Cancer Institute two years ago. BJP State president L. Murugan also expressed his condolences. Former Member of Parliament V. Maitreyan, who worked with Dr. Shanta from 1982 to 1996, said she dedicated her entire life to cancer patients. ‘Inspirational doctor’ Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan called her “a truly inspirational doctor”. “I have endearing memories of working and collaborating with her, including the release of the State Cancer Registry with data on cancer collected throughout the State on December 29, 2020 by the Health Minister. She was instrumental in ensuring that the cancer is declared a notified disease in the State and also in the setting up of cancer screening in the State in collaboration with the Health Department. Due to her efforts, based on the recommendation of the State government, Adyar Cancer Institute was sanctioned the State-level apex cancer facility by the Government of India, facilitating additional funds and facilities to the institute. Till the end, she was committed to creating awareness of cancer and contributing to the treatment.” For Dr. Shanta, work meant 24x7 for 365 days. While she was credited with many initiatives in cancer prevention, screening and care, she was instrumental in the creation of cancer registries and ensured that her voice on tobacco control was heard, doctors said. Having known Dr. Shanta for 64 years, A.V. Lakshmanan, adviser II, Cancer Institute, said he had learned a lot from her. “I joined the institute in 1958 at the age of 22. I learned many values in life such as discipline, obedience and hard work from her. She taught me that money is not the only thing in life,” he said. Crediting her with building the institute by hard work, he said the institute was a social asset that had benefited many. An alumnus of Cancer Institute, R. Ravi Kannan, Director, Cachar Cancer Hospital and Research Centre, Assam, said, “A simple down-to-earth lady, a caring physician, a champion of poor patients, a passionate researcher, a pragmatic yet idealistic administrator, a staunch voice against tobacco, a die-hard nationalist, a disciplinarian and yet a lovely and loving human being. She was many things rolled into one for many people. She and Dr. S. Krishnamurthi will never truly die, for they live through the patients and families that they touched and generations of students they trained and others who the institute they have created will continue to train. They would say and truly believed in it — wherever the institute’s alumni work, the institute is there... not just within the four walls in Adyar.” Lakshmi Vijayakumar, founder of Sneha Suicide Prevention Centre, said, “Dr. Shanta’s one point agenda in life was addressing the issues of cancer, including stigma, risk factors, prevalence and affordable care. What she has left behind is hope for millions of cancer patients and their families.” V. Mohan, chairman and chief diabetologist, Dr. Mohan’s Diabetes Specialities Centre, said Dr. Shanta’s life personified hard work, passion, dedication and humility. “She innovated greatly in the treatment of various types of cancers and despite the numerous laurels which were bestowed on her, she always remained humble and approachable. She was a great team leader and an inspiring, towering personality. To her, her patients and her institute came first and everything else could wait,” he said. The Tamil Nadu Health Development Association, Chennai, said that at a time when people feared cancer, she instilled in them the confidence that recovery was possible with appropriate treatment and care, ran the hospital and provided treatment to the poor for 65 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-role-model-for-women-says-governor/article33613727.ece
20 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cover open drains off Chennai Bypass quickly, say residents||Residents of Mogappair West have been demanding that the open stormwater drains along the service lanes off Chennai Bypass be covered as early as possible. The open drains continue to pose a threat to motorists, they said. National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has started Rs. 24.38-lakh work to cover the drains with cement slabs on a stretch of 700 metres along service lanes at Nolambur. This stretch has turned into an accident zone. A woman and her daughter died last month after the two-wheeler they were riding skidded and fell in the drain. Poor illumination and lack of wall along the drains made it an accident zone. They demanded that the thick vegetation along the service lanes near Nolambur and Maduravoyal should be cleared. S. Swaminathan, secretary, JAMBA United Welfare Association (a federation of residents’ welfare associations of the locality), said lorries dumped sewage in the open drain rather than carrying it to the nearest sewage treatment plant. “The authorities concerned must cover the drains on the entire stretch from Ambattur Industrial Estate to Maduravoyal to prevent accidents. The deep drains must be cleaned up and the height of walls raised by up to two or three feet. This would help drivers spot the drains from a distance,” he said. Work in full swing An official of the NHAI, which maintains the elevated Chennai Bypass, said work taken up on the stretch where the accident occurred was likely to be completed in two months. “We are cleaning up the drain, raising the side wall by about a foot and laying RCC to cover the top. We will provide manholes at every five metres with large covers that cannot be easily removed. The drain will be linked to the nearest culverts to discharge rainwater,” the official said. Moreover, an estimate of Rs. 15.38 crore has been drawn up to cover the drain for its entire length of 32.6 km along the bypass. The work would be taken up shortly. The drains do not run to the entire length of the road, the official added.  The deep drains must be cleaned up and the height of walls raised by up to two or three feet S. Swaminathan Secretary, JAMBA United Welfare Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cover-open-drains-off-chennai-bypass-quickly-say-residents/article33614193.ece
20 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Conservancy workers to launch protest tomorrow||Conservancy workers of Greater Chennai Corporation have planned to conduct a protest on Thursday, demanding reinstatement of workers under the National Urban Livelihood Mission. The former Mayor and Saidapet MLA Ma. Subramanian visited Ripon Buildings on Tuesday and met Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash demanding permanent employment for the conservancy workers who lost their jobs after working in the city during the COVID pandemic. “More than 12,000 workers have participated in conservancy operations for more than 10 years under various schemes, including National Urban Livelihood Mission. Many workers lost their jobs after the pandemic because of the increase in zones under private conservancy operator. The workers who cleaned the city during the pandemic deserve a permanent job as more than 50% of the posts in various departments are vacant,” said Mr. Subramanian. Over 700 conservancy workers lost their jobs on January 12, following an increase in the number of zones cleaned by private conservancy operators. Over 560 workers from Anna Nagar zone and 230 workers from Royapuram zone have lost their jobs. Municipal solid waste in seven zones in the southern parts of the city have been cleared by private conservancy operator Urbaser Sumeet for the past few weeks. Another four zones in north Chennai will get a new private conservancy operator shortly. As a result, many conservancy workers, who have been cleaning garbage for several years under National Urban Livelihood Mission, have lost their jobs. A few days ago, senior officials of the Corporation said most of the workers, excluding a few who were physically unfit, would be reinstated. Even after assurance from senior Corporation officials, many workers had not been reinstated. ‘Workers absorbed’ Officials said 4,879 workers in addition to another set of 2,900 workers had been absorbed by the new private conservacy concessionaire. The Corporation has registered an increase in solid waste of 5,200 tonnes a day from less than 3,500 tonnes a day during the pandemic. Arterial roads in the new zones have been cleaned using mechanical sweeping machines in the past few weeks. Work on development of processing facilities for construction debris would be readied in Perungudi and Kodungaiyur in three months. Local processing facilities for waste had reduced the intake after the pandemic. CMRL had requested the Corporation to hand over a few sites used for micro composting facilities to construct Metro stations. For instance, the Corporation had been asked to demolish a micro composting facility in Madhavaram for a Metro station, the officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/conservancy-workers-to-launch-protest-tomorrow/article33614191.ece
20 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||543 fresh cases take tally to 8,31,866||With 543 more people testing positive for COVID-19 on Tuesday, the number of active cases in Tamil Nadu stood at 5,487. So far, 8,31,866 persons have contracted the infection. With 772 patients walking out of health facilities, 8,14,098 persons have so far been discharged after treatment. Nine more died, taking the toll to 12,281. In Chennai district, 152 more tested positive and 191 persons were discharged, according to the daily bulletin issued by the Directorate of Public Health. The district also recorded three deaths. As on date, 1,893 persons were undergoing treatment either at hospital or at home. So far, the district has recorded 2,29,386 cases and 4,072 deaths, and 2,23,421 patients have been discharged. Coimbatore, Chengalpattu and Thiruvallur continued to report more cases, with 58, 45 and 40 infections reported in the last 24 hours. Thiruvallur recorded two deaths, and Coimbatore, Erode, Kancheepuram and Villupuram recorded one death each. However, the number of cases remained in single digits in 21 districts. All the deaths were due to pre-existing health complications. The oldest patient whose death was recorded in the past 24 hours was an 86-year-old man from Thiruvallur. He was admitted to a private hospital in Chennai on January 11 with complaints of fever, cough and nausea for two days and difficulty in breathing. He tested positive the next day. He died January 16. Doctors recorded COVID-19 pneumonia as the cause.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/543-fresh-cases-take-tally-to-831866/article33613729.ece
20 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Sasikala’s readmission to party will not happen: Palaniswami||Chief Minister and AIADMK co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Tuesday made it clear that V.K. Sasikala, the jailed aide of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, and the party’s former interim general secretary, was no longer a member of the party. She is expected to be released from a Bengaluru jail later this month on completion of her term in a disproportionate assets case.  In an interaction with reporters in New Delhi after he met Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Chief Minister ruled out the possibility of Sasikala being taken back in the party. “It [Sasikala’s readmission] will not happen 100%. Based on a clear decision, the AIADMK has been functioning well. There is no difference of opinion [within the party],” he asserted. In September 2017, when the AIADMK factions headed by Mr.Palaniswami and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam, held a meeting of the general council of the unified party, a resolution was adopted cancelling Sasikala’s appointment as interim general secretary made on December 29, 2016. But, she was not expelled from the party. However, when the distribution of membership cards began in October 2018, deputy coordinator K.P. Munusamy stated that Jayalalithaa’s former aide was not a member of the party as her name had not been added to the rolls of the party members. Mr. Pannerselvam, also the party coordinator, too had observed that she was not a “primary member” of the party. During the interaction with the media in New Delhi, the Chief Minister, accompanied by Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar and former Lok Sabha Deputy Speaker M. Thambi Durai, said several members from her camp had joined the AIADMK. “Across the State, there are only a few who are still with her,” Mr.Palaniswami contended. Denies BJP pressure The Chief Minister dismissed reports of the BJP exerting pressure on the AIADMK for accommodating Sasikala and emphasised that his meetings in New Delhi had to do “only with the progress of Tamil Nadu and allocation of adequate funds for providing compensation of affected farmers.” To a query whether he discussed with Mr.Modi and Amit Shah political matters including seat-sharing arrangement for the Assembly poll, Mr. Palaniswami replied that there was “no discussion on politics.” Besides, “this is not the appropriate time. Still, there is enough time for the election to be held,” he said. As for the question on the number of seats being demanded by the BJP, he reiterated that the issue would be decided only after the announcement of poll schedule. On the BJP’s efforts for the party growth in the State, the AIADMK co-coordinator said each party would like to grow further. No one would want some other party to grow. “When I run a party, I would like my party to capture power. This is how a national party would talk. Each party has got a policy. It would make statements based on the policy. Coalition is different from policy. There is nothing wrong in all parties aspiring to capture power. It is for this purpose that the parties are being run.” Jaya mausoleum Meanwhile, the AIADMK has called a meeting of secretaries of the district units and Ministers on the morning of January 22 to discuss preparations for the inauguration of the renovated Jayalalithaa mausoleum, scheduled for January 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sasikalas-readmission-to-party-will-not-happen-palaniswami/article33613732.ece
20 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Airport to have COVID-19 testing lab||A COVID-19 lab will begin functioning at Chennai airport in two days. Passengers coming to the city without a COVID-19 negative certificate or those who develop symptoms can get tested at the facility. Officials of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) said the State government authorities on Monday inspected the lab and gave nod for opening it. It would be operated in the international arrival hall. “They [lab staff] will collect samples from passengers and within a few hours, the passengers can get the results. There will be a waiting area for passengers awaiting the results. The passengers will be charged for the tests based on the slab given by the State government,” an official said. Delhi and Bengaluru airports had set up similar labs a few weeks ago. Sources said Chennai airport had to wait for approval from the authorities and hence the delay in establishing the lab. After the resumption of flight services to the city following the relaxation in the lockdown norms, the State health department had been taking samples from passengers who come in with symptoms and for passengers who travel without the COVID-19 negative certificate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/airport-to-have-covid-19-testing-lab/article33614189.ece
20 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination of staff begins at SIMS hospital campus||SRM Institute of Medical Sciences hospital in Vadapalani has proposed to vaccinate 1,500 frontline healthcare workers on its rolls. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan launched the first phase of vaccination drive on Tuesday. Hospital authorities said 1,500 frontline healthcare and hospital workers would be administered the Covishield vaccine in the first phase, free of cost. Those who wish to get vaccinated may register using their government identity card. Dr. Radhakrishnan said it was necessary to build trust and confidence to motivate people to get vaccinated. “I personally got the immunisation to emphasise the vaccine’s safety and efficacy. The health workers who have already got vaccinated are responding well. Once the beneficiaries get their first dose of vaccine, they are still required to maintain all COVID-19 safety measures like wearing mask and sanitising their hands and diligently come for their second dose of vaccination.”  Hospital chairman Ravi Pachamoothoo said the hospital had treated more than 3,500 COVID-19 patients in 10 months. “Eminent doctors, head of departments, including myself, were among the first to take the Covishield vaccine at SIMS,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-of-staff-begins-at-sims-hospital-campus/article33614198.ece
20 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Gutkha scam: ED chargesheets former Minister, 2 police officers||The Enforcement Directorate has filed a preliminary chargesheet against 31 persons, including B. V. Ramana, former State Minister of Commercial Tax and two police officers. The ED said the prosecution complaint was filed in a sessions court in Chennai against S. Vignesh, proprietor, M/s Annamalai Industries and his associates who ran the illegal Gutkha business in Chennai, their family members/ relatives and others under the provisions of Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), 2002. The chargesheet was also filed against seven public servants, including two officers from Tamil Nadu Police Department, two officers of Food Safety Department, two officers from Commercial Tax Department (Now State GST) and one officer from the Central Excise Department (Now Central GST). Mr. Ramana was a Minister (December 2012 to November 2013) in the AIADMK regime. The investigation agency had registered a case under the provisions of PMLA in the Gutkha Scam against unknown officials of State/ Central Government, public servants and others for misuse of official position and demand of illegal gratification, based on a FIR filed by the Central Bureau of Investigation, New Delhi, under Section 120(B) (Criminal conspiracy) and Sections 7, 8, 12 & 13(2) r/w 13(1)(d) of Prevention of Corruption Act. The FIR registered by CBI was pursuant to the orders of the Madras High Court to conduct investigations into all aspects of the offence of illegal manufacture, import, supply, distribution and sale of Gutkha and other chewable tobacco which were banned in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry since May 2013. Rs. 639.40-crore turnover The ED said that investigation under the PMLA revealed that the three associates — A.V. Madhava Rao, P.V. Srinivasa Rao and Tallam Uma Shankar Gupta — and others, who had associated themselves in illegal manufacture, sale and distribution of Gutkha products in Tamil Nadu, had effected a turnover of Rs. 639.40 crore from May 2013 to June 2016 and the ill-gotten money derived out of the illegal business were invested in movable and immovable properties in Andhra Pradesh, Puducherry and Tamil Nadu. These assets were purchased in the name of family members/relatives and entities owned by them and their family members/relatives. “The criminal activity related to the payment of bribes to the Central and State government officials as quid pro quo for allowing the illegal business of Gutkha and other tobacco products which are banned in the State of Tamil Nadu. The above criminal activity is related to the scheduled offence under PMLA and therefore, the movable and immovable properties acquired by means of illegal manufacture and sale of Gutkha amounting to Rs. 246.10 crore were attached under PMLA,” the ED said in a statement. “This is a preliminary chargesheet that we have filed against 31 persons, including the former Minister. The final prosecution complaint (chargesheet) will be filed after the CBI files its second and final chargesheet in the scam,” a source in the ED told The Hindu on Tuesday. The Gutkha scam exposed by The Hindu in June 2017 pertains to the alleged involvement of top politicians and police officials, in taking bribes to the tune of Rs. 39.91 crore for facilitating the storage, transport and sale of the banned commodity in Chennai city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gutkha-scam-ed-chargesheets-former-minister-2-police-officers/article33613777.ece
20 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Schools reopen for Classes 10 and 12||After over 10 months, schools across Tamil Nadu threw open their doors on Tuesday for students of Classes 10 and 12. At all schools, the temperature of students was checked with thermal scanners and they were given hand sanitisers before they were let in. Officials of the School Education Department had the schools to strictly follow the Standard Operating Procedure issued by the government. At several schools, students were given staggered entry timings to avoid crowding. School Education Director S. Kannappan visited the Government Girls Higher Secondary School at Ashok Nagar to inspect the measures and said the staff members and students of all schools must wear masks at all times on campus. “We have also asked teachers to reach out to students and offer them guidance or put them in touch with counsellors if they need any psychological support,” he said. The School Education Department announced a reduced syllabus on Sunday. Teachers are expected to ease the students back into campus before beginning the lessons. Most of the schools in Madurai district reported a good attendance. Since most students were anxious about taking the board examinations this year, counselling sessions were conducted for the entire day, said P. Meenakshi, Headmistress of N.S.S.B. Corporation Girls Higher Secondary School. At Tenkasi, 241 high, higher secondary and matriculation schools reopened, and at Thoothukudi and Kanniyakumari, 316 and 426 respectively. In Vellore, 18,256 of a total of 20,000-odd students of Class 10 and 13,317 of a total of 15,000-odd students of Class 12 came to school. In the southern districts as well as in Pudukkottai, Tiruchi and Karur districts, the Collectors visited government schools to ensure compliance with the safety protocol and inspect the arrangements made in the classrooms for physical distancing and facilities created for hand washing. “Wherever the hall was spacious, more number of students were accommodated with adequate physical distance. There are indications that there was a robust attendance,” said R. Arivazhagan, Chief Educational Officer, Tiruchi. In the Nilgiris, most residential schools remained closed and school authorities said they planned to reopen by month-end. The attendance was about 50% and some private schools did not reopen in Coimbatore district. Some schools located in areas with low frequency of government buses were advised to allow the students to leave early. Officials in Erode district put the attendance at about 60%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/schools-reopen-for-classes-10-and-12/article33613724.ece
20 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Renowned oncologist laid to rest with police honours||Thousands of people from different walks of life paid their respects to V. Shanta, chairperson of the Cancer Institute (WIA), who passed away on Tuesday. She was laid to rest with police honours at the Besant Nagar crematorium. The staff of the institute, healthcare professionals, representatives of political parties, government officials, patients and the general public turned up at the campus of the old Cancer Institute to pay their last respects to her mortal remains. Among those who paid their respects were Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar, a few Members of Parliament and Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan. Earlier in the day, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami announced that Dr. Shanta would be laid to rest with police honours in recognition of her selfless service. The funeral procession to the Besant Nagar crematorium was held in the evening. Several people, including the staff of the institute and the wider public, took part in the procession from the old Cancer Institute campus to the crematorium. The renowned oncologist was laid to rest with a gun salute by the police at the crematorium in the evening. Her sister V. Susheela was present on the occasion.  Among those who paid their respects were Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar, a few Members of Parliament and Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/renowned-oncologist-laid-to-rest-with-police-honours/article33613722.ece
20 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IMD declares end of northeast monsoon||It is curtains for the northeast monsoon that spilled over to January. On Tuesday, the India Meteorological Department declared the end of the monsoon, which gave bountiful rains to the State and Puducherry during the first fortnight of January. Officials said dry weather prevailed over the State on Tuesday except for very light rains over Tirunelveli. While light rains are possible over one or two places in south Tamil Nadu till Thursday, dry weather would set in over the rest of the State, Puducherry and Karaikal. Special spillover Such spillover of monsoon to January next year has been common in the past. But what made this year’s spillover special was the copious rains it brought over all districts in January, considered a winter month. Tamil Nadu has so far received 13.7 cm of rain, which is 935% excess than its monthly share of 13.3 mm till Tuesday. The percentage of deviation in rainfall ran in excess of even thousands for several districts such as Madurai, Chengalpattu, Tirunelveli and Tiruppur. S. Balachandran, Deputy Director General of Meteorology, Chennai, said in the past two decades, there had been several instances where northeast monsoon extended up to the first fortnight of January. For instance, northeast monsoon ended on January 11 in 2001, on January 15 in 2017 and on January 18 in 2005, 2009 and 2013. This year, easterly wave activity extensively triggered moisture convergence and brought widespread rain. Even easterly waves could bring torrential downpour than depressions or cyclones. Other global weather phenomenon like MJO (Madden-Julian Oscillation) that was in favourable position also influenced heavy rains. The above normal Siberian High (a strong high atmospheric pressure area over Siberia) led to cold air surges over south China sea. Easterly waves generated over the south China sea were pushed towards the Bay of Bengal region, he said. The weather station in Nungambakkam has recorded 16.6 cm rainfall so far this month. While this is the decade’s highest January rains, January 1915 still holds the all-time high record of 24.4 cm. The Meteorological Department forecasts that mist may occur over some areas of Chennai during morning hours and the maximum temperature would be around 30 degree Celsius till Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/imd-declares-end-of-northeast-monsoon/article33613776.ece
20 January 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||DMK’s alliance is based on ideology, not numbers: Stalin||In the concluding part of the interview with The Hindu , DMK president M. K. Stalin says that seat sharing exercise with the allies will be a smooth affair. Excerpts:  Will the DMK contest in maximum number of seats or take along allies? You could not secure an absolute majority in the 2006 Assembly polls… The DMK alliance is not based on just numbers. It is an alliance of consensus. It is an ideology-based alliance. We have brought together hearts only through ideology. The alliance partners are working with the common objective of forming a DMK government. The seat-sharing talks will start at an appropriate time. It will be conducted in a smooth manner. Wait till election dates are announced. Some of your allies, who contested on the ‘Rising Sun’ symbol in 2019, are desirous of fighting Assembly elections on own symbols… The parties came forward to contest on our symbol in view of the winning probabilities. There was no compulsion on them from the DMK. Even during Anna’s (C.N. Annadurai) time some allies contested on the ‘Rising Sun’ symbol. When allies come forward to contest on a symbol that has secured a place in the hearts of people, it is our duty to allow them. It is purely based on the friendship between us. That talk that we compelled them is the handiwork of those who seek to drive a wedge in our alliance. Let the media not fall prey to their campaign. Will there be any change in composition of the DMK alliance? Is there a possibility of parties from the AIADMK camp joining your front? Our alliance is strong and clear. You will see whether the AIADMK alliance exists or not only after the election dates are announced. How do you assess the performance of your son and youth wing secretary Udhayanidhi Stalin, who has been campaigning? Will he be given a ticket in the Assembly elections? If so would it not encourage the criticism of perpetuating family politics? If DMK members as a family are working for the party for generations can it be termed as family politics? If working for a party is family politics, Udhayanidhi Stalin follows the same principle in working for the party and campaigns against the AIADMK government to achieve the formation of a good government by the DMK. He is campaigning for the welfare of the people of Tamil Nadu. His enthusiasm and campaign are quite natural because he is the grandson of Kalaignar (late patriarch M. Karunanidhi). He campaigned for our alliance even in the Lok Sabha polls and is now doing it for the Assembly elections. You can find from the media reports that his campaigns are well received. DMK accords priority for only those who work. I got the opportunity [to rise] only through work. Every cadre had come up the ladder only by doing party work. The talk of giving priority to Udhayanidhi and family politics are just entertainment for the habitual critics of the DMK. What is the need for engaging election strategists like Prashant Kishor since the DMK is a grassroots movement with a cadre-base? Moreover, the DMK district secretaries know the pulse... Media does not criticise national parties such as the Congress and BJP and other regional parties including the AIADMK, if they engage advisors. Even the AIADMK has it. Social media and websites play an important role in elections. The arrangement is only to guide the party functionaries in the use of information technology and nothing else. We should not forget that it is an age of information technology. The DMK and its district secretaries are capable of facing any election and enemies. Former Chief Minister M. Bhaktavataslam had appreciated the election work of the DMK. The DMK has no two opinions on the fact that only political principle would prevail over anything else. DMK won people’s support through uncompromising political principles and its work for the welfare of people. They know that the DMK government will strive hard for the welfare of Tamils and Tamil Nadu. They are ready for such a government because they know that it alone can develop the state and safeguard its rights at the Centre. They feel that only the DMK can arrest the fall of the state in the last 10 years. Only four months are left. People will answer for all questions. You know that people’s voice is the voice of god. Are you still firm on your stand that total prohibition would be in force if the DMK is elected to power? You will find the answer in our manifesto. It will not be fair to announce it in advance.  Our alliance is strong and clear. You will see whether the AIADMK alliance exists or not only after the election dates are announced||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmks-alliance-is-based-on-ideology-not-numbers-stalin/article33613708.ece
20 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Shanta was working on special publication with The Hindu||V. Shanta, chairperson of the Cancer Institute (WIA), was working with The Hindu on a ‘Special Volume on Cancer Institute’. She was clear that the publication should not be a narration, but should enlighten the public and be for posterity, highlighting the concepts and ethos of the Cancer Institute — a model institution to meet the challenges of a growing health problem, cancer, in an environment of proliferation in technology but with limited resources. Several rounds of discussions were held with The Hindu and multiple people associated with the Cancer Institute, but work on the project slowed down with the COVID-19 pandemic and lockdown. Through the publication, Dr. Shanta wanted to highlight concepts introduced by the institute much ahead of governmental action such as cancer screening programmes, introduction of the concept of oncology as a speciality, the first college of oncologic sciences and importance of compassion and empathy in patient care.  Through the publication, Dr. Shanta wanted to highlight concepts introduced by the institute much ahead of governmental action||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shanta-was-working-on-special-publication-with-the-hindu/article33613725.ece
20 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. CM to inaugurate Jaya memorial on Jan. 27||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami will inaugurate late Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s memorial on the Marina beachfront on January 27. Mr. Palaniswami will inaugurate the memorial at 10.30 a.m. and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam would preside over the event. Assembly Speaker P. Dhanapal, Ministers, Members of Parliament, MLAs and others would participate in the event, a press release said. While the structural works have been completed for the Rs. 57.96 crore project, finishing touches like painting and cleaning works are being done now. Officials of the Public Works Department noted that the main edifice is a cantilever shell structure with two arches that act as the spine and is primarily white in colour. The aesthetically designed memorial has been modelled to resemble a phoenix bird with two granite lion statues at its entrance. It is a 75-ft. wide and 50-ft height columnless winged structure. The project was taken up on the nine-acre site that also houses former Chief Minister M.G. Ramachandran’s memorial, which was also renovated. An additional fund of Rs. 12 crore was sanctioned to provide final touches to the memorial. The memorial would also house a state-of-the-art museum and a knowledge park on the northern and southern sides.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-cm-to-inaugurate-jaya-memorial-on-jan-27/article33614438.ece
20 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||1,138 persons get vaccinated in Chennai||The response to vaccine to protect against COVID-19 infection improved in Chennai but in several other places it was dismal. In Chennai, 1,080 persons were administered Covishield and 58 were administered Covaxin. The city had the capacity to administer 1,400 doses of Covishield and 100 doses of Covaxin. A total of 9,446 healthcare personnel opted to be inoculated on Tuesday. Of these, 9,305 persons have taken the Covishield and 166 sessions were held in 160 sites. The State had a capacity to offer 16,600 dosages. According to the daily report from the Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, 141 persons were administered Covaxin vaccine in six hospitals across the State. Cheyyar, which had a capacity to provide 300 doses of Covishield, had only 36 persons volunteering for the same. In places such as Tiruvarur, Tiruvallur, Ramanathapuram, Thoothukudi and Ranipet, which had reported a high number of COVID-19 infection during the pandemic, the number of healthcare personnel opting for the vaccine was relatively low. Chengalpattu, which has a capacity to provide 400 doses, had 96 volunteers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1138-persons-get-vaccinated-in-chennai/article33614199.ece
20 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Palaniswami, Panneerselvam visit Food Minister at hospital||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Tuesday night visited a private hospital in Chennai and enquired about the health of Food and Civil Supplies Minister R. Kamaraj, according to an official release. He was accompanied by Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan. Family members of Mr. Kamaraj were also present during their visit to the hospital. Mr. Kamaraj had tested positive for COVID-19 earlier this month. DMK president M.K. Stalin wished the Minister a speedy recovery and said those involved in public life should pay extra attention to their health.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/palaniswami-panneerselvam-visit-food-minister-at-hospital/article33614201.ece
20 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man held for stealing cellphones from patients||A 36-year-old man was arrested on the charge of stealing cellphones from patients and visitors at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGH). The police recovered 42 cellphones from him. According to the police, V. Anitha of Vadapalani came to attend to her ailing mother in the hospital in November last year. While she was taking her mother for dialysis, Ms. Anitha left her bag containing a cellphone at the ward. Her cellphone was stolen. On her complaint, personnel from the RGGGH Police Station investigated the case with the help of the cyber crime wing of Flower Bazaar police station and arrested Sathiyaraj, 36, of Pulianthope. The police recovered 42 cellphones worth Rs. 5 lakh from him. The investigation revealed that he and a few others, had stolen cellphones from the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-stealing-cellphones-from-patients/article33614186.ece
20 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM seeks funds, project approvals from PM||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami submitted a memorandum to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi on Tuesday seeking financial assistance for the damage caused during cyclones ‘Nivar’ and ‘Burevi’, funds for the Chennai Metro Rail project and approval for flight services between Chennai and Salem under the UDAN scheme. Expediting of river linking projects was among the other demands the Chief Minister had made. The Chief Minister informed the Prime Minister that the two cyclones, Nivar and Burevi, and the unprecedented rain in January 2021 had aggravated the financial stress on the State which had sanctioned Rs. 2,615 crore as on January 13, 2021 under the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF). At present there was a deficit balance of Rs. 1,255 crore under the SDRF, he said and requested Mr. Modi to consider the release of Central Financial Assistance to the tune of Rs. 1,200 crore immediately to provide relief to the people of the State. Fishermen issue Mr. Palaniswami also requested the Prime Minister to direct the Ministry of External Affairs to urgently discuss with Sri Lankan authorities about the release of 12 Indian fishermen and all mechanised fishing boats which are in their custody. He urged Mr. Modi to instruct the Jal Shakti Minister to finalise the report for the Godavari-Cauvery link phase-I project and take up the work on priority basis so that the southern States could benefit from the inter-basin transfer of floodwater. He also sought approval and financial assistance for the Cauvery-Gundar linkage project on a priority basis and wanted it to be considered a national project. An appeal was made to consider the Nadanthai Vazhi Cauvery project as a special project like the Namami Gange programme and extend financial assistance to the tune of Rs. 713.39 crore at the earliest. The Chief Minister also requested Mr. Modi’s intervention for the early approval of the Chennai Metro Rail phase-II project under a 50:50 equity model. The phase-II will cover 118.9 km at an estimated cost of Rs. 61,843 crore. Flight to Salem Mr. Palaniswami said there was only one morning flight from Chennai to Salem and business travellers were put to hardship because of this. Either they had to use alternative modes of transport or travel to Coimbatore to take a flight. The work at the Salem airport for night landing of aircraft had been completed, he said and asked the Prime Minister to instruct the Ministry of Civil Aviation to operate an evening or night return flight from Chennai to Salem. Introduction of direct flights between Coimbatore International Airport and Dubai was another demand the Chief Minister had made.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-seeks-funds-project-approvals-from-pm/article33613733.ece
20 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM to open Jaya memorial at Marina on January 27||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami will inaugurate Jayalalithaa memorial on the Marina beach on January 27. Mr. Palaniswami will inaugurate the memorial at 10.30 a.m. and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam will preside over the event. Work on the project is in its final stages. While the structural work has been completed for the Rs. 57.96-crore project, finishing touches like painting and cleaning work are being done now. Officials of the Public Works Department said the main edifice is a cantilever shell structure with two arches that act as the spine. The aesthetically designed memorial has been modelled to resemble a phoenix with two granite lion statues at its entrance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-to-open-jaya-memorial-at-marina-on-january-27/article33614187.ece
20 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Sasikala to walk free from prison on Jan. 27||V.K. Sasikala, close confidante of late Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, convicted in the disproportionate assets case, will be released from the Parappanna Agrahara prison in Bengaluru on the morning of January 27. Sasikala will complete her four-year prison term on that day. “She is eligible for release on January 27 during the morning hours,” prison officials reportedly informed her lawyer Raja Senthoor Pandian. Sasikala had earlier applied for remission of her sentence but in vain.  Her vow On the day she left to serve her prison sentence in Bengaluru in February 2017, she had visited Jayalalithaa’s burial place at the Marina where she was seen fervently slapping the surface thrice taking a vow. Back then the AIADMK’s Twitter handle had said she “had taken a mighty vow to overcome the conspiracy”. It is not clear whether Sasikala will return to Chennai on the same day after her release from the prison.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sasikala-to-walk-free-from-prison-on-jan-27/article33614202.ece
20 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kamal Haasan’s surgery successful, say daughters||Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan’s follow-up surgery on his leg was successful, his daughters Shruthi and Akshara Haasan said in a statement. He will return home in four to five days and will resume his political activities soon. In a press release, the daughters said the surgery was a success and he was recuperating at Sri Ramachandra Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kamal-haasans-surgery-successful-say-daughters/article33614208.ece
20 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Girl held for submitting fake NEET mark sheet||Periyamedu police here on Monday arrested from Paramakudi in Ramanathapuram district, N.B. Deeksha, 18, who was hiding in Bengaluru after submitting a fake NEET mark certificate and a fake call letter at medical counselling for admission. She was later remanded in judicial custody. Her father Balachandran, a dentist, had been arrested in Bengaluru on January 1. According to police, the girl and her father came to attend medical counselling at Jawaharlal Nehru Indoor Stadium, Periyamedu, in December last. The staff at the counselling hall found that the call letter and mark sheet with NEET score produced by them were fake. The girl was found to have scored only 27 marks in NEET but she produced a forged mark sheet with a score of 610. The girl’s name was not on the MBBS rank list and she was not called for counselling. She claimed that she was eligible by producing the documents. They were let off by the officials with a warning. Later, based on a complaint from the selection committee, Periyamedu police booked a case against her and her father for submitting forged certificates and misrepresentation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/girl-held-for-submitting-fake-neet-mark-sheet/article33613741.ece
20 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two police constables run over by car||Two police constables died after they were run over by a car in Mogappair East early Tuesday. A 25-year-old youth who drove the BMW car was arrested. The police said the accident occurred around 4.15 a.m. when the constables were riding a two-wheeler from their residence to report for duty at Koyambedu. The names of the dead were given as B. Ravindran, 32, and V. Karthik, 34. Both were attached to the 13th Battalion and were recently deputed to the Armed Reserve unit of the city police. Ravindran was staying at TNHB Flats in Avadi while Karthik lived in Annanur. Ravindran was riding the bike with Karthik as pillion. They were turning right on Ambattur Estate Road near DAV School in Mogappair East when the car hit them. Ravindran died on the spot while Karthik was critically injured. The Traffic Investigation Police, Thirumangalam, reached the spot and sent Ravindran’s body to Government Kilpauk Hospital for post-mortem. Karthik was rushed to a hospital where he died. The police detained three persons who travelled in the car. S. Amruth, 25, a resident of Ambattur, who drove the car, is studying chemical engineering abroad and had come to Chennai. His two friends — Varun Sekar, 20, owner of the car from Nolambur and Rohit Surya, 21, of K.K. Nagar — were returning to Varun Sekar’s home in Nolambur after celebrating Surya’s birthday. The police booked a case under Sections 304 (ii) (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) and other provisions of the Motor Vehicles Act and arrested Amruth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-police-constables-die-as-car-rams-two-wheeler/article33614197.ece
20 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Thin attendance on day one of school reopening for classes 10, 12||As schools reopened for Classes 10 and 12 after nearly 10 months on Tuesday, many schools registered thin attendance as the students hesitated to attend the regular classes amid the COVID-19 pandemic. Officials from the Department of School Education that out of 653 government, aided and private high and higher secondary schools in the district which remained closed since March 2020, 632 schools reopened on Tuesday. Out of the 86,222 students of Class 10 and Class 12, only 42,706 students – about 49.53% – attended the regular classes on the first day in Coimbatore district. While all government and aided schools reopened, a section of the private schools in the district did not reopen on Tuesday. These schools are yet to complete their arrangements for students and have intimated the Chief Educational Office regarding their revised reopening dates, the officials said. “The private schools which have not reopened will do so in a day or two,” said R. Visalakshi, president of Tamil Nadu Private Schools’ Association. Within the Coimbatore Corporation limits, the government schools with a large number of students in Class 10 and 12 made them to attend the classes based on their sections and groups to prevent overcrowding, officials said. All government, aided and Corporation schools and most of the private schools were reopened as per the standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued by the State government and no issues were reported, according to the officials. Pollachi The government and aided schools in hilly regions in and around Pollachi saw over 60% attendance of Class 12 and 10 students, the officials said. “It is exciting to go back to school,” said S. Suhitha, a Class 10 student from an aided school in the city. Despite putting up with regulations such as not sharing food or water, physical distancing norms inside the classrooms, lack of physical education classes and wearing of masks, meeting her friends after 10 months made her glad, she said. A. Jansi, a Class 12 student from VCV Government Higher Secondary School in Vellakinar in the outskirts of the city, said that she had apprehensions initially about going to the school amid the pandemic but overcame it later. “We could not study properly in our homes. At least in the school, we will study because of the fear we have of teachers,” she said. Ms. Jansi expressed hope that the regulations are only temporary and that things will go back to how they were before COVID-19. Tiruppur Around 400 government, aided and private schools reopened across Tiruppur district. Officials said that the schools reported around 60% of attendance on an average as more students are yet to attend the classes. The SOPs were carried out in all the schools in Tiruppur district, according to the officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thin-attendance-on-day-one-of-school-reopening-for-classes-10-12/article33614218.ece
20 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Standing Committee on Labour holds meeting with textile industry||The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Labour held a meeting with the heads of the textile industry associations on Tuesday at Tiruppur. The industry sought efforts to boost production of man-made fibre (MMF) textiles in the country. According to a press release from the National Committee on Textiles and Clothing (NCTC), the committee headed by Bhartruhari Mahtab visited some of the industries in Coimbatore and Tiruppur too. The officials from the Union Ministry of Textiles explained the schemes and recommendations made by the Ministry to enhance the global competitiveness of the Indian textile and clothing industry and boost MMF production in the country. The Principal Secretary, Handlooms and Textiles Department, Government of Tamil Nadu, briefed about the efforts taken by the State Government to increase MMF manufacturing facilities in the State. He indicated that two mega textile parks were planned under the Mega Textile Parks scheme. The State will focus on increasing technical textile production. The Standing Committee on Labour Chairman said the Committee will consider the recommendations made by the industry, make suitable recommendations so that Tamil Nadu, especially Tiruppur and Coimbatore, see growth in MMF textiles manufacturing, the press release said. The NCTC said the Ministry of Textiles has proposed a Focus Product Incentive Scheme for 40 HS lines of MMF Garments and 10 HS lines of technical textiles under the Production Linked Incentive Scheme recently announced by the Central Government. The global trade of these 50 HS line products is around $ 222 billion and the existing share of India is very less. The anti-dumping duty and customs duty protection given for the domestic manufacturers and 18 % GST on man-made fibres and 12 % GST on MMF yarn have curtailed the growth of the MMF Sector in India. The NCTC appealed to the Standing Committee on Labour to recommend removing anti-dumping duty and also bringing the entire MMF value chain under 5% GST rate on a par with cotton value chain. It also wanted the inverted duty structure issues at processing and capital goods levels to be addressed. It also sought certain amendments in the new Codes to ensure Ease of Doing Business. Members of trade unions appealed to the Standing Committee to withdraw the new Labour Codes proposed. They also wanted construction of ESI hospital at Tiruppur at a location that will benefit all the workers.  The committee headed by Bhartruhari Mahtab visited a few industries in Coimbatore and Tiruppur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/standing-committee-on-labour-holds-meeting-with-textile-industry/article33613752.ece
20 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore police efforts to step up surveillance||Police are in the efforts to increase the surveillance camera network in residential areas coming under its east sub-division. According to senior police officers, each police station coming under east sub-division has been tasked to set up a network of at least 100 road facing surveillance cameras with the partnership of the public. Prevention and detection of crimes such as housebreaks, robbery and chain snatching are among the main objectives behind creating the additional surveillance camera networks in residential areas. Recently, Police Commissioner Sumit Sharan launched two similar camera networks set up by the Race Course and Kuniyamuthur police stations. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law & Order) G. Stalin said that officers in charge of stations in the east sub-division have been asked to create new surveillance camera networks with the support of residents, traders and other establishments. The police are also concerned about continuing housebreaks reported in the limits of Saravanampatti, Peelamedu and Singanallur police stations. Lack of visuals of roads in residential areas was a problem faced by the police while investigating some of these housebreaks. DCP (Crime), E.S. Uma, said that two special teams were continuing their investigations in connection with the theft of 100 sovereigns of jewellery from a house at Tatabad between January 15 evening and January 16 morning. One suspected fingerprint which the scientific team found from the house was being examined, she said. The officer added that the special teams were checking some leads in the theft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-police-efforts-to-step-up-surveillance/article33614209.ece
20 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||1,947 saplings to be planted on R-Day||To mark the 72nd Republic Day, Coimbatore-based NGO Jai Hind Foundation will organise plantation of 1,947 saplings in the presence of inter-faith religious leaders on January 26. A release said that the sapling plantation will take place near the National Highway at K.G. Chavadi in the outskirts of Coimbatore. The chief guests for the event include former Member of the Union Public Service Commission E. Balaguruswamy, Managing Trustee of Siruthuli Vanitha Mohan and Commandant of 105th RAF Battalion B. Jayakrishnan, according to the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1947-saplings-to-be-planted-on-r-day/article33614212.ece
20 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man killed in accidental firing during poaching bid||A 37-year-old man from a village in Coimbatore district was killed in an accidental firing on Monday. The deceased has been identified as R. Ayyasamy, a resident of Theethipalayam village. Elephant attack According to Forest Department officials, Madukkarai forest range staff received information around 9.30 p.m. on Monday that a person from Theethipalayam village was injured in an elephant attack and he died at his home. The staff rushed to the man’s house and informed the police about the incident. A sub-inspector from the Perur police station came to the house. During questioning, it was found that Ayyasamy died of an accidental gunshot and not in the attack of a wild elephant. Further investigation with the assistance of police revealed that Ayyasamy and six others Raman, Anand, Ranganathan, Mottai alias Ranganathan, Patteeswaran and Chinnarasu trespassed into Boluvampatti block-I reserve forest of Madukkarai forest range around 3.30 p.m. on Monday to poach wild boar. Around 4.30 p.m., the person, who carried the rifle, fell while climbing a rocky terrain inside the forest area. The loaded rifle went off in that impact of the fall, injuring Ayyasamy, officials said. The six men carried Ayyasamy to a patta land in Theethipalayam village and fled after informing the injured man’s wife. The family members rushed to the spot and brought him to home where he died of injuries later, they said. The police apprehended Raman and Anand late on Monday and recorded their statements. The police and Forest Department team recovered the rifle, a spear, two machetes and other items in a combined search conducted in the forest on Tuesday. According to the Forest Department, the police have registered a case and taken up the investigation as a person was killed due to a firearm in the incident. The accused were booked under Sections of the Indian Penal Code, the Forest Act and the Wildlife Protection Act. The police are on the lookout for the remaining four persons who are at large.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-killed-in-accidental-firing-during-poaching-bid/article33613766.ece
20 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||A website of free e-books on Indian culture||Over 7,70,000 persons from 175 countries and 7,000 cities have visited the website of free e-books on Indian culture launched by Arsha Avinash Foundation. So far 2,50,000 copies of books on Indian spirituality have been downloaded from the website and the most population book is Bhagavad Gita and 30,000 copies of which have already been down loaded. 92,000 copies of Sanskrit language books have been download and of which 26,000 copies of books downloaded is basic structure of Sanskrit language.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-website-of-free-e-books-on-indian-culture/article33614211.ece
20 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Show cause notices served on tea buyers||The Tea Board India, Coonoor, has served show cause notices on 46 tea buyers seeking reply within a stipulated time. According to a press release from the Board Executive Director, M. Balaji, it was noticed that some buyers were not submitting quarterly returns to the Board in Form F, recording details of the teas purchased. This was mandatory under the Tea (Marketing) Control (Amendment) Order 2017. Action would be taken if the buyers failed to reply within the given time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/show-cause-notices-served-on-tea-buyers/article33613765.ece
20 January 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Dindigul court acquits seven ‘Maoists’||A sessions court here on Tuesday acquitted seven ‘Maoists,’ who were arrested on a charge of engaging in arms training in the forest on Kodaikanal hills in 2008. On information that a group of youth were given arms training in Pullaveli forest, the Special Task Force raided the area. During the operation, ‘Maoist’ Naveen Prasad was killed in an encounter. Seven others escaped from the area, but the police secured them later. The arrested were booked under various provisions of law, including the Indian Arms Act. The names of the arrested were Kannan, Kalidas, Bhagat Singh, Reena Jois Mary, Shenbagavalli, Ranjith and Neelamegam. They were detained in different central prisons in the State. The police filed a 300-page charge sheet. Out of the 67 witnesses in the case, 44, including the then Home Secretary Niranjan Mardi, deposed before the court. The police seized 17 AK 47 rifles, and filed 210 exhibits and 33 documents. Ranjith and Neelamegam were let out on bail. Judge Jamuna, who was hearing the case, had announced on December 15, 2020, that judgement in the case would be delivered on January 19. Since Reena Jois Mary was brought to the court from Vellore Central Prison on Tuesday, a large posse of police had been deployed. The judge acquitted all the seven persons stating that the prosecution failed to prove their involvement in the crime. The accused, who could not appear in person, were present through video conferencing facility when the judgement was pronounced. Speaking to reporters, senior advocate Kannappan, who appeared for the seven persons arrested by the police, said the government should ensure their release at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/court-acquits-seven-maoists/article33613738.ece
20 January 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Over 60% students attend classes in Erode district||Over 60% students in Class X and Plus-Two attended schools that were reopened after 10 months in Erode district on Tuesday. Due to COVID-19 pandemic, schools were closed in March 2020, and the State government announced reopening of schools for these two classes adhering to standard operating procedures from January 19. On Monday, all the classrooms were disinfected and all precautionary measures were in place to ensure the safety of teachers and students. On Tuesday, students came to school wearing masks. Thermal scanning was done and they were given hand sanitisers. They also submitted a form signed by their parents that they were sending their children to school voluntarily. Seating arrangements in classrooms were made to ensure personal distancing and instructions were given to students to avoid sharing food items and not to sit in groups. They were also asked not to remove their masks and inform teachers if they felt discomfort. Officials at the District Education Office said there were 29,642 students in Class X and 24,710 students in Plus-Two studying in 403 schools in the district. “Over 60% of students attended the classes on the first day and the percentage will go up in the next two days,” they said. The officials said lessons would not be taught for the first two days and general counselling would be provided to the students. At Gobichettipalayam, four girl students were admitted to a private hospital after being stung by bees while they were on their way to school on bicycles. The Plus-Two students of Government Higher Secondary School at Polavakalipalayam were from Sengottaiyan Nagar and the incident took place at Kangampalayam area. While three students were given first-aid, one girl was admitted to hospital. Salem In Salem, arrangements were made at around 600 schools to welcome students. Paper slips with photograph and name of the student was affixed on the bench and students were advised to sit only at the respective places. Chief Education Officer T. Ganesh Moorthy said schools were strictly advised to stick to standard safety procedures advised by the government. Based on the turnout on the day, decision would be taken on continuing online classes for the students. According to officials, 88,266 students are studying in Class X and Plus-Two in the district. Krishnagiri In Krishnagiri district, as many as 29,731 students of Class X and 23,079 Plus-Two students attended schools. A total of 439 schools in Hosur, Krishnagiri, Mathur and Denkanikottai reopened on Tuesday. Earlier, Collector V. Jaya Chandra Bhanu Reddy along with State project director, Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan, G. Latha inspected the schools and reviewed the safety protocols. In Dharmapuri, 347 schools including 225 government schools reopened.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-60-students-attend-classes-in-erode-district/article33613762.ece
20 January 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Works at Erode Railway Station to be completed on time||Various development works being carried out at the Erode Railway Junction would be completed on time, said A. Gautam Srinivas, Divisional Railway Manager, Salem Division, here on Tuesday. Addressing the media after inspecting the works at the junction, he said works on construction of passengers waiting hall, ticket counter and reservation counter were being carried out and they would be completed on time. He said the works were carried out without disturbing passengers. The works were being inspected in all the railway stations in the Erode – Tiruchi sector. The DRM asked the officials to expedite the works and complete them as per schedule. He said 32 surveillance cameras had been installed at the junction to monitor passenger movement and to prevent crime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/works-at-erode-railway-station-to-be-completed-on-time/article33613756.ece
20 January 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Plus Two student ends life||A Plus Two student of a private school in the city reportedly ended his life here on Monday, as he was unable to understand the online classes. Police said T. Sakthi Tharun of Ganapathi Nagar Main Road at Kumalankuttai was attending the classes at home when his father, who runs a finance company, and his mother were at the court to attend a case hearing. At 11 a.m. Sakthi Tharun made a video call to his father R.S. Thambi, who told him that he could not speak as he was in the court. In the afternoon, when the parents returned home, they found their son dead. In his complaint to the Erode North Police on Tuesday, Mr. Thambi said his son had been complaining that he was unable to understand the online classes and was under stress. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plus-two-student-ends-life/article33613751.ece
20 January 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Plea to operate passenger trains||Stating that the delay in resumption of passenger trains that pass through junctions in the region is affecting the passengers, the District Congress has urged the Railways to resume the operation of trains at the earliest. In a letter to the General Manager of Southern Railway, K.N. Basha, vice-president of the Erode District Congress Minority Wing and former member of Zonal Railway User’s Consultative Committee, welcomed the railway’s decision to operate eight trains from different regions of the country to Kevadiya in Gujarat, where the Statue of Unity is located. He said the passenger trains connecting Coimbatore and Salem and Coimbatore and Tirunelveli that passed through Erode Railway Station were stopped in March 2020 due to COVID-19 pandemic. These trains served the working people who moved between these cities every day and delay in resuming the train services had caused immense hardship to people. The petition said workers were forced to spend more money on transportation every day when compared to the train fare. Likewise, non-operating passenger train from Salem to Tirunelveli was affecting devotees in Karur and Madurai as they depended on the train service to reach the temples. “When the Central government is keen on operating eight trains to Gujarat, it is not concerned about the immense hardship faced by the working people every day,” the petition said and wanted the train services to resume at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-operate-passenger-trains/article33613757.ece
20 January 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||Due to maintenance work at Sipcot sub-station I , power supply will be disrupted from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on January 21 at Perundurai North and town areas, Sipcot premises (except south areas), Olapalayam, Thiruvachi, Kandampalayam, Velliyam palayam, Periyamadathu palayam, Chinnamadathu palayam, Maya Avenue and Sanitorium areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article33613758.ece
20 January 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Number of vaccine recipients picking up in Krishnagiri district||After a weekend of lukewarm response to the much awaited COVID-19 vaccine, the number of recipients of the vaccine has slowly picked up on Monday and Tuesday. By forenoon on Tuesday, 84 persons were vaccinated at the government hospital here. On Saturday, 61 persons took the vaccine shot and on Sunday 50. Monday saw 128 persons vaccinated. On Monday, as a confidence building measure, the lead officials of the Health Department took the vaccine shot. Deputy Director of Health V. Govindan told The Hindu some of the top health officials including the Dean of Krishnagiri medical college hospital, district training medical officer, district epidemiologist and secretary of the Indian Medical Association took the vaccine. “At first, there was Pongal holidays and most health workers had gone home for the holidays. They slowly returned and the number of those turning up for vaccination is going up steadily,” he said. He was hopeful that all those registered would be vaccinated soon. “The registered recipients include village health nurses, community health nurses, dengue and communicable disease control workers, ambulance drivers and security personnel. Most of the staff nurses have other regular duties including weekly immunisations and health camps. They will have to make time and come for the vaccination and that process will take time,” Dr. Govindan said. The district received 11,500 doses of Covishield to vaccinate 10,400 intended recipients during Phase I of the vaccination programme. This accounted for a wastage factor of 1.1%, he said. The first dose would followed by a second dose after a cooking period of 28 days. Two weeks from the second dose, the recipient would develop immunity. “Until such time, the recipients should continue to follow all safety precautions,” Dr. Govindan said. While only those who had registered for the vaccination through the CO-WIN site were being vaccinated, exception was also being made for those who could not register for various reasons, including travel abroad and unavailability, the Deputy Director of Health said. At first, there were seven centres designated for vaccination in the district. However, the number was scaled down to three - one each in Krishnagiri government headquarters hospital, Hosur government hospital and upgraded primary health centre in Kaveripattinam. The reason was due to digital tracking of the vaccine receivers, limited facility in all centres and also the limited number of vaccines, he said. “The entire vaccination process is digitally tracked including sending of text alerts to intended recipients. So, the number of centres was limited to facilitate the tracking,” he added. “Covishield is completely safe and we urge health workers to take the vaccine to protect themselves and the others,” said Dr. Govindan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/number-of-vaccine-recipients-picking-up-in-krishnagiri-district/article33613764.ece
20 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Good attendance of Class 10, 12 students||Most of the schools in Madurai district witnessed good turnout of students of Classes 10 and 12 on Tuesday when schools reopened with necessary safety precautions after a gap of over 10 months. District Chief Educational Officer R. Swaminathan said that around 82,500 students of Classes 10 and 12 are studying in a total of 534 schools in the district. "Most of the schools had over 95% attendance on Tuesday. All schools were asked to strictly follow all COVID-19 safety protocols issued by the government," he said. Students were allowed to attend classes only with the consent of their parents, he added. P. Meenakshi, Headmistress of N.S.S.B. Corporation Girls’ Higher Secondary School, said that they had formed separate teams of teachers to monitor the students in classes and outside toilets. "We provided facemasks for students who did not wear face masks to schools," she said. A. Jerald, Principal of Kendriya Vidyalaya at Tirupparankundram, said that students were divided into batches of 25. Each batch of students were allowed to attend the schools on alternative days. "Online classes were held for the alternative batch of students simultaneously when classes were also held for students who attended the school," he said. Students were allowed to enter and exit the school through three gates to avoid crowding, he added. Since, most students were anxious about attending board examinations this year, counselling sessions were conducted for the entire day on Tuesday with an aim to provide mental support for the students, said Ms. Meenakshi. A K. Suresh, Principal of Government Higher Secondary School at Pothumbu, said that conducting online classes for government school students was not possible as many students lack necessary infrastructure to attend the online classes. Although teachers continuously insist students to maintain adequate distance from each other, many times students do not adhere to the physical distancing norms, he said. "Students were overjoyed to meet their friends after a long time," he added. Many of the government school students who travel from distant places commute to schools through public buses, increasing the risk of spread of COVID-19, said Mr. Suresh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/good-attendance-of-class-10-12-students/article33614299.ece
20 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Smart Cities guidelines not adhered to: MP||Smart Cities projects are being executed in the city without any consultations with the elected representatives and without adherence to proper guidelines, causing severe inconvenience to the residents of the city, said Madurai MP and Co-Chairman of Smart City Advisory Forum (SCAF) Su. Venkatesan, here on Tuesday. He was addressing the mediapersons, along with Madurai Central MLA P.T.R.P. Thiagarajan and Madurai East MLA P. Moorthy, at the end of the SCAF meeting, which was convened for the first time on Tuesday. Collector T. Anbalagan, who is the Chairman of SCAF; Mr. Venkatesan, Co-Chairman of SCAF; Virudhunagar MP B. Manickam Tagore, Mr. Thiagarajan, Mr. Moorthy, Madurai North MLA V.V. Rajan Chellappa, who were members of SCAF; Madurai Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan and City Engineer S. Arasu attended the meeting. Although Madurai was included under the Smart Cities Mission in 2016-17, no SCAF meetings were conducted all these years, said Mr. Venkatesan. He said that the issue of not convening SCAF meetings was discussed during the District Development Coordination and Monitoring Committee (DISHA) meetings held in February and September last and the civic body was instructed to convene a meeting within a month, which did not happen. Alleging that the Collector and the civic body officials were refusing to convene a meeting, the MP had called for a meeting on January 18. Following this, the Collector had convened a meeting on Tuesday. Elaborating on the issues identified in the implementation of Smart Cities projects, Mr. Venkatesan said that completion of the Periyar bus stand and shopping complex project would worsen traffic congestion. “The shopping complex has more number of shops which will increase the vehicular movement at the complex. Hence, it was instructed to reduce the number of shops in the complex to one-third of the proposed plan,” he said. Madurai Central MLA said that the ‘smart road’ work that was being executed on Masi streets was an example of ‘complete engineering failure’. “The work undertaken has worsened waterlogging on Masi streets,” he said. Around 90% of the projects have been completed and the mistakes cannot be rectified. “But, at least the remaining works can be undertaken without causing much inconvenience to the public. Hence, the Corporation officials have been instructed to complete the remaining works on Masi streets in a phased manner,” he said. Mr. Venkatesan said that the civic body was instructed to get consultations from the INTACH on executing the heritage components of the smart cities projects. Since only private companies were engaged in evaluating the quality control of the smart cities projects, it was directed to engage government companies for the quality control. The Corporation officials claim that most of the projects would be completed by March is not possible, said Mr. Thiagarajan.  Madurai East MLA said that no residence in the added wards must be left out while executing the underground drainage project under the Smart Cities Mission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/smart-cities-guidelines-not-adhered-to-mp/article33614295.ece
20 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Constitute police complaints authority’||The State government should constitute Police Complaints Authority to handle complaints against police officers and personnel at the State and district level, headed by retired judicial officers - this is part of a 16-point charter of demands on human rights, put forth by Madurai-based non-governmental organisation People’s Watch, that would be submitted to all political parties to make them part of their Assembly election manifesto. “The State government has not complied with the Supreme Court’s directive on PCA and it wants the complaints against police personnel to be investigated by its own officers,” said People’s Watch executive director Henri Tiphagne. Talking to reporters here on Monday, he said the new government should ensure zero tolerance for the police torture, custodial death, illegal custody and extra judicial killings. “Taluk legal service committee should appoint duty counsel for checking such illegal practices in the police stations,” he said. Stating that in a democratic country, right to protest should be ensured, he said peaceful assembly of a small crowd of 100 persons should be allowed at designated places. With regard to complaints of deaths due to custodial torture, family members and relatives should be able to physically check the bodies of the deceased and take photographs before the post-mortem was conducted. Similarly, the post-mortem should be videographed. All the vacancies in panels such as State Human Rights Commission, State Women Commission, Minorities Commission should be filled up. “With 35 vacancies, how do you expect SHRC to function efficiently?” he wondered. Special Courts to deal with POCSO cases should be set up in all districts, the government should reject new national educational policy and NEET examination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/constitute-police-complaints-authority/article33614296.ece
20 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 1 lakh given to kin of man killed by wild elephant||Wildlife Trust of India, New Delhi, has given Rs. 1 lakh to the family members of a volunteer, Muthu Prabhakara Chera Pandiyan of Vilathikulam, who was killed by a wild elephant during a census in Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve in December 2020. The money was handed over by Wildlife Warden, Grizzled Squirrel Sanctuary, Srivilliputtur, Muhamad Shabab. Chief of Enforcement, Wildlife Trust of India, Josh Louis, and S. Subramaniya Rajha, Green Corridor Champion, WTI, were present. Members of Wildlife Association of Rajapalayam had supported the family by providing Rs. 10,000 earlier. The association thanked Founder-Executive Director & CEO of Wildlife Trust of India, Vivek Menon, and Field Director, STR, Nihar Ranjan, for helping the family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-1-lakh-given-to-kin-of-volunteer-killed-by-elephant/article33613739.ece
20 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||House burgled||A total of 58 sovereigns of gold, 9.300 kg of silver, a double-barrel gun were stolen from the residence of a retired deputy tahsildar P .Ravindran (60) of Duraisamy Nagar. The police said the family members had left for Rajapalayam on January 15 and on their return on Monday found the front door broken open and the valuables missing. S. S. Colony police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/house-burgled/article33614297.ece
20 January 2021||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Intrusion of African catfish into delta feared||The heavy spells of rain and floods in the delta districts in recent months have triggered fear among fish rearers over possible influx of alien fish species into fishing ponds. Their main apprehension is the threat invasive species such as African catfish pose to native varieties. Though the African catfish is not reared by farmers in the central region, unlike in the western districts of Krishnagiri and Dharmapuri, the fear of the rearers here is that the alien species proliferating in lakes and rivers could find their way into the ponds during the rainy season. According to a fish rearer, the African catfish can survive on land for a few hours and can crawl with the help of its pectoral fins to enter waterbodies such as ponds and wetlands during rainy days. In parts of western region, rearing of African catfish is being undertaken in ponds. Farmers find it profitable to rear it since the operational costs is low. “There is no demand for African Catfish in the Central districts. Consumers do not patronise the African catfish due to its bland taste,” Amal Raj Xavier, Joint Director, Department of Fisheries, Nagapattinam, said. Inland fishing, he said, was being undertaken on a large scale in Thanjavur, followed by Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam. The main varieties reared in ponds constitute catla, rohu and mrigal. No farmer in the delta region will be inclined to rear the African catfish, as the native varieties are quite profitable, Mr. Amal Raj Xavier said. Also, there is a high level of awareness among the people about the difference in the taste of the African catfish and native varieties, he said. The Fisheries department in many districts of the State have been issuing warnings that surreptitious rearing of Africa catfish will invite legal action. Last August, the National Green Tribunal issued an order banning the farming of African catfish under the Biological Diversity Act, 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/intrusion-of-african-catfish-into-delta-feared/article33613711.ece
20 January 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||People will teach DMK a lesson: Thangamani||Minister for Electricity P. Thangamani refuted the charges made by DMK President M.K. Stalin on Tuesday and said that Tamil Nadu was a power surplus State and people would teach DMK a lesson in the Assembly elections. The Minister said that since 2015, the Centre has been categorising Tamil Nadu as a power surplus State. The Opposition leader was levelling false charges against him, he said. “He alleges that Rs. 950 crore worth scam was committed in procurement of coal by me between 2012-2015. I was Minister for Industries and not electricity during that period. However, such flaws would not happen in this ‘Amma’ government,” Mr. Thangamani said. “The Chief Minister has already clarified on various charges made by the Opposition,” he said. Mr. Thangamani said that during the DMK regime, there were power cuts for about 18 hours a day and then Electricity Minister Arcot N.Veerasamy himself consented that if DMK was sent out of power, it would be due to the power cuts. On charges that the AIADMK government would go out of power following release of Sasikala, aide of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, Mr.Thangamani said they (Opposition) have been saying that this government would not last long ever since Edappadi K.Palaniswami assumed charge as Chief Minister. On the lack of a common effluent treatment plant at Kumarapalayam, Mr.Thangamani said that a place has been identified for establishing the plant and a proposal has been sent to Centre. The foundation stone for the project would be laid in 25 days,he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/people-will-teach-dmk-a-lesson-thangamani/article33613753.ece
20 January 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||‘CM trying to protect himself from Sasikala’||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Tuesday claimed that Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami has gone to Delhi to protect himself from V.K. Sasikala, aide to former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, whose release from the Bengaluru prison is scheduled on January 27. [Mr Palaniswami has earlier made it clear that her release would have no bearing on the AIADMK.] At a DMK Makkal Gram Sabha meeting at Pathirai panchayat in Namakkal, Mr. Stalin said, “Mr. Palaniswami has gone to Delhi and met with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah, not to discuss NEET or farmers’ issues but to protect himself from Sasikala, who will get released from prison on January 27. We will not need to wait for four months (until the Assembly elections) — we will know whether this government will continue or not after January 27.” The DMK leader charged that farmers have been protesting in Delhi braving cold weather against the contentious farm laws and all States have opposed it. But, Mr. Palaniswami’s government is in favour of these laws. Mr. Stalin claimed that no one could beat Minister for Local Administration S.P. Velumani and Minister for Electricity P. Thangamani in corruption. Corruption has occurred in the procurement of power from private players, in the purchase of poor quality of coal and in the purchase of spare parts for TNEB, he said and accused Mr. Thangamani of lying while stating that Tamil Nadu was a power surplus State. Women, who spoke at the event, demanded measures to construct a common effluent treatment plant for dyeing units in the area and reduce the number of Tasmac liquor shops in the place. Tamilselvi, mother of M. Motilal, a NEET aspirant who died by suicide recently, spoke at the meeting and requested Mr. Stalin to get an exemption from NEET for the State at any cost. Responding to her, Mr. Stalin said that about 15 students have committed suicide due to the examinations and the DMK will not rest until it got exemption for the State.   We will not need to wait for four months, we will know whether this government will continue or not after January 27 M.K. Stalin DMK President||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-trying-to-protect-himself-from-sasikala/article33613775.ece
20 January 2021||NEW DELHI,TAMIL NADU||Supreme Court sets aside HC’s stay on expansion of Villupuram-Nagapattinam national highway||The Supreme Court on Tuesday set aside a Madras High Court decision to stay the expansion of the Villupuram-Nagapattinam national highway until the project got environmental clearance. “There is no requirement for obtaining environmental clearances for NH 45-A Villupuram-Nagapattinam Highway as land acquisition is not more than 40 m on existing alignments and 60 m on realignments or by-passes,” a three-judge Bench led by Justice L. Nageswara Rao directed in a judgment. The court noted that while economic development should not be allowed at the cost of ecology or by causing widespread environmental destruction, the necessity to preserve ecology and environment should not hamper economic and other development. The court, significantly, directed the Union Environment Ministry to constitute an expert committee to examine whether segmentation was permissible for national highway projects beyond a distance of 100 km and, if permissible, under what circumstances. The court, in the present case, directed National Highways Authority of India to strictly conform to restrict the acquisition of land for the project to 40 m on the existing alignments and 60 m on re-alignments. The High Court had stayed the expansion of NH-45A covering a stretch of 179.555 km and directed the NHAI to undertake an Environment Impact Assessment study and obtain environmental clearance. The NHAI is also directed to obtain approval from coastal regulations zone clearance for two locations. The NHAI had appealed to the apex court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/supreme-court-sets-aside-hcs-stay-on-expansion-of-villupuram-nagapattinam-national-highway/article33614207.ece
20 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Social Welfare Minister ends stir near Raj Nivas||In a dramatic development, Minister for Social Welfare M. Kandasamy on Tuesday evening called off his day-night agitation, seeking an audience with Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi, after shifting the venue from the portico of the Assembly to the Raj Nivas, earlier in the day. He relented after meeting Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy. Around 10.50 a.m. on Tuesday, the Minister left the Assembly to visit a nearby government hospital to call on a Congress legislator who was undergoing treatment. After spending a few minutes in the premises, his official vehicle reached the Romain Rolland Library side of Raj Nivas through Goubert Salai. Soon a team of police, led by Senior Superintendent of Police (Law and Order) Prariksha Godara, stopped Mr. Kandasamy from reaching the front gate. He insisted on meeting the Lt Governor but Ms. Godara refused permission as there was no appointment given to him by Ms. Bedi. Proclaiming his decision to continue the agitation, he squatted on the road next to the main gate. Mr. Kandasamy launched the agitation at the portico of the Assembly on January 10 seeking an appointment to discuss around 15 issues with the Lt. Governor. The Minister told The Hindu that he would continue the agitation near the Raj Nivas till his demands were fulfilled. “I will sit day and night here till my grievances are addressed,” he said. As news spread of the agitation, Minister' supporters and members of Dalit outfits launched agitation at several places in Puducherry. Chief Minister’s protest Mr. Narayanasamy launched a sit-in protest on the road near Bharathi Park adjacent to Goubert Statue, after he was denied permission to meet Mr. Kandasamy near Raj Nivas. The Chief Minister, along with his Cabinet colleagues and Member of Parliament V. Vaithilingam walked from the Assembly to meet the protesting Minister. After the police stopped them, near Goubert Statue, the Chief Minister sat on the road. Mediapersons were not able to reach the venue due to police restrictions. Journalists assembled near the Raj Nivas were informed that if they move out they will not be allowed access again to the venue where the Minister is staging a day-night agitation. Earlier, an attempt was made to remove journalists from the vicinity. Stir ends Mr. Kandasamy called off the agitation after the Chief Minister was allowed to meet him in the evening. The Minister called off the agitation after Mr. Narayanasamy met him around 4.30 p.m. and assured him that the grievances would be taken up with the President. The Chief Minister told reporters that he had written a letter to the President seeking an appointment to apprise him about the Lt. Governor’s style of functioning. The Chief Minister said the President would be briefed about the obstructions created by Ms. Bedi in running the administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/social-welfare-minister-ends-stir-near-raj-nivas/article33614388.ece
20 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Jipmer installs equipment to simulate eye surgeries||Jipmer has commissioned a surgery simulator at the Department of Ophthalmology that is expected to help trainees hone their skills. According to a press note, the Kelman Ophthalmic Surgical Simulator Lab was inaugurated recently in the presence of Rakesh Aggarwal, director, Ashok Shankar Badhe, medical superintendent, Subashini Kaliaperumal, head of the department, and former heads of the department Vasudev Anand Rao and Renuka Srinivasan. The installation of the ophthalmic surgical simulator (EyeSi manufactured by VRMagic, Germany), which simulates the environments of cataract and vitreoretinal surgeries, will be a boon to postgraduate residents of the institute. The gadget will help perform defined and standardised surgical tasks in a virtual environment. It has a provision for the educators to create courses with varying levels of difficulty for trainees at different skill levels. According to a statement from Jipmer, the trainees can practice the surgical steps repeatedly until they achieve a high level of proficiency in the skills involved. This ability to practise the basics of handling intraocular instruments and a surgical microscope in the operation theatre setting in the absence of patients ensures that trainees are already skilled before they operate on a real patient, the statement also said. The department plans to include this training in its competency-based surgical training curriculum for ophthalmology residents. This will enhance patient safety. Dr. Kaliaperumal said workshops to reach out to ophthalmology residents of other institutions were being planned as well. Lab commissioned A Ridley Wet Lab, used to train residents in performing corneal and scleral suturing techniques on goat and cadaver eyes, was also commissioned. This facility will add to the ability of the department to train surgeons to perform cataract surgery more safely without putting patients at risk. In addition, the department has also acquired a new Snellen Ophthalmology Seminar Hall which is equipped with technologically advanced equipment for teaching MBBS and postgraduate students, and for holding clinical case discussions and seminars, Jipmer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jipmer-installs-equipment-to-simulate-eye-surgeries/article33614385.ece
20 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Voter numbers in Puducherry cross 10 lakh||The electorate in Puducherry has crossed 10 lakh as per the revised electoral rolls put out by the Election Department. A note from Shurbir Singh, Chief Electoral Officer, said after the special summary revision of photo electoral rolls as per the directions of Election Commission of India, the total electorate across the 30 Assembly constituencies aggregated 10,03,681 voters — 4,72,736 (male), 5,30,828 (female) and 117 (third gender). Women outnumbered men in all constituencies. This represented a net increase of 2.97% over the 9,74,754 voters before the drive was undertaken across the Union Territory. The drive, held between November 16 and December 15, had set January 1, 2021 as the qualifying date. A total of 39,562 claims for inclusion and 10,635 requests for deletion were admitted. Region-wise details The region-wise details of electors as per the final electoral roll as on January 20, 2021 is as follows — Puducherry: 7,73,378 (3,65,575 male/4,07,706 female/97 third gender); Karaikal 1,61,464 (74,739 male/ 86,705 female/20 third gender); Mahe: 31,092 (14,171 male/16,921 female) and Yanam: 37,747 (18,251 male/19,496 female). Mr. Singh said the final electoral rolls would be displayed at all polling stations and at the office of the electoral registration officers and assistant electoral registration officers for public inspection for seven days from January 20. The first time electors in the age group of 18-19 will be issued with EPIC at the respective polling stations during the celebration of National Voters Day on January 25. Those who have not yet enrolled or have been left out of the electoral roll can enrol during the continuous updation of electoral rolls starting from January 21 to the last date of filing of nomination. For any election related clarification the public can contact the toll free number 1950. Electors can confirm their details in the Electoral Roll through SMS as follows — to know elector details: ECI<EPIC Number>1 (1 for local language or 0/null for English); to know Polling Station location: ECIPS<EPIC Number>1(1 for local language or 0/null for English); to know your DEO/ERO/BLO: ECICONTACT<EPIC Number>1(1 for local language or 0/null for English). Most and least Among the 30 Assembly constituencies in Puducherry, Villianur, Ozhukarai and Ariyankuppam have the most voters while Orleanpet, Raj Bhavan and Uppalam have the least, according to the revised electoral rolls. Villanur had 42,329 electors, followed by Ozhukarai (41,890) and Ariyankuppam (39,001). Orleanpet had the fewest voters (24,723), followed by Raj Bhavan (26,349) and Uppalam (27,913).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/voter-numbers-in-puducherry-cross-10-lakh/article33614391.ece
20 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘Every party has the right to strengthen its base’||Reacting to ally DMK’s plan to contest all 30 seats for the Assembly elections in the Union Territory, Puducherry Congress Committee (PCC) chief A.V. Subramanian on Tuesday said the Congress would always cherish the alliance with the Dravidian party because of ideological bonding. At the same time the Congress would respect the right of other political parties to strengthen their base. “We would like to continue the alliance but can’t stop them from taking efforts to strengthen their base. Not just DMK, all parties, including the Congress would like to increase their presence,” Mr. Subramanian told The Hindu . The senior Congress leader said there was an assurance to appoint a nominated MLA belonging to the DMK and accommodate their nominees as chairpersons of the Corporations and Boards but the proposal could not be implemented because of the intervention of the Centre and the Lt. Governor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/every-party-has-the-right-to-strengthen-its-base/article33614386.ece
20 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Number of active cases in U.T. remains below 300||Puducherry added 37 new cases to its COVID-19 tally with 3,763 tests on Tuesday. However, no deaths were reported. The active cases remained below 300 with 297 and the positivity rate stood at 0.98%. Puducherry reported 23 of the new cases, followed by 10 in Mahe and four in Karaikal. Yanam went without a new case for the fifth consecutive day. In all, 26 patients recovered and were discharged in the last 24 hours. Of the active cases in the Union Territory, 132 were in hospitals and 165 in home isolation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/number-of-active-cases-in-ut-remains-below-300/article33614390.ece
20 January 2021||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Police post night patrol details on WhatsApp||The Pudukottai Police have taken to social media to post details of night patrol officers daily to enable the residents to get in touch with the officer concerned in case of any emergency during the odd hours. The names and mobile numbers of police officers on night patrols are posted on WhatsApp by the Social Media Cell of the police daily which are shared with the public. A team of police officers do night patrol at the district, sub divisional and station levels. Pudukottai district has 38 Law and Order police stations, five All Women police stations and four Traffic units. A senior police officer in the rank of Deputy Superintendent of Police will carry out night patrol at the district-level. Sometimes, two Deputy Superintendents of Police share the duty in two shifts. An Inspector of Police or Sub Inspector of Police carries out night patrol at each of the seven subdivisions of Pudukottai, Aranthangi, Keeranur, Ponnamaravathy, Alangudi, Kottaipattinam and Illupur. Field-level personnel do the patrol at the respective station level. The idea is to enable residents to contact the officer concerned in case of any emergency situation, says Superintendent of Police L. Balaji Saravanan. Village Vigilance Police Officers (VVPOs) posted across the district maintain WhatsApp groups in their respective jurisdiction and share the details with the residents. As a bridge The 398 VVPOs act as a bridge between the police and the residents, says Mr. Balaji Saravanan. Each VVPO covers the mother village comprising a set of hamlets and interact with the residents periodically by visiting the villages.  There are 398 Village Vigilance Police Officers who act as a bridge between the police and residents L. Balaji Saravanan Superintendent of Police||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-post-night-patrol-details-on-whatsapp/article33613710.ece
20 January 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin accuses govt. of corruption during COVID-19 pandemic||DMK president M.K.Stalin on Tuesday alleged that the AIADMK government had indulged in corruption during the COVID-19 pandemic. At a Makkal Gram Sabha meeting, organised by his party in Viralimalai in Pudukottai, he alleged that the government had committed irregularities by purchasing, at inflated prices, masks, bleaching powder and disinfectants. Taking a swipe at Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar, who represents the Viralimalai Assembly constituency, Mr. Stalin said the Minister, while responding to his query in the Assembly on the precautionary steps taken by the government to tackle COVID-19 in the initial days, had categorically stated then that the virus would never enter Tamil Nadu and that the government would not allow the death of even one person. The situation was completely different now, Mr. Stalin said, pointing out that nearly eight lakh people were affected by the virus and several had lost their lives. “The government made fun of us when we asked for distribution of masks to the MLAs to protect them saying that the virus would affect only those with diabetes and heart problems,” Mr.Stalin recalled. I-T searches  Citing the complaints about distribution of money in the run-up to R.K. Nagar Assembly seat by-poll, Mr. Stalin said Income Tax department searches were conducted in the house of Mr. Vijayabaskar. During the searches, a driver of Mr. Vijayabaskar rushed out with some documents in his possession and threw it outside, Mr. Stalin said and showed a video footage aired by various media channels to substantiate his remarks. The DMK leader alleged that Mr. Vijayabaskar had brought a bad name to his birth place and Viralimalai constituency. Mr. Stalin charged that nobody knew what kind of treatment was administered to former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa. The Commission of Inquiry constituted to inquire into the circumstances leading to her hospitalisation and death, was inconclusive. The Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam was issued summons eight times but he never turned up for the inquiry, Mr. Stalin said and reiterated that the DMK, once elected to power, would find out the reason for the death of Jayalalithaa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-accuses-govt-of-corruption-during-covid-19-pandemic/article33613734.ece
20 January 2021||PUDUKOTTAI/COLOMBO,TAMIL NADU||Four T.N. fishermen missing||A mechanised boat with four fishermen on board that ventured into the sea from the Kottaipattinam fishing jetty in Pudukottai district on Monday has gone missing. Incidentally, the Sri Lankan Navy said in Colombo that an Indian fishing trawler had sunk off Delft Island or Neduntheevu, located in the Palk Strait, late on Monday night when it was confronted by its patrol units. Authorities in Tamil Nadu said it is yet to be ascertained if the missing boat and the one that sunk were the same. Coastal Security Group sources in Tamil Nadu said the boat bearing the registration number IND TN 10 MM 0646, with four fishermen hailing from Ramanathapuram district, had set sail along with other mechanised boats. Those on board were A. Mesiya, 30, of Thangachimadam; V. Nagaraj, 52, of Vattavalam; N. Sam, 28, of Mandapam and S. Senthil Kumar, 32, of Uchipuli. Three mechanised boats with 12 fishermen, all hailing from Rameswaram, have left to trace the missing boat and fishermen. The Indian Navy and the Coast Guard from Rameswaram were also conducting a search. It is suspected that the boat could have collided with a Sri Lankan Naval craft. However, CSG sources said they were yet to receive confirmed information. Meanwhile, the Sri Lankan Navy said its patrol units carried out an operation to seize Indian fishing trawlers “poaching” in Sri Lankan waters, “trespassing the IMBL”, late night on Monday. About 50 trawlers were spotted, according to a statement issued by the Sri Lankan Navy. The trawlers were spotted off Delft Island or Neduntheevu. “When our units tried to apprehend them, one of the trawlers resisted and sank. We have deployed divers to locate the trawler and the fishermen,” Navy spokesman Captain Indika de Silva told The Hindu . “No luck so far,” he said on Tuesday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-tn-fishermen-missing/article33614205.ece
20 January 2021||PUDUKOTTAI/COLOMBO,TAMIL NADU||Four fishermen along with boat missing||A mechanised boat with four fishermen on board that had ventured into the sea from Kottaipattinam fishing jetty in Pudukottai district on Monday has gone missing. Incidentally, the Sri Lankan Navy said in Colombo that an Indian fishing trawler had sunk off Delft Island or Neduntheevu in the Palk Strait late on Monday night when it was confronted by its patrol units. Authorities in Tamil Nadu said it was yet to be ascertained if the missing boat and the one that sunk were the same. Coastal Security Group sources in Tamil Nadu said the boat with four fishermen, all hailing from Ramanathapuram district, had set sail along with other mechanised boats. Those on board were A. Mesiya (30) of Thangachimadam; V. Nagaraj (52) of Vattavalam; N. Sam (28) of Mandapam and S. Senthil Kumar (32) of Uchipuli. The boat is owned by T. Arokiya Sesu (50) of Thangachimadam. The four fishermen were supposed to return on Tuesday morning. Three mechanised boats from Kottaipattinam with 12 fishermen, all hailing from Rameswaram, have left to trace the missing boat and fishermen. The Indian Navy and the Indian Coast Guard were also conducting a search for the missing boat and fishermen. It is suspected that the missing boat could have collided with a Sri Lankan naval craft. However, the CSG sources said they were yet to receive confirmed information. Meanwhile, the Sri Lankan Navy said its patrol units carried out an operation to seize Indian fishing trawlers “poaching” in Sri Lankan waters late on Monday night. About 50 trawlers were spotted, according to a statement issued by the navy. The trawlers were spotted off Delft Island. “When our units tried to apprehend them, one of the trawlers resisted and sank. We have deployed divers to try to locate the trawler and the fishermen,” Navy spokesman Captain Indika de Silva told The Hindu on Tuesday. “No luck so far,” he said on Tuesday evening. The operation is part of Sri Lanka’s renewed efforts to arrest foreign vessels and fishermen on it, found engaging in illegal fishing in its territorial waters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-fishermen-along-with-boat-missing/article33613706.ece
20 January 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Farmers seek relief||A large number of farmers in the district on Monday urged the government to give compensation for loss of crops due to incessant rain. Submitting petitions to the Collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver, they said that they had raised paddy on 3.54 lakh acres and chilli on over one lakh acres in the region including R S Mangalam, Tiruvadanai, Mudukalathur and Kamudi blocks. They told reporters that they had taken insurance policies but a majority of them had not insured the crops. So, they urged the government to give compensation. Representatives of the Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam, K Jeeva and A Muthuramu of CPI-M, told reporters that the rainfall since January 6 had spoiled prospects of good harvest. The harvest was just a week away when rain ruined their lives. The government should give relief to all farmers whether they had insured crops or not. hey demanded Rs. 50,000 per acre for chilli growers and Rs. 75,000 per acre for those who had raised cash crops. A senior official from the Agriculture Department said that they had conducted a survey and admitted that many crops had been destroyed due to water logging and continuous rain. However, he said that a final decision on the compensation would be decided by the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-seek-relief/article33613736.ece
20 January 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Salem Corpn. healthcare workers vaccinated||Salem Corporation healthcare workers and a few private practitioners received the COVID-19 vaccine shot at a special camp held at Kumarasamipatti Urban Primary Health Centre on Monday. According to a release, a similar camp was held at Thadagapatti PHC. City Health Officer K. Parthibhan, 6 doctors in Urban PHCs, Corporation Maternal Welfare Officer N. Sumathi and 206 healthcare workers under the Salem Corporation took the vaccine here.  Private practitioners numbering 25 also took the shot in the camp. Corporation Commissioner N. Ravichandran reviewed the arrangements at the camp.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-corpn-healthcare-workers-vaccinated/article33613769.ece
20 January 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Anna Park works inspected||Salem Corporation Commissioner N. Ravichandran on Tuesday inspected the renovation works at Anna Park here. The park near Mahatma Gandhi stadium is being redeveloped under Smart Cities Mission. According to a release, 7,200 sq.ft. of snow world is being readied besides a family pool, artificial waterfall, merry-go-round, laser light show and an LED open theatre. The works are being carried out at Rs. 12.9 crore. Mr. Ravichandran advised officials to complete the works at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/anna-park-works-inspected/article33613767.ece
20 January 2021||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||Sevvai Pongal celebrated||A large number of women participated in the ‘Sevvai Pongal’ celebrations at Sri Kannudaya Nayaki Amman Temple on Tuesday. The ‘Nagarathaars,’ who lived in different parts of Tamil Nadu and overseas, used to celebrate the first Tuesday after the Pongal festival at the temple here from time immemorial. The participants, who came here from far and wide, had to register their names to offer Pongal on the temple premises. The lucky person, drawn by a lot, would have the privilege to be the first on the row. This year, the organisers said, 917 persons participated in the Sevvai Pongal. ‘It was a great occasion. I don’t want to miss the opportunity,’ said Kannamai, a participant from Nattarasankottai, who lives in Chennai. The organisers said that the family of Chokkalingam was the lucky winner this year. About 400 people used to participate till 15 years ago. However, with the number of people evincing interest increasing year after year, the number of participants was going close to 1,000, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sevvai-pongal-celebrated/article33613743.ece
20 January 2021||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||Former Sub-Registrar gets jail term||Suryakala, 60, in Singampunari, a former sub-registrar, was directed to undergo four years of jail term and pay a fine of Rs. 10,000 for demanding Rs. 1,500 as bribe to get a document registered in 2015.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-sub-registrar-gets-jail-term/article33614437.ece
20 January 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Rajinikanth prefers questioning through videoconferencing||Rajinikanth, who had been summoned by the Aruna Jegadeesan Commission to depose before it on Tuesday in connection with the police firing in the anti-Sterlite protest violence, did not turn up. Instead, his counsel Ilambharathi filed an affidavit on his behalf suggesting that Mr. Rajinikanth was prepared to appear before the panel through videoconferencing. Since the commission has videoconferencing facility only in its Chennai office, Mr. Rajinikanth may be questioned through videoconferencing if the panel allows the actor’s plea or may be asked to appear in person for questioning in the Chennai office. “Trials in most of the cases are being conducted through videoconferencing now. If our request is admitted, Mr. Rajinikanth may be questioned through videoconferencing after two or three months,” Mr. Ilambharathi said after filing the affidavit here on Tuesday. The advocate said Mr. Rajinikanth had answered the questionnaire sent by the commission in March last and that he was ready to answer a fresh questionnaire also. After visiting the police firing victims in the Thoothukudi Government Medical College Hospital, Mr. Rajinikanth had said the anti-socials who had infiltrated the anti-Sterlite protest had triggered violence and arson forcing the police to open fire in which 13 persons were killed on May 22, 2018. He claimed that he had credible evidences to prove his charges. Based on this, the commission summoned him to appear before the panel on February 25 last but did not turn up saying that his personal appearance would cause inconvenience to the public. However, the commission issued the second summons on December 21, last asking the actor to appear for questioning on January 19 even as the 24th phase of the probing is going on. So far, 586 persons have deposed before the commission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rajinikanth-prefers-appearance-via-video-conferencing/article33613730.ece
20 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Classes resume for X and XII students||Classroom activities were revived for students of X and XII on Tuesday in government and private schools in central districts after the sanitisation of buildings and other preparatory groundwork in the preceding days. School heads said the campus had to be cleaned up and benches and desks re-arranged. Most of the schools, apparently, chose to keep laboratory activities in abeyance. In Tiruchi, heads of about 505 schools started off the classroom sessions for over 74,000 students in levels X and XII. The headmasters had done the groundwork in recent days to comply with the safety protocol, that included sanitisation of classrooms, and re-arrangement of benches and desks to make sure there are not more than 25 students in a classroom, R. Arivazhagan, Chief Educational Officer, Tiruchi, said. Since the classes resumed only for X and XII, private schools were instructed to operate more number of buses so that 25 students could be seated in each. Likewise, students of government schools were instructed by their teachers to make the maximum use of their bicycles, provided free of cost by the government, as mode of transport. Headmasters have also been asked to reach out to the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation if there were more number of students who preferred to travel by buses over bicycles, the CEO said. For the first time, the School Education Department drafted the services of BT teachers with PG qualifications to handle classes for Tenth and in case of dire need, even Plus Two. To the maximum extent possible, a teacher will be handling a student strength of 50 in two batches simultaneously, alternating between teaching and assigning writing work for each batch, Mr. Arivazhagan said. In other districts In Perambalur district, Collector P. Srivenkat Priya accompanied the Chairman of Teachers Recruitment Board L. Nirmalraj, and the Chief Educational Officer K. Mathivanan, for inspection of government schools at Kunnam, Melmathur, for a spot assessment of the COVID control measures undertaken in the campuses. According to officials, there was 70.64 % attendance for X standard and 68.7 % for XII standard. In Pudukottai district, Collector P. Uma Maheshwari said 43,500 students of X and XII levels attended classes in 348 schools. The Collector visited the Raniyar Government Girls' Higher Secondary School.Students can use the free bus passes for to and fro travel. There was no compulsion for students to come to schools. In Thanjavur district, Collector M. Govinda Rao undertook the inspection at the Government HIgher Secondary School in Melullur in Orthanad block. Officials made sure that the arrangements for thermal screening, physical distancing, and disinfection were in place in all the 227 goverment high and higher secondary schools in the district. Nagapattinam Collector P. Praveen Kumar conducted a review of the COVID prevention measures in the school at a meeting of senior officials of school education department on Tuesday. The use of sanitisers and thermal scanners in schools will be constantly monitored. There was no cause for apprehension for parents about safety of their wards, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/classes-resume-for-x-and-xii-students/article33613713.ece
20 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||61 fresh cases in central region||The central districts on Tuesday recorded 61 new cases of COVID-19. According to the medical bulletin issued by the Health Department, Tiruchi district recorded the maximum number of cases with 17 patients testing positive for the virus followed by Thanjavur with 16 cases. Nagapattinam recorded 11 cases. The day’s count in Pudukottai district was seven and Tiruvarur five. There were four new cases in Karur. Ariyalur and Perambalur recorded one each. A total of 20 patients were discharged from various hospitals in Tiruchi district on Tuesday. Thanjavur district saw the discharge of 15 patients and 13 patients in Tiruvarur district. Fourteen patients were discharged in Nagapattinam district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/61-fresh-cases-in-central-region/article33613715.ece
20 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Two detained under POCSO Act||A 29-year-old man has been arrested on the charge of sexually assaulting a minor girl and attempting to kill her in a village in Vaiyampatti police station limits in the district on Monday. The accused, Suresh, who escaped from the spot, was later caught by the public and handed over to the police. Police said the girl was grazing cattle when Suresh accosted and sexually assaulted her. When the girl raised an alarm, Suresh picked up stones and hit on her head causing injury to her before fleeing from the spot. Acting on a complaint preferred by the victim's father, the Manapparai All Women Police arrested Suresh and booked a case against him under IPC section 307 (attempt to murder) read with section 8 of the POCSO Act. In another incident, the Jeeyapuram All Women Police on Monday arrested a 25-year-old man on the charge of kidnapping a 16-year-old minor girl and tying ‘thali’ on her neck in a temple at Kolli Hills recently. The accused, S. Arun, was arrested on a complaint preferred by the girl’s mother. He later left the girl in her house near Musiri. A case has been booked under sections 3 and 4 of the POCSO Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-detained-under-pocso-act/article33614428.ece
20 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Clean-up drive from today||The Tiruchi corporation plans to carry out a massive clean-up drive in the city from Wednesday. The exercise will continue till January 31. Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian said the special drive would be conducted in all 65 wards in the city. It was aimed at clearing the backlog in various parts of the city. Sanitary Inspectors of the respective wards would supervise the exercise. He said the backlog was due to the shortage of sanitary workers. In each ward, 25 places had been identified for cleaning. The focus would be on 25 locations to collect and remove the garbage, including bio degradable and non degradable ones. Mr. Sivasubramanian said he would conduct a surprise check on the efficiency of the drive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/clean-up-drive-from-today/article33614427.ece
20 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Awardee felicitated||Soma Veerappan, who has been selected for the State government’s Tamil Chemmal Award 2020 for Tiruchi district, was felicitated at a function organised by the Nagarathar Sangam in the city recently. TR.Subbiah Chettiar , AVK.Chockalingam Chettiar and SNSRM. Muthiah Chettiar, former presidents of the association, commended Mr. Veerappan’s contribution to Tamil literature. C. Meenakshi Sundaram Chettiar, president, and S.Ramanathan Chettiar, secretary, and Mr. Veerappan spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/awardee-felicitated/article33613709.ece
20 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Woman robbed of gold chains||Two identified persons allegedly attacked a woman and robbed her of gold chains weighing 14 sovereigns from her house at Lakshmi Narayana Nagar along Melur Road in Srirangam in the early hours of Tuesday. The duo who came in a motorcycle gained entry after breaking the rear door of the house. The woman, Sindhuja, her mother-in-law and few others were asleep when the culprits struck and escaped with the valuables.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-robbed-of-gold-chains/article33614426.ece
20 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level at Mettur dam stood at 105.83 feet on Tuesday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 1,168 cusecs and the discharge 500 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article33613718.ece
20 January 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Classes for Plus Two, SSLC students begin||With the standard operating procedures framed by the Department of Public Health put in place in the wake of COVID-19, classes for the SSLC and the Plus Two students commenced on Tuesday as they have to take the public examination. As the students of 312 government, government-aided and the matriculation higher secondary schools returned after ten months to the school premises on Tuesday with masks, their body temperature was measured with thermal scanners and were given sanitizers to clean their hands at the entrance of the school. Since 25 students were seated in each classroom, qualified teachers who are handling lower classes were also asked to take care of them as they had to be seated in additional classrooms. Collector V. Vishnu inspected for safety measures at Kallanai Corporation Higher Secondary School in Tirunelveli Town where 685 Plus Two students and 677 SSLC students were attending the classes. He inquired headmistress J. Natchiyar about the safety measures taken on the school premises. “More than 90% of the students have turned up for the classes that commenced today. The school has ensured physical distancing even as the students are attending the classes,” Mr. Vishnu said. Instead of taking regular classes, the teachers, who came to the classes on the first day, gave counseling to the students particularly on protecting themselves from COVID-19 and gave an outline about the public examination. After the end of the working hours at 4.30 p.m., the SSLC and the Plus Two students were allowed to leave the campus within 15 minutes gap to avoid crowding. Students who had to take the government buses were not asked to produce the bus passes, they said. In Tenkasi district, where 241 high, higher secondary and the matriculation schools reopened on Tuesday, Collector G.S. Sameeran inspected the Government Higher Secondary School at Melagaram. In Thoothukudi, 316 schools were reopened on Tuesday while 12 schools were exempted from reopening due to rainwater stagnating on the premises of these schools. In Kanniyakumari district, 426 high, higher secondary and the matriculation schools reopened to receive the Plus Two and the SSLC students on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/classes-for-plus-two-sslc-students-begin/article33614433.ece
20 January 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Drinking water supply restored||As the recent floods in the Tamirabharani, the worst after the infamous 1992 floods, has damaged the infiltration wells in the perennial river, TWAD Board has made special efforts to ensure early supply of drinking water from these wells to the public, particularly in rural areas. Officials said Tirunelveli, Tenkasi and Thoothukudi districts, which received unseasonal and unexpected downpour between January 11 and 14, led to overflow from dams, especially the Papanasam, the Manimuthar and the Servalaar after the northeast monsoon in November and December had considerably jacked up the water level in these reservoirs. Consequently, the Tamirabharani experienced heavy flood for six days with the discharge of over 70,000 cusecs of water from Papanasam, Manimuthar, Servalar, Gadana and Ramanadhi dams. Since the heavy discharge of water in the river hit a few hundred infiltration wells sunk along the Tamirabharani watercourse, supply of drinking water to various local bodies in Tirunelveli, Tenkasi, Thoothukudi and Virudhunagar districts was completely disrupted. TWAD Board Managing Director C.N. Maheswaran ordered deployment of 20 teams to repair infiltration wells so as to ensure early restoration of drinking water supply to consumers. “A total of 120 persons including engineers, geologists and water quality analysts have been involved in the exercise to ascertain the quantum of damage caused to infiltration wells, for repairing damaged structures and pumps and ensuring early distribution of the determined quantity of water at the right quality to residents,” he said after his field inspection on Tuesday. He said that supply of drinking water to the residents had resumed from 15 of the 46 combined drinking water schemes by Monday evening. “The remaining schemes will start supplying drinking water at the earliest,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drinking-water-supply-restored/article33614436.ece
20 January 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Ready to face changes in Puducherry alliance, says K.S. Alagiri||The Congress is ready to face whatever changes that occur in its alliance with the DMK in Puducherry, said Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K.S. Alagiri in Tiruppur on Tuesday. Mr Alagiri told journalists that the Congress preferred to continue ties with its allies, but was also ready to contest alone in the poll-bound Union Territory. However, he clarified that there were no contradictions in the DMK-Congress alliance inTamil Nadu. He chaired a review meeting in Tiruppur on Tuesday regarding the campaign visit of former Congress president Rahul Gandhi to the districts in the State’s western region from January 23. Mr. Gandhi will interact with industrialists from Coimbatore and Tiruppur districts during his visit, he said. Mr. Alagiri added that Mr. Gandhi’s campaign visits to the State would be “five times more” than his campaign visits for the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. However, his January 23 visit would be solely for election campaigning and not to conduct talks on seat-sharing, he said. On a question regarding Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan, Mr. Alagiri said if Mr. Haasan decided to join the DMK-Congress alliance, the Congress would welcome it. Mr. Alagiri claimed people would not have hesitated getting vaccinated against COVID-19 had Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Ministers taken the vaccine shots first.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ready-to-face-changes-in-puducherry-alliance-ks-alagiri/article33613750.ece
20 January 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Cong. ready to face changes in Puducherry alliance: K.S. Alagiri||The Congress is ready to face whatever changes occur in its alliance with the DMK in Puducherry, said Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K.S. Alagiri in Tiruppur on Tuesday. Mr. Alagiri told journalists that the Congress prefers to continue its ties with the allies, but is also ready to contest alone in the poll-bound Union Territory. However, he clarified that there are no contradictions in the DMK-Congress alliance as far as Tamil Nadu is concerned. He chaired a review meeting in Tiruppur on Tuesday regarding the campaign visit of former Congress president Rahul Gandhi to the districts in the State’s western region starting from January 23. Mr. Gandhi will interact with industrialists from Coimbatore and Tiruppur districts during his visit, he said. Mr. Alagiri added that Mr. Gandhi’s campaign visits to the State will be “five times more” than his campaign visits for the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. However, his January 23 visit will be solely for election campaigning and not to conduct talks on seat-sharing, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cong-ready-to-face-changes-in-puducherry-alliance-ks-alagiri/article33614204.ece
20 January 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Farmers demand adequate release of water||A section of farmers has gone on an indefinite hunger strike at Kangeyam from Tuesday, demanding adequate release of water under the Parambikulam-Aliyar Project (PAP) to the Vellakoil branch canal. The demonstration was organised by the PAP-Vellakoil Branch Canal Water Protection Committee comprising farmers from Kangeyam and Vellakoil Blocks. According to one of its members R. Eswaramoorthy, nearly 48,000 acres of agricultural land depend on the Vellakoil branch canal. As per the Parambikulam-Aliyar Project (Regulation of Water Supply) Act, the water was released for seven days and closed for another seven days from 1994 till 2012 through the branch canal, he said. However, Mr. Eswaramoothy alleged that the Public Works Department (PWD) has not been regularly releasing the water in the past eight years. While water was supposed to be released for 14 days in a month, the officials are releasing the water for only three days per month, which is inadequate for cultivation of crops such as groundnut and corn, he alleged. No action was taken by the District Administration and PWD despite multiple representations made in the past, he claimed. “Our demand is release of water as per government regulations. We are not asking for even one litre of extra water,” Mr. Eswaramoorthy said. About 50 members of the PAP-Vellakoil Branch Canal Water Protection Committee began their hunger strike at Kangeyam on Tuesday while hundreds of other members and members of other associations participated in a demonstration, he said. In solidarity with the protest, many shops and commercial establishments were closed on Tuesday morning at Vellakoil and Kangeyam Blocks. When contacted, Dharapuram Sub-Collector Pavankumar G. Giriyappanavar said the District Administration is coordinating with the PWD officials regarding the release of water in the Vellakoil branch canal. “Once the PWD officials see the possibility of their grievances, further action will be taken,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-demand-adequate-release-of-water/article33614214.ece
20 January 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Revenue officials petition Collector||Members of the Tamil Nadu Revenue Officers’ Association (TNROA) submitted a petition containing 10 demands to Tiruppur District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan on Tuesday. The demands included salary hike to the employees of Revenue Department from Office Assistants to Tahsildars, providing training to new entrants of the department at the respective district headquarters and reinstatement of the previous pension scheme. The TNROA members warned of strikes and protests if the State government does not meet their demands, according to the petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/revenue-officials-petition-collector/article33614219.ece
20 January 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Injured tusker captured by Forest Dept. for treatment dies||Efforts to treat an injured tusker in the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) failed after the 40-year-old elephant died while on the way to Theppakadu elephant camp on Tuesday. The elephant, which was found with an injury to its back in December, had gradually weakened over the last few weeks. A few days ago it was seen with a serious injury to its ear. Local residents claimed that the animal had sustained the injury after being attacked with a petrol bomb. These claims were quickly dismissed by the Forest Department officials. The elephant that was roaming around villages in the buffer zone of the MTR for the last two months, was captured on Tuesday morning with the help of four kumki elephants – Wasim, Vijay, Giri and Krishna. Deputy Director of MTR (Buffer Zone), L.C.S. Srikanth, said that the animal was found near Masinagudi. Forest Veterinary Officer Sugumaran and veterinary assistant surgeon, Theppakadu, Rajesh Kumar were involved in the operation to dart the tusker, after which it was loaded onto a flat-bed truck and taken to Theppakadu. The animal is believed to have died on the way to the elephant camp. Serious injury Dr. Sugumaran said that it seemed likely that the animal had sustained the serious injury to its ear by “anti-social elements” who threw a crude petrol bomb at it. K.K.Kaushal, Field Director of MTR, said that “prima facie” it seemed unlikely that the elephant was injured by miscreants as there was a dedicated forest team monitoring its movements since December. However, he said that the forest department would continue to investigate how the elephant sustained such a serious injury to its ear. “We will find the culprits responsible if it turns out that the wound was caused by people,” said Mr. Kaushal. A Nilgiris-based conservationist familiar with the elephant said that the death of the tusker represented a failure on many levels. “This elephant was known to stray close to human habitations, and people, especially resort owners who used to feed it. It was an open secret that was not discouraged, which has ultimately led to its death, quite possibly at the hands of the same people who used to feed it,” said the conservationist. He questioned the decision to tranquillise an animal that was already in an extremely weakened state. “It is risky to tranquillise even healthy elephants. Seeing that this tusker was quite docile, there could have been arrangements made to treat him at the same place without moving him to Theppakadu,” said the conservationist, requesting anonymity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/injured-tusker-captured-by-forest-department-for-treatment-dies/article33613772.ece
20 January 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Nilgiris district police get 500 VVPOs||To build a better rapport with local communities, the Nilgiris district police have assigned Village Vigilance Police Officers (VVPOs) for more than 854 villages and hamlets across the district. The policing initiative is aimed at building ties with local communities and pre-emptively working towards solving problems faced by the communities, especially those in remote, inaccessible areas. Around 500 police personnel, of the rank of head constable and constable have been assigned the task of visiting their assigned hamlets and villages at least once a week, interact with residents and hear their grievances. When contacted, Nilgiris District Superintendent of Police V.Sasi Mohan said that the police had identified 54 major villages across the district, known as “mother villages” and 800 smaller hamlets. ‘Mother village’ At least one head constable has been assigned to be the VVPO of each mother village and hamlet. “In some cases, one constable has been assigned to be the VVPO of a number of nearby hamlets,” said Mr. Sasi Mohan. “The VVPOs have been assigned the task of meeting villagers and compiling data about the grievances that the villagers have. We hope that the police can then work with other government departments to solve the problems in each village. This pre-emptive policing initiative will hopefully solve issues before they become a problem,” said Mr. Sasi Mohan. Each officer in-charge of a village or a hamlet will also form a “group chat” with select members of the community in each village so that they can be in contact with each other through mobile messaging applications.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nilgiris-district-police-get-500-vvpos/article33614220.ece
20 January 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Residential schools remain closed in the Nilgiris||In the Nilgiris, most residential schools remained closed for the time being, with school authorities stating that they plan to reopen by the end of the month. “We are working on ensuring that the SOPs established by the government can be implemented before the schools and boarding can be reopened for students,” said an official from one of the schools. Nilgiris district Chief Education Officer A. Nasrudeen said that the government had given its approval to residential schools to open as well, but said that some of them had chosen not to. School education authorities said that of the 218 schools in the Nilgiris, there were 18,034 students who were studying in Class 10 and Class 12. Officials said that around 95 % of students in these two classes attended school on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residential-schools-remain-closed-in-the-nilgiris/article33614221.ece
20 January 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||90% of students turn up||More than 90% of students turned up in schools when classes resumed for SSLC and Plus Two in this district on Tuesday. Collector R. Kannan, who inspected some schools, instructed officials to ensure standard operating procedure strictly. Virudhunagar district has got 28,710 students in SSLC and 23,153 students in Plus Two in 388 government, aided, private and CBSE/ICSE schools. “Students who had practical difficulties in getting their doubts in subjects clarified through online classes, were every enthusiastic in coming to the classrooms,” Chief Educational Officer, K. Baladhandayuthapani, said. The students would be taught the reduced portion of the syllabus. Special teams of teachers have been formed in each school to ensure that the students wear masks and maintain social distancing during their stay in the school premises. “Even those students who get food through nutritious meal scheme are asked to maintain social distancing,” the CEO said. Heads of Schools, Jayashri (Thangammal Periyasamy Nadar Municipal Girls Higher Secondary School) Parameswaran (Pandalgudi Government Boys Higher Secondary School), were present during the Collector’s inspection. Sivaganga A total of 19,715 SSLC students and 16,363 Plus Two students studying in 314 schools in the district attended classes on Tuesday. Collector P Madhusudhan Reddy inspected a school in Sivaganga. Chief Educational Officer Balumuthu said the teachers were given adequate counselling on safety protocols to be followed during the classes. In Karaikudi, teachers at the Ramanathan Chettiar Municipal Higher Secondary School offered flowers to students. The Devakottai District Education Officer Shanmuganathan said that physical distancing would be maintained in all the classes and the teachers have been adequately counselled. School Head Master Peter Raja and others welcomed the students. Ramanathapuram Collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver inspected the arrangements made at the Thondi Boys Government Higher Secondary School. In a brief chat with students, he advised them to adhere to the COVID-19 protocol strictly and cooperate with the school administration. He also wished them good luck in their academic career.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/90-of-students-turn-up/article33613748.ece
20 January 2021||January 20 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore dist. reports 58 new cases||Coimbatore district on Tuesday reported 58 new cases of COVID-19 while 98 persons got discharged from different hospitals after recovering from the disease. The Health Department on Tuesday said that a 55-year-old man from Coimbatore died at the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital on Sunday. According to the Health Department, 889 persons received Covishield vaccination in Coimbatore district on Tuesday. The Coimbatore Medical College Hospital administered the vaccine to the maximum number of 386 beneficiaries on the day. At the ESI Hospital, its Dean A. Nirmala received the vaccine shot. Tiruppur district reported 20 fresh cases, taking its case tally to stand at 17,585 cases. No deaths were reported in the district, according to the Health Department. As many as 17,163 patients have recovered and 202 were active cases. Tiruppur district reported 220 deaths overall. On Tuesday, 29 patients from the district were discharged from various treatment centres. A total of 462 frontline workers in Tiruppur district took the vaccines, taking the overall tally of those vaccinated to 1,191. The Health Department said that 54 frontline workers were vaccinated at the Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital, 34 at Udumalpet Government Hospital, 110 at Dharapuram Government Hospital and 264 at Perumanallur Primary Health Centre. In the Nilgiris, eight persons tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 8,121. The number of deaths in the district stood at 47 on Tuesday while 65 people are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-dist-reports-58-new-cases/article33614222.ece
20 January 2021||January 20 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||17 tonnes of turmeric, beedi leaves seized||The police have seized 17 tonnes of turmeric and beedi leaves. The Q Branch police received information that turmeric and beedi leaves, both meant to be smuggled to Sri Lanka by boat, have been stocked in a godown at Madaththur. When the team conducted a check in the godown and a cargo auto parked inside the godown on Tuesday, 11 tonnes of turmeric, worth about Rs. 6.60 lakh, and 5.95 tonnes of beedi leaves, worth about Rs. 4.75 lakh, were seized. The seized turmeric, beedi leaves and the cargo autorickshaw were later handed over to the SIPCOT Police Station for registration of case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/17-tonnes-of-turmeric-beedi-leaves-seized/article33614430.ece
20 January 2021||January 20 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Erode reports 22 fresh COVID-19 cases||Erode district reported 22 new COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the district’s tally to 14,117. While 11 persons were discharged, 140 persons continue to be under treatment. One person died, raising the toll to 148. Salem reported 18 indigenous cases. In Namakkal, nine cases were reported. Three patients returned from Coimbatore and Salem. Krishnagiri saw five new cases and three persons were discharged. The number of active cases stood at 61 and the total number of infections 8,014. Dharmapuri reported one case and five persons were discharged. There were 37 active cases in the district. The total number of infections stood at 6,540.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-reports-22-fresh-covid-19-cases/article33613754.ece
20 January 2021||January 20 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Correction||In the report, ‘Free bicycles distributed,’ published in the Tiruchi edition on December 31, 2020, the cost of the bicycles distributed to Plus One students in Pudukottai district over the past four years should have been mentioned as Rs. 26.48 crore. A Department of Information and Public Relations release, quoted in the report, had erroneously mentioned the cost as Rs. 52.43 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/correction/article33613719.ece
20 January 2021||January 20 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Salem||V.M.K.V. Engineering College: Science club lecturer series, 3 p.m.     Excel Engineering College: AICTE-sponsored six-day online short-term training programme on secure data optimisation in IoT using GNU radio companion and USRP, 10 a.m.     RD National College of Arts and Science: Virtual Pongal celebrations, 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem/article33613768.ece
20 January 2021||January 20 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||Peelamedu sub-station (January 21: 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.): Bharathi Colony, Elango Nagar, Burani Colony, Shoba Nagar, Ganapathy Industrial Estate, Police quarters, Krishnarajapuram, Athipalayam Pirivu, Ramakrishnapuram, Avarampalayam, Ganesh Nagar, VG Rao Nagar, PSG Estates, PSG Hospital, Kamathenu Nagar, Nehru Nagar, Anna Nagar, Arumugam Layout, Indira Nagar, Nava India, Gopal Nagar, Peelamedu Pudhur, Ellaithottam, VOC Colony, PKD Nagar, Akilandeshwari Nagar, Puliakulam, Amman Kulam, Bharathipuram, Pankaja Mill, Damu Nagar, Balasubramaniam Nagar, Balaguru Garden, Sowripalayam, Krishna Colony, Rajaji Nagar, Meena Estate, Udayampalayam, Rajiv Gandhi Nagar, Parson Apartments, Sripathi Nagar, Kallimadai, Ramanathapuram, part of Tiruchi Road, Nanjundapuram Road, and Thiruvalluvar Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article33614215.ece
20 January 2021||January 20 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore today||Adithya School of Business Management : Online training on governing Social Responsibility Initiatives, 11 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-today/article33614216.ece
20 January 2021||January 20 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||In Tiruchi Today||RELIGION  Sri Mariamman Temple: Thai poosam festival, Amman thiruveedhi ula in pallakku, 10 a.m.; abishekam, 5 p.m.; maha deeparadhana, 7 p.m.; Amman thiruveedhi ula in mara simha vaganam,8 p.m.; reaching sanctum sanctorum, Samayapuram, 9 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/in-tiruchi-today/article33614429.ece
20 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Karnataka leads the way in vaccination||Karnataka has reported the highest number of health care workers across India to have been vaccinated in the country over the last four days since the drive began. A press release by the Press Information Bureau (PIB) on Tuesday stated that as many as 80,686 healthcare workers were vaccinated against COVID-19 in the State. The data is as per the provisional report which includes the cumulative number of healthcare workers vaccinated as of 6 p.m. on Tuesday. Across India, 6.31 lakh people have been vaccinated in 11,660 sessions. After Karnataka, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh have secured the second and third spots in the number of beneficiaries vaccinated so far. Pankaj Kumar Pandey, Commissioner, Department of Health and Family Welfare said that good planning and hard work by their staff helped in ensuring that Karnataka led the way in vaccination in the country. Covaxin is being administered at vaccine sites set up in district hospitals of Chikkamagaluru, Hassan, Ballari, Shivamogga, Chamarajanagar and Davangere, while the healthcare workers in other districts are being administered the Covishield vaccine. In Karnataka, two people have had major adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) and required hospitalization. While one person is discharged, another person is stable and under observation at the district hospital in Chitradurga. 15,223 get vaccine in the State Meanwhile, on Tuesday alone as many as 15, 223 health care workers were vaccinated as of 6 p.m. in Karnataka. The State achieved 47% of the target for the day. Vaccination was not scheduled in six districts in the State including Chickballapur, Kolar, Mysuru, Uttara Kannada, Vijayapura and Yadgir.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karnataka-leads-the-way-in-vaccination/article33613812.ece
20 January 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Oil conservation initiative||Saksham, an oil conservation month organised under the aegis of Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas, the Petroleum Conservation Research Association along with the oil industry, was inaugurated on Monday. Minister of Food and Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs, Government of Karnataka, K. Gopalaiah lauded the oil industry for its contribution in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. Stressing the need for conservation of petroleum products, Mr. Gopalaiah said that the companies are spreading the message of oil conservation and reaching out to various sections of society. Several oil conservation programmes have been planned across the State this year, he said. Executive Director and State Head, Indian Oil and State-level Coordinator of Oil Industry, Karnataka, D.L. Pramodh outlined the month-long conservation awareness activities. “We must move forward and adopt alternate sources of energy right from CNG, LNG and other forms, and use fossil fuel in the most optimum manner,” he said. Awards in various categories were presented by virtual mode to various depots across Karnataka for maximum optimisation in fuel consumption, the release stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/oil-conservation-initiative/article33614176.ece
20 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||645 test positive||As many as 645 people across the State tested positive for COVID-19 on Tuesday, taking the total number of cases to 9,33,077. With six patients succumbing to the virus - four from Bengaluru Urban district, one each in Bengaluru Rural and Mandya districts - the death toll rose to 12,181. This is apart from the 19 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 807 people, who recovered from COVID-19 were discharged on Tuesday, taking the total number of recoveries to 9,10,377. Of the remaining 7,865 active patients, 172 people are in ICUs. The positivity rate for the day stood at 0.79%, while Case Fatality Rate (CFR) was 0.93%. Bengaluru Urban reported the maximum number of cases - 357 - across Karnataka, taking its tally to 3,95,509. As many as 80,925 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 72,393 RT-PCR tests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/645-test-positive/article33613820.ece
20 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Dissidence among ministerial aspirants refuses to die down||Dissidence among ministerial aspirants who failed to make the cut has refused to die down. Chief Minister’s political secretary M.P. Renukacharya, who had said that he would host a meeting of disgruntled MLAs on Tuesday, instead flew to Delhi and met Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi to discuss the “current political situation”. “Chief minister B.S. Yediyurappa called me when I was in the meeting. I have a lot of respect for him and will not speak ill of him. Our only contention is that he provided ministerial berths to those who lost the polls, while several of us were denied a chance,” he said. He had met BJP national general secretary in charge of Karnataka Arun Singh over the issue. Meanwhile, senior MLAs, Shivanagouda Nayak and G.H. Thippareddy, asserted their aspirations and their dissatisfaction at the recent Cabinet expansion. “There are several seniors like us who have not got a chance at administration. Till now, the BJP has come to power twice in the State and the same persons are being made Ministers,” Mr. Thippareddy said.. “We demand that all those who have been Ministers for the past 20 months must be deputed for organisation work and a chance must be given to others as per seniority. Only this can help improve the image of the government and win the 2023 Assembly elections,” Mr. Nayak said. Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai held a meeting with two disgruntled MLAs, Arvind Bellad and H. Nagesh, on the directions of the Chief Minister, sources in the party said. Meanwhile, when asked about disgruntled BJP MLA Renukacharya visiting party leaders in Delhi, Mr. Yediyurappa told reporters in Kundapur that he had already spoken to him and would meet him to sort out the differences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dissidence-among-ministerial-aspirants-refuses-to-die-down/article33613821.ece
20 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Confidence-building measures to encourage staff to get the jab||Amidst growing rumours that the cure may be worse than the novel coronavirus itself, the Department of Health and Family Welfare and private hospitals across the State are taking up awareness programmes and initiating confidence-building measures to convince healthcare workers and those on the frontlines to get vaccinated against COVID-19. Others are harnessing social media platforms to spread the word on the need to protect themselves. A senior official in the department said they had roped in eminent doctors to get vaccinated and are using social media to address fears and stamp down on rumours. “The heads of several private and government hospitals are among the first ones to take the jab. This has encouraged many of their staff to also get the shot,” said the official. Another health official pointed out that they will schedule a ‘mop-up round’ and schedule awareness sessions at hospitals which have reported a poor response to the vaccination drive. Private hospitals, too, have adopted similar strategies. Heads of hospitals are coming forward and getting vaccinated ahead of junior doctors and nurses. Swati Rajagopal, consultant, infectious diseases and travel medicine, Aster CMI Hospital, said that the doctors who are getting vaccinated are putting up social media posts of them taking the jab. Anoop Amarnath, chairman, geriatric medicine and member, Critical Care Support Group, said that the senior leadership and senior doctors are hoping this will boost the morale of their teams. In addition to this, they were also conducting counselling sessions for their staff. “We had multiple booths that were open to ensure that people did not wait in the queue,” he said.  The heads of several private and government hospitals are among the first ones to take the jab. This has encouraged many of their staff to also get the shot Health Department official   We had multiple booths to reduce queue. We made it logistically easy to ensure that our staff knew where and when to get vaccinated Anoop Amarnath, chairman, geriatric medicine and member, Critical Care Support Group||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/confidence-building-measures-to-encourage-staff-to-get-the-jab/article33613813.ece
20 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||TKM signs MoU with Centre for skill development||Toyota Kirloskar Motor (TKM) has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Directorate General of Training (DGT), Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship, to develop skills among youth under the Flexi-MoU Scheme of the Union government. Toyota Koushalya, a new programme, will take the MoU forward by focussing on training and developing students at the Toyota Technical Training Institute (TTTI) at Bidadi. The institute imparts world-class skills training to youth from economically weaker sections of the society from rural areas of Karnataka. Under the Flexi-MoU scheme, TKM has been identified as the Industrial Training Provider to develop skilled human resources for manufacturing companies and first-time entrepreneurs, according to a TKM statement. Neelam Shami Rao, director, Directorate General of Training, Government of India, said, “The Flexi-MoU scheme allows industries to train candidates as per their skill set requirements and provides trainees with an industry environment aligned with the market demand and latest technology.” G. Shankara , vice-president, HR and Services, TKM, said, “The success of Toyota comes from our people and we are a people-oriented company. In this perspective, we take care of the holistic well-being of every member by developing their skill, knowledge and attitude from a mid-to-long-term perspective.” According to TKM, Toyota Koushalya helps the youth to acquire skills relevant to the manufacturing industry and improve their employment potential through a ‘Learn and Earn’ approach consisting a mix of theoretical and on-the-job training. Young students who passed their 10th standard and facing difficulty in affording higher education will be eligible for this two-year programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tkm-signs-mou-with-centre-for-skill-development/article33613828.ece
20 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||High Court upholds Land Grabbing Prohibition Act||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday upheld the constitutional validity of the Karnataka Land Grabbing Prohibition Act, 2011 and directed the State government to set up special courts, preferably in every district, as only one special court exists in Bengaluru for the entire State. Also, the court held that the special court would have to mainly adopt procedure for trial of warrant cases as prescribed in the Code of Criminal Procedure and would have to record in writing the reasons in case of adopting procedure prescribed to conduct trial in summary manner. However, the Bench struck a provision in Section 9(4) of the Act, which read as “additional evidence, if any adduced in the civil proceedings shall not be considered by the special court while determining the criminal liability” while terming it as unconstitutional. Petitions dismissed A Division Bench comprising Justice Aravind Kumar and Justice B.A. Patil delivered the verdict while disposing of more than 250 petitions, filed by Shriram Properties Pvt. Ltd., Uma Balagavi, and several others since 2017. The petitioners had challenged the constitutional validity of the Act, which came into force in 2014, and the proceedings initiated before the special court. Noticing that around 7,800 cases of land-grabbing were registered before the special court since the Act came into force, and that around 4,400 of these cases were still pending for adjudication, the Bench said that the government had to set up special courts preferably in all the districts depending upon the necessity and feasibility. Small and poor farmers staying in remote places in many districts might be facing charges of land-grabbing for tilling government land adjacent to their land and such persons would face severe hardship besides losing their earnings if they have to come to Bengaluru to attend court proceedings, the Bench observed while directing the government to set up more special courts in different districts as the amendment made to the Act in 2020 had a provision to set up more special courts. Meanwhile, the Bench set aside the proceedings against some of the petitioners, and in some cases it directed the special court not to take coercive action against the petitioners till it decides their pleas in term of Tuesday’s order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/high-court-upholds-land-grabbing-prohibition-act/article33613830.ece
20 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Draft academic calendar: No semester breaks, 6-day week||Keeping in mind the days lost in the current academic year, the Higher Education Department has issued a draft academic calendar for 2020-21 as well as 2021-22 for UG, PG and engineering programmes. This was decided during a meeting with Vice-Chancellors of State-run universities which was presided over by Deputy Chief Minister and Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan on Tuesday. According to the draft, there will be no break in between semesters and universities will follow a six-day week. According to the draft, colleges will reopen for the 2021-22 academic year by October 4. Mr. Narayana said the draft will be finalised once they receive feedback from stakeholders. At the meeting, the VCs also pointed out that the University Grants Commission mandates that there should be a minimum of 90 working days for each semester. Universities located in Hyderabad Karnataka can advance the dates to suit them as they experience soaring temperatures during summer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/draft-academic-calendar-no-semester-breaks-6-day-week/article33613819.ece
20 January 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Students urged to apply for bus pass||Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) has decided to allow students to travel from their residence to their schools or colleges in its ordinary services by producing the student pass issued last year (2019-20) or the latest college fee paid receipt or college ID. BMTC, in a release, urged students to apply for the 2020-21 student pass online by January 31, and collect the passes from Bangalore One centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/students-urged-to-apply-for-bus-pass/article33614170.ece
20 January 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Applications invited for award||The Karnataka Rajya Vijnana Parishat (KRVP) has invited applications for the Young Scientist Award from students studying in classes 9 to 12. For details, send a mail tokrvp.info@gmail.comor call 080-26718939 during office hours, according to a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/applications-invited-for-award/article33614180.ece
20 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Election on Jan. 29||Election to the post of the Deputy Chairman of the Legislative Council will be held on January 29, according to a notification by the Council secretariat. The election have been necessitated following the death of Deputy Chairman S.L. Dharme Gowda a few days ago. The legislature session will commence on January 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/election-on-jan-29/article33614179.ece
20 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||SC/ST contractors’ association to stage protest||The Karnataka SC/ST Contractors’ Association plans to stage a protest outside the residence of Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K.S. Eshwarappa in Bengaluru in the next few days if Karnataka Rural Infrastructure Development Ltd. (KRIDL) failed to provide contract works to SC/ST contractors as per the law mandated by the State government. In a release, N. Mahadevaswamy, president of the association, alleged that KRIDL has not been giving work to SC/ST contractors. As per the rule, the government and KRIDL have to follow reservation in allocation of contract works below Rs. 50 lakh. But, KRIDL has been violating the law and denying works to SC/ST contractors, he alleged. The association submitted a petition to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa urging the government to increase the amount of contract work under the reserved category from Rs. 50 lakh to Rs. 1 crore. But the government had not acted on this, Mr. Mahadevaswamy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/scst-contractors-association-to-stage-protest/article33613822.ece
20 January 2021||Bengaluru/Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Portfolio allocation in 2 days: CM||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa told media persons in Kundapur that he would allocate portfolios to newly inducted Ministers in the next two days. He also said that he would discuss the matter with senior Ministers on Wednesday before allocation of portfolios, which is being interpreted as a possible reshuffle of portfolios among senior Ministers. The Chief Minister said that he will present the State Budget for 2021-22 in the first week of March.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/portfolio-allocation-in-2-days-cm/article33613827.ece
20 January 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Drive to collect donations for Ram Mandir launched||Minister for Food and Civil Supplies K. Gopalaiah launched a drive to collect donations for Ram Mandir at Ayodhya. He, together with MLA Preetham Gowda and other BJP workers, went door to door to raise donations at Beeranahalli Kere Extension, K.R. Puram and Siddaiah Nagar. Speaking on the occasion, the Minister said he participated in the drive as a devotee of Ram, not as a Minister in the Cabinet. “ Legal hurdles The Ram temple is being built at Ayodhya after a long struggle. The legal hurdles for the construction have been cleared,” he said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had laid foundation stone for the construction of the temple. “The Uttar Pradesh government alone could bear the cost of the temple. But, the donation collection drive has been launched to ensure 130 crore people of the nation participate in the construction of the temple,” he said. Hassan Urban Development Authority chairman Lalata Murthy, BJP workers S.K. Venu Gopal, Vijay, Kartik and others were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/drive-to-collect-donations-for-ram-mandir-launched/article33613809.ece
20 January 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||‘Expedite land acquisition for railway flyover’||Preetham Gowda, MLA, has instructed the district administration to complete the land acquisition process to allow the construction of a railway flyover on the Hassan-Mysuru Road. At a meeting in Hassan on Tuesday, he asked officials to take measures to clear the buildings and hand over the land required to the construction company. Otherwise, the work will be delayed further, causing hardship to the residents of the city, he said. “Those parting with their land for the project should get the compensation due as per the norms. The officers should release the amount immediately,” he said. Deputy Commissioner R. Girish also told officials to go ahead with the acquisition process as per the orders issued by the High Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/expedite-land-acquisition-for-railway-flyover/article33613817.ece
20 January 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Workshop from today||Starting from Wednesday, Karnataka Shilpakala Academy, in association with Shivamogga Rangayana, will organise a 15-day cement sculpture workshop in Shivamogga. Around 30 artists from different parts of the State are to take part in the workshop. They will carve cement sculptures representing the rich cultural heritage of Karnataka. Senior sculptor Jnaneshwar is scheduled to inaugurate the workshop at Shivamogga Rangayana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/workshop-from-today/article33613947.ece
20 January 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Organ donation centre to be set up at KIMS in Hubballi||Minister for Health and Family Welfare K. Sudhakar has said that steps will be taken to set up an organ donation centre at Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) and Hospital. Speaking to presspersons in Hubballi after holding a progress review meeting on KIMS, DIMHANS and Health Department here on Tuesday, Dr. Sudhakar said that KIMS is considered to be the Sanjivini for the people of North Karnataka and soon, an organ donation centre would be set up there. Awareness programme He also said that an awareness programme was being chalked out to sensitise people on the significance of organ donation and how their organ donation post death could give a new lease of life for the needy. He also said that vacancies in the medical college for teaching posts would be filled soon. Dr. Sudhakar said that primary health centres would be upgraded soon and each centre would have three medical officers, including one AYUSH doctor. He said that steps would be taken to ensure round-the-clock services at PHCs after strengthening them further. While the process of recruitment of 2,500 doctors was under way, the process of recruitment of Group D and nursing staff would be carried out after getting approval from the Finance Department, he said. He said that as the infant and maternal mortality rate in Dharwad district was high compared to other districts, he had directed the concerned to take requisite steps, including proper distribution of nutritional supplements, to bring it down. Subsequently, the Minister reviewed the progress and discussed various issues concerning the medical institutions. Later, he paid a surprise visit to the Primary Health Centre at Byahatti village and inspected the facilities there. During the visit, the villagers appealed to the Minister to upgrade their PHC. Local health officials apprised the Minister of the available facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/organ-donation-centre-to-be-set-up-at-kims-in-hubballi/article33613803.ece
20 January 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Vedike activists stage protest against Minister Sudhakar||Minister for Health and Family Welfare K. Sudhakar was welcomed with a black flag protest by Karnataka Rakshana Vedike (KRV) activists during his visit to Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) in Hubballi on Tuesday. The activists were upset reportedly because of a statement by Dr. Sudhakar regarding vedike president Narayana Gowda. After the Minister’s arrival on the KIMS premises, the activists staged a sit-in in front of Dr. Sudhakar’s car and sought his apology. They also entered into an altercation with the Minister and demanded that he apologise for the statement against their vedike president. A few of them even lay down on the road and sought an apology. Ultimately, the police had to forcebily evict them from the premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vedike-activists-stage-protest-against-minister-sudhakar/article33613805.ece
20 January 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Bendre Award for H.S. Shivaprakash||Da Ra Bendre National Memorial Trust has chosen writer and critic H.S. Shivaprakash for the prestigious Ambikatanayadatta National Award. Speaking to presspersons here on Tuesday, Chairman of Bendre Memorial Trust D.M. Hiremath announced the decision and said that the award would be conferred on the writer at a function to be held on January 31. He said that the trust was conducting a series of programmes to commemorate the 125th birth anniversary of poet laureate Da Ra Bendre and the award will be presented during the function at Bendre Bhavan in Dharwad. A three-member committee comprising Gurupad Mareguddi, Shivanand Kelaginamani and Tarini Shubhadayini had recommended Dr. Shivaprakash for the award which carries a purse of Rs. 1 lakh and a citation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bendre-award-for-hs-shivaprakash/article33613801.ece
20 January 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Lead Bank asked to submit report on status of Kannada knowledge among bank employees||Taking note of complaints about bank employees not speaking Kannada during their interaction with customers, Chairman of Kannada Development Authority T.S. Nagabharana has directed the Lead Bank of Kalaburagi to submit a report to him within a month on the status of Kannada knowledge among bank employees in the district. He was reviewing the progress of Kannada implementation in governance at the district administrative complex here on Tuesday. “This problem started after 2014 when the government modified a rule to allow those who don’t know the local language to apply for bank posts. But, the modified rule made it clear that the non-speakers of local language should learn the local language and use it for their communication with the local customers. But, many bank employees don’t know Kannada and prefer to use English or Hindi. It became a serious problem as most of the people in the rural areas cannot speak these languages. The Lead Bank manager should make a list of bank employees who were appointed after 2014 and assess their level of Kannada knowledge and file a report to the Kannada Development Authority so that we can initiate a process for disciplinary action,” he said. Mr. Nagabharana also suggested that banks conduct training and coaching programmes for Kannadiga candidates and prepare them for bank examinations so that the presence of Kannadigas could be increased in the banking sector in the State. “You can use CSR funds for such training programmes,” he said. Taking serious exceptions to ATMs not having Kannada as one of the operating languages, Mr. Nagabharana directed the Lead Bank to ensure that all banks operating in the district comply with the State government orders regarding the implementation of Kannada in governance. “It is the responsibility of banks to provide Kannada as one of the operating languages in their ATM kiosks. If they don’t do it, you have to take steps to close such facilities,” he told the Lead Bank representative. Responding to a question later in the day during his interaction with the media representatives, Mr. Nagabharana condemned the exclusion of Kannada in the banners and the foundation stone that Union Home Minister Amit Shah laid for Rapid Action Force unit at Bhadravati in Shivamogga district on Saturday. “Kannada was excluded both in the banner of the programme and the foundation stone. It was a blunder. I immediately wrote letters to Union Home Secretary and Chief Secretary of Karnataka seeking an explanation,” Mr. Nagabharana said. To another query, he admitted that the powers conferred with the Kannada Development Authority were insufficient to enforce the implementation of Kannada in governance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lead-bank-asked-to-submit-report-on-status-of-kannada-knowledge-among-bank-employees/article33613798.ece
20 January 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||IGRUA training begins at Kalaburagi airport||Indira Gandhi Rashtriya Uran Akademi (IGRUA), one of the leading flying training institutions in the country that functioned under the overall administrative control of Union Ministry of Civil Aviation, started its training flying operations from Kalaburagi on Tuesday. The operations will be headed by Captain Kunjal Bhatt, flying Instructor, who would be assisted by Captain Baranishankar. Gopa Kumar Pillai, Administrator IGRUA, said the Ministry Civil Aviation had articulated the Kalaburagi training operations as part of the Centre’s vision of Atmanirbhar Bharat. In a media release, Mr. Pillai said that the Centre, taking note of the fact that many students were going abroad for their flying training and spending lakhs, gave serious thought to utilising the infrastructure developed at home to train more pilots indigenously. He expressed his gratitude to Umesh Jadhav, Lok Sabha member from Kalaburagi, for extending support to establish the training operations. Mr. Jadhav termed the development historic. “In the coming years, students of this region will benefit with IGRUA Training Institute as they can choose this as their career option. This will be a proud day for the people of Kalaburagi,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/igrua-training-begins-at-kalaburagi-airport/article33613815.ece
20 January 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Vaccination ruled out as cause of death||The report of the post-mortem of the 43-year old Group D employee from Sandur in Ballari district, who was vaccinated with Covishield on Saturday and died on Monday morning, ruled out the vaccination as a cause of death. Speaking to The Hindu, District Health and Family Welfare Officer H.L. Janardhan said that the post-mortem report suggested a massive heart attack as the cause of death. “At present, there is nothing that could link the death with the vaccine. The post-mortem report suggested a massive heart attack as the cause of death. The FSL report may accurately point out the cause. It may take a month or so to get the FSL report,” Mr. Janardhan said. As per the information provided by the district administration, Nagaraju, 43, the deceased employee who was attached with Sandur public health facility in Ballari district was vaccinated for COVID-19 at about 1 p.m. on Saturday and did not have any uneventful events 24 hours after vaccination. It was only on Monday at 9.30 p.m. that he complained of chest pain and collapsed. After preliminary treatment, he rushed to Jindal Sanjeeveni, Toranagal, where he died. The Adverse Event Following Immunisation (AEFI) committee met on Monday evening and, after detailed discussions, concluded that the death of Group D employee was caused by a cardiorespiratory arrest, ruling out any link between the death and the COVID-19 vaccines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vaccination-ruled-out-as-cause-of-death/article33613816.ece
20 January 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Uddhav Thackeray criticised||Criticising Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray (in photo) for raking up the border dispute, BJP leader and former Zilla Panchayat president Ambaraya Ashtagi on Tuesday asserted that Karnataka will not part with even an inch of land to the neighbouring State. Addressing presspersons here, Mr. Ashtagi stated that the border dispute with Maharashtra had been resolved long ago by the Mahajan report, and there is no need to re-open it now. Mr. Ashtagi accused Mr. Thackeray of raking up the issue with ulterior motives and reiterated that the Yediyurappa-led government will safeguard the interest of the people of the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/uddhav-thackeray-criticised/article33613797.ece
20 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Minorities panel chief meets Bishop||The chairperson of Karnataka State Minorities Commission Abdul Azeem called on the Bishop of Mangaluru Peter Paul Saldanha at Bishop’s House here on Tuesday. During his interaction with the bishop, Mr. Azeem assured him of getting all facilities for the Christian community from the Minority Welfare Department. He said that he would follow up with the issue of miscreants setting fire to plants at Pezar Hill of Pezar Church near Kalavaru. Application The Bishop submitted an application through the Minority Commission seeking post-matriculation government hostel facilities to Christian students and urged the members of the commission to follow up with it. Catholic Sabha president Stany Lobo submitted a memorandum to the Commission seeking benefits of all schemes which are due to the Christian community, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minorities-panel-chief-meets-bishop/article33614317.ece
20 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Six more arrested for random assault on head constable||The police have arrested six more persons in connection with a case of an attempt to murder a head constable near New Chitra Junction here on December 16, 2020. Head Constable Ganesh Kamath was stabbed by two motorcycle-borne assailants. Then, the police booked a 16-year-boy and arrested Mohammed Nawaz (26), an employee of a chicken shop, in connection with the incident. A police team led by Assistant Commissioner of Police (Central) Jagadish on Tuesday arrested six more persons, Anish Ashraf (22), Abdul Khader Fahad (23), Sheik Mohammed Harris (31), Mohammed Kayis (24), Rahil (18) and Mohammed Nawaz (30), in this connection. Talking to reporters here on Tuesday, Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar said that investigation has revealed that the attack was a random one on policemen to avenge the death of two persons in police firing on a mob that turned violent during the protest against Citizens Amendment Act in the city on December 19, 2019. “Some of the accused arrested for the attack on the head constable were close to the two who died in the police firing,” Mr. Kumar said, while refusing to name them citing the sensitive nature of the case. The arrested persons, Mr. Kumar said, were members of a gang called Maya. They joined members of another gang in systematically planning the attack on policemen. “Their plan was to attack policemen at a place from where they can easily escape. They decided to carry out the attack on December 16, 2020, sensing that there will be little police patrolling,” he said. The accused prompted the 16-year-old boy to carry out the attack. The 30-year-old Mohammed Nawaz, who is an employee of a pharmacy and is among those arrested on Tuesday, supplied the boy and the other accused with Nitrovet tablets to keep them on a high when they carried out the offence. The pharmacy, the police said, has been selling these tablets at Rs. 600 per strip of 10 tablets. Mr. Kumar said that the police will now question the owner of the pharmacy. Proceedings will be initiated against the drug store for illegally selling the drug which is a Schedule H medicine that is given under prescription. The investigation so far, Mr. Kumar said, has not revealed the accused being prompted by any organisation to carry out their attack on policemen. A search is on for members of the other gang involved in the attack. The accused have been booked under Sections 353 (assault on a public servant) and 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/six-more-arrested-for-random-assault-on-head-constable/article33614315.ece
20 January 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Man arrested on charge of murder||A 27-year-old man was arrested for allegedly murdering his 55-year-old father in Gardady village of Belthangady taluk on Monday night. The police identified the deceased as Shridhar Poojary. The police said Poojary was unhappy with his son Harish over the latter getting married a girl outside their caste. There were frequent heated exchanges between Poojary and his son on the issue. On Monday afternoon, the two had a fight in the house. Harish followed his father Poojary to the house of latter’s brother where the two fought again. Harish took a stick and hit his father on the head. Poojary succumbed to the injury at the government hospital in Belthangady.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-arrested-on-charge-of-murder/article33614318.ece
20 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||969 health workers vaccinated in DK, Udupi||While 734 health workers received the COVID-19 vaccine jab in Dakshina Kannada, 235 health workers were vaccinated in Udupi on the fourth day of phase one of the vaccination drive for health workers on Tuesday. As many as 1,256 health workers were registered for the vaccine at 15 vaccination centres in Dakshina Kannada. With 734 receiving the jab on Tuesday, the district administration has covered 58.4% of the total health workers who were registered for the day. Among the vaccination centres that saw good turnout included the two in SDM Naturopathy Institute, Ujire, where 122 of the 147 registered health workers received the vaccine. Of the 83 registered health workers at the Pragathi Speciality Hospital in Puttur, 64 were given the vaccine. All the 30 registered health workers received the jab at the Primary Health Centre (PHC) in Alike, while 49 of the 66 registered health workers received the jab at the PHC in Kukke Subrahmanya. “More health workers are now coming forward for vaccination. Those who were diffident initially are coming now,” said District Health and Family Welfare Officer Ramachandra Bairy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/969-health-workers-vaccinated-in-dk-udupi/article33614319.ece
20 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Rescued||The Udupi District Child Protection Unit and the Department of Women and Child Welfare, Udupi, rescued eight children who were found begging at the Shasti Utsav at Kalavar in Udupi district on Tuesday. The officials told the parents of the children not to make them beg for a living. The officials later sent the children with their parents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rescued/article33614311.ece
20 January 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Attempt to murder||A road rage incident between a motorcyclist and a bus driver led to the motorcyclist attacking the latter with a bottle of petrol in Faizal Nagar near Padil on Tuesday. The Kankanady police said the rider, Ashraf, was enraged with Sampath Poojary, the driver of city bus on Route No.23, as he had not allowed him to overtake the vehicle. Few meters before the last stop of Faizal Nagar, Ashraf blocked the bus and started quarrelling with Poojary. As Poojary got off the bus, Ashraf threw a bottle of petrol at him. Poojary ran away. Residents caught hold of Ashraf and handed him over to the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/attempt-to-murder/article33614322.ece
20 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||After concerns are raised, police justify roadside vehicle checks||The stepping up of roadside checking for traffic offences has become a cause for concern in some quarters, but the police claim it is necessary to not only check the flagrant flouting of traffic rules, but also recover long-pending traffic penalty dues. Former corporator K.V. Mallesh, who is also president of Anikethana Seva Trust K.V., recently wrote to the Mysuru city police against the practice of the traffic police flagging down motorists on the road. Instead, adopt technology to book traffic violations, he suggested. Pointing out that teams of traffic police personnel position themselves at vantage points on the roads and flag down motorists, particularly the ones without helmets, before examining their documents and checking for outstanding traffic violation penalty dues, Mr. Mallesh said many vehicle riders manage to spot the police from a distance and make a desperate bid to evade them on their vehicles, potentially exposing themselves and other motorists to the dangers of an accident. “Many a time, the riders take a sudden U-turn upon seeing the police and ride recklessly, putting themselves and other motorists on the road in danger. Sometimes, there is the danger of motorists colliding with the police personnel also,” he said. He also said that motorists appeared to be making extra efforts to evade the police, particularly after the penalty was increased and also following loss of sources of income because of the COVID-19 pandemic. Instead, the traffic police should book cases through cameras installed at junctions and traffic signals, before sending out notices to the houses of the offenders and recovering the dues, he suggested. Coverage issues Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime and Traffic) Geetha Prasanna justified the need for manual booking of traffic violations as CCTV and other cameras will not be able to capture all types of violations, particularly on the interior roads. Though CCTV cameras have been installed in Mysuru at around 60 junctions, they are not enough with the city having expanded by leaps and bounds. Assistant Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Sandesh Kumar said the outstanding penalty due from motorists booked for various traffic offences in Mysuru was over Rs. 70 crore. More than 34 lakh cases have been registered since 2014, including the ones booked using tools such as CCTV cameras and speed radar cameras, but most of the violators have failed to cough up the fine, he said. If traffic offenders are not penalised and violations are allowed to go up, accidents will also increase, threatening the safety of people, Mr. Kumar said, adding that the intention of the police was to curb offences, not penalise motorists. He pointed out that people can check for violations booked against their vehicles online and make payments digitally. They can visit karnatakaone.gov.in, register and enter their vehicle registration number. The details of the violation, date, and place will shown. If people need to see photograph proof of the violation, they should visit the Traffic Automation Centre at the Police Commissioner’s office, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/after-concerns-are-raised-police-justify-roadside-vehicle-checks/article33613951.ece
20 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Farmers urged to brand their produce||Agriculture Minister B.C. Patil on Tuesday called upon farmers to process and add value to their products before branding and marketing them. Speaking after the formal launch of a farmer training programme under the Prime Minister’s Formalisation of Micro Food Processing Enterprises at the Central Food Technological Research Institute (CFTRI) here, he said the Agriculture Department, which was hitherto restricting itself to supporting farmers till the harvest of crop, had now come forward to prepare farmers to play a role in the marketing and sale of produce. He said the objective behind this initiative was to ensure that farmers received the share of profit due to them, which is now taken by middlemen or businessmen. He cited the example of how a good-sized capsicum grown with the help of inputs from scientists of the University of Agricultural Sciences (UAS) in Bengaluru would fetch a farmer only Rs. 40, while it is sold in the market for Rs. 80. “Why should a farmer, who spends 120 days to grow the capsicum, get only Rs. 40 when the people involving in selling it in the market get the same amount in a matter of a few hours?” he asked. He said the training programme would help farmers maximise their profits. About 500 farmers from different parts of the State are undergoing training at the programme, which will provide them a holistic view of food processing, value addition, and marketing potential of products. Though the training programme for these 500 farmers will conclude in March, Mr. Patil said he would continue his efforts with the CFTRI to extend the training programme to at least 1,500 farmers over the next year. The agriculture industry has now come into its own after the COVID-19 lockdown, he said. Though the IT/BT industry was dominant in the last few years, the lockdown has slowed down the sector with the software industry asking employees to work from home and the hardware industry yet to resume full-fledged operations. Meanwhile, the agriculture industry is not only alive and kicking, but its prospects are bright, he said. Business of agriculture P. Chandra Shekara, director-general of the National Institute of Agricultural Extension Management, known as MANAGE, Hyderabad, expressed regret that farmers, who form 60% of the country’s population, account for only 16.4% of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP). “Farmers’ contribution to the GDP will not increase unless agriculture becomes a business,” he said. Farmers receive only 35% to 40% of the cost of an agriculture product they produce; the rest goes to businessmen. Hence, a farmer can double his income by branding and promoting his own product like a businessman, he said. A statement said training would be provided to identified farmers from different taluks of the State to promote One District One Product (ODOP) under the broad areas of millets, toor dal, fruits, and vegetables. The production of horticultural crops in Karnataka is estimated to be 18.7 million tonnes, and tropical fruits such as banana, mango, guava, pineapple, and papaya are among the major ones. There are plenty of opportunities for value addition to these fruits and vegetables as a number of technologies are available for their primary and secondary processing with good market potential, the statement said. Similarly, toor dal, which is produced in the State in the range of 10 to 11 lakh tonnes, also has a good marketing potential and fetches better prices when it is processed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmers-urged-to-brand-their-produce/article33613949.ece
20 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Farmer suicides not due to govt. policies, says Minister||Minister for Agriculture B.C. Patil sought to delink farmers suicide from government policies claiming the two were unrelated, while attributing suicides to “weakness of mind”. Speaking to media persons here on Tuesday, Mr. Patil said suicides were not confined to the farming community and officials, industrialists and others too have ended lives when in distraught. It is during this spell of momentary weakness that suicides are committed and the government was conceiving policies and programmes to address this issue, said Mr. Patil. The Minister said the ‘One District One Product’ (ODOP) project was a step in that direction through value addition to agricultural and horticultural produce under the Pradhan Mantri Formalisation of Micro Food Processing Enterprises Scheme. “Merely visiting the bereaved family members of farmers and offering sympathies will not help the community. But such programmes will help shore up their income and prevent suicides,” he said. ODOP implementation Karnataka was on the forefront in implementing ODOP for food processing and value addition, according to Mr. Patil, who refuted suggestions that it could promote mono culture. The programme identified a suitable crop for which there was scope for value addition through processing locally and does not mean that all farmers will be encouraged to shift to one crop. The agricultural policy gives thrust to integrated farming promoting crop diversity, the Minister said. He said the government had reached an understanding with the Central Food Technological Research Institute in Mysuru to train nearly 500 farmers from across the State on various aspects of technology transfer for value addition besides marketing. The exercise will go on till March 31, he said. On the ongoing farmers protest against the farm laws, Mr. Patil said it was devoid of logic as the laws were favourable to the farmers and had opened up the market under ‘one nation one market’ concept. The amendments to the various farm laws introduced by the government would benefit the farmers and free them from the clutches of middlemen, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmer-suicides-not-due-to-govt-policies-says-minister/article33613826.ece
20 January 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||‘Education is the only way to help prevent child marriages’||Member of Karnataka State Commission for Protection of Child Rights Jayasri has said that education is the only way which can help prevent child marriages effectively. She was addressing a press conference in Yadgir on Tuesday. “The State government has introduced many schemes to provide education to children. Everyone should make use of these schemes and ensure that their children get education, with a view to nation building,” she said. Ms. Jayasri said that there is a need to act against child marriage. “Providing education to children who are considered the future of the country can effectively help curb child marriage. Therefore, action has already been taken to make Yadgir a child marriage-free district,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/education-is-the-only-way-to-help-prevent-child-marriages/article33613799.ece
20 January 2021||January 20 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Send pics of potholes, bad roads||Fed up of potholes or bad stretch of roads in your locality? Just click their photos and send them to Whatsapp number 8095500118 along with location details on or before January 30. The Karnataka State Legal Services Authority (KSLSA) is seeking data of such roads and potholes in association with two NGOs – Reap Benefit and Chamge Makers of Kanakapura Road. They are collecting data in the form of photos and information on roads in poor condition, and unattended potholes. These organisations have now sought inputs from citizens about potholes and bad roads. Photos and information sent by the public to this Whatsapp number will form part of the data on potholes and bad stretches. The report would be submitted to the Karnataka High Court, which is monitoring measures taken by the BBMP to maintain the city’s roads. A division bench headed by the Chief Justice had on December 17 directed the KSLSA and the Bengaluru Urban District Legal Services Authority (BUDLSA) to inspect select roads by deputing para-legal volunteers and advocates on the legal-aid panel, and submit a report to the court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/send-pics-of-potholes-bad-roads/article33614172.ece
20 January 2021||January 20 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||People can choose vaccine: Sudhakar||The Minister for Health and Family Welfare noted that Covaxin had been permitted after adequate clinical trials and that it was safe. Dr. Sudhakar said that after getting the vaccine, immunity against the virus would increase. “Permission has been given after adequate trials. There will be initial apprehension.But once they see vaccinated persons leading normal life, the apprehension will disappear. Noted doctors such as Dr. Devi Prasad Shetty, Dr. Bhujang Shetty, Dr. Ballal, and Dr. Sudharshan have got themselves vaccinated, which shows the trust they have on the vaccine,” he said.  ‘Not vaccine related’ On the death of a COVID-19 warrior in Ballari a day after getting vaccinated, the Minister clarified that the death had nothing to do with the vaccine. “The post-mortem report has termed the death as due to cardiac arrest. There is no need for the people to panic,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/people-can-choose-vaccine-sudhakar/article33614175.ece
20 January 2021||January 20 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Police deny permission for farmers’ protest in city||The police have denied permission for a farmers’ protest organised by the Congress that was scheduled to be held on Wednesday. Thousands of protesters from other parts of the State were expected to join in the ‘Raj Bhavan chalo’ rally from city railway station. They had planned to march to Freedom Park and from there to Raj Bhavan to submit a memorandum against the new farm laws. Police Commissioner Kamal Pant said on Tuesday that permission had been denied due to COVID-19 guidelines, which limit the number of people that can gather at any location to prevent the spread of the virus. Security arrangements have been put in place to ensure that law and order is maintained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-deny-permission-for-farmers-protest-in-city/article33614177.ece
20 January 2021||January 20 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Couple caught with Rs. 74.8 lakh in cash at KIA||He and his wife Mumtaz had arrived from Chennai and were boarding a flight to Lucknow, said officials. They reached the security check around 9.30 a.m. and stood in separate queues. “When it was his turn, Irfan identified himself as Customs officer, a superintendent, and tried to get his luggage inside bypassing security checks. He claimed that it wasn’t necessary for their bags to be checked,” said a source. However, CISF security personnel insisted that as per protocol his bag had to be scanned and insisted that they be loaded on the belt. When the bag was scanned and later checked, they found that it was stuffed with wads of currency notes, around Rs. 37 lakh. Mumtaz, who was standing in the ladies queue, suddenly ran to the washroom with her bag claiming she wasn’t feeling well. However, secure personnel followed her. “She was caught dumping approximately Rs. 10 lakh in cash in a trashcan,” said an official. CISF Security personnel recovered the cash, and recalled the couple’s checked-in luggage. When they opened the bags, they found more cash, along with gold jewellery, two expensive wrist watches valued at around Rs. 2 lakh each, and electronic gadgets including iPhones and an Apple watch. The couple was taken into custody and questioned by both Income Tax and Enforcement Directorate officials. “The accused officer claims to have been serving in Customs since 2009. The couple hails from Chennai and said they were travelling to Lucknow to purchase land, which was why they were carrying cash. However, the source of the cash is yet to be ascertained,” said the source.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/couple-caught-with-rs-748-lakh-in-cash-at-kia/article33613810.ece
20 January 2021||January 20 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Police open fire at suspect||The Peenya police on Tuesday opened fire on a 22-year-old habitual offender when he allegedly attacked a head constable with a chopper in an attempt to evade arrest. This is the third instance of police firing on an accused in the last two days. “The accused Praveen, a resident of Raghavendra Nagar, is an associate of a notorious rowdy. He escaped during a police raid on January 16,” said the police. The gang was planning an attack on a rival gang in Peenya industrial area when police arrested them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-open-fire-at-suspect/article33614178.ece
20 January 2021||January 20 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||In support of demand||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/in-support-of-demand/article33614309.ece
20 January 2021||January 20 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Celebrating tradition||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/celebrating-tradition/article33614324.ece
20 January 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Construction of apartment complex for fisherfolk begins||The construction of an apartment complex for fisherfolk in the district has begun at Mannumpuram Colony in Thottappally. It is being constructed under the aegis of the Fisheries Department. Officials said once completed it would be the largest fishermen housing complex in the State. 204 families The facility, being built on 3.48 acres of land, will provide housing to 204 fishermen families. Earlier, the land in the possession of the Revenue Department was acquired by the Fisheries Department for the construction purpose. Sea erosion “The government is constructing the complex to rehabilitate the fishermen families in Ambalappuzha, Purakkad and Thottappally who lost their land and house due to sea erosion. The structure will be built on the lines of the fishermen apartment complex at Muttathara in Thiruvananthapuram,” said an official. Each flat unit will have two bedrooms, a living area, kitchen and toilet. Facilities Besides, roads, drinking water, electricity, waste management systems, and other facilities will also be provided. An anganwadi will be constructed on a later stage. Officials said the first phase of piling work had been completed. “The project has already received the necessary nod from the Irrigation and Ground Water Departments, Kerala State Electricity Board, and Kerala Water Authority. The work will be completed in a time-bound manner,” the official added.  The facility, being built on 3.48 acres of land, will provide housing to 204 families||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/construction-of-apartment-complex-for-fisherfolk-begins/article33613914.ece
20 January 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Idukki dam gets early warning system||A Real-Time Structural Health Monitoring & Early Warning System has been installed on the Idukki arch dam. This was for the first time in Kerala that such an early warning system was installed on a hydel dam. The real-time warning system was implemented through the World Bank project DRIP (Dam Rehabilitation and Improvement Project). Electricity Minister M.M. Mani will inaugurate the project on January 26, said Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) officials. Supriya S., KSEB chief engineer (dam safety and DRIP), said it helped receive the real-time data from the Idukki reservoir to the server at the KSEB monitoring station at Pallam in Kottayam and and at the dam monitoring and research station, Vazhathoppe, in Idukki district. Second phase The water level, weather conditions, temperature, wind pattern, and its level will be available now. In the second phase of DRIP, the real-time monitoring facility will be installed on other KSEB hydel dams. As an arch dam, Idukki needed large-scale machinery to assure the smooth functioning of the dam, she said. The new system will be helpful to monitor the motion variation of the dam after the water level reaches the full reservoir level. Earlier, the water level and other data were collected manually.  Rs. 6.94-crore system According to officials, the installation of a real-time warning system began on the dam in 2016. The total cost of the installation was Rs. 6.94 crore. The DRIP project was implemented under the supervision of the Central water commission and the State government. Floods It would help monitor the real-time water level in the times of floods and take timely steps. In 2018, the KSEB had faced criticism when the dam shutters were opened without giving proper warning in advance. The Idukki reservoir has a good storage in the current season thanks to the unexpected rainfall in the first two weeks of January.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/idukki-dam-gets-early-warning-system/article33613911.ece
20 January 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Nilgiri-Wayanad railway action panel to resume agitation||The Nilgiri-Wayanad National Highway and Railway Action Committee, which has been campaigning for the Nilambur-Nanjangud railway line, is preparing to intensify their agitation demanding not to subvert the proposed project. Speaking to The Hindu, action committee convener T.M. Rasheed said the Nilambur-Nanjangud railway line was included in the pink book of the Ministry of Railways in 2016 and the Centre had committed to allot Rs. 3,000 crore for the project. Subsequently, a company had been formed with the Centre and State to execute the project. The Railway Board had also approved a proposal to prepare a detailed project report and directed E. Sreedharan, Principal Advisor to the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), to prepare it, Mr. Rasheed said. The estimated cost of the project was Rs. 4,000 crore and the State government had allocated Rs. 8 crore for the preliminary works. Public Works Minister G. Sudhakarana announced the launching of the project here on February 11, 2017, and issued an order to release Rs. 2 crore of the Rs. 8 crore to the DMRC account. But, the State government froze the transaction on the same day and directed Mr. Sreedharan to conduct a feasibility study on the Thalassery-Mysuru railway line. However, the report was against the project owing to technical and financial reasons. ‘CM was misled’ The Nilambur-Nanjangud project was sabotaged after a lobby, working for the Thalassery-Mysuru railway line, misled the Chief Minister, Mr. Rasheed alleged. Te people’s representatives from the district had failed to bring the ground realities regarding the project before the Chief Minister. The organisation, with the support of the civil society in the district, would stage a dharna in front of the collectorate here on Wednesday as part of it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nilgiri-wayanad-railway-action-panel-to-resume-agitation/article33613855.ece
20 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||MCH lacks mandatory fire NOC||The Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Kalamassery, which continues to be at the forefront of the fight against the pandemic and was the first dedicated COVID treatment centre in the State, does not have the mandatory No-Objection Certificate (NOC) of the Fire and Rescue Services Department. Of the four blocks with 500 beds, the one housing the recently constructed Cath Lab alone has NOC, it emerged during a recent fire audit done by the Fire and Rescue Services Department on a Supreme Court directive. MCH sources admitted as much and said they would apply for NOC as soon as the Rs. 69-lakh centralised fire safety system connecting all the four blocks was completed. Work was halfway through before it was halted briefly due to the pandemic, they said. Originally set up as a cooperative medical college under the Cooperative Academy of Professional Education (CAPE), the government had taken over the institution in 2013. Fire officials stressed the significance of a functional permanent fire fighting system considering the probability of firefighters getting stuck in traffic in the event of an emergency at MCH, which is 9 km away from the nearest fire station at Eloor, and 10 km from the Thrikkakara fire station. During the initial inspection conducted by fire force officials, several fire extinguishers were found faulty. However, since then the hospital has bought new extinguishers, besides refilling the existing ones. Fire force officials said MCH had never applied for the annual renewal of NOC, which is mandatory, in which case the station concerned would have had the record of the same. The renewal involves applying with a copy of the original NOC, payment of a fee of Rs. 2,315, and two copies of the building plan approved by the local body concerned. “They [hospital authorities] are working to improve the fire safety capabilities but have no functional permanent firefighting installations at the moment. We told them in no uncertain terms that operating without NOC amounted to a serious lapse, which should be rectified at the earliest,” a senior fire force official said. The apex court in its order in December had also asked dedicated COVID-19 hospitals to take NOC from the Fire Department within four weeks and warned of punitive action for failing to do so. Fire force officials inspected the hospital blocks dedicated to COVID-19 patients and their evacuation routes and firefighting capabilities. “The evacuation routes, including ramps for the evacuation of wheelchair-bound patients and fire exits, were accessible and free of hindrances,” said fire force sources. The inspection was carried out based on a 17-point check-list, which, among others, looked at the NOC and its timely renewal, the adequacy and accessibility of evacuation routes, availability of basic and permanent firefighting system and their operational readiness, and accessibility to fire tenders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mch-lacks-mandatory-fire-noc/article33614291.ece
20 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Pandemic hits Ayurveda Medical College Hospital hard||A total of 99 people at the Government Ayurveda Medical College Hospital, Thripunithura, including patients, staff, and bystanders, have tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the past four days. The hospital has been declared a containment zone and is closed to new patients. The first floor, which houses the general ward, is now a first-line treatment centre where patients and bystanders who tested positive are being treated, said Dr. Abdul Shukkoor M.M., hospital superintendent. On Tuesday, a few COVID-19 patients at the hospital reportedly protested against the lack of nutritious food and facilities at the hospital. “Food is being provided by the municipality. The ward in which patients are being treated now has a capacity of 100 beds, and only around 70 patients are currently admitted. Facilities and food have been adequate,” he said. Around 20 staff members who had tested positive are recovering at home, he added. A patient admitted at the hospital showed symptoms and subsequently tested positive on Saturday. The patient was shifted to another first-line treatment centre and contacts were traced, resulting in several more positive cases. “The source of infection would be difficult to determine, since bystanders and staff members regularly interact with people outside the hospital,” Dr. Shukkoor said. The patients now being treated for COVID-19 at the hospital are being monitored by doctors from the hospital itself. The district telemedicine consultation service has also been made available to them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pandemic-hits-ayurveda-medical-college-hospital-hard/article33614284.ece
20 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC notice on plea to open Kuthiran||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday issued notice to the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) on a petition seeking a directive to open at least one of the tunnels at Kuthiran on the stretch of Vadakkancherry to Mannuthy (Thrissur) on the National Highway 47 by completing the remaining work. The petition was filed by K. Rajan, Assembly Chief Whip, and Ollur, MLA. Hardship for public According to him, the unscientific construction of six lanes along the stretch without providing adequate safety measures in various parts of the National Highway were causing serious difficulties to the public at large. The construction of the six-lane work of Vadakkancherry-Thrissur National Highway was awarded to Thrissur Expressway Pvt. Ltd in August 2009. However, the construction works are yet to be completed fully even after 11 years. Kuthiran stretch had a major traffic bottleneck and it was an accident spot on the crowded NH stretch. The tunnel would reduce travel time by almost 30% and would ensure safer journeys. But the authorities were not taking urgent steps to complete the construction of the tunnels, the petitioner said. The petition sought to constitute a judicial committee or any other agency to supervise and monitor the ongoing six-lane construction works of the Vadakkancherry-Mannuthy stretch of the National Highway to ensure effective completion of the works within a specified time frame. He also sought to appoint an agency to assess the construction company’s present financial status and its ability to complete the work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-notice-on-plea-to-open-kuthiran/article33614375.ece
20 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||KCHR course to offer a peek into the past||The Kerala Council for Historical Research (KCHR) will launch a certificate course in reading old scripts like ‘Kolezhuthu’ and ‘Vattezhuthu’ in February as part of its efforts to create a team of scholars well-versed in scripts to help research. The number of scholars, researchers, and students of history and others, familiar with old scripts, has depleted. There are not enough people to aid research now, and the course is being introduced to meet this requirement. Historian P.K. Michael Tharakan, who is also KCHR Chairman, said there were hundreds of records in archives in Thiruvananthapuram. However, the number of people who can read and understand them is limited. “There should have been more such skilled people to help with research,” he said on Tuesday. Historians M.R. Raghava Warrier and Kesavan Veluthat will lead the course, which will be held on the Pattanam campus near Paravur, over 64 weeks on Saturdays and Sundays. The course will be a combination of theory and practice with 40 weeks being dedicated to sessions and 20 for field visits, KCHR sources said. Y. Subbarayulu, doyen of epigraphy, will also lead a few sessions. Mr. Tharakan said the course should have started last year itself had it not been for the COVID-19 outbreak. It was delayed, as it was not possible to hold sessions on reading and familiarising with old scripts online, he added. Each batch will have 12 seats. The course is open to graduates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kchr-course-to-offer-a-peek-into-the-past/article33614278.ece
20 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Curbs in Kavaratti as 21 test positive||With 21 people testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the Lakshadweep archipelago, prohibitory orders against public gathering were clamped at Kavaratti on Tuesday. Eight of the infected were islanders, two of them students. S. Asker Ali, district magistrate in the Union Territory of Lakshadweep, issued the orders against gathering of more than four persons in Kavaratti island in view of the sudden spike in the number of cases. The first case in the archipelago was detected on January 18 when an Indian Reserve Battalion (IRB) cook who reached the island by ship on January 4 tested positive for the virus. A source in the island said all the eight islanders who tested positive were part of his (IRB cook) family. Since two students were found to be positive, their schoolmates would be tested . The archipelago had been successful in keeping the virus at bay so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/21-positive-in-kavaratti/article33613924.ece
20 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Cases spike in district||The number of new COVID-19 cases in the district has once again crossed the 1,000-mark, with 1,019 people testing positive for the virus on Tuesday. Thrikkakara recorded 42 new cases, Kottuvally 27, Kalamassery 25, Thripunithura 24, and Kaloor and Manjapra 23 each. Four health workers also tested positive. As many as 463 people tested negative on Tuesday. A total of 10,796 people are currently being treated for the disease in the district. Vaccination At nine centres in the district, 701 health workers out of the targeted 1,021, took the Covishield vaccine on Tuesday. Adverse reaction The figure has climbed up from 442 on Monday. Four cases of adverse events following immunisation were reported on Tuesday, but they were minor giddiness, said Dr. M.G. Sivadas, nodal officer for vaccination in the district. The highest number of health workers (121) was vaccinated at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kalamassery, followed by 100 at Mar Baselios Medical Mission Hospital, 93 at the Ernakulam General Hospital, and 80 at Aster Medcity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cases-spike-in-district/article33614283.ece
20 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Cycle lanes, tracks on the anvil||To create a cycling-friendly environment in Kochi, Cochin Smart Mission Limited is developing cycle lanes along the smart roads, with the support of the German development agency GIZ. The implementation work, begun on January 16, is expected to be over by January 25. A plan is afoot to also have permanent cycle tracks on the five smart roads in Kochi and Fort Kochi before March 31, according to a release. In the long run, the agency intends to carve out cycle tracks across the city. “We will be involving Kochi Corporation, MVD, KMTA, police, town planners, architects, and urban planners for the implementation of the scale-up plan,” according to CSML CEO Jafar Malik.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cycle-lanes-tracks-on-the-anvil/article33614286.ece
20 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||1,000 govt. offices in Ernakulam to go green||Around 1,000 government offices in Ernakulam will turn green by adopting sustainable practices from next week. The initiative is part of the government’s move to implement the green protocol in 10,000 offices across the State. The Ernakulam collectorate was among the institutions that had introduced the green protocol in various offices under it last year. Besides government departments, offices and buildings under various civic bodies and government institutions will implement the protocol. Ten offices each in a municipality and panchayat will go green under the project. “The green offices will showcase the best of environmental practices that include reducing waste generation; source-level treatment of biodegradable waste using green pots / bio-bins, and requesting beneficiaries and the public to comply with the prescribed norms,” said Sujith Karun, district co-ordinator, Haritha Keralam Mission. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will roll out green protocol measures in 10,000 government offices on January 26. The green offices will use steel / glass plates and cups instead of disposable ones. Besides, carry bags made of cloth or eco-friendly materials will be used. Plastic covers and bags will not be allowed. Use of ink pens will be encouraged. Plastic bottles and tiffin boxes, flex boards, and banners will not be permitted. “Saplings and seeds will be offered as gifts instead of other materials whenever a function is held in government offices. Use of products that cannot be recycled will also not be encouraged,” Mr. Sujith Karun said. The guidelines say that non-biodegradable materials should be stored temporarily at the office or at a storage space in the building. Office representatives have to tie up with local bodies or agencies collecting non-biodegradable materials for shifting them to the material recovery facility every two months. Moreover, government offices will be asked to ensure energy-efficiency by making necessary alterations in buildings and using energy-efficient fittings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1000-government-offices-to-go-green-from-next-week/article33614280.ece
20 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Fuel prices touch record levels||Prices of petrol and diesel touched record levels in Kochi on Tuesday. The price of petrol stood at Rs. 85.36 a litre and that of diesel was Rs. 79.11 per litre. The price went up by Rs. 14 per litre for both petrol and diesel over the past eight months, said a petroleum dealer in Kochi. To be precise, the price hike has been Rs. 13.70 per litre for petrol and Rs. 13.66 for diesel over the past eight months, he added. He said the price of petrol had nearly touched Rs. 80 two years ago, but since then it had fluctuated. However, there has been a constant rise in the prices of both petrol and diesel. The rise in fuel prices puts the additional burden of working capital requirement on petroleum dealers, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fuel-prices-touch-record-levels/article33614285.ece
20 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Elected||Cherian Xavier, chief operating officer at Plant Lipids, and Emmanuel Nambusseril, chief marketing officer of Akay Natural Ingredients Pvt. Ltd., have been elected chairman and vice-chairman of All India Spices Exporters Forum.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/elected/article33614287.ece
20 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Boy drowns in pond||A 12-year-old boy drowned in a public pond at South Eroor near Thripunithura after he had ventured into the waters to swim on Tuesday around 11 a.m. The boy was identified as Emmanuel, a seventh standard student from Maradu. He had come to the pond with his friend from the same school on a bicycle while just pedalling around. The police said that while his friend walked around the pond watching fishes, the victim ventured into the water though he wasn’t adept at swimming. “Though the friend saw him flailing his arms, he initially mistook it for swimming before he realised that he was in trouble and probably sinking. The pond was very deep with steep underwater slopes that could trap even expert swimmers,” said Hill Palace police sources. By the time the other boy raised the alarm, bringing members of the public rushing in, the victim had completely sunk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/boy-drowns-in-pond/article33614288.ece
20 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Kamal Haasan opens college union||Popular actor Kamal Haasan inaugurated St. Teresa’s College Union for the academic year 2020-21 online on Tuesday. Mr. Haasan, founder of the Makkal Needhi Maiam, stressed the need to create an environment conducive to grooming future leaders of the country. “Be the change that you wish to see in others,” he said. A team of 13 union members led by Niranjana R., chairperson, took the oath of office. The college union election was held online with the software developed by the Department of Computer Science of the college. About 95% of the students cast their votes online, according to a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kamal-haasan-opens-college-union/article33614289.ece
20 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC orders police security for Thillankery special poll||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday directed the Deputy Inspector General of Police, Northern Range, and Superintendent of Police, Kannur, to provide adequate police security for the smooth conduct of the special election to the Thillankeri division of the Kannnur District Panchayat scheduled for January 21. Justice Anil K. Narendran also directed the police to extend the protection to the officials of the State Election Commission, the returning officer, the polling agents and voters before, during, and after the election. The court passed the directives on a petition filed by Rojas Sebastian, an election agent of the UDF candidate, Lynda James. According to him, the wards in the division were known for political violence, booth capturing and impersonation. Most of the accused and convicts in various political murder cases were living in these areas. The court also directed the State Election Commission to deploy accredited videographers inside and outside in all the 64 polling booths without compromising on the secrecy of voting. The court directed the police to take necessary steps to ensure that there was no threat to the law and order in the locality in connection with the election. The court ordered the State Election Commission and the police to ensure that only voters with valid identity card were permitted to enter the polling booths and that there were no bogus voting, impersonation, booth capturing, or other electoral offences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-orders-police-security-for-thillankery-special-poll/article33613852.ece
20 January 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||R-Day celebrations to be as per COVID-19 protocol||Republic Day celebrations in the district will be held as per COVID-19 protocol and this year, the entry will be restricted to invited guests. The decision was taken at a meeting chaired by District Collector Abdual Nasar here on Tuesday. Only 100 persons will be allowed to attend the event scheduled to be held at Lal Bahadur Shastri stadium at 9 a.m. Only three to five platoons will be allowed during the ceremonial parade. There will not be children’s parade, march past, prize and food distribution, or honouring of dignitaries. Arrangements will be in place for thermal scanning at the entry while masks and hand sanitisers will be made available at the entry and venue. It was also decided in the meeting to follow green protocol, and flags made of plastic and other material that are not eco-friendly will not be entertained. Plastic flags The production, distribution, and sales of plastic flags will not be permitted and inspections will be held at shops to ensure this. ADM P.R. Gopalakrishan, Sub Collector Shika Surendran, Tahsildar S. Sasidharan Pillai, and various department heads, attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/r-day-celebrations-to-be-as-per-covid-19-protocol/article33613918.ece
20 January 2021||Kollam,KERALA||TKM institute’s jubilee valedictory on January 22||The valedictory function of the silver jubilee celebrations of TKM Institute of Management will be held on January 22 at 5.30 p.m. The programme will be held online and Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari will the guest of honour on the occasion. T.K. Shahal Hassan Musaliar, president, T.K.M College Trust, will preside over the function while MPs Kodikunnil Suresh and N.K Premachandran will also attend the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tkm-institutes-jubilee-valedictory-on-january-22/article33613915.ece
20 January 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Keltron invites application for courses||Keltron has invited applications for its Computer Hardware and Network Maintenance with E-Gadget Technologies course (qualification required is Plus Two). Those who have passed SSLC can apply for Diploma in Computer Applications, Hardware and Network Maintenance with Laptop Technologies, Network Administration and Linux, and Computer hardware and Network Maintenance courses. For more details, contact 0474-2731061 or visit Keltron Knowledge Centre, Kollam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/keltron-invites-application-for-courses/article33613916.ece
20 January 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Diploma course at SRC college||Applications are invited for Acupuncture and holistic Health certificate/diploma course at SRC Community College, State Resource Centre. Application form can be downloaded from https://srccc.in/download and the last date for submitting application is January 31. For more details, visit www.srccc.in or call 9446323871, 0471-2325102.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/diploma-course-at-src-college/article33613917.ece
20 January 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Kottayam adds 674 new cases||As many as 674 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Tuesday. Of the fresh cases, 599 persons including two health workers contracted the virus through local contact. The fresh cases also included 60 children and 118 persons aged above 60. With 109 cases, Kottayam municipality led the tally, followed by Ettumanur with 51 cases. With 126 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 6,109 active cases.  Kollam The district reported 591 new COVID-19 cases and 276 recoveries. Those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 include 585 contact cases, two persons from another State, two health workers, and two cases with no known source. The health workers who contracted the infection are residents of Thrikkadavoor and Punalur while cases with no known source have been reported from Thazhava and Panmana. The district currently has 11,647 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 6,71,202. While 1,266 persons completed home quarantine on Tuesday, the Health Department has traced 1,53,679 primary and 13,724 secondary contacts of the patients.  Pathanamthitta As many as 512 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district. Of the fresh cases, 496 persons contracted the virus through local contact and among these, the contact source of 35 cases is yet to be identified. Among the local bodies, Pandalam reported 39 cases, followed by Thiruvalla and Aranmula with 21 cases each. The disease claimed four more lives in the districts and the victims were identified as 57-year-old Kottangal native, 35-year-old Kuttoor native, 35-year-old from Chandanappally native, and an 83-year-old from Nedumbram. With 1,166 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 5,539 active cases.  Alappuzha The district reported 475 COVID-19 cases. The fresh cases include 463 patients who contracted the disease through local transmission, while the source of infection of another six people remains unknown. Three people each who came from abroad and other States also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Meanwhile, 203 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district tested negative. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district stands at 4,088.  (With inputs from Kollam, Pathanamthitta, and   Alappuzha bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kottayam-adds-674-new-cases/article33613921.ece
20 January 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||BJP warms to NSS ahead of polls||Keen to expand its core social base ahead of the upcoming Assembly elections, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State leadership now appears to be warming to the Nair Service Society (NSS). In a message posted on his social media page, BJP State president K. Surendran on Tuesday revealed that NSS general secretary G. Sukumaran Nair had sent letters to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah expressing the organisation’s gratitude for their wishes on this year’s Mannam Jayanthi. He also shared the editorial of the latest edition of the NSS mouthpiece Service that thanked Mr. Modi and Mr. Shah. The BJP leadership appears keen on seizing this momentum and building a good rapport with the NSS ahead of the elections. The move, according to observers, is also expected to help the party in dispelling reports that Oommen Chandy is taking the reins of the Congress in Kerala with the backing of the NSS. Speculation is rife about a likely visit by Mr. Modi to the NSS headquarters. The NSS leadership, however, has clarified that there was nothing political in sending the gratitude letters. “This is for the first time that an Indian Prime Minister and Home Minister are acknowledging the contributions of Mannathu Padmanabhan on Mannam Jayanthi day and NSS considers it as a great honour. Hence, it was my duty to express the gratitude of the NSS,” said G. Sukumaran Nair, general secretary of the NSS. He reiterated NSS’s commitment to the equi-distance policy towards all political outfits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bjp-warms-to-nss-ahead-of-polls/article33613925.ece
20 January 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Kottayam district panchayat officials elected||T.S. Sarath, vice-president of the Kottayam district panchayat, has been elected as the chairman of the local body’s Finance Standing Committee. In an election held at the District Panchayat Hall on Tuesday, Manju Sujith was appointed as chairperson of the Development Standing Committee. Other leaders Jessy Shajan was elected as chairperson of the Public Works Standing Committee. Gireesh Kumar T. has been chosen as the chairman of the Welfare Standing Committee. Pushpamani P.S. will be leading the standing committee for Health and Education in the panchayat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kottayam-district-panchayat-officials-elected/article33613919.ece
20 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Sathram Colony residents oppose Corpn.’s eviction move||The residents of Sathram Colony in the heart of the city who have been asked to vacate the premises by the end of the month have decided to oppose the Kozhikode Corporation’s move. The residents claim that their families have been living in the colony for generations and have all their identification documents based on the address. The Corporation has asked 17 families in Sathram Colony to move out as the buildings are to be demolished soon. The Sathram Colony and a similar one at Nadakkavu house the staff quarters of the Corporation where some of the contingent workers reside with their families. Those on the rolls of the Corporation will be provided quarters temporarily at the Kalluthankadavu apartment complex while those not on the Corporation rolls need to move out. “People who retire from service should vacate the quarters provided by the Corporation. But here, they have been living for decades as the Corporation did not care to question them. But now it is high time that we provided better living quarters to our staff as this one is in a dilapidated condition and hence it is being demolished,” said Corporation Secretary Binu Francis. The Corporation is building a commercial complex-cum-quarters at Nadakkavu to accommodate all staff members who are being shifted to Kalluthankadavu now. The residents who have received the notice from the Corporation to vacate the quarters claim that the move is inhumane. “We are poor people who do menial jobs. We cannot find another accommodation at such short notice. This is where we have been living for generations,” said Radhamani, a resident. At Sathram Colony, there are 28 houses in which 32 families reside.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sathram-colony-residents-oppose-corpns-eviction-move/article33613850.ece
20 January 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||‘Probe agencies erred in khazi case’||A people’s commission of inquiry that looked into the death of C.M. Abdulla Moulavi, popularly known as Chembarika Khazi, from Kasaragod, has claimed that the local police, crime branch and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) had not done their job properly. The moulavi, the khazi of his native Chembirikka in Kasaragod and Mangaluru in Karnataka, was found drowned in the sea near his residence on February 15, 2010. He was the vice-president of the Sunni scholars’ forum, the Samastha Kerala Jamiyyathul Ulema. The CBI, in its closure report, had said that the moulavi might have committed suicide while ruling out the possibility of murder. The commission comprised People’s Union of Civil Liberties State Secretary P.A. Pouran, human rights activist Elsa George, and social activist T.V. Rajendran. They told the media here on Tuesday, quoting forensic experts Sherly Vasu and M.R. Chandran, that the moulavi must have been attacked with a lethal weapon. The inquest and post-mortem procedures had not been conducted properly, the forensic experts had told the commission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/probe-agencies-erred-in-khazi-case/article33613853.ece
20 January 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||RTI activists to move court against Anvar||A group of Right to Information Act (RTI) activists has said it will approach the Kerala High Court against P.V. Anvar, Left Democratic Front-supported Independent MLA for Nilambur, seeking government takeover of land in his possession that is above the ceiling fixed by the Land Reforms Act. RTI activists Manoj Kedaram, K.V. Shaji, and P. Soman told the media on Tuesday that their complaints filed with the Election Commission, Governor, Assembly Speaker, and the Revenue Minister had not yielded any results. They claimed that the district collectors of Malappuram and Kozhikode had submitted in a report to the government that Mr. Anvar was holding land more than what was sanctioned by the law. An individual or a family can hold only up to 15 acres as per the Act. However, as per the affidavits submitted to the poll panel during various elections, the MLA had said that he owned 207.84 acres, the activists claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rti-activists-to-move-court-against-anvar/article33613848.ece
20 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||‘Nattarangu’ camps kick off in Kozhikode||The Kozhikode district office of the Samagra Shiksha Kerala (SSK) on Tuesday launched ‘Nattarangu’, a five-day skill development camp for schoolchildren in tribal areas and coastal as well as hilly regions. According to SSK sources, it is a follow-up scheme to a project that organised online learning facilities for children who were left in the lurch without television, computer, cable TV connection, and smartphone during the pandemic. Minister for Labour and Excise T.P. Ramakrishnan, who opened the district-level camps online, said they would help develop children’s skills along with regular studies. The camps are being held in 21 colonies in places such as Kakkayam, Adukkanmala, Chembukadav, Muthappanpuzha, Pokkunnumala, Pathippara, Pasukkadavu, Varakunnu, Chaliyam, Payyanakkal, and Chombala. Nature walks, interaction with experts, short film production, and other activities will be taken up for socially backward children. The students were chosen through a study involving people’s representatives and educational activists. The teaching module has been prepared considering the diverse cultural and linguistic traditions in each area. Local political leaders and artistes too will be roped in. The camps will cover the 15 block resource centres in the district and will conclude by February 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nattarangu-camps-kick-off-in-kozhikode/article33613851.ece
20 January 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||All schools in State to turn disabled-friendly||Samagra Shiksha, Keralam, is launching a scheme to make all the schools in the State disabled-friendly in the coming days. A three-day workshop to devise it is going on in Kozhikode now. According to a release, the plan is to have facilities for differently-abled students right from the school entrance to the washrooms. Boards, seats, tables, projectors, computers, among others, should suit their needs. They should also be able to travel freely through the school premises. Ramps and railings, Braille sign boards, adapted toilets etc would be installed. Labs and libraries would be modified so that students can choose books and handle the equipment without getting hurt. The libraries would also have audio books and video teaching aids. Playgrounds too would be changed accordingly. Teachers would be trained and awareness would be created among students pursuing Bachelor of Education course, S.Y. Shooja, State programme officer, SSK, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/all-schools-in-state-to-turn-disabled-friendly/article33613854.ece
20 January 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||481 new COVID-19 cases in Kozhikode||As many as 481 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode district on Tuesday, 461 of whom acquired it through local transmission. The daily test positivity rate slumped to 7.82% when 6,149 samples were tested on the day. Kozhikode Corporation reported 137 locally acquired infections. There were 460 recoveries. The active caseload from the district is 6,768. Meanwhile, 571 people were vaccinated on the third day of the drive. 245 cases in Wayanad As many as 245 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad on Tuesday. All the patients, including two health workers, were infected through local contact.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/481-new-covid-19-cases-in-kozhikode/article33613856.ece
20 January 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Tamil centre webinar on poet-critic Ravi’s works||The Tamil Cultural Research Centre here will conduct an international webinar on poet-critic K. Ravi’s works on January 24. Sudha Seshayyan, Vice Chancellor of Tamil Nadu Dr. MGR Medical University, will inaugurate the webinar in the morning. E. Sundaramoorthy, former Vice Chancellor of Tamil University, Thanjavur, will preside over the function. K.A. Rajaram, director of the Tamil Cultural Research Centre, will deliver the keynote address. B. Rajendran, Vice Chancellor of Alagappa University, Karaikudi, will deliver the valedictory address. B.S. Raghavan, former IAS officer; S. Krishnaswamy, documentary filmmaker; writers K. Ravi, Ramanan and Elanthair Ramaswamy, A. Shanmughadas from Sri Lanka, Rathina Venkatesan from Singapore, and V.V. Subramanian from Chennai will present papers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tamil-centre-webinar-on-poet-critic-ravis-works/article33614381.ece
20 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State to receive 3,60,500 doses of Covishield today||Kerala will receive a second consignment of 3,60,500 doses of Covishield vaccine on Wednesday. The second lot of vaccines is expected to arrive in Ernakulam and Thiruvananthapuram by air and will be despatched to districts. Alappuzha will receive 19,000 doses in all, Ernakulam 59,000, Idukki 7,500, Kannur 26,500, Kasaragod 5,500, Kollam 21,000, Kottayam 24,000, Kozhikode 33,000, Malappuram 25,000, Palakkad 25,500, Pathanamthitta 19,000, Thiruvananthapuram 50,500, Thrissur 31,000 and Wayanad 14,000 The State had received an initial consignment of 4,33,500 doses of Covishield last week. With this, the State would receive a total of 7,94,000 doses, which would be more than sufficient to fully vaccinate the 3,75,610 health-care workers in Kerala and 2,932 health-care personnel in Central Health service, who have registered their names for vaccination. Every health-care worker would be administered two doses of the vaccine, 28 days apart. The second phase registration of front-line workers is on. Till now, 74,711 employees of the Home Department and 6,600 Municipal workers have registered. 8,548 more vaccinated On Tuesday, 8,548 health-care workers received the COVID-19 vaccine in the State. Ever since the vaccination drive was launched in the State, a total of 24,558 health-care workers have received the vaccine. Following the Centre’s directive, the State has tried to limit the vaccination sites to no more than 133 a day to avoid issues in vaccine distribution and each site is managing to vaccinate 60-80% of the target number of vaccinations, health officials said. “There is no denying that there is some vaccine hesitancy amongst health-care workers but some have dropped out of the list as pregnant and lactating mothers are not being administered the vaccine (all health-care workers had been asked to register their names ahead, before the vaccination eligibility criteria was fixed). Many with asthma, allergies and serious co-morbidities have now chosen to drop out of the list fearing the side effects. Apart from all this, the glitches in the CoWIN application have been making data entry a difficult process. Once the teething issues are over, the vaccination process should be smooth,” a senior Health official said. No serious side effects Official reports said that no serious side effects or anaphylactic reaction due to the vaccine had been observed in anyone. However, nearly 50% of those who received the vaccine experienced pain at the injection site, general body pain, nausea, fatigue and fever.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-to-receive-360500-doses-of-covishield-today/article33613936.ece
20 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||LDF bags all eight standing committees||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) won the chairpersonship of all the eight standing committees of the city Corporation, with the CPI(M) getting six of those, in elections to these posts held on Tuesday. The Communist Party of India (CPI) had only the Finance standing committee, of which Deputy Mayor P.K.Raju will be the ex-officio chairperson. Elections were necessitated for all the other seven standing committee chairperson posts, as the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had fielded its candidates. The United Democratic Front (UDF) did not field anyone as they virtually did not stand a chance to win any, with a total of 10 councillors. The winners Ulloor ward councillor L.S.Athira won the Development standing committee chairperson post, while S.Saleem, councillor of the Puthenpally ward, won the Welfare standing committee chairperson post. Peroorkada ward councillor P.Jameela Sreedhar, who was earlier tipped to be one of the Mayor candidates, won the key post of Health standing committee chairperson. Medical College ward councillor D.R.Anil won the Works standing committee chairperson post. Town Planning standing committee chairperson post was won by Poundkadavu ward councillor Jisha John. Nanthencode ward councillor K.S.Reena won the Education-sports standing committee chairperson post. All six of them belong to the CPI(M). The only standing committee chairperson post, other than that of the Finance standing committee chairperson, that the CPI(M) left for its allies was the Tax appeal standing committee chairperson post, which was won by Indian National League (INL)'s S.M.Basheer, councillor of the Manikyavilakom ward. To be shared This post is proposed to be shared between the four smaller LDF constituent parties - Congress(S), INL, Janata Dal (Secular) and Janathipathiya Samrakshana Samithy (JSS), with each taking turns. However, the other parties have not yet taken a decision on whether they should be staking a claim for it when their turn comes. The CPI(M)’s stand regarding sharing of these posts had led to some differences within the front, with the CPI yet again staying away from the LDF parliamentary party meeting, which was held on Tuesday morning, ahead of the standing committee elections. It had earlier staked a claim for one more standing committee chairperson post. However the CPI(M) did not heed to this, as it had the strength of increased numbers in the council. However, the CPI councillors were present for the voting process and voted for the CPI(M) candidates too. The Additional District Magistrate (ADM) was the presiding officer for the election to the chairperson posts of standing committees. The BJP, which had won the Tax appeal standing committee chairperson post in the previous term, failed to win any despite having an almost identical number of seats this time. Increased strength The LDF’s increased strength, and the support it got from the three Independent councillors, ensured that it could win a majority of seats in all standing committees, except the Finance standing committee which the Deputy Mayor heads.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-bags-all-eight-standing-committees/article33614423.ece
20 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Tributes paid to Vijayadas||The Assembly on Tuesday paid tributes to Kongad MLA K.V. Vijayadas who passed away in Thrissur due to post-COVID-19 complications. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who led the House in paying homage to the two-time legislator, said Vijayadas regarded himself as a member, and not the leader, of the farming community, even while spearheading their issues for decades. His experience as a farmer who toiled on the fields instilled in him the strength to highlight the issues plaguing the farm sector in the Assembly and on public forums with resolve. He had played instrumental roles in resolving various issues, including those pertaining to farmers’ loan schemes, paddy procurement and irrigation. He had also pioneered model initiatives as a cooperative movement member and an administrator during his tenures at the Elappully Service Cooperative Bank and Thenari dairy cooperative society and as the director board member of the State Cooperative Bank, Mr. Vijayan said. Public acceptance Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said Vijayadas received public acceptance cutting across political affiliations. While he had been elected to the Kongad Assembly constituency twice since its formation in 2011, his increased margin of victory during the 2016 elections reflected upon his immense support base. Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan recalled the efforts of Vijayadas in realising the Meenvallam hydel power project, the first-of-its-kind to be implemented by a district panchayat in Asia, when he was the first president of the Palakkad district panchayat in 1996. Cremated The mortal remains of Vijayadas were cremated with full State honours in Palakkad. His body was brought to his residence at Elappully in the morning. The body was kept at a nearby school for the public to pay homage. Later, the body was taken to the CPI(M) district committee office. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan paid homage to Vijayadas at the party office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tributes-paid-to-vijayadas/article33613932.ece
20 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Isaac criticises CAG’s remarks again||Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac has again come out against the comments by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) in the State Finance Audit Report for the year ending March 2019 and reiterated that the CAG cannot include comments in the report without seeking explanation from the State. “The CAG report is a challenge to the Legislative Assembly. We will move against it politically as it is the hidden agenda of the BJP to sabotage Constitutional bodies in the country,” Dr. Isaac told a press conference here on Tuesday. The Finance Minister said the CAG report had been prepared with the intention of tarnishing the image of the State government. “It is the acts of the Accountant General who has been transferred from here that resulted in the adverse comments. The Left Democratic Front will take it up in the electioneering for the forthcoming polls to the Assembly. Let the people decide whether they want KIIFB-funded development projects.” RBI nod Pointing out that the Reserve Bank of India has given NOC for the loans taken by the KIIFB from abroad, Dr. Isaac said the KIIFB was a corporate entity and that only States had been barred from taking foreign loans. KIIFB loans were not government loans. The CAG had said that the liability would fall on the State if repayment was not made, he said. The Finance Minister said he had requested Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan for discussing the CAG report tabled by him with comments in the House on Monday and the Speaker had to take a call on it. “I have no concerns over the discussion.” To a query, Dr. Isaac said he was not aware of the contents of the report finalised by the Privileges and Ethics Committee of the Assembly that examined the breach of privilege moved by Congress legislator V.D. Satheesan against him. Mr. Satheesan had alleged that Dr. Isaac had infringed on the rights of the House by disclosing the contents of the report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/isaac-criticises-cags-remarks-again/article33613927.ece
20 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State leads in new cases||Kerala reported 6,186 new cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday, when 66,259 samples were tested in 24 hours. Test positivity rate on the day was 9.34%. The cumulative case burden of the State has risen to 8,57,380 cases. The active case pool has been steadily rising this past week and now stands at 70,259. Kerala now tops all States across the country when it comes to new cases, active caseload, and the deaths reported daily. Except for Kerala and Maharashtra, with 51,000-odd active cases, all other States have brought down their active caseload to 7,000-8,000 cases, the Union Health Ministry pointed out on Tuesday. A total of 4,296 recovered. 26 deaths The addition of 26 new deaths on Tuesday to the official list has taken the State’s COVID toll to 3,506. Thrissur reported five deaths, Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, and Kannur four each, Kozhikode three, Wayanad and Malappuram two each, while Ernakulam and Kasaragod reported one death each. Of the 6,186 new cases reported on the day, the Health Department has reported a history of travel outside the State in 92 cases, while 6,094 are locally acquired infections. Amongst the locally acquired infections, in 484 cases the source of infection remains untraced while the number of health-care workers who acquired the infection is 6,943. Ernakulam tops Among districts, Ernakulam continues to report the highest number of cases in the State with 1,019 cases, Kottayam 674, Kollam 591, Thrissur 540, Pathanamthitta 512, Malappuram 509, Kozhikode 481, Alappuzha 475, Thiruvananthapuram 404, Kannur 301, Wayanad 245, Palakkad 242, Idukki 130, and Kasaragod 63 cases. The number of critically ill patients being treated in ICUs in the State is 760 on Tuesday, according to official reports, with 224 of them requiring ventilator assistance.  UK variant A total of 63 persons who came from the United Kingdom have so far tested positive, with seven testing positive in 24 hours. Of these, the samples of nine have been found to have the presence of the SARS-CoV-2 variant first reported in the U.K., B.1.1.7, which is believed to be highly transmissible. More samples have been despatched to NIV, Pune, and results are awaited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-leads-in-new-cases/article33613935.ece
20 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Youth Congress march turns violent||A Youth Congress demonstration to the Secretariat alleging backdoor appointments in government officers turned violent on Tuesday. Hundreds of activists marched to the Secretariat by around 1.30 p.m. raising slogans against the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government. The agitation was led by Youth Congress State president Shafi Parambil, K.S. Sabarinadhan, V.T. Balram, Anwar Sadath and Roji M. John, MLAs. Mr. Parambil accused the government of scuttling appointments through the Kerala Public Service Commission and ignoring rank-lists to engaging undeserving people without proper appointment process. Soon after the legislators addressed the agitators, some of them attempted to topple the barricades erected before the North Gate. While this led to tension, the police used water cannons to disperse the protesters. While they refused to relent, the police fired tear gas and grenades at least thrice, paving way for a full-blown clash. The situation showed signs of escalation when the police attempted to take Mr. Parambil and some other Youth Congress activists into custody. MLAs arrested However, peace was soon restored. Mr. Sabarinadhan and Mr. John were among those who were also taken to the Armed Reserve camp and subsequently arrested. Some agitators were also hospitalised for minor injuries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youth-congress-march-turns-violent/article33614418.ece
20 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||A melodious route to teach poem on music||What could be more apt than a teacher playing the flute to teach students a poem about a young girl listening to the strains of a flute wafting in through her window every evening. K. Murukadas, a visually challenged teacher at Government Upper Primary School, Akathethara, Palakkad district, recently helmed two episodes of the Malayalam First Bell digital classes for class 6 students. To teach them Jeevanulla Pattu , a poem by G. Kumara Pillai, Mr. Murukadas sang and even played the flute. His objective was to introduce students to music that has no language and then let them discover how words add to its beauty. Mr. Murukadas who began to lose his vision at the age of two after contracting small pox has been a teacher in government service only for six years. Love for Malayalam Mr. Murukadas did his undergraduation in BA History at Government Victoria College, Palakkad. It was only later that he realised his love for Malayalam. He later completed B.Ed. from Farook College, Kozhikode. It was during the practical training as part of the B.Ed. course that he realised he liked teaching. But it was 10 years though before he landed a job. He joined a school at Puthur in Palakkad before shifting to Akathethara where he hails from.  In class, he began using laptops to show children videos and audio way back in 2014. Students, he says, never forget him or their classroom experience, be it poetry or theatre he is talking about. Malayalam, he says, offers immense possibilities for using modern technology to make classes interesting. As a teacher, he says it is crucial to understand students and establish a rapport with them. Enough resources Visually challenged students today have a lot of modern resources at their disposal to make their studies and life easier. The only thing required is the desire to study. Mr. Murukadas says he could see a bit all these years, but in the past year-and-a-half he has lost his vision completely. His family, comprising wife Soli and children Abinit and Amulet, though are such a huge support that he is not bothered by his condition.  Murukadas sang and played the flute to teach the poem ‘Jeevanulla Pattu’ by G. Kumara Pillai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/playing-the-flute-to-teach-poem-on-music/article33613929.ece
20 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Ensure participation of all for conclave, VCs told||The State Planning Board has urged Vice Chancellors of universities across the State to ensure utmost participation of the academic community during the global conclave ‘Kerala Looks Ahead’ that is set to be held from February 1 to 3. Addressing Vice Chancellors through video-conference on Tuesday, State Planning Board vice-chairperson V.K. Ramachandran stressed on the need to enlist the participation of students, scholars and teachers for the event that is aimed at driving the State forward by evolving the best practices and models. He pointed out that higher education and the possibility of international academic collaboration will be among the key topics of discussions at the conclave. While the conclave will be conducted on the web-conferencing platform Zoom, the programme will also be livestreamed on Facebook and Youtube to ensure a wide reach among the target audience. A certain number of participants representing universities will be able to participate directly through Zoom. The modalities for participation will be finalised and sent to the universities.  Paradigm shift State Planning Board member secretary Venu V., members B. Ekbal, K. Raviraman, Mridul Eapen and T. Jayaraman and the Vice-Chancellors of CUSAT, Kerala Agricultural University, MG University and Kannur University, K.N. Madhusoodanan, R. Chandrababu, Sabu Thomas and Gopinath Ravindran, were among those who attended the interaction. The KLA, organised by the Planning Board, targets a paradigm shift in the State’s progress by building on historic achievements in welfare and through invigorating growth through technology. Nobel laureate economist Professor Joseph Stiglitz and Soumya Swaminathan, Chief Scientist with World Health Organisation, are prominent among those who will address the meet at the inaugural session on February 1. The deliberations will focus on nine themes including primary sector (agriculture, fisheries and animal resources development), modern industrial possibilities, tourism, higher education, skill development, information technology, e-governance, local governments, and federalism and development financing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ensure-participation-of-all-for-conclave-vcs-told/article33613922.ece
20 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Two youths held for raping minor girl||The police arrested two youths for allegedly gang-raping a minor girl who apparently left the city following a tiff with her parents. The Peroorkada police arrested Prashob Jacob, 34, of Valiyathura, and John Bosco alias Jondy, 33, of Valiyathope for the alleged crime. The duo allegedly accosted the victim while she was waiting to buy a railway ticket to Chennai at the Thiruvananthapuram Central railway station on January 9. The student had decided to head for Chennai after an argument with her family. The accused allegedly took the victim to a lodge in East Fort and sexually harassed her. Later, they tailed her all the way to Tamil Nadu and allegedly raped her yet again in a lodge near the Katpadi railway station in Vellore. The Peroorkada police commenced an investigation on the basis of a man-missing complaint submitted by her parents. While the victim did not possess a mobile phone, calls that she managed to make to her home using the mobile phones of strangers she met led the police to trace her whereabouts to Bengaluru. Ordeal After her rescue, the victim recounted her ordeal following which the police identified the perpetrators using the passengers list and phone calls details with the assistance of the Police Cyber Cell.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-youths-held-for-raping-minor-girl/article33614419.ece
20 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||404 new COVID-19 cases in capital||The district recorded 404 COVID-19 cases and 341 recoveries as the number of active cases increased to 3,551 on Tuesday. Five health workers are among those who tested positive during the last 24 hours. Vaccination As many as 551 health workers were administered COVID-19 vaccine in the district on Tuesday. The inoculation was held in Pangappara FHC (52 people), Women and Children’s Hospital (60), Pulluvila community health centre (66), Vithura taluk hospital (51), General Hospital, (80), Medical College (58), Anjuthengu CHC (66), District Hospital, Nedumangad (62) and Parassala taluk hospital (56).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/404-new-covid-19-cases-in-capital/article33614421.ece
20 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Power supply disruption||Electricity will be disrupted in some areas under the Thycaud electrical section limits from 9 a.m to 5 p.m. on Wednesday, and to areas under the Kudappanakkunnu electrical section limits from 8.40 a.m. to 5.30 p.m. on Wednseday, a statement issued from the Kerala State Electricity Board here on Tuesday said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/power-supply-disruption/article33614420.ece
20 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Bumper prize for lottery seller||Little would Shenkottai-native lottery seller Sharafudeen have known when a bunch of tickets went unsold that one of them would fetch him the first prize of Rs. 12 crore of the government-operated Kerala Christmas New Year Bumper Lottery. Mr. Sharafudeen emerged the winner of the lottery when he arrived at the Directorate of Kerala State Lotteries with the winning-ticket, bearing the number XG 358753. The winner, who hails from Ayoor in Kollam, has settled in Tamil Nadu since his childhood. While he worked abroad until four years ago, he took to farming and lottery sales since his return. The winning ticket was part of a batch that he had purchased from an agency in Aryankavu. He is expected to receive Rs. 7.56 crore after the deduction of tax and the agent’s commission. While he has won smaller amounts through lottery, Mr. Sharafudeen had never expected to win such a huge amount, he said, adding he has not decided on how to utilise the prize money. Besides his wife and a son, he also has been supporting two brothers and their mother.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lottery-seller-wins-christmas-new-year-bumper-prize/article33613912.ece
20 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Northeast monsoon bids adieu to State||The northeast monsoon rains, marked by a delayed withdrawal this season, have finally ceased over Kerala and the rest of the southern peninsula, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Tuesday. The delayed withdrawal was marked by a surplus rainfall in January alone. 1,763% surplus According to IMD figures, Kerala received a surplus of 1,763% — a large excess in IMD terminology — between January 1 and January 19. While the normal rainfall for the 19-day period is 5.6 mm, the State, overall, received 104.3 mm. All 14 districts recorded a large excess (60% or above than normal) during this period, according to the IMD Meteorological Centre, Thiruvananthapuram. On the other hand, the State had recorded 26% deficient rainfall during the ‘official’ northeast monsoon period from October 1 to December 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/northeast-monsoon-bids-adieu-to-state/article33613933.ece
20 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KU staffer suspended||The University of Kerala on Tuesday suspended a section officer for allegedly tampering with the marks obtained by a former student on an examination software. Section officer Vinod V. has been suspended, pending inquiry, after being accused of wilfully entering incorrect marks gained by a 2015-18 batch student when he had appeared for supplementary examinations in 2019. The alleged malpractice came to light when the former student had recently applied for a mark-list of a supplementary paper. Upon verification, the authorities ascertained that the marks he had obtained in seven supplementary examinations were tampered with on the software and did not match those that were found on the answer scripts. While the former student had failed in none of the supplementary examinations, the records stated otherwise. The marks had been apparently entered using the login credentials of the official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ku-staffer-suspended/article33614416.ece
20 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Tribe couple to head for Delhi for R-Day||A Scheduled Tribe couple from Kannur will be the guests at the parade on Republic Day in New Delhi. Ajith and Ramya from the Paniya tribal community and living at Valliyad colony in Iritty, Kannur, will take part in the parade. Centre’s invite The couple will travel to the national capital on an invite from the Union government. They will get an opportunity to interact with the President, Vice President, Prime Minister, and the Minister for Tribal Affairs and present their traditional arts. They will take part in various programmes from January 21 to February 2, and visit Rashtrapati Bhavan, Parliament House, and Teen Murti Bhavan, a statement issued here said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kannur-tribal-couple-head-to-delhi-for-r-day/article33613930.ece
20 January 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||All set for crucial bypoll in Pullazhi||When the public campaign comes to an end for the by-election at the Pullazhi division of the Thrissur Corporation on Tuesday, both the United Democratic Front (UDF) and the Left Democratic Front (LDF) are keeping their fingers crossed. The result of the bypoll is significant for both the ruling LDF and the UDF, the main Opposition party, as the LDF has the majority of just one seat in the 55-member council. The byelection is on January 21. When the LDF has 24 seats, the UDF has 23. After much confusion, the LDF wrested power in the council with the support of UDF rebel M.K. Varghese. In return, the LDF had to pay a huge prize. They had to sacrifice the Mayor post to M.K. Varghese for the first two years. Candidate’s death The election to Pullazhi division was postponed following the death of LDF candidate M.K. Mukundan. Mukundan shifted loyalty from the UDF to the LDF just before the election. However, he died even before he could start campaigning. Former councilor in the Corporation K. Ramanadhan is the UDF candidate at Pullazhi. The LDF has fielded Madathil Ramankutty, a former Congress councillor, against Mr. Ramanadhan. The Bharatiya Janata Party has taken back the seat, which was given to the Bharat Dharma Jana Sena (BDJS) earlier, and fielded Santhosh Pullazhi. Pullazhi, which was a UDF bastion earlier, stood with the LDF in the last election. Mr. Ramankutty is confident in retaining the seat. However, the UDF alleged an unholy alliance between the LDF and the BJP in the division to defeat it. Meanwhile, the BJP candidate too is confident and said his party had performed very well at Pullazhy in the last Lok Sabha election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/all-set-for-crucial-bypoll-in-pullazhi/article33614377.ece
20 January 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||540 new cases, 329 recoveries in Thrissur||A total of 540 COVID-19 cases were reported in the district on Tuesday while 329 people recovered from the disease. There are 4,811 active cases here and 103 people from the district are undergoing treatment in hospitals in other districts. So far, 82,226 COVID-19 cases have been reported from the district and 76,857 people have recovered. Local contact According to official statistics, 512 people, including four health workers, contracted the disease through local contact on Tuesday. Of them, 85 people are above the age of 60 and 17 below the age of 10. In all, 3,406 people are in home care. In all, 71 people were admitted to hospitals for treatment on Tuesday. A total of 6,005 samples were collected for tests on Tuesday. So far, 2,008 health workers had been administered the COVID-19 vaccine in Thrissur district.  So far, 82,226 cases have been reported from the district and 76,857 people have recovered||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/540-new-cases-329-recoveries-in-thrissur/article33614379.ece
20 January 2021||January 20 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Spotless||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/spotless/article33614282.ece
20 January 2021||January 20 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Dexterous hands||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dexterous-hands/article33614383.ece
20 January 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sanitise your hands the digital way||At a time when the use of liquid sanitisers has become a routine for all in wake of coronavirus pandemic, a startup mentored by Sri Krishnadevaraya University as part of the Atal Innovation Mission has come up with a solution for disinfecting hands without any alcohol-based liquid. Suchandra Technologies Private Limited has come up with ‘WizCleanzer’ that has been developed by five engineering undergraduates of Bengaluru-based R.V. College of Engineering. “The startup has been registered with the Ministry of Corporate Affairs and the e-sanitiser has got a patent in India, besides being approved by the National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL). A patent application is pending in the U.S.A.,” says Sandesh Krishna Sheety, one of the co-founders of the startup. How it works The device needs to be plugged into the AC to DC converter and a small box with a black plate on top generates ozone and plasma, which sanitises hands within seconds. “One need not worry about its efficacy as multiple tests have been done on the device by reputed laboratories in the country by performing tests on hands after sanitisation,” says startup CEO Siddharoodha Angadi. Arati G. Lohar, a biotechnology student and part of the startup, says that liquid sanitisers claim 99% efficacy, while the device has proven to be 100% perfect. “Priced at Rs. 10,000 and another Rs. 2,500 for an intelligent stand, it is a one-time investment for places where a large number of people need to sanitise,” says B. Paribhasha, a biomedical engineering final year student and another founding member of the startup. Abdul Rehman, a telecommunications engineering student and a part of the startup, says that they have sold 440 devices in two months and have a capacity to produce 1,000 pieces a month. UV-C Saber, among the many innovative products developed by the company, can disinfect all kinds of surfaces within no time with the help of this hand-held equipment. The stratup is in the process of developing a marketing network for this product.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sanitise-your-hands-the-digital-way/article33614361.ece
20 January 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Paritala chapter is now closed: Rapthadu MLA||Paritala Sriram was handed a crushing defeat by voters as members of his family had resorted to several unlawful activities as Ministers and MLAs, Rapthadu MLA Thopudurthi Prakash said on Tuesday. “The Paritala chapter is closed now,” Mr. Prakash said at a press conference here on Tuesday. Mr. Sriram, son of Paritala Ravindra and Paritala Sunitha, was taught a lesson by voters in the last elections as his family had amassed a large extent of land in benami transactions, Mr. Prakash alleged. “The Paritala family never bothered about the people, and they are now trying to level corruption allegations against me, which is surprising,” the MLA said. Mr. Sriram on Monday alleged that people were forced to pay extortion money to the MLA if they wanted to build a house and further claimed that toll tax was being collected unauthorisedly from tomato farmers near the private Tomato Mandi in Rapthadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/paritala-chapter-is-now-closed-rapthadu-mla/article33613676.ece
20 January 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||SKU-AIC inks MoU with Dodla Dairy||The Sri Krishnadevaraya University(SKU)-Atal Innovation Centre on Tuesday entered into a memorandum of understanding with Dodla Dairy Pvt. Ltd. to foster and support rural innovation and entrepreneurship in the sectors of agriculture, water and energy sectors. The MoU was signed by Dodla Dairy managing director Dodla Sudhir Reddy and Atal Innovation Centre-SKU CEO Shiv Kiran. The Hyderabad-based Dodla Dairy and Atal Innovation Centre have come together to curate, incubate and scale the frontier innovations in the areas of post-harvesting and sustainable practices in farming in rural regions, they said. They will lend support to aspirational entrepreneurs in the rural areas for establishing modern farming practices including hydroponics, aquaponics, precision farming, said a board member.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sku-aic-inks-mou-with-dodla-dairy/article33614352.ece
20 January 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Double murder plan foiled||The Kalyandurg police in Anantapur district, with the help of Central Crime Station here, foiled a double murder attempt and arrested six persons, including those who provided explosives to the culprits, on Tuesday. The police also recovered 23 improvised country bombs from Thippepalli. Anantapur Superintendent of Police B. Satya Yesu Babu at a press conference here said that the mastermind behind the murder plan was an absconding woman, identified as Mutyalamma. The district police nabbed her three closely related persons -- E. Rajasekhar, 25, Devarakonda Ramachandra, 50, and G. Lingaraju -- for hatching the plot to kill E. Chandrasekhar and E. Gangadhar. They wanted to take revenge for the murder of their close relative E. Gopal in 2010. Gopal was a relative of E. Rajasekhar, while E. Chandrasekhar and Gangadhar were accused in the 2010 murder case related to sexual jealousy. They were also accused in the killing of E. Durgappa in a landmine blast at Ralla Anantapur in Kambadur mandal in 2019. Durgappa was also a relative of Rajasekhar, hence he allegedly planned the murder of the two along with his mother and took the help of V. Hari, V. Nagesh and another person to procure detonators for making bombs in Thippepalli, said the SP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/double-murder-plan-foiled/article33614351.ece
20 January 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anantapur gets SKOCH award||The district unit of the State Department of Horticulture received the SKOCH Award for Agriculture for its efforts to help the tomato and other farmers of the region in sending their produce to New Delhi to sell them at a better price through the first-ever Kisan Rail from South India. District Collector Gandham Chandrudu congratulated the then Deputy Director Horticulture B.Subba Rayudu and presented to him the certificate received from the organisation on Monday. He thanked people in the district for making this effort a success by helping the farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anantapur-gets-skoch-award/article33614350.ece
20 January 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||19-year-old youth ‘murders’ girlfriend in Chittoor||In a gruesome incident, a 19-year-old degree student allegedly murdered a girl with whom he had eloped, in Chittoor district on Tuesday. According to information, the accused, identified as Delhi Babu from Chintamakulapalle village in Puthalapattu mandal, was in a relationship with Gayatri (20) from Thurpupalle village in Penumuru mandal. They eloped and reportedly exchanged vows at a temple on December 11 last year. Police registered a missing case after a complaint was lodged by the girl’s parents. The police then counselled the couple and their parents as Babu was yet to attain the legal age for marriage. The girl, also a student, was handed over to her parents. Later, Gayatri’s parents reportedly thwarted Babu’s attempts to meet her. A few days ago, the accused reportedly tried to meet her when she was on her way to her college in Chittoor. However, she refused to meet Babu. On Tuesday afternoon, knowing that Gayatri was going to Penumuru with her cousin on a two-wheeler, Babu accosted her on the outskirts of Thurpupalle. Babu reportedly picked up an argument with Gayatri, demanding that she come to his house. When she steadfastly refused, Babu flew into a fit of rage and allegedly stabbed her with a knife multiple times and slit her throat. The accused allegedly fled when villagers rushed to the spot. Tension prevails A profusely bleeding Gayatri was rushed to a Primary Health Centre at Penumuru, where a doctor referred her to the Christian Medical College Hospital in Vellore. She succumbed to her injuries on the way. Meanwhile, tension prevailed at Chintamakulapalle, the village of the accused, after a mob tried to set his house afire, besides assaulting his father. Police rushed to the spot and brought the situation under control. Disha Act “Cases have been registered against the accused under the Nirbhaya and Disha Acts. Special teams have been formed to trace the accused,” said Deputy Superintendent of Police N. Sudhakar Reddy, after he visited the villages of the accused and the victim.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/19-year-old-youth-murders-girlfriend/article33614374.ece
20 January 2021||GUDIVADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||34-year-old SI found dead||A sub-inspector of police, P. Vijay Kumar (34), was found dead in his flat here on Tuesday. A resident of Eluru, Vijay Kumar joined the force in 2012 and got married a couple of months ago. Superintendent of Police (SP) M. Ravindranath Babu met the victim’s family members at the Government Hospital, where the body was taken for post-mortem. “The reasons for the alleged suicide are not known. A CI-rank officer will investigate the reasons for the death,” Mr. Ravindranath said. Persons with suicidal tendencies and in distress can dial ‘1090’ for help.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/34-year-old-si-found-dead/article33613687.ece
20 January 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Focus more on YSR Cheyutha, YSR Bima, CM tells officials||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has asked the officials to accord priority to YSR Cheyutha and YSR Bima schemes and complete the loan disbursal process under the programmes by the end of March. Addressing a review meeting on the schemes, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said that Collectors should be more focussed on the identification of beneficiaries and asked them to include more in the schemes. He also asked them to educate the beneficiaries over the schemes and help them ground the units so that the rural economic industry was protected. Cattle feed The Chief Minister also directed the officials to ensure that medicines and cattle feed were distributed at Rythu Bharosa Kendras and all the animals should be geo-tagged and given an unique ID number. Even if any one wants to sell the animals, they would have to do it through RBKs. A complete health card of each animal should be maintained, said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy. “I want the RBKs to be single point contact for all activities pertaining to farm and dairy industry. Farmers should not be confused as all the activities should be carried out from the RBKs. I also want the Animal Husbandry Department to fill up all the vacant posts in the department,” said the Chief Minister. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said that retail shops should be given importance under the YSR Cheyutha. A discussion should be held on the efficacy of the schemes and study should be made on the results they had among the beneficiaries. Amul project Under the YSR Bima scheme, the Chief Minister asked Collectors to coordinate with the bankers and review the scheme every 15 days. The officials later told the Chief Minister that Amul project was being implemented in Prakasam, Chittoor and YSR Kadapa districts and it would start in the first week of February in Guntur and West Godavari districts and the project would be extended to all parts of the State by March 21, 2022. Minister for Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy, Minister for Animal Husbandry and Dairy Development S. Appala Raju, Special Chief Secretary Poonam Malakondaiah, Principal Secretary Gopalakrishna Dwivedi, Managing Director of AP Dairy Development Cooperative Federation A. Babu, Special Commissioner of Labour Department G. Rekha Rani were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/focus-more-on-ysr-cheyutha-ysr-bima-cm-tells-officials/article33613666.ece
20 January 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||We do not have any secret agenda like TDP: Sajjala||It has become a habit for the Opposition to raise a hue and cry every time Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy makes a visit to New Delhi, Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy, Adviser (Public Affairs), has said. “It has become a habit for the Opposition to indulge in small talk. The Chief Minister’s visit is planned in advance, and is meant to have discussions with the Union Ministers and pursue pending projects and raise issues such as Special Category Status,” Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy said on Tuesday. ‘False propaganda’ He also lashed out at the Opposition for making a false propaganda that the YSRCP and the BJP had some understanding. “The Chief Minister meets the Union Home Minister, or any other Union Minister, to discuss vital issues relating to the State. He will also explain to the Union Ministers the rationale behind the shifting of the High Court to Kurnool and also pursue the issue of pending funds,” Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy said. “We don't have any secret agenda. Unlike TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu, our leader and Chief Minister likes to talk straight. Everyone knows the number of trips Mr. Naidu had made to New Delhi as part of a secret agenda before 2014 and later how he had ditched the Congress and tied up with the BJP to come into power. Later, Mr. Naidu also ditched the BJP. He was however overthrown by the YSRCP in 2019,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/we-do-not-have-any-secret-agenda-like-tdp-sajjala/article33614362.ece
20 January 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Follow safety norms strictly, Minister tells riders||Minister for Home and Disaster Management M. Sucharita on Tuesday flagged off a campaign vehicle here as part of the National Road Safety Month. Speaking on the occasion, the Home Minister called upon road users to follow discipline and safety rules. She urged two-wheelers as well as the pillion riders to wear a helmet. Similarly, a four-wheeler driver and those travelling in it must use a seat belt. Ms. Sucharita said the drop in number of accidents in Guntur district was a positive development. It was due to the measures taken by the State government, she said and congratulated the Police and the Transport Departments on their efforts. Deputy Transport Commissioner Meera Prasad said the campaign vehicle would tour all parts of the district till February 17 to educate the public on road safety. Meanwhile, District Collector I. Samuel Anand Kumar has said that overspeeding is the main cause for road accidents. The Collector said orders were issued to suspend the licences of the drivers if found going overspeed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/follow-safety-norms-strictly-minister-tells-riders/article33614443.ece
20 January 2021||Harish Gilai,ANDHRA PRADESH||Old Jail Road in need of a ‘clean-up’ act||The morning walkers, who take a few rounds around the old Central Jail now called YSR Central Park, are unhappy as the once clean road has become an eyesore, due to the garbage left by the visitors and vendors of the Night Bazaar. Blaming vendors for lack of proper waste disposal system and maintenance at the Night Bazaar, citizens appealed to the GVMC to step in and initiate measures to improve cleanliness. About 100 street vendors and food truck owners were permitted by the Urban Community Wing (UCD) of the GVMC to set up stalls near Old Jail Road. The response to the Night Bazaar has been good and the initiative has given a new lease of life to many vendors who were financially affected by COVID-19. Though the sanitary conditions were better in the initial days, the situation deteriorated. A number of walkers from Allipuram, Waltair Uplands and Asilmetta who take a walk or jog around the park on the footpath surrounding the Central Park complain that they are greeted with food wastes, paper plates, plastic spoons and heavily dumped dustbins on the footpaths these days. With garbage dumped along the footpath, bad odour is emanating, they said. “Either the corporation should impose fine on the vendors or educate them not to litter the wastes and use dustbins appropriately. The situation is getting worse as it is becoming difficult for the workers to clean the mess, everyday,” said Sreepada Sujatha, an Advocate and executive council member of A.P. Federation of Resident Welfare Association. She said that despite complaining to the civic body through social media many a time, situation did not change. A few walkers pointed out that despite having dustbin, many are not using them. People also said that the GVMC must warn vendors that their licence would be cancelled if the surroundings are not properly maintained. “Many mornings we see dogs feeding on the food wastes littered here and there. Though the vendors place dustbins, some people drop the used plates around the trees near footpath and wash hands on the grass which is unhygienic. Meanwhile, the vendors too do not clear them in the night which is their responsibility,” said S. Manohar, a resident of Allipuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizag-old-jail-road-in-crying-need-of-a-clean-up-act/article33614395.ece
20 January 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pastor’s house, office raided, ‘evidence’ seized||A team of cybercrime wing of Andhra Pradesh CID seized raided the house and office of pastor Praveen Chakravarthy at Kakinada in East Godavari district on Tuesday and seized “evidence” pertaining to the charges of religious conversion he is facing. The pastor was arrested after an old video went viral on social media platforms. In the video, the pastor reportedly made claims of religious conversions. “A case has been registered in the cybercrime wing in connection with the video, in which the pastor claimed religious conversion of people in many villages and removing Hindu idols from places of worship. We have seized some electronic evidence from his office and residence,” CID Cybercrime SP G.R. Radhika told the media. “More evidence are suspected to be hidden by one of the supporters of the pastor. We are examining the list of villages where he was involved in the alleged activities of the religious conversion,” she said. Probe on Referring to the claims of removal of Hindu idols by the pastor, the SP said the investigation will focus on where and how the idols were removed and the people involved in it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pastor-praveens-house-office-raided-evidence-seized/article33614274.ece
20 January 2021||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||KDCC Bank clocks 43% growth, says chairman||The Krishna District Cooperative Central (KDCC) Bank Limited has outperformed many cooperative banks in the country to register a growth of 43%, said its Chairman Yarlagadda Venkat Rao on Tuesday. The bank, established by Sri Bhogaraju Pattabhi Seetaramaiah on January 17, 1915, was celebrating 105 years of existence, Mr. Venkat Rao said. KDCC Bank was operating with 425 affiliated Primary Agriculture Cooperative Societies (PACS) and 58 branches, with Machilipatnam as its headquarters, he said. Giving details of the bank’s performance during the 2020-21 financial year (till January 15), the Chairman said KDCC Bank did a business of Rs. 6,980 crore. Awards to be instituted “Our bank has reserves of Rs. 209 crore, Rs. 215.62 crore share capital, Rs. 2,620 crore deposits, Rs. 2,306 crore borrowings, Rs. 4,287 crore outstanding loans, Rs. 1,054 crore in investments and Non-Performing Assets (NPAs) of 1.35% (net),” Mr. Venkat Rao told reporters. “This year, the bank is planning to institute awards for best performing engineering and medical students and best managers in the names of its founders Bhogaraju Pattabhi Seetaramaiah and Ayyadevara Kaleswara Rao,” the Chairman said. “The bank is also proposing to extend loans to customers other than farmers, including government employees,” Mr. Venkat Rao said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kdcc-bank-clocks-43-growth-says-chairman/article33613686.ece
20 January 2021||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPN donates fridges to children’s homes||Child Protection Network (CPN), which works for the welfare and protection of children in the State, donated refrigerators to government children care institutions in Krishna district on Tuesday. The refrigerators were handed over to the home superintendents concerned through Assistant Project Director M. Prameela Rani and District Child Protection Officer (DCPO) Ch. Vijay Kumar. The Project Director thanked the CPN management for their gesture towards the children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpn-donates-fridges-to-childrens-homes/article33614442.ece
20 January 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Surveillance in place to prevent attacks’||The Prakasam police have put in place a strong surveillance system to ensure foolproof security at all places of worship in the district, Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal said on Tuesday. After undertaking a whirlwind visit of places of worship across the district, Mr. Kaushal said that committees had been formed at the mandal- and village-levels with over 5,000 members to keep a close watch on temples, masjids and churches to prevent any untoward incident. 405 cases registered The SP oversaw security arrangements at Singarayakonda and interacted with officials of various departments, including Revenue, and village women protection secretaries. As many as 405 cases had been registered and 2,420 ‘Sadbhavana’ meetings held to ensure communal amity, he said. Temple committee member Chimata Srinu appreciated the efforts made by the police to ensure round-the-clock security at all places of worship, big and small. K. Bitragunta Village Revenue Officer M. Vijaya Mohan Rao was happy to be associated with the committee for protecting temples in the village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/surveillance-in-place-to-prevent-attacks/article33614355.ece
20 January 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP attempting to whip up communal passions: CPI||Communist Party of India (CPI) State secretary K. Ramakrishna asked the BJP to give up its proposed ‘Rath Yatra’ from Ramateertham to Tirupati in February. He said the BJP, which had meted out a raw deal to Andhra Pradesh post-bifurcation, had no moral right to take out the yatra, which was nothing but an attempt to whip up communal passions in the run-up to the Tirupati Lok Sabha by-election. The CPI leader demanded an explanation from the BJP for not keeping its poll promises to the State which was struggling to cope with bifurcation blues. The promised port at Dugirajapatnam remained a non-starter. So is SCS, promised for 15 years, he said, alleging that the BJP at the Centre had not done anything beneficial to the State in the last six-and-a-half years. It was unfortunate that the ruling YSR Congress Party and the opposition Telugu Desam Party were giving a handle to the BJP to rake up the ‘Hindutva’ card. He also found fault with BJP State president Somu Veerraju for calling on Kapu reservation campaigner Mudragada Padmanabham.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-whipping-up-communal-passions-cpi/article33613677.ece
20 January 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI plans stir against meters to farm pumpsets||Taking a cue from the ongoing agitation by farmers in New Delhi, members of the Communist Party of India-led All India Kisan Sabha in Andhra Pradesh will spearhead a militant struggle against the YSRCP government’s decision to fix smart meters to farm pumpsets, according to CPI State secretary K. Ramakrishna. “We will resist all attempts by the Jagan Mohan Reddy government to fix meters starting from Srikakulam on January 25,” Mr. Ramakrishna said while addressing a roundtable chaired by All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSS) Prakasam district convenor Ch. Ranga Rao on Tuesday. If the State government wanted to assess the quantum of power supplied to the farm sector it could do so at the sub-station level. He feared dilution of the free power scheme over a period. But for Andhra Pradesh, other States had not accepted the electricity reforms mooted by the BJP-led NDA government at Centre, he said. The AIKSS would fully back the agitation by farmers against the three farm laws till they were repealed as they would affect not only farmers but also people from lower strata of the society, AIKS national vice-president R. Venkaiah said. Amendment to the Essential Commodities Act gave scope for hoarding by agri-marketing companies and result in the prices of cereals, pulses, oilseeds, edible oils, onion and potatoes skyrocketing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpi-plans-stir-against-meters-to-farm-pumpsets/article33614353.ece
20 January 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tribal families get house sites under Illa Pattalu scheme||As many as 41 Yanadi families of Chindepalli tribal hamlet near Tirupati secured residential plots under the Andhra Pradesh State government’s flagship scheme ‘Jagananna Illa Pattalu’. The dream of the residents came true, thanks to the support extended by SOS Children’s Villages of India, a self-implementing premier child care NGO extending services in the vicinity. The land owners are expected to begin construction of their own concrete homes this year, as they are now eligible for housing loans from the government. The NGO started operations in Yerpedu mandal of Chittoor district in 2016 and with its community outreach model, brought children of 23 eligible families under its direct care. “The impoverished tribal families are living in vulnerable conditions at Chindepalli tribal colony before we commenced our family strengthening programme. The primary class children were quite irregular and 90% of them dropped out from school after class V, who either ended up as agricultural workers or got stuck in child marriages,” says SOS Children’s Villages of India’a senior deputy national director Sumanta Kar. The NGO supported the hamlet dwellers in getting caste certificates, temporary land documents and subsequently ration cards and power connections. After the house plots scheme was announced last year for the Below Poverty Line families, the organisation helped them in applying for the same.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tribal-families-get-house-sites-under-illa-pattalu-scheme/article33613679.ece
20 January 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Land resurvey will help steer clear of litigations: Krishna Das||Deputy Chief Minister and Revenue Minister Dharmana Krishna Das on Tuesday said the government had allocated Rs. 1,000 crore to solve the contentious land issues and steer clear of the litigations. Speaking at the function organised to distribute house site pattas at the ZP High School in Vedurukuppam mandal of Gangadhara Nellore constituency in Chittoor district, Mr. Krishna Das said the resurvey of lands would help the government stay ahead of times and ensure transparency. “The government has tied up with the Survey of India for implementing the project in an effective manner,” he said. Referring to the “path-breaking strides” made by the government through its flagship schemes such as Amma Vodi, English medium education, Nadu-Nedu, and Vasathi Deevena, the Minister said the State would stay committed to its welfare-oriented approach. Prohibition Deputy Chief Minister and Excise Minister K. Narayana Swamy said the beneficiaries could exercise the option of getting a house constructed at the plot allotted to them. He reiterated the government’s commitment to impose prohibition as it believed that alcoholism shattered the lives of families. District Collector Bharat Narayana Gupta announced the plan to extend house plots to 2.55 lakh beneficiaries. Chittoor MP N. Reddeppa, Thamballapalle MLA P. Dwarakanath Reddy, Joint Collectors D. Markandeyulu (Revenue) and B. Rajasekhar (Welfare), and Project Director (Housing) Padmanabham took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/land-resurvey-will-help-steer-clear-of-litigations-krishna-das/article33614366.ece
20 January 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||SVVU to oversee TTD Vedapathasalas||Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy has announced that all the Vedapathasalas functioning across the country will be brought under the purview of the Sri Venkateswara Vedic University (SVVU) in Tirupati. At a review meeting here on Tuesday, he said the move was aimed at ensuring development of the Vedic studies and academic congruence. “Six such institutes will be brought under the ambit of the Sri Venkateswara Vedic University very soon. A committee comprising Vedic experts will be set up to frame guidelines on eligibility, selection process, admission, syllabus, courses and certif4ication. The panel will submit recommendations within a month,” said Mr. Jawahar Reddy. Bringing all the Vedic institutes under a single roof would go a long way in ensuring uniformity and easy adherence to the standards, he said. TTD Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy, Joint Executive Officer P. Basant Kumar, SVVU Vice-Chancellor S. Sudarsana Sharma, Dharmagiri Veda Vijnana Peetham (Tirumala) principal K.S.S. Avadhani, S.V. Higher Vedic Studies Institute OSD Akella Vibhishana Sharma were among those present in the review meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sv-vedic-university-to-oversee-ttd-veda-pathasalas/article33614271.ece
20 January 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tirupati pays tributes to cancer expert||The academic hub of Tirupati paid tributes to veteran cancer expert V. Shanta, who died in Chennai on Tuesday. Dr. Shanta’s last visit to Tirupati was in 2019, when she came to deliver a special address at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER Tirupati) campus on the occasion of International Women’s Day. “Extremely hard working and dedicated lady”, IISER Director K.N. Ganesh said while paying tributes to her. Recalling her scintillating and thought-provoking lecture delivered to their students two years back, Dr. Ganesh observed that her talk was the first in the series of lectures planned with famous women scientists on that day every year, as part of the institute’s goal of inspiring Gen-X girls to take up a career in science. “A humble person, she immediately agreed to our invitation and came from Chennai to deliver a lecture on the theme ‘Cancer treatment in India, past, present and future’,” a faculty member recalled. Some students of the institute recollected the interactive nature of the ace scientist and her quest to inculcate scientific temper in young scientists. The institute called her demise a loss to the global scientific fraternity. Similarly, it was over three decades back that she had visited Sri Venkateswara Medical College (SVMC). “It was for our annual day that she came as a chief guest in 1989-90. I received the ‘Best Outgoing Student’ award from her on that day”, recalls Alladi Mohan, who is now the head of medicine department at SVIMS University.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tirupati-pays-tributes-to-cancer-expert/article33613681.ece
20 January 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||TCS recruits 61 MITS students||As many as 61 B.Tech final year students of Madanapalle Institute of Technology and Science (MITS) have secured placement in the campus recruitment drive conducted by the Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) recently. Of them, 31 were from CSE, six from CSIT, six from IT and 13 from ECE and 2 from EEE and 1 from Mechanical and two from MCA streams, Principal C. Yuvaraj said. The students were offered a package in the range of Rs. 6.5 lakh – Rs. 3.36 lakh per month. Dean (Placement) Ch. Rama Prasad Rao congratulated the students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tcs-recruits-61-mits-students/article33614356.ece
20 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police stop Cong. rally to Raj Bhavan||Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee (APCC) president S. Sailajanath has accused Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy of trying to appease Prime Minister Narendra Modi by foiling the Congress rally taken out in support of the protesting farmers on the Delhi border. Responding to the call given by the All India Congress Committee (AICC) to observe ‘Kisan Adhikar Diwas’ on Tuesday, Mr. Sailajanath led a rally which was headed to Raj Bhavan to meet the Governor. But the police stopped them midway and took them into custody. Later, speaking to reporters, Mr. Sailajanath said instead of extending all possible support to farmers, it was unfortunate that the government was suppressing them. Demanding repeal of the three 'draconian' farm laws, the Congress leader said the party would intensify its stir if the government failed to heed the farmers' demand. He ridiculed Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy for ‘prostrating before senior BJP leaders at Centre’ and said that TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu too was toeing the BJP line. “This is not good for the State and farmers,” he warned, advising Mr. Naidu to rethink his stand and extend his support to the farmers' cause. Police action flayed In the jostle that preceded the arrests, Mr. Sailajanath and a few other party leaders received minor injuries, while senior party leader N. Thulasi Reddy fell down. The Congress leader condemned the brute force used by the police and said it was against democratic norms. APCC working president Shaik Mastan Vali, AICC secretary Gidugu Rudraraj, party’s State coordination committee members, general secretaries, official spokespersons, presidents of the SC, ST, BC and Minority wings, district and city presidents of the party and others participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-stop-cong-rally-to-raj-bhavan/article33613794.ece
20 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||A.B. Venkateswara Rao’s suspension extended||The State government has issued orders extending the suspension of senior IPS officer A.B. Venkateswara Rao, who is in the rank of Director-General of Police, for six months. Orders to this effect were issued on Tuesday. A 1989 batch officer, Mr. Venkateswara Rao, was placed under suspension under Rule 3 (1) of the All India Services (Discipline and Appeal) Rules, 1969, on charges of misconduct in procuring security equipment while he was working as Additional DGP (Intelligence). Articles of charges have been framed in December, last year, and the same has been communicated to the officer. The Review Committee, constituted by the government, has reviewed the suspension and recommended that the suspension of Mr. Venkateswara Rao be extended for 180 days further with effect from August 6, 2020, which was accepted by the competent authority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ab-venkateswara-raos-suspension-extended/article33614239.ece
20 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP ‘Dharma Parirakshana Yatra’ will begin tomorrow: Naidu||The TDP will launch a ‘Dharma Parirakshana Yatra’ from Wednesday (January 21). “The 10-day yatra will be organised in more than 700 villages in the Tirupati parliamentary constituency,” TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu said during a video-conference with the party leaders from the constituency on Tuesday. “The cadres should expose the misdeeds and corrupt practices of the YSRCP. Everybody has a duty to protect the sacredness of Tirupati and Tirumala. Awareness should be created on the industries brought to Tirupati and Nellore during the TDP term. In the last 20 months of the YSRCP rule, not a single industry has been set up, and not one irrigation project has been completed either,” Mr. Naidu said. “The otherwise peaceful atmospehere in Chittoor and Nellore districts is vitiated as the YSRCP is indulging in atrocities,” he said. More than 15 miscreants had attacked TDP leader Venkatesh with knives at Sullurupeta on Monday. A ruling party MLA had threatened the district SP in a public meeting. Harassment of another ruling party MLA had forced a woman MPDO to stage a protest at midnight in front of the police station, Mr. Naidu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-dharma-parirakshana-yatra-today/article33613909.ece
20 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP warns against stopping its ‘rath yatra’||The BJP has asserted that obstructing its ‘rath yatra’ is tantamount to opposing the Hindus and their sentiments. Addressing the media on Tuesday, BJP State general secretary S. Vishnuvardhan Reddy said that the yatra would be organised from Kapilateertham in Tirupati to Ramateertham in Vizianagaram district. The State government was creating hurdles to the Hindu religious organisations and seers. The BJP decided to take out the ‘rath yatra’ from February 4 to protest against the attacks on temples and other ‘anti-Hindu’ activities under the YSRCP rule. “Any attempt to halt the yatra will be nothing short of hurting the sentiments of Hindus. The Congress sank into oblivion after obstructing L.K. Advani’s yatra. The YSRCP will face a similar fate if it opposes the BJP yatra in the State,” he said. Mr. Reddy said the BJP would seek permission from Director General of Police D. Gautam Sawang on Wednesday. To a question, he said the YSRCP leaders were meeting Union Ministers in New Delhi and not BJP leaders. The meetings were between State and Central governments, but not between YSRCP and BJP, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-warns-against-stopping-its-rath-yatra/article33614369.ece
20 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Data Science promising field for research’||Data Science is the answer to many problems in society today and it is a very promising area for research, according to V. Sunil Kumar, Director, Data Science, Ericson, Bengaluru. Addressing the inaugural session of a five-day national-level online faculty development programme on Data Science, organised by the Department of Information and Technology, Gudlavalleru Engineering College at Gudlavalleru on Tuesday, he said this particular field offered a mine of knowledge. The event has been sponsored by the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) and AICTE Training and Learning Academy (ATAL). Citing example of Data Science playing a significant role in the pandemic situation, Mr. Sunil Kumar, through a PowerPoint presentation, explained how it helped the government organisations take quick decisions. College Principal G.V.S.N.R.V. Prasad said eminent people from the field were invited to enlighten the faculty on the latest trends on the subject. More than 180 faculty members from various engineering colleges in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana were part of the programme. Coordinator of the FDP Ch. Kavitha spoke about the ever-increasing demand for Data Science.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/data-science-promising-field-for-research/article33614441.ece
20 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||JAC urges Governor to call off local body elections||The A.P. Employees Joint Action Committee (JAC) on Tuesday urged Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan to exercise his constitutional powers and direct the A.P. State Election Commissioner (SEC) to not conduct elections to grama panchayats under any circumstances till the COVID-19 vaccination drive is completed in the State. The JAC leaders said their demand was being made keeping in view the health risks to the employees as well as general public. JAC leader Bopparaju Venkateswarlu and other leaders submitted a memorandum to the Governor in this regard on Tuesday. The JAC requested the Governor to ensure that two doses of vaccine are administered to every employee in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jac-urges-governor-to-call-off-polls/article33614444.ece
20 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Privatisation move: LIC staff stage protest||Members of the Insurance Corporation Employees’ Union (ICEU), Machilipatnam division, at CB-2 and CAB branches located at Bhavanipuram, formed a human chain at lunch hour, raising slogans like 'Protect and save LIC’. The demonstration was staged in response to a call given by All India Employees’ Association (AIIEA) to observe the 65th anniversary of the Nationalisation of Life Insurance Business. Divisional joint secretary Ch. Kaladhar recalled that in 1956, the Government of India promulgated an ordinance and took over the management of 245 private insurance companies which had unleashed a reign of loot and plunder and had been resorting to financial misappropriations. Established on September 1 in 1956 through an Act of Parliament, the LIC has been registering impressive growth and playing a significant role in channelising the community's savings for nation-building activities, he said. He said the LIC so far paid Rs. 26,000 crore towards dividend to the Central government and had been contributing lakhs of crores of rupees to national-building activities. Mr. Kaladhar urged the policy holders and the people to resist the move. He said privatisation would have an adverse impact on all sections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/privatisation-move-lic-staff-stage-protest/article33614445.ece
20 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||18,917 persons vaccinated||The number of beneficiaries who received vaccine for COVID-19 increased on Tuesday, the fourth day since the drive began on January 16. As many as 18,917 beneficiaries, who included health workers, sanitation workers, medical staff and paramedics, were vaccinated across 362 session sites in the State as of 6 p.m., the Health Department said. One case of Adverse Event Following Immunisation (AEFI) was reported in Prakasam district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/18917-persons-vaccinated/article33614359.ece
20 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sand policy has hit all sectors hard, alleges TDP||TDP MLC P. Ashok Babu has urged the State government to come to the rescue of the common man in general and construction workers in particular by announcing a people-friendly sand policy. Addressing the media on Tuesday, Mr. Ashok Babu said that not only realtors and developers but also masons and workers were badly hit by the existing sand policy. The cost of construction had gone up by 30% to 35%. The workers were also seeking higher wages because of the rising prices of essential commodities, he said. The State budget reached Rs. 2 lakh crore, but Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was not willing to apportion Rs. 750 crore for providing sand free of cost and breathe new life into the construction industry, Mr. Ashok Babu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sand-policy-has-hit-all-sectors-hard-alleges-tdp/article33614367.ece
20 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||ACB arrests deputy engineer||Officials of the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) arrested a Deputy Executive Engineer of the Irrigation Department for allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs. 1.50 lakh, at the latter’s office near the PWD Grounds in Vijayawada on Tuesday. The accused, identified as Rayana Srinivasa Rao, is posted in the River Conservancy Sub-Division (Krishna Central Division) in Vijayawada. The engineer had allegedly demanded a bribe from a man named Bhattu Vidya Sagar to process an application. accord permission for decasting of sand in the land taken on lease by the latter and forward a letter in this regard to the Mines and Geology Department. Mr. Vidya Sagar then approached the ACB and lodged a complaint against Srinivasa Rao, after which ACB sleuths laid a trap. ‘Caught red-handed’ Srinivasa Rao was allegedly arrested red-handed and a chemical examination of his hands tested positive. The engineer was arrested and will be produced before a Special Judge for ACB cases in Vijayawada. An investigation is under progress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/deputy-engineer-arrested/article33613685.ece
20 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Six held for shifting Nandi idol from temple at Santhabommali||The police have arrested six persons on charge of shifting a Nandi idol from the Paleswaram temple in Santhabommali in Srikakulam district. “A complaint has been received against 22 persons, of whom 11 have been identified,” Visakhapatnam (Range) DIG L.K.V. Ranga Rao told the media here on Tuesday. He said the Nandi idol that was replaced a few years ago was placed under a tree on the temple premises. The accused installed the discarded idol on a pedestal that was built for installation of a statue of a political leader at a nearby village. A person of the group clicked pictures of the idol and posted on the social media and they had gone viral, creating unrest in the village. “Six of the 11 persons who were identified from the CCTV footage have been arrested. The VRO has lodged a complaint against 22 persons and a majority of them is believed to be associated with a political party. From the footage, it is evident that the accused did it with an alleged motive of creating communal disharmony,” said Mr. Ranga Rao. The State is going through a very delicate phase, given the incidents of idol desecration and it is not right to do things that might incite religious passion, the DIG said. Ramatheertham case Referring to the Ramatheertham temple case, the DIG said six teams have been formed for the probe into the idol desecration and efforts are on to nab the culprits. “We have are investigating the case from all angles. But, any concrete evidence is yet to be found,” he said. Security audit Mr. Ranga Rao further said that about 7,700 religious places in the three districts of Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram and Srikakulam have been mapped, enumerated and security audit has been conducted. The required security arrangement is in place at all religious places, the DIG added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/six-held-for-shifting-nandi-idol-from-temple-at-santhabommali/article33614397.ece
20 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Driving home the safety message with flowers||Motorists, following road safety rules, were in for a pleasant surprise when officials of the Transport and Police Departments gave them flowers and chocolates for wearing helmets and seat belts, as part of the ongoing 32nd National Road Safety month at Maddilapalem Junction here on Tuesday. The young motorists were all smiles as they got chocolates and flowers for following traffic rules while a few of the youngsters, who were not wearing helmets, had to hang their heads in shame as the enforcement officials took pains to drive home the safety message among them. An ‘interceptor’ vehicle of the Transport Department was draped with banners all around displaying the road safety messages while the overhead speakers played audio messages. The vehicle went round the city creating awareness among the public.  Radium stickers Deputy Transport Commissioner G.C. Raja Ratnam, RTO R. Ch. Srinivas, MVIs M. Muralikrishna, Hari Prasad, V. Venkata Rao, Y. Srinivasa Rao and G. Satyanarayana were among those who participated in the programme. Later in the evening, radium stickers were affixed across rear side of vehicles at the Aganampudi Toll Plaza to make them visible at night. “The accident rate in the city has shown a marginal decline this year compared to last year. There seems to be a growing awareness on road safety among motorists. We are planning to hold meetings at schools and colleges to create awareness among the future citizens of the country,” RTO Srinivas told this correspondent. The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and the Police would hold road safety awareness programmes on the highways as per the guidelines of the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MORTH), he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/driving-home-the-safety-message-with-flowers/article33614447.ece
20 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District reports 18 new COVID cases||After a string of single digit day tallies, the district reported 18 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the tally to 60,063, according to the bulletin released on Tuesday. The bulletin also confirmed that 26 persons, who were undergoing treatment for the coronavirus, recovered and the death toll stands at 531 as no deaths were reported. The number of active cases and recoveries is 141 and 59,391 respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-reports-18-new-covid-cases/article33614448.ece
20 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||4 youth held in two cases||The city police arrested four youth allegedly involved in two offences at various places here on Tuesday. In one case, the police arrested A. Yesu (20), J. Venkata Vamsi (21) and P. Krishna (26), were arrested for allegedly stopping a vehicle and threatening and assaulting the driver before fleeing with his mobile phone worth Rs. 12,000 on January 17 at Gajuwaka. Police recovered Rs. 10,000 cash, mobile phones and a few others from them. In another case, police arrested Md. Mustaffa (27), who was allegedly involved in a house break-in and made good with property worth Rs. 2,000. All the accused were sent in remand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/4-youth-held-in-two-cases/article33614449.ece
20 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Waste-to-Energy plant works will be completed by month-end: Srijana||GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana said that works for the Waste-to-Energy recycling plant being set up at Kapuluppada will be completed by the month-end and she also said that the trial run will be conducted. Ms. Srijana along with Chief Engineer M. Venkateswara Rao and others inspected works of various projects at Kapuluppada here on Tuesday. She said that the project worth Rs. 320 crore will generate 15 MW of power using the solid waste from the city. She also inspected trial run of biomining project at Kapuluppada and enquired about the progress of the works with the officials concerned. Meanwhile, GVMC officials organised a coordination meet with Swachh Survekshan 2021 team at VMRDA Children’s Arena here on Tuesday. She instructed the Zonal Commissioners to appoint special officers to take the Swachhata app and Citizen Feedback initiative forward. The Municipal Commissioner also asked the staff to create awareness over the SS 2021 with the help of ward secretaries, Resident Welfare Associations and NGOs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/waste-to-energy-plant-works-will-be-completed-by-month-end-srijana/article33614451.ece
20 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M) sees red over steep hike in oil prices||The CPI(M) district committee has condemned the steep hike in petrol and diesel prices, at a time when the people were reeling under the impact of the pandemic, and sought immediate withdrawal of the hike. In a statement here on Tuesday, party district secretary K. Lokanadham alleged that the Union government was financially crippling people, many of whom had lost their livelihood due to the COVID-19 crisis, by the steep hike in petrol and diesel prices. The price of oil has gone down in the international market and it was much lower in our neighbouring countries. The price of a litre of petrol was Rs. 63 in Sri Lanka, Rs. 67 in Nepal and Rs. 46 in Pakistan as against the price of Rs. 90 a litre in India, he said. The tax on a litre of diesel, which was Rs. 9.48 a litre, when the BJP came to power in 2014, has now gone up to Rs. 32.98. Similarly, the tax on diesel has increased from Rs. 3.56 to Rs. 31.81 a litre during the same time. During the pandemic, the price of petrol increased by Rs. 13 a litre and diesel by Rs. 16 a litre. This has led to a steep hike in the prices of essential commodities, he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpim-sees-red-over-steep-hike-in-oil-prices/article33614392.ece
20 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||APERC needs to do a fine balancing act: Chairman||Andhra Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (APERC) Chairman C. V. Nagarjuna Reddy said that the ongoing public hearing was being taken to study the consumer minds and to take their views and suggestions for bringing in changes in the tariff policy. Speaking to the media on the second day of the three-day public hearing, he said that for the first time due to the COVID-19 pandemic, such a public hearing was being organised online. Justice Nagarjuna Reddy said that the APERC has a responsibility to look into the welfare of the farming community, protecting the interest of the consumers as well as strengthening the economy of Discoms. Without the strengthening of the economy of Discoms, discount on charges will not be possible, he said. Hence the APERC will take its decision after viewing the financial position of Discoms as well as priorities of consumers, before finalisation the tariff for Financial Year 2021-22, he said. He said that every three months the Standard of Performance (SoPs) of all three Discoms (APEPDCL, APCPDCL and APSPDCL) will be uploaded for enabling the consumers to know their performance. Thereby Discoms will also improve their performance, he said. The public hearing on Aggregate Revenue Requirement & Tariff filing for Financial Year 2021-22, will conclude on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aperc-needs-to-do-a-fine-balancing-act-chairman/article33614398.ece
20 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Magisterial inquiry into ‘custodial deaths’ on Jan. 23||A magisterial inquiry will be conducted by Revenue Divisional Officer K. Penchala Kishore into the ‘custodial death’ of convict prisoner Pallapolu Chinnayya (70), who had died on July 19, 2020 at the King George Hospital (KGH) and the custodial death of convict prisoner Mallela Omprakash (52), who had died on July 26, 2020 at KGH. The inquiry will be conducted at the RDO’s Office at 11 a.m. on January 23. Anyone having any information about the deaths can attend the magisterial inquiry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/magisterial-inquiry-into-custodial-deaths-on-jan-23/article33614446.ece
20 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Maintain religious harmony, SP urges village defence squads||Superintendent of Police B. Krishna Rao on Tuesday conducted a coordination meet with the village defence squads comprising Mahila police and grams/ward volunteers and youth of Anakapalle division for the protection of temples and places of worship, at Gavarapalem in Anakapalle mandal. Mr. Krishna Rao appealed to them to maintain religious harmony. He urged people not to believe in any rumours and posts published in social media by unknown persons. “DSP and Inspectors are regularly reviewing the security of places of worship. Surveillance is kept round the clock. If people notice any suspicious persons or any anti-social elements, they can contact local police, dial 100 or WhatsApp no.9505200100,” he added. He said that many worship places have CCTV cameras and sufficient illumination. If there is a need of any CCTV cameras, the Police Department is ready to arrange, he said. He informed that the police have kept a watch on movement of ex-offenders and suspicious persons with the use of technology. DSP, Anakapalle Sub-division, K. Sravani, Inspector of Anakapalle (Rural) G. Srinivasa Rao and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/maintain-religious-harmony-sp-urges-village-defence-squads/article33614450.ece
20 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Procure paddy without delay’||Joint Collector M. Venugopal Reddy has directed the officials concerned to ensure procurement of the paddy produced, in the district without any delay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/procure-paddy-without-delay/article33614393.ece
20 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Coast Guard housing complex inaugurated||Coast Guard inaugurated a new housing complex for its subordinate officers at Malkapuram, in the city on Tuesday. The complex with 93 married accommodations was inaugurated by Ms. Neela Pathania, president Tatrakshika, Eastern Seaboard, in the presence of Additional Director General V.S. Pathania, Commander, Coast Guard Eastern Seaboard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/coast-guard-housing-complex-inaugurated/article33614452.ece
20 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CSI office-bearers elected||The Institute of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI)- Visakhapatnam Chapter- recently elected Swaroopa Meruva as its Chairperson and Vaghira Kumari Jonnada as its Vice-Chairperson. Manoj Ray was elected as Secretary and Manoj Parakh as its Treasurer. The members were elected for a period of one year. I. Sekhar Babu, senior practising company secretary, and Fellow Member of the ICSI has been elected as Vice-Chairman of the Southern India Regional Council for the year 2021-22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/csi-office-bearers-elected/article33614453.ece
20 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Webinar on Budget today||The newly-established Kautilya School of Public Policy in GITAM Deemed to be University is organising a webinar on ‘Budget-2021: Managing the Pandemic, Public and Policies’ on Wednesday. The panel members will mainly focussing on how will Budget 2021 address the challenges of the worst-affected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/webinar-on-budget-today/article33614454.ece
20 January 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Andhra Pradesh is the best bet for entrepreneurs: Minister||Minister for Industries Mekapati Goutham Reddy on Tuesday said that Andhra Pradesh would continue to be the best destination for setting up new industries as the government had been providing many incentives and exemptions from many taxes. He was speaking after inaugurating the district-level conference of industries in Vizianagaram to highlight the benefits of Ease of Doing Business and other such aspects. Mr. Gautham Reddy said the government had released incentives worth Rs. 1,100 crore for small and medium industries that were affected by the lockdown and COVID-19 pandemic. “As many as 31 departments have relaxed norms and regulations to ensure quick permission for the entrepreneurs keen on setting up their units in the State. Compared with other States, the reforms that have been brought in A.P. are a boon to the entrepreneurs,” the Minister said. Industries Department Director J. Subramanyam said permissions were being granted within 11 days of application. District Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal said Vizianagaram was an ideal destination for new industries as it had the infrastructure and required manpower. MP Bellana Chandrasekhar, MLC Penumatsa Suresh Babu, and MLAs Alajangi Jogarao and Botcha Appala Narasayya were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/andhra-pradesh-is-the-best-bet-for-entrepreneurs-minister/article33614364.ece
20 January 2021||January 20 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Safety perks||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/safety-perks/article33614400.ece
20 January 2021||January 20 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||No respite||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-respite/article33614373.ece
20 January 2021||January 20 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||For a greener tomorrow||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/for-a-greener-tomorrow/article33614358.ece
20 January 2021||January 20 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Thorny menace||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/thorny-menace/article33613683.ece
20 January 2021||B. ChandrashekharHYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS objects to AP’s proposal to shift KRMB office to Vizag||Nearly four weeks after the Andhra Pradesh government writing to the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) informing its decision for locating the river board’s office at Visakhapatnam as per the provisions of AP Reorganisation Act against at Vijayawada, as decided earlier, the Telangana government has taken strong objection to the proposal. In a letter written to the river board on Monday, in response to the AP’s letter on locating the KRMB’s office, Engineer-in-Chief C. Muralidhar has also made it clear that Telangana would not agree to shifting of the KRMB’s office to any location outside the basin as it would not only be meaningless, but would cause a lot of inconvenience. “Telangana government has agreed for shifting of the river board’s office to Vijayawada and changing the decision without even discussing at the board level or with the other member-State (Telangana) is not acceptable. The proposal was also not made at the October 6 Apex Council meeting,” a senior officer of the Irrigation Department said. Not only the Telangana government, but even the water users’ associations of Krishna Basin in Andhra Pradesh were also against the proposal to shift the river board’s location to Visakhapatnam, the official pointed out. The water users’ bodies have already made it clear that they would not allow shifting the river board’s location from Vijayawada to Visakhapatnam, about 400 km away from the centre of Krishna Basin (Vijayawada) and would agitate against the move, if need be, the official explained. In his letter to the river board, the ENC of Telangana has also brought to the board’s notice the AP government’s proposals of taking up new irrigation schemes in the Krishna Basin or based on the water drawn from Srisailam reservoir including on Telugu Ganga and Handri-Neeva with an estimated cot of about Rs. 1,815 crore without taking approval of the river board and the Apex Council. The official stated that the new projects to which the administrative approval was given by AP without the board’s nod were Pulikanuma lift irrigation scheme on Tungabhadra river in Kurnool district, Malakavemula lift irrigation scheme on Handri-Neeva main canal in Anantapur district and widening of North Feeder Channel (GKN Canal) of Telugu Ganga project to meet additional irrigation needs and a few others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-objects-to-aps-proposal-to-shift-krmb-office-to-vizag/article33614268.ece
20 January 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Screening test for Army training||A screening test was conducted under the aegis of the Singareni Seva Samithi (SSS) at Prakasham stadium in Kothagudem on Tuesday to select the eligible candidates for the ensuing 45-day free pre-Army recruitment training camp scheduled to begin at Rudrampur in Chunchupalli mandal on January 20. According to an Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL) press release, as many as 262 youths turned up for the physical efficiency screening test. Of these, a total of 50 candidates got selected for the free training camp slated to start at Prof Jayashankar grounds in Rudrampur on Wednesday. The physical fitness and medical tests were conducted as part of the screening tests at the stadium.The Singareni Collieries Company Limited General Manager, Kothagudem Area, Ch Narasimha Rao, General Manager (Personnel, Welfare & CSR) K Basavaiah inaugurated the physical efficiency screening camp. The 45-day free physical training programme will be conducted under the supervision of expert trainers to help eligible youth of the Kothagudem coal belt area in the Army recruitment rally to be held at the Telangana Sports School in Hakimpet of Medchal district from March 5 to 24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/screening-test-for-army-training/article33614412.ece
20 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Cong. Raj Bhavan gherao turns tense||A gherao planned by the Congress at Raj Bhavan to express the party’s solidarity with the farming community protesting on the outskirts of Delhi against the three new controversial farm laws for nearly two months now turned out to be tense with police obstructing party leaders’ march at different places and also arresting them. The protest was taken up by the State Congress in response to a call given by the All India Congress Committee. The police did not allow some Congress leaders including AICC secretary and former legislator S.A. Sampath Kumar to come out of their residences making it their ‘house arrest’ literally. Police were deployed in large numbers at Raj Bhavan and at several places leading to it including at Panjagutta crossroads, Khairatabad crossroads, Lumbini Park and at Secretariat to prevent the Congress leaders’ march towards Raj Bhavan. The arrested those on a march towards Raj Bhavan at different places stating that the protest planned by the Congress has no permission. Congress workers also came out on to the roads at a few places including at Nampally, Lumbini Park and others but were obstructed and bundled into the waiting police vans. The police arrested Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy, working president A. Revanth Reddy, CLP Leader M. Bhatti Vikramarka, senior leaders Komatireddy Venkat Reddy, T. Jayaprakash Reddy and others near Lumbini Park. Besides, the police also held senior legislators T. Jeevan Reddy, D. Sridhar Babu former TPCC president Ponnala Lakshmaiah, former APCC president V. Hanumantha Rao, former Union Minister Balaram Naik, AICC leaders Bose Raj and Srinivas and several others near Secretariat. A jostling also took place between the police and the Congress workers at Lumbini Park from where several senior leaders planned to march towards Raj Bhavan. Speaking after his arrest Mr. Uttam Kumar Reddy said the Congress along with other parties would mount pressure on the State government to continue with procurement operations to ensure proper price to the farm produce. He also sought to know why the prices of petrol and diesel were increasing in the country when the crude prices were falling. Accusing the TRS of making a U-turn on the farm bills within a few days after supporting the Bharat Bandh in support of farmers, Mr. Revanth Reddy said the BJP Government at the Centre was playing with the lives of the farming community by mortgaging the farm sector to a couple of corporate companies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cong-raj-bhavan-gherao-turns-tense/article33614257.ece
20 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||COVID vaccination: 71% covered on day 3||On the third day of COVID-19 vaccination drive, a total of 51,997 healthcare workers in Telangana were given the jab on Tuesday. Of them, 51 developed Adverse Effect Following Immunisation (AEFI), including three who required hospitalisation. Their condition was said to be stable. Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao said no serious or severe case of AEFI was reported. This is the highest number of beneficiaries to be immunised and the maximum number of AEFI cases reported in a day. The number of vaccine recipients per session site is being increased gradually. If the percentage of targeted beneficiaries is considered, it is the lowest since Saturday or the first day of the vaccine drive. That day, 92.2% of the targeted beneficiaries — 3,962 of 4,296 healthcare workers — were vaccinated. The number fell to 82% on Monday, and 71% on Tuesday. Altogether, on the three days, 69,625 out of the 94,719 targeted healthcare workers were administered the vaccine, which overall works out to 74%. It clearly indicates that there is still some hesitation among the beneficiaries to get inoculated. As the session sites increased, the number of beneficiaries too has increased. One of the sites where vaccination began on Tuesday was Osmania Medical College. Vice-principal of the college R.L. Lakshman said, currently, there are 449 beneficiaries, which include faculty and post graduate students. Of those, 100 were vaccinated on Tuesday. The COVID-19 vaccination drive is conducted only on four days of the week — Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Friday. 3.48L more doses The State Health department received 3,48,500 more doses of Covishield on Tuesday. This is in addition to the 3.64 lakh doses of Covishield and 20,000 doses of Covaxin already received. Dr Srinivasa Rao said all the doses would be enough to vaccinate healthcare workers in government and private health centres. Each beneficiary needs two doses of a vaccine with a gap of 28 days in between. The healthcare workers and frontline workers from other departments, such as municipality and police, are the priority groups. Thereafter, people above 50 years, and those under the age of 50 with co-morbidities such as diabetes and hypertension would be covered. The senior health official informed that people above 50 years might have their turn towards the end of February or in March.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-vaccination-71-covered-on-day-3/article33614242.ece
20 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Brigade Group launches residential project||Brigade Group has launched a residential project on 11.8 acres in Moti Nagar in the city. This will be the second project in Hyderabad of the Bengaluru-based property developer. It will be investing Rs. 1,100 crore on Brigade Citadel, the project, which includes the cost of land. Comprising over 1,300 two and three BHK apartments, with their prices starting from Rs. 75 lakh and Rs. 99 lakh respectively, the project is expected to be completed by December 2025. In terms of total builtup area, the project will have 2 million sq ft. Speaking to media on Tuesday, CEO-Residential of Brigade Enterprises Rajendra Joshi said sale of residential units had shown a steady rise in the last six months. “We are expecting this trend to continue in 2021. The launch of Brigade Citadel is in a sense Brigade Group’s re-entry into Hyderabad. This will be our second offering after Brigade at No.7, Banjara Hills,” he said. To queries on residential sales, Mr.Joshi said post the pandemic, the sales have picked up better than expectations of most developers. Southern cities, especially Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Chennai were leading the revival, followed by the National Capital Region. The market was consolidating towards larger developers, he said. Rising input costs, however, is a cause of concern for the builders. Steel prices have gone up around 30, while cement and labour cost have also increased, he said, estimating the upward trend to continue for next 3-4 months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brigade-group-launches-housing-project/article33614260.ece
20 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Swimmer names ambulance service after Sonu Sood||Inspired by actor Sonu Sood’s goodwill gestures, a Good Samaritan here, who saved several people from drowning in the historic Hussainsagar located in the heart of the city, started ‘Sonu Sood Ambulance Service’ on Tuesday. Shiva, a swimmer, says he saved over 100 people from drowning in the lake when they attempted suicide following which people started referring him as ‘Tank Bund Shiva’ for his brave acts. After noticing his selfless deeds, people started giving him donations. With that money, he bought an ambulance and named it after Bollywood actor Sonu Sood. “People have donated money to me for my family. But I spent that amount to purchase an ambulance. I named the ambulance as Sonu Sood Ambulance Service because I was inspired by his good work,” Shiva said. Sonu Sood, who was in the city, launched the free ambulance service and praised Shiva for his work and felt that more “heroes” like him are needed today. “I feel privileged that I came for this ambulance inauguration. All thanks to Shiva. I have heard a lot about him that he has been saving lives and helping people and we need more Shivas (people like him) in our society so everyone should come forward and help others,” Sood told reporters. This ambulance service will also save many lives, the actor said, adding the COVID-19 pandemic has taught so much that in emergencies everyone has to come forward like a family and help others. “People like Shiva inspire others and inspire the society. It feels happy that this (ambulance service) will also help a lot of needy people and help save many lives,” Sood added. Shiva has been living near Tank Bund for the past two decades. Following the death of his younger brother in a drowning incident, he started rescuing people who jump into the lake to end their lives. He has also been helping the police retrieve bodies from lakes, a police official said. Hailing Sood as a ‘real hero’, villagers of Dubba Tanda of Siddipet district had built a temple and installed a bust in December 2020, admiring him for his work in helping migrants reach their homes amid the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/swimmer-names-ambulance-service-after-sonu-sood/article33614250.ece
20 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SBI for meaningful impact with CSR work||Healthcare, education, livelihood, skill development, environment protection and empowerment of women and youth were areas of focus in State Bank of India’s corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities, SBI chairman Dinesh Khara said on Tuesday. Stating this, he said the CSR philosophy of the bank is to make a meaningful impact on lives of individuals who are economically, physically and socially challenged. The CSR activities in project mode were being undertaken through SBI Foundation. On a visit to the city for various official engagements, Mr.Khara said this while handing over a tractor and medical equipment, as part of the CSR initiatives, to Shri Kalpavruksha Kamadhenu Trust and Ashray Akruti. A release from the bank said he attended a meeting of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Urban Development (2020-21) and conducted the Local Board Meeting at SBI Local Head Office, Hyderabad. Facility opened Mr.Khara virtually inaugurated a Retail Asset Credit Processing Centre for Small and Medium Enterprises set up by the bank in Kompally. He appreciated contribution made by staff during COVID-19 pandemic and for providing uninterrupted service. SBI Hyderabad Circle Chief General Manager Om Prakash Mishra said the bank is participating in economic, environmental and social activities across Telangana. It has spent Rs. 3 crore in the current fiscal on various CSR activities in the State, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sbi-for-meaningful-impact-with-csr-work/article33614246.ece
20 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Minister to lay foundation for graveyard||Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development K.T.Rama Rao will initiate several developmental works on Wednesday, including the renovation of the cremation ground at Dhaniyalagutta in Begumpet. Majority of the works for which he would lay foundation stone are in the Kukatpally Zone, starting from JNTU up to KPHB Colony. The Minister is set to also inaugurate a park close to JNTU, besides laying foundation for other projects, including nala widening works at Fateh Nagar, Allapur, and KPHB, sports complex at Balaji Nagar, KPHB, and indoor stadium at Phase-9, KPHB. A press statement from GHMC has informed that the cremation ground at Dhaniyalagutta is being modernised with a cost of Rs. 4.6 crore. A compound wall will be constructed around the graveyard, besides provision of funeral platforms, provision for storage of mortal remains, prayer room, waiting area, seating gallery, parking, walkways, office place, wash area, and others. Electrification of the area, and landscaping will be taken up. A modernised cremation ground with all facilities has been inaugurated at Balkampet in recent times, with a cost of Rs. 2.96 crore, the statement said. GHMC has taken up modernisation and development of ‘model graveyards’, with improved facilities, aesthetic look and pleasant environment. So far, a total of 25 graveyards have been upgraded in two phases with a cost of Rs. 25.4 crore, at locations such as Balkampet, Gopannapally, JP Colony, Tara Nagar, Miyapur, Moosapet, Gowtham Nagar, Gandhi Nagar, SP Nagar, Macha Bollarum, Ramreddy Nagar, Jamali Kunta, Punjagutta, Devuni Kunta, Domalguda, Shivarampally, Amberpet, Mallpur, Lalapet and Mettuguda. Six more graveyards are at various stages of construction/execution with a cost of over Rs. 17 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/minister-to-lay-foundation-for-graveyard/article33614272.ece
20 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Misuse in 4 packages of Kaleshwaram Rs. 5,700 cr.’||Former minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Nagam Janardhan Reddy has alleged that the Telangana Retired Engineers Association has been misleading people on corruption in the execution of Kaleshwaram project stating that there is no meaning to charges of Rs. 1 lakh crore misuse when the expenditure done so far is only Rs. 65,000 crore. ‘Ready for debate’ In an open statement to the retired engineers Dr. Reddy said he had been arguing from the beginning about large-scale corruption in Kaleshwaram project and sought to know whether they were ready for open debate with him on the corruption charges in the project. Stating that he had secured information on the electromechanical machinery and material (equipment) from BHEL, suppliers of the material for Packages 6, 8, 10 and 11, by filing an RTI application and according to the information received the supply cost was only Rs. 1,687 crore. However, as per the agreement value with the work agencies the cost was shown as Rs. 7,349 crore indicating a huge difference of Rs. 5,662 crore, he pointed out. He asked whether the retired engineers body could tell people as to where the excess money from the exchequer went and sought to know whether it was not large-scale corruption. Further, Dr. Janardhan Reddy asked if the corruption was nearly Rs. 5,700 crore only in four packages of the project, what would be its extent in the 28 packages of the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/misuse-in-4-packages-of-kaleshwaram-rs-5700-cr/article33614258.ece
20 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Cat inside airport not confirmed as leopard||Footage reportedly of a leopard roaming inside the International Airport area of Shamshabad has kept the Forest department officials on tenterhooks, though they have stopped short of confirming the animal as leopard. The footage, recorded by the security cameras of the airport on Sunday night, showed a cat with the dimensions of leopard crossing the fencing between the air area and the land area of the airport. Forest officials have not officially confirmed that it was a leopard, and said it could have also been a jungle cat. On Monday night, a security person captured the second image of a cat inside the premises, but officials have confirmed that the animal was a jungle cat, as stripes were visible. “We have not found any pug marks, as the area was dry. We cannot install our camera traps as it is a high security area, and we would need permissions from CISF authorities for any kind of operation. We are waiting to see if there would be any kill, so that we can confirm the presence of a leopard,” informed an official. The vast jungle area inside the airport, however, is highly suitable for leopard habitat, with its rich prey base of pea fowl, porcupine, wild pig and other animals. Officials of the Forest department are ambivalent about the prospects of capturing it due to the difficulty involved in covering thousands of acres, and the low risk posed by the animal to humans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cat-inside-airport-not-confirmed-as-leopard/article33614273.ece
20 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||1 dies as inebriated driver crashes lorry||A man 60-year-old man was killed after the lorry in which he was travelling and was being driven by his son, allegedly in an inebriated condition, hit a another lorry on the ORR. According to Rajiv Gandhi International Airport police, the victim has been identified as Chandraiah, a resident of Jukal in Sangareddy district and his son K. Srinu was driving the vehicle. The road accident took place on the Outer Ring Road towards the Telangana State Police Academy. The driver of the vehicle, identified as K Srinu, allegedly had a blood alcohol concentration of 133. The lorry got onto the ORR by TSPA ramp and was going from Sadashivapet towards Chennai with a cargo of tyres. Police said that apart from being in an inebriated condition, Srinu was driving rashly and crashed into another lorry from behind. Due to this, the victim and his father sustained serious head injuries which led to the elder person’s instantaneous death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/father-killed-due-to-rash-driving-by-drunk-son/article33614255.ece
20 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State records 256 more virus cases||Telangana recorded 256 COVID-19 cases on Monday, taking the total to 2,92,128. While 31,486 people were examined, results of 472 were awaited. Two more patients died. The new cases include 51 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation, 17 from Medchal-Malkajgiri and 15 from Rangareddy. No case was reported from Nagarkurnool or Wanaparthy, while only one case each was detected in Narayanpet, Mahabubabad, Jogulamba Gadwal and Kamareddy. From March 2 last year to January 18, as many as 75,15,066 people have been tested for presence of virus. Of the total cases, 4,005 are active while 2,86,542 have recovered. The death toll stands at 1,581.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-records-256-more-virus-cases/article33614240.ece
20 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Union Health Ministry pats TS for vaccine coverage||The Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has appreciated the COVID-19 vaccination coverage in Telangana. The cumulative percentage of beneficiaries in the State who received the vaccine since Saturday is around 74%. Of the 69,625 healthcare workers, who received the vaccine on Saturday, Monday and Tuesday, 77 have developed mild reactions post-vaccination. In a press release, Principal Secretary of the State Health department Syed Ali Murtaza Rizvi stated that the Union Ministry has appreciated the fact that the vaccination drive was conducted smoothly and without mistakes. Mr Rizvi also congratulated districts Collectors, Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao and Director of Medical Health K. Ramesh Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/union-health-ministry-pats-ts-for-vaccine-coverage/article33614244.ece
20 January 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Artistes take out rally in support of agitating farmers||To make the voices of farmers protesting against the Centre’s farm laws heard, several artistes belonging to various cultural troupes staged a rally here on Tuesday expressing solidarity with the farmers’ ongoing agitation at the Delhi borders. Amid traditional drum beats, the artistes marched through the main streets of the town as part of the rally. Later, they staged a demonstration titled “Aata Paata” at the Dharna Chowk near the Collectorate in protest against the three new legislations relating to agriculture. Terming the three agricultural laws as ‘exploitative’, the demonstrators shouted slogans demanding the immediate repeal of the three legislations. They demanded that the agriculture sector, the mainstay of the nation’s economy and the sole source of livelihood for millions of farmers all over the country, be protected from imminent danger of ‘exploitation’ by the ‘big corporate houses’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/artistes-take-out-rally-in-support-of-agitating-farmers/article33614408.ece
20 January 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Pharmacist taps quail farming||After venturing into rearing of Japanese quails (locally called Kamju Pitta) more than one and a half years ago, K Nagendra Babu, a 31-year-old post-graduate in pharmacy, of Peruvancha village in Kallur mandal, earned a niche for himself in successfully running his quail farm against odds by adopting prudent marketing strategies. Converting the odds into opportunities, he surmounted several challenges during the COVID-19 lockdown period and thereafter to sustain his enterprise with a great deal of determination and focussed approach. Growing awarenss He capitalised on the growing awareness about the protein-rich food particularly in these times of the pandemic by marketing meat and eggs of Japanese quails by highlighting their nutritive and appetising values. Nagendra had quit his medical representative job in 2019 and took up Japanese quail rearing as an avocation at his farm in his native village to support his family. “I developed interest in this avocation after watching a few videos of success stories on YouTube during my stay at my native place after resigning my job due to a recurring back pain,” said Nagendra. “I started the Japanese quail farm with little investment over one and a half years ago at our farm in the village. I followed the prescribed methods in hatching the eggs, feeding and rearing the birds that eventually made the farm popular in the erstwhile undivided Khammam district as well as various mandals of Krishna district in neighbouring Andhra Pradesh,” he told The Hindu . “We get bulk orders for live birds and dressed meat of the birds as well as eggs from restaurants, organisers of small functions and others at regular intervals,” he added. The meat and eggs of Japanese quail birds proved to be nutrient-rich source of protein, vitamins and minerals, he noted, adding that the rearing of quail birds had a tremendous potential as backyard farming to augment additional income for members of self-help groups and others in the villages. These birds were known for their solid disease resistance capability and as such do not require vaccination. The quail farming could prove quite a profitable enterprise provided the venture was properly planned and the marketing opportunities were fully tapped, he remarked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pharmacist-taps-quail-farming/article33614266.ece
20 January 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Role of Congress, BJP in progress questioned||Minister for Energy G. Jagadish Reddy on Tuesday questioned the role of Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party in the development of undivided Nalgonda, and Nagarjunasagar in particular, in the past 60 years. He said the various programmes and the change brought about by the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi, all in the past six years, had put the district on a development path. “TRS government was able to eradicate 60-year-old fluorosis that was sustained by the Congress here, in just six year with Mission Bhagiratha. We are ready for an open challenge on Nagarjunasagar or Nalgonda’s development,” he said, wondering if the Congress would come forward. Mr. Jagadish Reddy was addressing various meetings at Haliya in Nagarajunasagar Assembly constituency, along with Member of Legislative Council (MLC) Palla Rajeshwar Reddy for Graduate’s constituency election for Nalgonda-Khammam-Warangal. He said the Nagarjunasagar low-level canal that was started nearly two decades ago was completed within three years under RS government, and the Yadadri thermal power plant, Green industrial park at D. Malkapur, redevelopment of Yadadri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple, medical colleges and AIIMS Bibinagar were indices of development. On Nagarjunasagar bypoll, Mr. Reddy said people of the constituency had already rejected Congress leader K. Jana Reddy, and said his prospects now were daydreams. Leaders on stage also launched an attack on BJP and said they were spreading false information on various development activities in the State. “When compared to the international market, BJP government has increased cooking gas prices three times and those of diesel and petrol by 50%. If the farm legislation is allowed, to support a few corporates, prices of agricultural products too will become costly, far from common man’s reach,” they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/role-of-congress-bjp-in-progress-questioned/article33614411.ece
20 January 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||TRS MLA participates in VHP rally||Even while a war of words is on between the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) politically, Andol legislator Ch. Kranthi Kiran participated in the motorcycle rally held at Jogipet and Andol towns on Tuesday. This shocked many. He also contributed Rs. 11,111 towards the construction of Rama Mandir at Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh. The programme was organised by Visha Hindu Parishad (VHP) and Bajarang Dal as part of collecting donations for the construction of temple. Terming Lord Rama an ideal for entire humanity, the Member of Legislative Assembly (MLA) said that he was happy to start the motorcycle rally in the town.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-mla-participates-in-vhp-rally/article33614263.ece
20 January 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Software engineer ends life||K. Ravi Kumar (28), a software engineer working with a multinational company, residing at Chaitanya Nagar in Patancheru, committed suicide by hanging. For the past several months, he had been staying at on work from home. He got habituated to online betting and incurred huge losses. His father Prabhakar cleared about Rs. 1 lakh lone and still there were debts to clear. Unable to come out of the debt trap, Ravi Kuamr hanged himself and committed suicide, police said.  (Suicide prevention helpline, Roshni: +914066202000)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/software-engineer-ends-life/article33614264.ece
20 January 2021||January 20 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Road safety||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/road-safety/article33614414.ece
20 January 2021||January 20 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Educated voters||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/educated-voters/article33614410.ece
20 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Stalemate not ending any time soon, say farmers ahead of talks||A day ahead of the tenth round of talks between the government and farm unions, protesting farmers at the Singhu border on Tuesday said there were no expectations of the stalemate ending any time soon. The farmers who have been at the Delhi’s borders for over 55 days now said that regular meetings were on, both at the borders and their respective villages, to chalk out a road map for the tractor rally scheduled on January 26. Stating that farmers from villages in Punjab and Haryana will be joining in thousands, Manjeet Singh, a farmer from Punjab’s Patiala district said: “It is our right to go to Delhi. Even though authorities had attempted to stop us earlier as well, we shall still carry out the parade peacefully. Our tractors will have both the national flag and that of our unions. If authorities use force on us, will they be ready to attack the national flag as well?” Plan to be finalised soon “Currently, meetings are being held at various levels. Volunteers are being made from among the protesting farmers to ensure that nothing goes wrong during the parade. Meetings are also being held at the village-level to spread awareness and ensure people join us at the border. While people will start arriving from Thursday onwards, the final plan will be ready in a couple of days,” said Mr. Singh. Gurlal Singh, a farmer from Punjab’s Tarn Taran district, added: “Volunteers back at the villages are making daily rounds of five to seven villages each. The march will be conducted peacefully and there are a lot of people who are interested in being a part of it.” Ranjit Singh, another farmer who has been at the Singhu border since the first day of the protest said: “If the government wanted to resolve the issue it would not have taken 10 meetings. The matter could have been resolved earlier as well and because that has not happened the decision to conduct the rally was taken.” Large numbers Emphasising that the protesting farmers were united, Mr. Singh added: “We are all united and will follow whatever road map is provided to us by the leaders. Ideally, the government should give us the space to carry out the parade but when that is not the case, we will have to follow whatever plan gets devised by the leaders. There are a large number of people who are expected to join us for the parade.” While stating that there was no “hope” from the scheduled talks with the government, Rachpal Singh, a farmer from Punjab’s Kapurthala said, “After Wednesday’s meeting with the government a road map will be issued. We will of course not be going to the main Republic Day parade route but instead have our own route. Those from the villages will also be joining in large numbers.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/stalemate-not-ending-any-time-soon-say-farmers-ahead-of-talks/article33613976.ece
20 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Volunteers set up ironing service at Singhu border||With cold weather conditions continuing to prevail in the national capital, a group of protesting farmers has started providing ironing services at the Singhu border. The group takes turns and irons laundry for four hours each to ensure the protesting farmers are able to dry their clothes. Farmers from the Capital’s neighbouring States have been protesting at the city’s borders for over 55 days now, against the three controversial farm laws and have demanded repeal of the laws. Apart from the various resources and reinforcements that have been brought to the Singhu border, a group of farmers has started providing ironing services as a part of their “sewa.” Sarvan Singh, a farmer from Amritsar, who is one of the volunteers, said: “Due to the weather, it was becoming difficult for clothes to dry. So we thought of starting this facility around six days ago. We are a group of around five, who are involved in taking care of the laundry. We brought two iron boxes and two ironing tables so that we can provide the services.” Stating that there are an unaccountable number of clothes that the group has ironed over the last few days, Sewa Singh, a farmer from Ludhiana, who is also a volunteer at the facility, said: “We take turns to iron the clothes and each of us stay for around four hours each. We do not have a count of the number of clothes we iron each day. After using the washing machines, the farmers come to us with their laundry and we give it to them immediately.”  After using the washing machines, the farmers come to us with their laundry and we give iron it for them immediately    Sewa Singh  A volunteer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/volunteers-set-up-ironing-service-at-singhu-border/article33613982.ece
20 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||DU to team up with universities in far-flung regions on research||Officiating Vice-Chancellor of Delhi University P.C. Joshi on Tuesday said that the university has launched a Vidya Vistar Scheme to develop cooperative academic bonding between colleges and departments of the university with other universities situated in remote areas in the country. The aim of the scheme is to maximise contribution of higher educational institutions to nation-building through optimum utilisation of resources, he said. “The programme will not be one of mentorship by DU but will be a relationship of equality to conduct multidisciplinary research with the expertise, infrastructure and facilities of the university with field experience from the other universities for mutual benefit,” Prof. Joshi said. Positive attitude Admitting that research at the university had suffered over the past few years, Mr. Joshi who took charge six months ago said, “We will not look back at it as a ‘black period’ but will look at it positively. The university is still very high on the H-index that shows that quality research is being done.” Back on track He said that over the past six months, many decisions have been taken like filling of statutory positions and pending works had been carried out like promotion of teaching and non-teaching staff as well as recruitment that has brought the university on track. The officiating V-C added that the university was ready with its plans to implement the National Education Policy 2020, at the university and a 42-member committee was taking the opinion of various stakeholders into account. Phased reopening He also announced that DU would be holding its convocation on February 27 and that the university was in the process of developing a standard operating procedure for a phased reopening of the university by February 1 for physical classes, especially for those who need to access labs and other equipment and resources. Preparations are also being made for the centenary celebrations of Delhi University next year. Prof. Joshi said the university plans to celebrate its legacy and the brand that it has established over the 100 years. He said that apart from releasing books on the history of the university, the university will make attempts to reach out to its distinguished alumni that includes Prime Minister Narendra Modi to build a university corpus of Rs. 300 crore. On more short-term goals of the university, he said that his entire team was working towards breaking into the top 500 in the QS World University Rankings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/du-to-collaborate-with-universities-in-far-flung-regions-on-research/article33613970.ece
20 January 2021||New Delhi,||Remove illegal constructions from green zone: petition||A petition before the Delhi High Court has asked for removal of allegedly unauthorised constructions in the green zone area at Sainik Farms, Neb Sarai and Indra Enclave colonies in south Delhi. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh adjourned the hearing of the case for January 27 as the lawyer for the petitioner could not join the virtual hearing due to connectivity issues. The petition by Arvind Kumar, who claims to be a social activist, has alleged that the authorities have taken no action against the unauthorised constructions despite several representations to them. The petition has claimed that illegal construction was going on despite the court orders prohibiting it. It sought directions to the Delhi government, police and South body to remove all unauthorised constructions from the green zone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/remove-illegal-constructions-from-green-zone-petition/article33613965.ece
20 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Physical hearings: SC tells lawyers to approach HC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday said it understood the gravity of the problem lawyers and others, including litigants and employees, may have to face following the Delhi High Court’s recent decision to resume physical hearings. The High Court had issued a notification on January 14 on increasing the number of Benches for physical hearings. It also allowed lower courts in Delhi to conduct them on alternate days from January 18. Four lawyers had challenged the notification in the apex court. On Tuesday, a Bench led by Chief Justice Sharad A. Bobde said the apex court usually did not intervene in administrative decisions taken by High Courts. It asked the petitioners to approach the High Court itself. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, for the lawyers, said the resumption of physical hearings and the discontinuation of a hybrid system of both physical and virtual court hearings would expose people to the dangers of the pandemic. He said lawyers need to be given a choice of how they want their case to be heard. The court adjourned the case for hearing on Wednesday. The petition said the notification was issued in “utter and complete disregard of the life, health”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/physical-hearings-sc-tells-lawyers-to-approach-hc/article33614226.ece
20 January 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi’s air quality deteriorates to ‘severe’ category||The air quality of Delhi and Noida deteriorated to the “severe” category and that of Gurugram’s to the “very poor” category on Tuesday, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. The national capital’s air quality is expected to improve in the coming days. The effect of stubble burning on the city’s air quality remained low on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhis-air-quality-deteriorates-to-severe-category/article33613967.ece
20 January 2021||January 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Riding high||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/riding-high/article33614224.ece
20 January 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Farm laws: 3 detained by Himachal police for ‘prohibited activities’||The Himachal Pradesh police on Tuesday detained three persons who had arrived in Shimla from the Singhu border near Delhi to share their reasons for opposing the Centre’s agriculture sector laws and the purpose of the ongoing farmers’ agitation. The three were detained from the Ridge under preventive Sections 107 and 151 of the Code of Criminal Procedure for their alleged involvement in prohibited activities, a charge they dismissed. “Our security agencies had input on possible protests by these people and we were keeping a vigil on their movement. Once they started the prohibited activities on the Ridge — the area where any kind of procession or meeting is not allowed as per the High Court directions — they were taken into preventive custody,” Superintendent of Police, Shimla, Mohit Chawla told The Hindu . ‘No permission sought’ “They did not apply for any kind of permission from the local administration. Had they submitted a request, we would have examined it. To ensure no untoward incident, we detained them,” he said. One of three persons, while being taken away by the policemen, said their democratic right to free speech was being bulldozed. “None of us has raised any slogan. We are only three people and Article 19 of the Constitution gives us the right to express our opinion. We are only standing here. What’s the violation in that? You [Police] are finishing democracy,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/farm-laws-3-detained-by-hp-police-for-prohibited-activities/article33613989.ece
20 January 2021||Mumbai,||Sharad Pawar, Uddhav to take part in protest against new farm laws||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) president Sharad Pawar would take part in a protest to be staged here in support of the farmers agitating against the Centre’s three new farm laws on borders of Delhi, State Minister Nawab Malik said on Tuesday. Some farmers’ organisations have planned to hold protests in Mumbai from January 23 to January 25. “Mr. Pawar will participate in the protest to be held at Azad Maidan (in south Mumbai) on January 25. The NCP has opposed the farm laws. The Chief Minister and leaders of the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi will also take part,” Mr. Malik, who is the national spokesperson of the NCP, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/sharad-pawar-uddhav-to-take-part-in-protest-against-new-farm-laws/article33613894.ece
20 January 2021||Mumbai,||Medical bail sought for Varavara Rao||Senior advocate Anand Grover on Tuesday informed the Bombay High Court about 81-year-old poet Varavara Rao’s medical condition and argued for his medical bail as he continued to remain in a private hospital for treatment. Mr. Grover submitted Mr. Rao’s medical report compiled by the Maharashtra government to a Division Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and Manish Pitale. Mr. Grover said the first medical report when Mr. Rao was admitted to the State-run JJ Hospital had still not been shared with them. In reply, Additional Solicitor-General Anil Singh, representing the National Investigation Agency that is probing the Bhima-Koregaon violence case, said Mr. Rao’s present condition needed to be considered for medical bail. However, the court said it would consider all the medical reports as the matter pertained to medical bail. Mr. Singh added that the first report did not mention that Mr. Rao had dementia. The Bench, in reply, said they would want to see the first report. Mr. Grover said Mr. Rao was arrested and lodged at the Taloja Central Jail. Thereafter, he was shifted to Taloja hospital due to his pre-existing medical conditions. Mr. Grover listed the conditions — kidney failure, heart ailments, blood pressure, blood thinner and anti-depressants — and said Mr. Rao had to be given about 20 medicines every day. Mr. Rao also developed a urinary tract infection and was not monitored by Taloja hospital after being discharged from JJ Hospital. Mr. Grover said he did not need to continue at Nanavati hospital, but the jail reports did not have details of his health. He urged the court to release Mr. Rao on medical bail so that he could be fit for trial. The poet suffered from a neurological condition and would be fit for trial only if he was with his family, he argued. Mr Rao’s daughter and son-in-law were both doctors, Mr. Grover added. Mr. Grover will continue his arguments on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/medical-bail-sought-for-varavara-rao/article33613903.ece
20 January 2021||Mumbai,||Court rejects Indrani’s plea for dress code exemption||A special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court on Tuesday rejected the plea of Indrani Mukerjea, a prime accused in the Sheena Bora murder case, seeking exemption from wearing the uniform prescribed for convicts in prison despite she being an undertrial. Ms. Mukerjea has been lodged at the Byculla women’s jail since her arrest in the case in 2015. Last month, Ms. Mukerjea told the court that though she was an undertrial, jail authorities were asking her to wear a green sari, the uniform meant for convicts. Subsequently, Ms. Mukerjea submitted an application through her lawyer seeking exemption from wearing this uniform. However, special judge J.C. Jagdale rejected her plea. Sheena Bora (24), Ms. Mukerjea’s daughter from an earlier relationship, was allegedly strangled in a car and her body was disposed of in Raigad district in April 2012. The murder came to light in 2015 and the Mumbai Police arrested Ms. Mukerjea, her driver Shyamvar Rai, and former husband Sanjeev Khanna. The case was later handed over to the CBI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/court-rejects-indranis-plea-for-dress-code-exemption/article33613901.ece
20 January 2021||Mumbai,||Loan racket busted; 7 held, cars worth Rs. 6 crore seized||Seven people were arrested for allegedly operating a racket in which luxury cars were being sold and mortgaged after buying them through loans using bogus documents, a Mumbai Crime Branch official said on Tuesday. He said 19 cars totalling Rs. 6 crore were seized by the Crime Branch’s Unit V. “The probe started after a man filed a complaint at Kurla police station on January 13 that he was cheated of Rs. 9.85 lakh by three people who sold him two cars that had been bought on loans procured through fake documents,” he said. The Crime Branch found the racket had links to cities like Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Indore, and Lucknow, besides Mumbai, said DCP (Crime) Prakash Jadhav, adding that a team arrested three people from Wagle Estate in Thane.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/loan-racket-busted-7-held-cars-worth-rs-6-crore-seized/article33613890.ece
20 January 2021||Mumbai,||NCB conducts searches after arrest of two drug peddlers||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Tuesday conducted searches at multiple locations in south and central Mumbai after the arrest of two drug peddlers over the weekend, an official said. Acting on specific information, an NCB team had arrested the duo with 65 gram mephedrone, a stimulant drug, on Sunday from near JJ Hospital in south Mumbai, he said. As the two had been active in south and central Mumbai for a long time, the apex drug law enforcement agency conducted searches in the areas since morning to “trace and apprehend the masterminds” (of narcotics trade), the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/ncb-conducts-searches-after-arrest-of-two-drug-peddlers/article33613895.ece
20 January 2021||Mumbai,||Maha Movie channel CEO held in copyright violation case||The Mumbai Police on Tuesday arrested Maha Movie television channel’s CEO Sanjay Verma in an alleged copyright violation case, a police official said. He is also a wanted accused in the alleged television rating points (TRP) rigging scam. Mr. Verma was apprehended by the Mumbai Police’s Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU), the official said. A case of copyright violation was registered at Juhu police station and the investigation into it was transferred to the CIU, he said. During a probe into the case, Mr. Verma’s alleged role came to light, following which he was questioned and subsequently placed under arrest. He would be produced in a court later in the day, the official said. In a chargesheet filed recently in the TRP rigging case, the police alleged that an official of Hansa Research Agency paid money to sample households to tune into Maha Movie, Box Cinema, Fakt Marathi  and Republic TV channels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maha-movie-channel-ceo-held-in-copyright-violation-case/article33613896.ece
20 January 2021||New Delhi,||Healthcare workers not on daily list can now get COVID-19 shot||A total of 4,936 healthcare workers were vaccinated in the national capital on Tuesday — the highest till now, and there were 16 ‘minor’ Adverse Event Following Immunisation, said the Delhi government spokesperson. This is 48.75% of the target of 10,125 healthcare workers who were to be immunised on Tuesday. Of the 16 AEFI, 15 were people who were vaccinated with Covishield and one with Covaxin. On Saturday, 4,319 healthcare workers were vaccinated and on Monday the figure was 3,598. A change in rule has helped hospitals get a greater number of healthcare workers vaccinated. Walk-in vaccination Though each of the 81 vaccination sites in the city has a list of about 100 beneficiaries to be vaccinated every day, healthcare workers whose names are not on the list, but were registered in the CoWIN platform earlier, are now being vaccinated. This move follows Central government directions, and officials expect daily number of healthcare workers taking the vaccine to increase. In a letter to all States, Rajesh Bhushan, Secretary of Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, said that the government has allowed an “allot beneficiary” feature in CoWIN app for this change. “The feature has been added to facilitate maximum utilisation of staff deployed at the session sites so that they can cater to optimal number of beneficiaries per session,” the letter dated Tuesday read.   Only nine people were inoculated on Tuesday at the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital. Hospital spokesperson Chhavi Gupta said they will start walk-in vaccination of registered healthcare workers from Thursday. Lok Nayak Hospital also stated it would follow the new rules from January 21. At RML Hospital, the number of healthcare workers inoculated daily decreased from 69 on Monday to 27 on Tuesday. On Monday, the number was high as the hospital allowed people who were not on the list to get vaccinated, but this was not allowed on Tuesday. “The Medical Superintendent, dean, ex-dean, and many heads of departments are getting vaccinated to motivate the staff,” said the public relations officer of RML Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/healthcare-workers-not-on-daily-list-can-now-get-covid-19-shot/article33613883.ece
20 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Shah praises police for handling of riots||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday visited Delhi Police Headquarters and praised the force for the way they handled communal riots in north-east Delhi and the ongoing farmers’ protest at the borders. “In the challenging year, Delhi Police has passed the test. Be it the riots, COVID-19 lockdown, helping migrant workers or establishing peaceful talks with protesting farmers at borders, they faced every challenge with immense courage,” he said. Under the Safe City project, Delhi Police will install 15,000 CCTV cameras that will then be integrated with the cameras installed at the railway station and the ones put up by the Delhi government, Mr. Shah added. The feed will be monitored at the police headquarters. This will reduce crimes, he added. Emphasising on the technological improvements in policing, Police Commissioner S.N. Shrivastava said two MoUs have been signed with National Forensic Science University in Gujarat and IIIT-Delhi in the direction of making optimum use of technology and AI. Mr. Shah also paid homage to officials who died of COVID-19. “Around 8,000 personnel got COVID-19, 30 succumbed to it. Still, Delhi Police kept at it. They inspected areas during lockdown via drones, helped the elderly, pregnant women, and COVID patients. The phase will be inscribed in golden words in the history of Delhi Police,” he said. Delhi Police Public Relations Officer Eish Singhal said the union Government has sanctioned several financial packages for constructing residential colonies and purchasing built up flats for personnel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/shah-praises-police-for-handling-of-riots/article33613885.ece
20 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC seeks status report on Yamuna water quality||The Supreme Court on Tuesday sought a status report from the National Green Tribunal-appointed River Yamuna Monitoring Committee led by former Delhi Chief Secretary Shailaja Chandra about its recommendations to improve the quality of water and the extent to which the States have implemented their suggestions. A Bench led by Chief Justice Sharad A. Bobde accepted the submission by senior advocate and amicus curiae Meenakshi Arora that the Committee, which also comprises former NGT expert member B.S. Sajwan, should be roped in for the benefit of its experience and work on the river. “The committee is overseeing the programme on the Yamuna. It will help us know about the status of sewage treatment plants etc. A detailed status report should be sought from it on its recommendations and their implementation till date,” Ms. Arora submitted. Suo motu cognisance The Supreme Court had, on January 13, taken suo motu cognisance of the contamination of rivers by sewage effluents through lapses committed by municipalities, saying “open surface water resources including rivers are the lifeline of human civilisation”. “Deterioration of quality of fresh water has a direct co-relation with the quality of public health... The right to clean environment, and further, pollution-free water, has been protected under the broad rubric of the right to life,” a three-judge Bench led by the Chief Justice had said. The court had decided to start its suo motu exercise with the case of Yamuna. PIL registered The suo motu PIL was registered after the Delhi Jal Board, represented by advocate Shadan Farasat, accused Haryana of discharging pollutants into the Yamuna, due to which there was an alarming increase in ammonia levels. The PIL titled “Remediation of polluted rivers” was registered and the court had issued notices to the Centre, the Ministries of Environment and Housing and Urban Affairs and the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). The court had also sought response from Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh. On Tuesday, it included Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan as parties. “It is the duty of the State to ensure access to clean drinking water which is included in right to life... The mandate of law is clear as far as setting up of sewage treatment plants and stoppage of sewage effluents in surface water are concerned, but it is often found that either the sewage is not treated through a plant before being discharged or the treatment plants are not functional,” the court had said in its order on January 13.  The right to clean environment and pollution-free water has been protected under the broad rubric of the right to life SC Bench||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/sc-seeks-status-report-on-river-water-quality/article33614229.ece
20 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Sensors ensure social distancing at IGIA||Ceiling-mounted sensors are helping Delhi's Indira Gandhi International Airport ensure passengers follow social distancing rules at its international terminal, also known as Terminal 3. Known as XOVIS PTS, the queue management system generates an alert as soon as a given space within the airport premises sees overcrowding or exceeds the people density index. The technology has been installed at all entry gates of Terminal 3, all check-in rows, domestic and international security check areas, emigrations as well as immigration area for passengers arriving at the airport. Once an alert is issued, a terminal manager takes corrective action such as opening more check-in counters or re-deploying airport personnel. If the situation is not brought under control within a stipulated time, more alerts are issued. On whether the airport will be scaling up the technology to other terminals, Delhi International Airport Limited’s CEO Videh Jaipuriar said: “We are evaluating other technologies as well as computer vision technology.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/sensors-ensure-social-distancing-at-igia/article33613881.ece
20 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Wife of constable who died of virus gives birth to girl||Nine months after Delhi Police Constable Amit Kumar died — the first casualty of COVID-19 in the force — his wife on January 15 gave birth to their daughter. The daughter has been nick-named ‘Annie’, which the wife said was as per the wishes of the late official. Amit died of the virus on May 5, after which his wife Pooja and their 3-year-old son also tested positive for COVID-19. On the 13th day of his death, while she was in the quarantine centre, she found out that she was pregnant. “Amit used to say if we ever have a daughter, we will name her Annie so I kept it as her nickname. I have also decided on her real name – Ojasvi,” said Pooja adding that she was discharged from the hospital on Monday. For Pooja, Annie’s birth feels like Amit has returned in her form. “It’s just my belief… I conceived her around the same time he left us… also, she looks exactly like him… the resemblance is uncanny”. Meanwhile, the family is still waiting for the ex gratia of Rs. 1 crore announced by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal at the time of the official’s death. “We have no knowledge where the file is. We were informed that the government department needed some documents, all of which we have submitted. We were later informed that the file has been rejected on the ground that Amit wasn’t on COVID-19 duty...we do not know what is happening,” Ms. Pooja said. Wife hopeful of job However, she was offered a job in the force by Commissioner of Police S.N. Shrivastava for which she has received communication and has a test scheduled in March for the same. “I hope I get the job,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/wife-of-constable-who-died-of-virus-gives-birth-to-girl/article33613888.ece
20 January 2021||New Delhi,||Not getting access to chargesheet: riots accused||Several accused booked under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in a north-east Delhi riots case, claimed before a court here on Tuesday that they have not been given access to the chargesheet in jail despite its orders. Some of the other accused, including Umar Khalid, who have got access to the documents sought the court’s directions to jail authorities for a uniform time limit, preferably more than an hour a day, for reading the bulky 18,000-page chargesheet on the computers in prison. “What is the point of uploading it on the computer if the accused cannot access it?... Why are they given different time slots?” Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat remarked while putting up the matter for further hearing on February 2. In a separate hearing, a Delhi court on Tuesday directed the police to preserve call detail records of 10 accused — from February 20-28 last year — in a north-east Delhi riots case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/not-getting-access-to-chargesheet-riots-accused/article33613880.ece
20 January 2021||New Delhi,||BJP attacks CM over ‘injustice’ against Valmiki community||The BJP on Tuesday lambasted Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal over the government’s alleged “injustice” perpetrated against the Valmiki community, many of whom were employed by the civic bodies and yet to get their salaries. North-West Delhi MP Hansraj Hans alleged that the cleanliness workers in the civic bodies here on their toes during the peak of the pandemic while Mr. Kejriwal had “completely disappeared”. The alleged withholding of funds by the Delhi government to the civic bodies was to blame for their plight, the MP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bjp-attacks-cm-over-injustice-against-valmiki-community/article33613886.ece
20 January 2021||New Delhi,||BJP plans donation drive for Ram temple from February 1||The BJP is planning a city-wide drive in which it will use its organisational strength to seek donations for the Ram temple in Ayodhya from citizens beginning February 1, said party sources. The first meeting in this regardwas convened at the party’s State headquarters over the weekend where senior members of the BJP Delhi leadership and functionaries of the Vishva Hindu Parishad as well as Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh were also present, they said. The would hit the streets requesting donations ranging from Rs. 10 upwards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bjp-plans-donation-drive-for-ram-temple-from-february-1/article33613889.ece
20 January 2021||New Delhi,||City records 231 cases with 10 deaths||The city witnessed 231 fresh COVID-19 cases in 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 6,32,821, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Tuesday. Also, 10 more deaths have been reported in 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 10,764. A total of 72,441 tests were done in a single day. Of the total cases, 6,19,723 people have recovered and there are 2,334 active cases. The positivity rate of COVID-19 cases was 0.32% on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/city-records-231-cases-with-10-deaths/article33613887.ece
20 January 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra’s wellness rate nears 95%; active cases go below 50,000||A robust 4,516 recoveries reported on Tuesday saw Maharashtra’s active COVID-19 cases decline below the 50,000 mark to reach 48,406. The State recorded 2,294 fresh cases, taking the total case tally to 19,94,977. As many as 50 fatalities saw the death toll climb to 50,523. Again, the low case surge must be viewed in the context of a comparatively lower number of samples tested — 50,000 – over the past 24 hours. The cumulative recoveries stand at 18,94,839 while the State’s recovery rate has risen to 94.98%. “Of a total 1,38,95,277 laboratory samples tested thus far, 19,94,977 (with the case positivity rate down to 14.36%) have returned positive with over 50,000 samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said, adding that the case fatality stood at 2.53%. Pune reported nearly 400 new cases to take its total case tally to 3,82,846. Four deaths pushed the toll to 7,873. As per the district administration figures, the active cases stand at 5,179 while the district’s recovery rate is 96.24%. Mumbai city recorded 473 fresh cases to take its total tally to 3,03,625 of whom just 6,656 are active. Eight fatalities saw the city’s death count reach 11,259. Nagpur district in Vidarbha registered 178 new cases, taking the district’s total infections to 1,32,515 of whom 4,352 are active. With seven more deaths, the toll touched 3,312. In western Maharashtra, Satara added a single death while 40 fresh cases saw the total tally rise to 55,671 of whom only 705 are active. Its fatality count stands at 1,796. Neighbouring Sangli logged a mere 19 cases and no deaths as the district’s reported cases reached 50,639 of whom just 508 are active. Its fatality toll remains at 1,777. Kolhapur recorded seven cases and a single death as its total case tally touched 48,989 of whom only 163 are active. The death toll went up to 1,670. In north Maharashtra, Nashik district reported just 62 cases and three deaths as its total tally climbed to 1,19,229 of whom 1,247 are active. Its death count rose to 1,969. Jalgaon added 33 fresh cases and no deaths as its total infections reached 57,046 of whom only 535 are active, while its death toll remains at 1,468. Dr. Awate said that currently, 2,18,058 persons across the State were in home quarantine and 1,996 were in institutional quarantine facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtras-wellness-rate-nears-95-active-cases-go-below-50000/article33613898.ece
20 January 2021||January 20 2021 00:00 IST,||For the people||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/for-the-people/article33613900.ece
20 January 2021||Washington,||‘U.S. will restore frayed alliances’||Antony Blinken, U.S. President-elect Joe Biden’s choice to be Secretary of State, vowed on Tuesday that the United States will “outcompete” a rising China while reviving frayed alliances, in a sea change from Donald Trump’s go-it-alone “America First” approach. On the eve of Mr. Biden’s inauguration, Mr. Blinken is set to say at his confirmation hearing that the United States will seek to remain the pre-eminent global power but renew cooperation on common challenges such as COVID-19 and climate change. “America at its best still has a greater ability than any country on earth to mobilise others for the greater good,” Mr. Blinken, a long-time aide to Mr. Biden, was to tell the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, according to his prepared remarks. “We can outcompete China — and remind the world that a government of the people, by the people, can deliver for its people,” Mr. Blinken said, paraphrasing Abraham Lincoln’s paean to democracy, two weeks after a mob of Mr. Trump’s supporters attacked the Capitol.  Mr. Blinken is expected to win Senate confirmation although Republicans have vowed to press him hard on his consulting work since leaving Barack Obama’s administration four years ago. In a sharp shift in tone from Mr. Trump’s Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, who spoke of “swagger”, “American exceptionalism” and global conflict with China, Mr. Blinken said he would show "humility." “Not one of the big challenges we face can be met by one country acting alone — even one as powerful as the U.S.,” Mr. Blinken said. “We can revitalize our core alliances — force multipliers of our influence around the world. Together, we are far better positioned to counter threats posed by Russia, Iran, and North Korea and to stand up for democracy and human rights.” Mr. Biden has promised to move swiftly after his inauguration on Wednesday to reverse some of Mr. Trump’s most divisive policies. He pledged to rejoin the Paris climate accord, reverse the U.S. exit from the World Health Organization, and end immigration agents’ draconian separations of Latin American children from their families. Mr. Biden is also expected to seek a return to the Iran nuclear accord negotiated under Mr. Obama, believing that Mr. Trump’s exit and imposition of sanctions backfired badly with Tehran escalating its contested program.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-will-restore-frayed-alliances/article33613587.ece
20 January 2021||January 20 2021 00:00 IST,||U.S. won’t lift travel ban: Biden team||Shortly after U.S. President Donald Trump announced the lifting of COVID-19-related travel restrictions on parts of Europe and Brazil, the incoming Biden administration said it would reverse the move. Mr. Trump signed an executive order on Monday removing restrictions on air travel for most non-U.S. citizens and permanent residents travelling from the Schengen Area, Ireland, the U.K. and Brazil starting January 26. The restrictions instituted last year were also applied to Iran and China — these were not reversed by the executive order. Also, starting January 26, the Center for Disease Control (CDC) has said that all those travelling by air into the U.S. will need to show a negative COVID-19 test result before boarding their flights. These tests will have to be done during the 72-hour window before departure. Mr. Trump’s order cited this and cooperation from the countries on which restrictions were removed as reasons for easing the travel rules. “This cooperation stands in stark contrast to the behaviour of the governments and state-owned enterprises of the People’s Republic of China and the Islamic Republic of Iran, which repeatedly have failed to cooperate with the U.S. public health authorities and to share timely, accurate information about the spread of the virus,” the order said. “With the pandemic worsening, and more contagious variants emerging around the world, this is not the time to be lifting restrictions on international travel,” incoming Press Secretary Jen Psaki wrote on Twitter. “On the advice of our medical team, the administration does not intend to lift these restrictions on 1/26. In fact, we plan to strengthen public health measures around international travel in order to further mitigate the spread of COVID-19,” she said. Tuesday is Mr. Trump’s last full day in office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-wont-lift-travel-ban-biden-team/article33613598.ece
20 January 2021||Washington,||Biden to introduce Bill for eight-year citizenship path||United States President-elect Joe Biden plans to unveil a sweeping immigration Bill on the first day of his administration, hoping to provide an eight-year path to citizenship for an estimated 11 million people living in the U.S. without legal status — a massive reversal from the Trump administration’s harsh immigration policies. The Bill puts Mr. Biden on track to deliver on a major campaign promise important to Latino voters and other immigrant communities after four years of President Donald Trump’s restrictive policies and mass deportations. Expected to run hundreds of pages, the Bill is set to be introduced after Mr. Biden takes the oath of office Wednesday, according to a person familiar with the legislation. Under the legislation, those living in the U.S. as of Jan. 1, 2021, without legal status would have a five-year path to temporary legal status, or a green card, if they pass background checks, pay taxes and fulfill other basic requirements. From there, it’s a three-year path to naturalisation, if they decide to pursue citizenship. The Bill provides one of the fastest pathways to citizenship for those living without legal status of any measure in recent years, but it fails to include the traditional trade-off of enhanced border security favored by many Republicans, putting its passage in a narrowly divided Congress in doubt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-to-introduce-bill-for-8-year-citizenship-path/article33613589.ece
20 January 2021||January 20 2021 00:00 IST,||An inauguration modified by security and health threats||The inauguration of Joe Biden and Kamala Harris as President and Vice-President of the U.S. will be a highly unusual affair this year — curtailed and modified by various forces gone out of control. The COVID-19 pandemic and security threats from Trump supporters in the aftermath of President Donald Trump’s challenges to the results have compelled the Biden-Harris team to have an inauguration that will not be accessible to the masses, as is usually the case. The setting — Washington DC — will be transformed with some 25,000 National Guardsmen to secure the proceedings. Additionally, the Trumps will be conspicuous by their absence, and the ceremony will consequently need further modification. Mr. and Ms. Trump are expected to fly out to their Mar-a-Lago residence and resort in Florida from Joint Base Andrews (JBA) in Maryland early on Wednesday. Mr. Trump — recently impeached by the House of Representatives and awaiting trial by the Senate, primarily for his alleged role in an attack on the U.S. Capitol earlier this month — will be the first President to boycott his successor’s inauguration since Andrew Johnson boycotted Ulysses S. Grant’s inauguration in 1869 at the last minute (the two did not get along and Grant did not like Johnson’s racist ways). While details of the Trumps’ departure are still emerging, the White House has issued invitations for an 8 a.m. event at JBA. Mr. Trump has, as per reports, asked for an honour guard and is considering a 21-gun salute for the ceremony. Consequently, the Trumps will not be on hand to receive the Bidens at the White House for tea — the outgoing and incoming President travel together to the swearing in ceremony, as per tradition. Instead, the Bidens will be received at the White House by Chief Usher of the White House. Vice-President Mike Pence and Second Lady Karen Pence are expected to attend the inauguration, as are former Presidents George W. Bush and Barack Obama. So contentious and unprecedented are the times, that Mr. Pence achieved praise for simply discharging his ceremonial duties on January 6 when Congress ratified the state Electoral College votes. With Mr. Trump’s absence on Wednesday, he is likely to once again receive more attention than the Vice-President normally does on departure day. Ms. Harris will be sworn in shortly before noon by Supreme Court Justice Sonya Sotomayor and Mr. Biden will be sworn in by Chief Justice John Roberts at noon on the Capitol’s West Front in front of a small (relative to past inaugurations), masked and socially-distanced crowd of about 1,000. Inaugural address Mr. Biden will then deliver his inaugural address and as Commander in Chief review military troops on the East Front of the Capitol. The President inspecting his troops, like the presence of the previous President, is an important ritual signifying the peaceful transfer of power, a concept that is normally taken for granted in the U.S., but has been at risk this year owing to Mr. Trump and some Republican lawmakers urging their voters to question the legitimacy and overturn the results of the election. Following the swearing in, the Bidens, Obamas and Bushes will pay their respects at the tomb of the unknown soldier in Arlington National Cemetery in Virginia. Mr. Biden will have a short trip back to the White House (there will be no in-person parade as per usual); he is expected to get an escort for one block by each branch of the military. There will be a virtual “Parade Across America” in the afternoon featuring performances to showcase America’s diversity — not unlike what the Democrats did at their Convention last summer. In lieu of inaugural balls and galas (the Obamas attended 10 in 2009), traditionally held on the evening of January 20th, the inaugural committee is holding virtual balls for the Asian-American, Black and Latino communities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/an-inauguration-modified-by-security-and-health-threats/article33613595.ece
20 January 2021||January 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Chinese COVID-19 vaccines find takers in Southeast Asia||China has signed deals with as many as 20 countries, many of which are in Southeast Asia, to offer its home-developed COVID-19 vaccines, Chinese media has reported. With five vaccines being developed in China, Beijing is offering them both as donations and on a commercial basis. Among the countries that are ordering Chinese vaccines are Jordan, the United Arab Emirates, Turkey, Algeria, Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore, Thailand, Philippines, Pakistan, Brazil, Ukraine, and Serbia, according to reports in the Chinese state media. Pakistan on Monday became the first country in South Asia to approve a Chinese vaccine, giving the nod for emergency use for Sinopharm’s vaccine. Its officials are also in talks with another Chinese company, Cansino Biologics, for orders. Many orders for Sinovac Earlier this month, China offered its vaccines to Nepal, Afghanistan, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh as it held a multilateral dialogue with the four countries and Pakistan on anti-epidemic cooperation, but so far they have not agreed on orders. A third Chinese vaccine, CoronoVac, by the firm Sinovac, which is already being used fairly widely in China, has so far had the biggest takers overseas among the five Chinese vaccines. While Indonesia has placed orders for 125.5 million doses and its President Joko Widodo received a shot of CoronoVac live on television, Malaysia has ordered 14 million doses, Chinese media reported. Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi offered the vaccine during a recent tour of Southeast Asia, and Philippines, Thailand and Myanmar are also expected to announce orders. China has offered 3 lakh doses to Myanmar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/chinese-covid-19-vaccines-find-takers-in-southeast-asia/article33613596.ece
20 January 2021||Moscow,||Kremlin dismisses calls to free Navalny||The Kremlin on Tuesday dismissed Western demands to release Russia’s most prominent opposition leader, Alexei Navalny, saying calls for mass protests over his arrest were “troubling”. Legal pressure is ramping up against President Vladimir Putin’s best-known domestic critic, who is due in court on defamation charges on Wednesday, as his allies in Russia call for protests in Moscow this weekend. Mr. Navalny, 44, was arrested on Sunday as he returned to Russia from Germany for the first time since he recovered from a near-fatal poisoning with the Soviet-designed Novichok nerve agent in August. Russia’s prison service said it had detained Mr. Navalny for violating the terms of a suspended sentence he was given in 2014 on fraud charges, which he says were politically motivated. A hastily organised court on Monday ordered that Mr. Navalny be jailed for 30 days, prompting his associates to call on Russians to take to the streets in central Moscow and march towards the Kremlin on Saturday. ‘Domestic affair’ The Kremlin said the calls to protest were “troubling”. “This is absolutely a domestic affair and we will not allow anyone to interfere in it,” said Mr. Putin's spokesman Dmitry Peskov.  The last time mass protests took place in Moscow was in the summer of 2019 when Mr. Navalny’s allies and a host of other opposition politicians were barred from balloting in local elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/kremlin-dismisses-calls-to-free-navalny/article33613590.ece
20 January 2021||Khartoum,||Sudan troops deployed in Darfur after clashes kill 155||A heavy Sudanese troop presence helped restore calm on Tuesday in Darfur after three days of inter-ethnic violence that claimed at least 155 lives and displaced tens of thousands. West Darfur authorities have imposed a statewide curfew.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sudan-troops-deployed-in-darfur-after-clashes-kill-155/article33613592.ece
20 January 2021||United States,||UN urges Israel to stop new construction in West Bank||UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres urged Israel to “halt and reverse” its decision to build 800 homes for Jewish settlers in the occupied West Bank. He said the decision was “a major obstacle to the achievement of the two-State solution”.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/un-urges-israel-to-stop-new-construction-in-west-bank/article33613593.ece
20 January 2021||January 20 2021 00:00 IST,||A plaintive lament on liberty that rings hollow||In early November 2020, after the overnight listing of a defective petition, the Supreme Court of India granted bail to the television anchor, Arnab Goswami. In a section of the judgment, delivered later on November 27 and titled “Human Liberty and the role of courts”, the top court noted that “human liberty is a precious constitutional value”; that “the writ of liberty runs through the fabric of the Constitution”; that it was important for courts across the spectrum to ensure that “criminal law does not become a weapon for the selective harassment of citizens”; that the courts remained “the first line of defen[c]e against the deprivation of the liberty of citizens”; that “the remedy of bail is the solemn expression of the humaneness of the justice system”, and, most poignantly, that “deprivation of liberty even for a single day is one day too many” (https://bit.ly/3quEFiX). The reality for many Observers of the Indian judiciary would no doubt have been bemused by this eloquent encomium to human liberty. At the time of the Supreme Court’s judgment, social activists incarcerated in the Bhima Koregaon case had been in jail for more than two years, with the trial yet to start, and with multiple bail applications having been rejected by the courts (they still remain in jail). In the aftermath of the Delhi riots in February 2020, students had been jailed for months (again without trial), with bail having been refused on specious grounds such as a court telling an accused who was not even present at the scene of a riot that “if you play with embers you cannot complain when there is a fire” (most of them still remain in jail). After the effective abrogation of Article 370 on August 5, 2019, thousands of Kashmiris had been locked up for months, with their habeas corpus petitions going unheard, or dismissed with absurd invocations to the mythical Greek King Menelaus (whose accomplishments included a 10-year war of destruction to retrieve a wife). The same Supreme Court that on November 27 sung paeans to personal liberty had, a year before, in 2019, told the daughter of a detained politician, in a habeas corpus petition, “why do you want to go to Srinagar when it is so cold there?” Indeed, the same Supreme Court had, earlier in the year, in 2020, suspended the Karnataka High Court’s decision releasing certain Citizenship (Amendment) Act protesters on bail, and had kept that decision suspended for six months — leading to six months in jail, when, apparently, “a day” was “a day too many”. In this background, the Supreme Court’s solicitude about human liberty appeared no more than a cruel joke. But perhaps, one could bring oneself to believe these words were implicit acknowledgement of past mistakes, and a promise to do better. Perhaps, one could bring oneself to believe that a judiciary that had visibly held human liberty in contempt over the previous few months would now turn over a new leaf. Perhaps habeas corpus would start to mean something again, as would bail. But in the two months that have elapsed since the judgment in Arnab Goswami’s case, it has become evident that the judicial hymn to personal liberty was not worth the paper it was written on. Two glaring examples After the horrific gangrape in Hathras (September), came the news of Kerala journalist Siddique Kappan along with three others being arrested and incarcerated by the Uttar Pradesh police, in October, while en route to Hathras. When Mr. Kappan’s lawyers approached the Supreme Court in a habeas corpus petition, it turned out that “deprivation of liberty even for a single day” was no big deal. The Supreme Court adjourned the case on multiple occasions, harangued Mr. Kappan’s lawyers for not going to the High Court (when, it turns out that under the Constitution, moving a habeas corpus petition before the Supreme Court is a matter of right, while an appeal from a High Court decision, as in Mr. Goswami’s case, is only meant to be admitted in “special” circumstances). On one of the dates when the case was supposed to be heard, the Supreme Court did not take it up because it was hearing Tata Sons vs Cyrus Mistry for the third consecutive day. At the time of writing this piece, Mr. Kappan remains in jail. At the turn of the year, a comedian named Munawar Faruqui, along with other individuals, was arrested and jailed while he was performing at a comedy show in Indore. The arrest took place on the apparent basis that Mr. Faruqui had “insulted Hindu gods” during his show. Leaving aside the larger point of what jailing comedians for cracking jokes about gods says about the present state of Indian democracy, it soon came out that Mr. Faruqui had not, as it turned out, made any jokes at all. When this was pointed out to the Police, the Police responded by saying that that did not matter, as “he was going to make those jokes”, bringing Indian policing firmly into the terrain of the film, “Minority Report”. Despite this, the local court rejected Mr. Faruqui’s bail application and, subsequently, the bail applications of his colleagues on the spurious basis that releasing him would be detrimental to law and order (who, one wonders, would have been responsible for disrupting law and order if these men had been released?). The rejection of Mr. Faruqui’s bail application was on January 5, 2021. His lawyers immediately moved the High Court. On January 15, the High Court “adjourned” the case because the Police had failed to bring their Police Diary along with them. However, as it has been noted, the police station was two minutes away from the courtroom, and that it would not take much time to bring the diary to the court. It turned out, however, that indeed, “a single day”, or rather many days deprived of personal liberty were wholly irrelevant, and the case was “adjourned.” At the time of writing, Mr. Faruqui remains in jail. These two cases present simply the most glaring examples of how every level of the Indian judiciary, from the trial court to the Supreme Court, has treated the issue of human liberty, after the judgment in Arnab Goswami’s case. Examples could be multiplied —after all, the social activists in the Bhima Koregaon case and the students in the Delhi riots case still remain in jail despite evidently specious prosecution cases against them, but these suffice. Blow against rule of law The rule of law in a society breaks down when the courts appear to be telling the citizenry, “show me the man and I’ll show you the law”. The rule of law in a society breaks down if the Supreme Court says, one day, that “a single day deprived of liberty is a day too many”, while every other court including the Supreme Court itself rejects bail applications of people jailed for years and months without trial, and in Mr. Faruqui’s case for something a man did not even do. And the rule of law breaks down when the Court declaims that “liberty is not for the few”, but by its conduct, extends liberty only to a few, while the unfortunate many count the weeks and months in jail cells. The judiciary’s undeniably callous attitude towards human liberty is deeply destructive of the rule of law; and in that context, its plaintive lament in Arnab Goswami’s case, that deprivation of liberty for even one day is a day too many, is reminiscent of Macbeth plunging his hands into the basin and asking the world: “Will all great Neptune’s ocean wash this blood/Clean from my hand?” Gautam Bhatia is a Delhi-based lawyer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-plaintive-lament-on-liberty-that-rings-hollow/article33613570.ece
20 January 2021||January 20 2021 00:00 IST,||A stress test for American democracy||The oldest democracy has been subjected to its most severe stress test; it came to the brink, stared at the abyss and just managed to clear it. The U.S. may have survived the test but considerable damage has been done. Defining pictures of 20,000 National Guard troops deployed in and around the capital, and of an outgoing President who has been impeached a second time in his term, a week before he relinquishes office, have hurt the country’s self-image as also its global standing. It is a grim reminder that democracy, however deeply rooted, can’t be taken for granted and needs constant nurturing and protection to prevent its descent into populism and mobocracy. A polarising election The stress test began two months earlier when incumbent President Donald Trump refused to accept the election outcome, alleging that his victory had been stolen through fraudulent means. The 2020 election was the most polarising one the U.S. has seen and what happened on January 6 was its reflection. The certification of the results by Congress will get Mr. Trump out of the White House but Trumpism will be a tougher challenge to deal with. In an election that saw the highest turnout (nearly 67%) since 1900, if Joe Biden won over 81 million votes, Mr. Trump managed an impressive tally of 74 million. The county-wise election map of the U.S. reveals that Mr. Biden won in 509 counties that account for over 70% of the GDP, while Mr. Trump won in 2,547 counties that provide the rest. Even though media channels including Fox News had called the results by November 5, Mr. Trump refused to make the traditional concession speech, insisting that the election had been rigged. Legal challenges were mounted by his supporters in many States. By end-November, the recounts had been completed and legal challenges disposed of. The election result remained unchanged. Attorney General William Barr, a Trump supporter, announced on December 1 that the Justice Department had not uncovered any significant fraud that could have affected the election result. On December 14, the Electoral College met in each of the State capitals to formalise Mr. Biden’s victory by casting 306 votes for Biden/Kamala Harris versus 232 for Trump/Mike Pence. The results were conveyed to Congress for certification, but Mr. Trump had still not given up. He continued to urge Vice-President Pence, who was to chair the Congress session on January 6, to use his authority to question the returns submitted from the swing States. Mr. Pence demurred, pointing out that he had no “unilateral authority” to overturn the electoral votes submitted.  Mr. Trump had been urging his supporters to protest in Washington, D.C. against the certification, sending out tweets, “Big protest in D.C. on January 6th. Be there, will be wild!” On that day, he sent them to Capitol, urging, “If you don’t fight like hell, you’re not going to have a country anymore”. Hours later, the mob had stormed the Capitol, disrupting the proceedings. The dedicated Capitol police force proved inadequate and the National Guard was called in. Five people died. After a day that will be remembered as one of the darkest days in U.S. history, Congress certified Mr. Biden’s victory clearing the way for him to be sworn in as the 46th U.S. President on January 20. Yet, the shock at the events and Mr. Trump’s role in inciting his supporters led to growing demands for him to step down. Mr. Pence was reluctant to invoke the 25th Amendment (it was designed to deal with a president suffering incapacitation) leading to the House passing an impeachment motion on January 13. The charges framed included “threatening the integrity of the democratic system, interfering with peaceful transition of power and imperilling a coequal branch of government”. While many Republicans held Mr. Trump responsible, they were reluctant to impeach him. Only 10 of them supported the motion that was carried by 232 votes against 197. The fate of the impeachment motion is uncertain in the Senate. Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell, though privately supportive of impeachment, has not indicated how he would vote. Given the requirement of a two-thirds majority for conviction and the Senate at 50-50, it is difficult to gauge if 17 Republican Senators will break ranks with Mr. Trump. In 2019, Mr. Trump was impeached by the House over his dealings with Ukraine but cleared by the Senate. For the Democrats, the impeachment is as much about Mr. Trump as it is about indicting Trumpism. For the Republican Party, however, it is a polarising moment. The question its leaders need to introspect is why they allowed Mr. Trump to take over the GOP. A recent poll suggests that 64% of Republican voters remain convinced that the election was stolen. The GOP’s challenge is how to reject Trumpism while retaining the Trump supporters. The brutal reality is that in 2016, Republicans held the House, the Senate and won the White House but in the last four years, they first lost the House and now have lost both the White House and their Senate majority. This is despite the record turnout. In the process, the country has been badly divided. Purging GOP of Trumpism will not be easy, especially if Mr. Trump does plan to run again in 2024. That is why there is talk of invoking the 14th Amendment provisions by which a simple majority in Congress can bar Mr. Trump from running for any federal office. Populism and social media Somewhat belatedly, Twitter and Facebook removed Mr. Trump’s accounts along with a number of other right-leaning platforms linked to QAnon. Apple and Google stopped carrying the right-wing chat group Parler app while Amazon declined to host its data on its servers. This has led to legitimate questions about free speech, the monopoly of social media platforms, the viability of their economic model and who should determine policy in the digital public domain. The European Union is accelerating consideration of new rules to guide content moderation policies of social media networks. In How to Lose A Country (2019), Turkish writer Ece Temelkuran writes about how a democracy descends into populism, majoritarianism and finally authoritarianism. The Opposition is delegitimised; the leader claims to represent the real people, who claim title to victimhood thereby aggressively claiming their dignity; and the elites become either irrelevant or, worse, instruments of oppression. Terms of political discourse shift, secular liberals become “sickular libtards”, facts are questioned, and an alt-reality takes shape firing up the believers. This risk is not new but social media is a tool that aids such manipulation. The U.S. is not the first democratic society to face this threat. Even as Mr. Biden tackles the challenges of COVID-19 and economic recovery, his real challenge will be rebuilding the traditions of democratic discourse aimed at enlarging the centrist consensus. With Ms. Harris casting the tie-breaker in the Senate, Democrats control Congress though taking recourse to this thin majority will only exacerbate divisions and mutual recriminations. That is the legacy of Trumpism that must be undone if U.S. democracy has to successfully graduate from its stress test. Rakesh Sood is a former diplomat and currently Distinguished Fellow at the Observer Research Foundation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-stress-test-for-american-democracy/article33613580.ece
20 January 2021||January 20 2021 00:00 IST,||India-Nepal relations in a new transition||As a unique characteristic, Nepal’s internal political fundamentals continue to shape its foreign policy choices. In the process, what gets lost is the scope of pursuing ‘enlighted self-interest’. In such a scenario, any inbound or outbound delegation is seen from a different prism, and anything discussed or not equally gives ample space to interpretation and misinterpretation. The year 2020 marked China’s unprecedented aggression, with an aim to counter India’s conventional edge in Nepal and South Asia at large. Accordingly, China’s geo-strategic, economic and infrastructural drives were made tempting to a precarious Nepal with its fragile democracy and the adulterated ideological standing of the ruling Communist Party of Nepal (CPN). The CPN is a divided house, and publicly, this was known when Nepal’s Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli dissolved the House of Representatives in late December 2020. The move was termed ‘unconstitutional’ by the experts and the country’s Supreme Court is hearing writ petitions against Mr. Oli. In fact, the Court has called for ‘serious constitutional interpretation’. This merits to be seen even as a moral denial of the Oli government’s stature as a ‘caretaker government’. Amidst the domestic political chaos, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Nepal, Pradeep Kumar Gyawali ( picture ), visited New Delhi for the sixth meeting of the India-Nepal Joint Commission on January 15, 2021(https://bit.ly/3bTMniG), that was co-chaired by the External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar. Business as usual The keenly awaited meeting proved to be more focused on confidence-building measures such as exchanges of courteous remarks on significant and concrete progress made since the last meeting of the Joint Commission in taking forward several bilateral initiatives, and the close cooperation between the two sides in combating the COVID-19 pandemic. An early provision of vaccines to Nepal was positively considered by India. On the development partnership front, the expansion of the Motihari-Amlekhganj petroleum products pipeline to Chitwan and the establishment of a new pipeline on the eastern side connecting Siliguri to Jhapa in Nepal formed a part of the discussions. For the upgraded first passenger railway line between India and Nepal from Jaynagar to Kurtha via Janakpur, the elusive operating procedures for commencement of train services have been discussed. Other “cross-border rail connectivity projects, including a possible Raxaul-Kathmandu broad gauge railway line”, were also discussed. The Joint Commission laid emphasis on the need for facilitating cross-border movement of people and goods, thus giving the sub-regional cooperation, its actual due. The recently inaugurated Integrated Check Posts (ICPs) at Birgunj and Biratnagar have helped in the seamless movement of people and trade between the two countries. The construction of a third integrated check post at Nepalgunj has already commenced, while the new integrated check post at Bhairahwa would begin shortly. Since Nepal relies on India’s seaports in a big way for trading, and goods are transported by road, the integrated check posts are expected to ease trade and transit. The joint hydropower projects, including the proposed Pancheshwar Multipurpose Project, should get positive momentum following this round of meeting. India’s support to two more cultural heritage projects in Nepal, namely, the Pashupatinath Riverfront Development and the Bhandarkhal Garden Restoration in Patan Durbar is significant in the times when China is exploring all avenues to disrupt Nepal’s natural choice in policy-making. Moving away from the recent hiatus, Nepal expressed support for India’s permanent membership of an expanded UN Security Council (UNSC) to reflect the changed balance of power. The next meeting of the Joint Commission in Nepal should be crucial in giving a new direction to the bilateral ties, keeping a balance between change and continuity. Stirrings for change Notwithstanding the Nepali side’s demand to include the boundary in the Joint Commission Meeting, India made it clear to find a fresh mechanism to resolve any such crucial long-pending issue. Apparently, this was not something surprising, however, as Kathmandu had seen certain signals about this. The growing disenchantment among the Nepali masses over the increased centralisation of power, failure of the Provincial System in addressing the developmental issues, misuse of Presidential authority by Nepal’s President Bidya Devi Bhandari, and unprecedented corruption provide ample room for a re-setting of Nepal’s democracy. Worryingly, a large section of the people want the ‘cultural Monarchy’ back to substitute the Presidential system and a re-establishment of certain traditional ways to governance. While the unusual developments are taking place in Nepal, there are many who still think that India is comfortable with some changes as its Nepal policy is heading very clearly towards deeper engagement with all sections. The timing of the high-profile visit was strategically important as in the last few months, as Mr. Oli had categorically placed conditions before engaging with India at the top decision-making level. With a possibility of surviving the self-created political stalemate feeble, Mr. Oli is believed to be receptive towards unexpected changes. This is not something unfounded as one of the key centres of the pro-monarchy agitation is his constituency in eastern Nepal, Jhapa. In the time of transition, his outreach to India is being seen in such contexts. A great survivor so far, he is believed to be open to gaining a new ground of support from different quarters including India. His China connection has been artificial and failed him at times, and he knows this better than anyone else. It is equally true that he has failed China too at times; by breaking even the cosmetic ‘Communist unity’ in Nepal, he has finally made China’s hyper-interventionism a wasted effort. Democracy in Nepal is achieved, not ascribed, and Nepal and its people deserve a better deal than what has been offered by the Oli-Bhandari duo. Like many other democracies across the world, Nepal’s democracy has been affected with an extreme rise in majoritarian sentiments. Nepal cannot afford to enter in another round of political instability, and those who have commanding authority to spearhead India-Nepal bilateral relations must give a humane consideration to it. At the crossroads, Nepal needs action and to come to term with realities. Atul K. Thakur is a policy professional and columnist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/india-nepal-relations-in-a-new-transition/article33613573.ece
20 January 2021||January 20 2021 00:00 IST,||The threat of deepfakes||The protesters who created chaos in Capitol Hill on January 6 believe that the 2020 U.S. election was stolen by the Democrats. This is largely due to misinformation and disinformation of which deepfakes are a part. Deepfakes — synthetic media, meaning media (including images, audio and video) that are either manipulated or wholly generated by Artificial Intelligence — even have the power to threaten the electoral outcome of the world’s oldest democracy. Sevreal social media platforms blocked President Donald Trump’s accounts after the attack. Fabricating content The cyberworld has been facing the challenge of deepfakes for a while now. AI is used for fabricating audios, videos and texts to show real people saying and doing things they never did, or creating new images and videos. These are done so convincingly that it is hard to detect what is fake and what is real. Detection can often be done only by AI-generated tools. Several books caution us against the threats of AI-generated content comprising non-existent personalities, synthetic datasets, unreal activities of real people, and content manipulation. Deepfakes can target anyone, anywhere. They are used to tarnish reputations, create mistrust, question facts, and spread propaganda. In October 2020, the U.S. Senate summoned Facebook’s Mark Zuckerberg, Twitter’s Jack Dorsey and Google’s Sundar Pichai to find out what they are doing to tackle online misinformation, disinformation and fabricated content. Senators said they were worried about both censorship and the spread of misinformation. According to Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act of 1996, a law which protects freedom of expression and innovation on the Internet, “No provider or user of an interactive computer service shall be treated as the publisher or speaker of any information provided by another information content provider.” This means that the companies are not responsible for the posts on their platforms. The chief executives said they need the law to moderate content, but industry watchers and some politicians feel that the law is outdated and needs to be revisited.   India also faces the same problem. So far, it has not enacted any specific legislation to deal with deepfakes, though there are some provisions in the Indian Penal Code that criminalise certain forms of online/social media content manipulation. The Information Technology Act, 2000 covers certain cybercrimes. But this law and the Information Technology Intermediary Guidelines (Amendment) Rules, 2018 are inadequate to deal with content manipulation on digital platforms. (The guidelines stipulate that due diligence must be observed by the intermediate companies for removal of illegal content.) In 2018, the government proposed rules to curtail the misuse of social networks. Social media companies voluntarily agreed to take action to prevent violations during the 2019 general election. The Election Commission issued instructions on social media use during election campaigns. But reports show that social media platforms like WhatsApp were used as “vehicles for misinformation and propaganda” by major political parties during the election. New tools This is worrying. Existing laws are clearly inadequate to safeguard individuals and entities against deepfakes. Only AI-generated tools can be effective in detection. As innovation in deepfakes gets better, AI-based automated tools must be invented accordingly. Blockchains are robust against many security threats and can be used to digitally sign and affirm the validity of a video or document. Educating media users about the capabilities of AI algorithms could help. In July 2020, the University of Washington and Microsoft convened a workshop with experts to discuss how to prevent deepfake technology from adversely affecting the 2020 U.S. presidential election. The workshop identified six themes: a) deepfakes must be contextualised within the broader framework of malicious manipulated media, computational propaganda and disinformation campaigns; b) deepfakes cause multidimensional issues which require a collaborative, multi-stakeholder response that require experts in every sector to find solutions; c) detecting deepfakes is hard; d) journalists need tools to scrutinise images, video and audio recordings for which they need training and resources; e) policymakers must understand how deepfakes can threaten polity, society, economy, culture, individuals and communities; and f) the idea that the mere existence of deepfakes causes enough distrust that any true evidence can be dismissed as fake is a major concern that needs to be addressed. In today’s world, disinformation comes in varied forms, so no single technology can resolve the problem. As deepfakes evolve, AI-backed technological tools to detect and prevent them must also evolve. K. P. Shashidharan is a former director-general in the office of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-threat-of-deepfakes/article33613577.ece
20 January 2021||January 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Cooking up a storm||About a month after actor-politician Kamal Haasan’s party manifesto said Tamil Nadu should recognise housework as labour and pay homemakers, the Malayalam film, The Great Indian Kitchen , has hit our screens. Given the brisk debate the manifesto stirred, the film couldn’t have been timed better — by listing in excruciating, exquisite minutiae everything a woman does at home, it seems to prove the case for payment many times over. Yet, that is hardly its intention. Its canvas is much larger, more elemental. It is arguably the most starkly ‘feminist’ Indian film of recent times, making its point with deadly stillness and accuracy. Labour of love The extent to which director Jeo Baby has internalised and mapped the average woman’s unending list of tasks is remarkable. He films it with implacable veracity, establishing the repetitive drudgery of housework with a cinematic artistry that rivals the assembly line of Charlie Chaplin’s Modern Times . The film begins cheerfully, as the unnamed protagonist (played superbly by Nimisha Sajayan) embarks on married life. The countless dishes emerging from the kitchen are an orchestration of happy labour, the labour of love, set to the sounds of cutting, grinding, stirring, frying. Until slowly, the bride realises that she is trapped in an unacknowledged, unrewarding and unshared cycle of Sisyphean toil. The recurrent filming of the actions of cooking, serving, washing, wiping becomes a relentless, manic beat to which the woman must dance till she drops. The paterfamilias of this family must be handed his toothbrush each morning. His son has inherited the same privileges. There is no violence — both men reinforce the patriarchy gently, confidently, invoking ‘family’ values. Harking back to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s description of sanitation work as “an experience in spirituality,” the daughter-in-law is told that household work is more valuable than a bureaucrat’s. But, as with sanitation work, the privileged don’t actually do it. And its value remains uncalculated and unpaid. From the kitchen, the film strides into the bedroom, bathroom, manure pit and temple, establishing how the politics of each are closely interlinked and, in turn, linked to the ideas of purity and pollution, the sacred and profane. When the kitchen counter is replaced by the marital bed, the hierarchies of labour are replaced by the hierarchies of desire — the female body must accommodate desire but can’t express it. Thence, to the hierarchy of purity. From the filthy dining table after the men eat to their dirty laundry, rooms and plates, everything is cleaned by the woman. But, as with the Dalit body mandated to clean people’s waste, the cleaning female body is the one labelled ‘impure’ when it bleeds. So impure that it pollutes simply by being of an age when it menstruates. So impure that its touch pollutes temple, tulsi plant, the men preparing for the pilgrimage to Sabarimala. This is the politics of exclusion, the pivot upon which society revolves, which is being extended today in newer, more horrific ways. Shattering myths The film’s clogged kitchen sink serves as a metaphor for the privileged, Brahminical, patriarchal male, who is cleaned, liberated, and nourished by other’s toiling hands but claims an innate purity and actualisation. It’s the woman who struggles with the clogged sink, and it’s the man who says mockingly, “You seem obsessed with waste”. At the end, the woman realises exactly what she must do with waste — throw it back to where it came from. It’s an action of controlled violence, anger and contempt, calculated to shatter the myths of purity, virility and male honour that continue to be used to defend many kinds of dehumanisation. As in the film, we are still far from any universal solution. Mostly because hegemony is seldom ceded away. Of course, diverse movements, like the one for Sabarimala temple entry or the Una march, try to chip away at its foundations, but equally, as the film hints, it’s the small, individual insurrections that might provide the tipping point. vaishna.r@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/cooking-up-a-storm/article33613581.ece
20 January 2021||January 20 2021 00:00 IST,||In bad faith||The NIA’s decision to summon people associated with the ongoing farmers agitation as ‘witnesses’ in a sedition case is definitely out of the ordinary, even if not entirely surprising. Punjabi actor Deep Sidhu and farmers’ leader Baldev Singh Sirsa are among 40 people it has summoned in connection with a fresh case registered on December 15, 2020 against Sikhs for Justice, a U.S.-based organisation that is banned by India. Others summoned include functionaries of Khalsa Aid, a Sikh charity that provided material support to agitating farmers, and those who organised a community kitchen for them. The insinuation of the NIA in the very act of summoning them as ‘witnesses’ follows statements by BJP leaders that linked the agitation to Khalistani separatism. Law officers of the government told the Supreme Court last week that anti-national forces that had infiltrated the protests were misleading the farmers. This portrayal of critics of a government policy as either misled and ignorant or anti-national actors forecloses all possibility of any honest dialogue with them. That may not be an unintended outcome for a government that has never been enthusiastic about consultative processes. In this instance, the government and the Court proffer dialogue with protesters while agencies employ intimidatory measures against them. Efforts to undermine the legitimacy of political actors opposed to the government have acquired a predictable pattern. Its critics are routinely labelled anti-national by social media trolls and functionaries of the ruling BJP. Investigations follow, often by central agencies, the NIA and the Enforcement Directorate. The state responses to agitators in Kashmir, Bhima Koregaon and during the protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act have been heavy-handed. That, probably, is the message that the government wants to convey to all dissenters, current and prospective: it will not feel restrained by principles of federalism or democratic norms in putting down protests. The NIA’s move cannot be seen delinked from this broader context. Sikhs abroad are a vibrant segment of the diaspora, having links with the motherland, including through donations to religious and charity activities. Other diaspora groups also support activities, including in the fields of education and health. The Narendra Modi government has a policy of harnessing the strength of Indian diaspora everywhere for national progress. There has to be a high threshold to consider any such community activity as anti-national and no consideration of religion must influence that assessment. The NIA’s instant move has been condemned as intimidation, among others, by the Akali Dal, until recently a BJP ally. Strong-arm tactics may be unavoidable when there is an immediate threat of violence. But replacing political dialogue with state intimidation is never strategically prudent. The government must talk to the farmers in good faith.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/in-bad-faith/article33613565.ece
20 January 2021||January 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Top of the heap||On a magical Tuesday, India’s cricketing history gained a luminous chapter even as the shadows lengthened at Brisbane’s Gabba. When Rishabh Pant’s winning four aptly concluded a tense pursuit of 328 on a nerve-wracking fifth day of the fourth Test, Ajinkya Rahane’s men seized the series at 2-1 to retain the Border-Gavaskar Trophy. As far as role-reversals go, this was stunning in its execution and jaw-dropping in its impact. It was a verdict that seemed improbable after India’s 36, its lowest ever Test score, during the debilitating loss in the first game at Adelaide. But India progressed despite losing personnel to injuries or personal reasons. Skipper Virat Kohli took paternity leave while other regulars had to be benched following a spate of injuries. Yet, Rahane’s men persevered, right from the established Cheteshwar Pujara and R. Ashwin to the latest rookies in the squad — Shubman Gill and Washington Sundar. At various points, the experienced professional and the fresh debutant joined forces and nourished miraculous dreams. The turn-around at Melbourne was followed by the stone-walling at Sydney. Finally, in a long tour that commenced on November 12, last year, a second-wind was found in the climax. India did not have any of its frontline bowlers at Brisbane but Mohammed Siraj astutely helmed the attack and Tim Paine’s men were defeated by three wickets. Winning a Test series against Australia in its backyard is considered as cricket’s highest benchmark for excellence. This yardstick has lasted for two decades ever since the previous dominant outfit, the West Indies, suffered a decline. Seen in that context, what India has achieved over the course of two tours — in 2018-19 and the just concluded 2020-21 face-off — is nothing short of stupendous. Twice, India has defeated Australia by identical margins (2-1). However, the latest act will rank right up in an all-time list of great Test series ever since the sport’s longest format commenced at Melbourne in 1877. When India last toured Australia, the host was blighted by the ball-tampering scandal and Steve Smith and David Warner were rightly put to pasture. Cut to the present, the visitor was up against a full-strength home unit. These are fraught times due to the pandemic and resultant bio-bubble angst, and even stepping out for a coffee is deemed an offence. To make it worse, India was never at its optimum potential and with every passing day, its list of the walking-wounded grew. There were even wry jokes about how coach Ravi Shastri may be forced to turn out considering his diminishing resources. But India thrived and just like it did at Eden Gardens in 2001, adversity became its springboard for success against an old adversary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/top-of-the-heap/article33613566.ece
20 January 2021||January 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Importing gold||A Chinese merchant of Penang appears to have been rather hard hit by the regulations against the importation of gold. Going to China to collect monies due he arranged with his agent in Hong Kong to remit the amount in care of Chinchew of S.S. “Hongmoh” to Amoy where he intended to join the vessel and return to Penang. The amount was, as usual it is said, remitted in gold and amounted to 14,600 British sovereigns and 6,150 United States 20 dollar pieces. The merchant missed the steamer at Amoy; the Chinchew on arrival at Penang could not, in his absence, make any arrangement to handover the gold and kept it hidden in the vessel itself. The Indian customs officers discovered the thing and confiscated it. The merchant appears to have appealed to the Government of Burma and India for restitution in consideration of these peculiar accidents but for which the gold would not have come concealed to the Indian shore. The loss of this large amount, he says, would ruin him and his business; for this circumstance as well as for the absence of proved criminal intention this sufferer’s case would seem to be one in which the law might have been tempered with mercy, especially as the object of the law was not confiscation for its own sake.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/importing-gold/article33613574.ece
20 January 2021||January 20 2021 00:00 IST,||A tool to achieve united India||Mrs. Indira Gandhi said here [Eluru] to-day [January 19] that her goal was to build a united and strong India and socialism was merely a tool to achieve that aim. Socialism was not an aim by itself. Addressing a public meeting here, Mrs. Gandhi said that she wanted to improve not merely the people’s standard of living but also the standards of public life and thinking. Idealism should inspire their lives, she said. Mrs. Gandhi characterised as absolutely false the allegation that her policies were influenced by the ideology of any party. “Neither by words nor in action have we deviated a bit from the accepted policies of the undivided Congress.” She described as misleading propaganda the charge that her policies flowed from a desire to stick to power. Mrs. Gandhi said there could be no real democracy without socialism and secularism. The young should take upon themselves the task of building a strong and prosperous India. They should be committed to programmes and not personalities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-tool-to-achieve-united-india/article33613575.ece
20 January 2021||MUMBAI,||Sensex jumps 1.7% amid stimulus hopes||Reversing two days of heavy losses, the Sensex posted its biggest jump in almost four months on Tuesday as investors returned to buying mode amid expectations of fresh stimulus in the U.S. and other economies. A recovering rupee and persistent foreign capital inflows further buoyed sentiment, traders said. The 30-share S&P BSE Sensex soared 834.02 points, or 1.72%, to close at 49,398.29. It was its biggest single-day gain since September 25, 2020, when it had climbed 835 points. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rallied 239.85 points, or 1.68%, to finish at 14,521.15. Bajaj Finserv was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, jumping 6.77%, followed by Bajaj Finance, HDFC, L&T, ICICI Bank, Sun Pharma and NTPC. HDFC twins, Reliance Industries and ICICI Bank accounted for almost half of the benchmark’s gains. Only three Sensex components closed in the red — Tech Mahindra, ITC and M&M, shedding up to 0.54%. Global equities were on an upswing after U.S. President-elect Joe Biden’s nominee for Treasury Secretary, former Federal Reserve chair Janet Yellen batted for more measures to fight the recession and avoid an even worse downturn. Yellen to seek more aid In testimony prepared for her confirmation hearing on Tuesday before the Senate Finance Committee, Ms. Yellen said more aid is needed to get COVID-19 vaccines distributed and help families struggling with job losses stay fed and housed. “Bulls took control after two days of massive sell-off, tracking positive cues from Asian markets and in expectation of a bigger U.S. stimulus to keep the liquidity alive. Buying was seen across sectors with realty and PSU banks outshining,” said Vinod Nair, Head of Research at Geojit Financial Services. “The current market will get a further boost by foreign inflow if additional U.S. stimulus kicks in. However, recent volatility in the market has increased due to concerns over high valuations and bond yields, and investors should be watchful.” Sectoral indices rally All sectoral indices ended with gains. BSE realty, metal, power, capital goods, industrials and finance indices rallied up to 4.04%. Broader BSE midcap and smallcap indices jumped up to 2.31%. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended with significant gains, while Shanghai was in the red. The rupee gained 11 paise to settle at 73.17 against the U.S. dollar. Foreign institutional investors purchased shares worth a net Rs. 650.60 crore on Monday, according to provisional exchange data.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sensex-jumps-17-amid-stimulus-hopes/article33613561.ece
20 January 2021||Bengaluru,||‘Native 5G model must to aid education, agri, healthcare’||India’s appetite for 5G is going to be overpowering and therefore businesses must play a proactive role in creating a ‘ desi 5G model’ that is inclusive and supportive of healthcare, education and farming, urged Ravi Shankar Prasad, Union Minister for Communications, Electronics & Information Technology and Law & Justice. He said India had missed opportunities around 2G and 3G but wouldn’t want to miss out on 5G. Therefore, the country has developed an Indian test bed involving the IITs so that all innovative aspects of 5G could be explored. “Indian players must be proactive in creating an inclusive Indian 5G model as the country’s appetite for mobile technology is going to be so huge,” he said while speaking at the India Digital Summit organised by the Internet and Mobile Association of India on Tuesday. On the response to the Centre’s Production-Linked Incentive Scheme, he said, “All the top companies have applied and they have committed to making mobile phones and equipment worth Rs. 10 lakh crore in the country in the next 5 years out of which Rs. 7 lakh crore will be meant for exports,” he added.  “We have become the second-biggest mobile manufacturer in the world, and it is my wish to make India number one... We must also become a lead player in laptops, machine-to-machine equipment, tablets and IoT devices. We can easily create that ecosystem,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/native-5g-model-must-to-aid-education-agri-healthcare/article33613550.ece
20 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC upholds threshold for filing insolvency plea against realty developers||The Supreme Court on Tuesday upheld amendments in the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code which prescribe that at least 100 allottees from the same real estate project should support the initiation of corporate insolvency resolution process in the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) against their property developer. The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Act of 2020 had introduced a threshold that required a minimum of 100 allottees, or 10% of the total allottees of a project, whichever was less, to jointly apply for corporate insolvency resolution in the NCLT. The allottees should be from the same real estate project. Aggrieved allottees drawn from different projects of the same developer cannot form the 100. A third amendment had given a 30-day deadline for existing applicants to find the requisite number of supporters to meet the threshold of 100, else their plea pending in the tribunal even before the commencement of the 2020 Act would be deemed as withdrawn. Under the erstwhile regime, even a single allottee could initiate the corporate insolvency resolution process against his property developer. There was no need to garner support from other allottees. A three-judge Bench led by Justice Rohinton F. Nariman found none of the amendments vague or arbitrary. The court agreed with the legislature that having a single allottee approach the tribunal would be risky, considering that a corporate insolvency resolution may also entail a complete overhaul or replacement of the developer’s company management. Such an initiative by a lone allottee would derail the plans of other allottees, who still had faith in the existing developer or were pursuing other legal remedies.  ‘Against others’ interest’ “There can be hundreds or even thousands of allottees in a project. If a single allottee, as a financial creditor, is allowed to move an application, the interests of all the other allottees may be put in peril... Other allottees may have a different take of the whole scenario. Some of them may approach the Authority under the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act of 2016. Others may, instead, resort to the Consumer Protection Act. The remedy of a civil suit is, no doubt, not ruled out,” Justice K.M. Joseph, who authored the judgment for the Bench, reasoned. The court said allottees of a real estate project are a heterogenous group. A majority of them may want to give more time to the developer to complete the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sc-upholds-threshold-for-filing-insolvency-plea-against-realty-developers/article33613555.ece
20 January 2021||New delhi,||‘India must remain a part of global economy, open’||India must remain an integral part of the global economy if it has to grow at 9-10% over the next three decades, NITI Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant said. Speaking at the 15th India Digital Summit, he said India needs to become a major global exporting nation. Without it, it will not be possible to become richer and create wealth for its people over the next three decades. “If India has to grow at 9-10% over a three-decade period, it must be open, it must be an integral part of the global economy. It must be an integral part of the global supply chain,” he said. Mr. Kant further pointed out the government’s Aatmanirbhar Bharat initiative is not about protectionism, it is about making India part of the global supply chain. According to the NITI Aayog CEO, post-COVID-19 pandemic, only those countries will grow who will use digital ecosystem. “Post-pandemic, global supply chain will be restructured, and you can be only competitive if you can use the power of technology.” On the production-linked incentive (PLI) plan, Mr. Kant said the scheme in electronics and mobile manufacturing has received very good response.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/india-must-remain-a-part-of-global-economy-open/article33613559.ece
20 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Online gaming sector bats for one regulator||The online gaming industry has asked the government think tank NITI Aayog to set up a single, self-regulatory body to standardise regulations governing the entire online skill gaming industry, instead of just fantasy sports. The recommendation follows a draft report wherein the NITI Aayog has suggested the setting up a single, self-regulatory body for fantasy sports. “The size of India’s online skill gaming industry is estimated at about Rs. 5,250 crore, according to KPMG,” said Sameer Barde, CEO, The Online Rummy Federation. “Fantasy sports is a part of the overall skill gaming industry.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/online-gaming-sector-bats-for-one-regulator/article33613548.ece
20 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Promoters sell 1% in Wipro for Rs. 9,156 cr.||Wipro promoter Azim Premji and promoter companies tendered shares worth Rs. 9,156 crore during a buy-back programme, said the IT firm in a filing. Post the buyback, the promoters hold 73.04% stake in the firm, a reduction of almost 1% from the 74% held earlier. The balance 26.96% stake is held by foreign investors, financial institutions and others. Wipro had announced a buy-back of up to 23.75 crore fully paid-up equity shares via tender process. The information technology major said the shares were bought back at a price of Rs. 400 apiece. The total amount utilised for the buy-back programme, held between December 29 and January 11, was Rs. 9,500 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/promoters-sell-1-in-wipro-for-rs-9156-cr/article33613556.ece
20 January 2021||New Delhi,||Petrol crosses Rs. 85 for first time in Delhi||Petrol price on Tuesday breached the Rs. 85-a-litre mark in the national capital, while diesel neared a record high after fuel rates were raised for the second consecutive day. Petrol and diesel prices were increased by 25 paise per litre each, according to a price notification from oil marketing companies. This took the petrol price in Delhi to Rs. 85.20 per litre and to Rs. 91.80 in Mumbai. Diesel rate climbed to Rs. 75.38 a litre in the national capital and to an all-time high of Rs. 82.13 in Mumbai, the price data showed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/petrol-crosses-rs-85-for-first-time-in-delhi/article33613557.ece
20 January 2021||Mumbai,||SBI MF introduces retirement benefit fund||SBI Mutual Fund has unveiled SBI Retirement Benefit Fund offering four plans across risk profiles. The fund’s features include life cover subject to a maximum of Rs. 50 lakh per investor, option of two investment facilities of auto transfer to optimise retirement corpus and quarterly systematic withdrawal. The objective of the scheme is to provide a comprehensive retirement saving solution, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sbi-mf-introduces-retirement-benefit-fund/article33613551.ece
20 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Cognizant to acquire Magenic Technologies in Minneapolis||Cognizant entered into an agreement to acquire Magenic Technologies, Inc., a privately-held custom software development services company headquartered in Minneapolis, Minnesota. The acquisition will expand Cognizant’s software product engineering footprint, adding 475 employees in the U.S. across seven locations and more than 350 employees in Manila, Philippines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cognizant-to-acquire-magenic-technologies-in-minneapolis/article33613553.ece
20 January 2021||Brisbane,||Fearless New India storms the Gabba bastion, claims epic series||India pulled off a record run-chase in a thrilling final session to hand Australia its first defeat at Brisbane’s Gabba ground since 1988 and clinch the four-Test series 2-1 on Tuesday. Wicketkeeper Rishabh Pant starred with a swashbuckling 89 not out as the injury-depleted visitors overhauled the 328-run target with three overs to go, winning by three wickets. India’s 329 for seven smashed the 69-year-old record for the biggest run-chase at the ground, set by Australia, which scored 236 for seven to beat the West Indies in 1951. Stunning turnaround The Border-Gavaskar series win is a stunning turnaround after India was bowled out for its lowest Test score of 36 to lose the first Test in Adelaide. Man-of-the-match Pant blasted his 89 from 138 balls with nine fours and a six. His innings followed an equally impressive knock from 21-year-old Shubman Gill, who made 91 at the top of the order earlier in the day. Cheteshwar Pujara’s 56 was also vital, the gritty number three hit 10 times by Australia’s quicks, taking blows to the fingers, arm, ribs and head as he was subjected to a searching examination by Pat Cummins and Josh Hazlewood. Despite Australia’s fearsome record at the Gabba, the Indian batsmen showed no fear and never looked interested in playing for a draw, even after losing the wickets of Pujara and Mayank Agarwal after tea. Outrageous shots Pant took advantage of any loose ball, but also played some outrageous strokes, showing the influence of T20 cricket. India started the day on four for none after bowling Australia out for 294 late on the fourth day. Australia raised hopes of a series-clinching win after Rohit Sharma edged Cummins to wicketkeeper Paine. After just one wicket in the first session, Australia could only manage two after lunch, with Gill falling for his superb 91 (146b, 8x4, 2x6) and skipper Rahane a quickfire 24. Gill was magnificent on a fifth-day wicket, smashing the Australian bowlers to all corners. With Pujara dropping anchor at one end, Rahane raced to 24 from just 22 balls before he edged Cummins to Paine to leave India 167 for three. India looked in control through the final session and despite losing three wickets in the last hour, it got home with three overs to spare when Pant hit the winning four off Hazlewood.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/fearless-new-india-storms-the-gabba-bastion-claims-epic-series/article33613651.ece
20 January 2021||BENGALURU,||Mohith, Supriya excel||Mohith N. Raj set a new meet record in the under-20 boys’ discus event with a 48.06m effort, going past Sheetal Kumar's mark of 46.72m set 13 years ago, on day two of the Karnataka State junior athletics championship in Moodbidri on Tuesday. In girls’ under-20 high jump, S.B. Supriya leaped into the record books with a jump of 1.75m, bettering the 1.74m shared by Sahana Kumari, Kavya Muthanna and Abinaya S.Shetty.  The results: Boys: U-20: 400m: 1. Vinayak Nagaraj Sottannanavar (Dharwad) 48.3, 2. Rince Joseph (Alva's) 48.6, 3. M.C. Milan (Alva's) 49.2; 1500m: 1. H.M. Satisha (Mysore) 04:07.1s, 2. Manikanth ChandraShekhar Madiwalar (Dharwad) 04:16.1, 3. Sangamesh A. Mali (Bagalkot) 04:16.9; High jump: 1. P. Yashas (Shimoga) 1.98m, 2. Rathod Lokesh Damu (Mysore) 1.90, 3. Varun Surendra Vernekar (Mysore) 1.90; Hammer: 1. Muttappa (Alva's) 58.86m, 2. R.T. Rahul (Alva's) 56.89, 3. S.M. Sudeep (Alva's) 53.10; Discus: 1. Mohith N.Raj (Mysore) 48.06m (NMR; OR: Sheetal Kumar, 46.72, 2008), 2. Nagendra Annappa Naik (Alva's) 47.41 (BMR), 3. Prajwal M.Shetty (Udupi) 43.17m; 110m hurdles: 1. Advith D. Shetty (DK) 14.4s, 2. Sushanth (Udupi) 14.52, 2. Dishanth Naik (Alva's) 14.55.   U-18: 400m: 1. J. Madhan (Youngsters Bengaluru) 50.8s, 2. Amogh A.Gowda (Fusion Bangalore), 50.9, 3. Reuben Jacob Mathews (Arjun Bangalore) 52.6; 1500m: 1. Tushar Bhekane (Belgaum) 04:12.2s, 2. N. Bharath (Mysore) 04:16.7, 3. N. Darshan (Tumkur) 04:17.4; Long jump: 1. K. U. Madhusudhan (Alva's) 6.57m, 2. Zarkhan Sarwar (Belgaum) 6.43, 3. Mahammed Kaife Sheikh (Alva's) 6.42; Shot put: 1. B.M. Mourya Ganapathy (Mysore) 17.81m (NMR; OR: Sairaj, 16.55, 2012), 2. Abhinandan S.Nayak (DK) 14.55, 3. Sujal Revankar (UK) 13.45; Hammer: 1. Sachin (Koppal) 54.49m, 2. M. Parashuram (Alva's) 50.60, 3. Sagardeep Doddmani (Alva's) 47.58; 10km walk: 1. Sanju Gangappa Kendri (Alva's) 54:21.7s, 2. Sushanth (Mysore) 01:11.4, 3. Gagan (Chikkaballapur) 01:11.5; 110m hurdles: 1. M. Krishik (Tumkur) 14.3s, 2. Sandeepa (UK) 15.1, 3. Neel R.Kunder (DK) 15.2.   U-16: 300m: 1. Ayush R.Devadiga (DK) 36.9s, 2. N. Druva (Udupi) 37.6, 3. Kiran Uddappa Sannakkinavar (Alva's) 38.0; 2000m: 1. S. Veda Varun (Mysore) 06:22.4s, 2. M. Nithish Kumar (Shimoga) 06:26.1, 3. Parashuram Muthappa Uppar (Alva's) 06:28.3; Shot put: 1. Ganesh H. Wadiyar (Alva's) 15.68m (NMR; OR: Nagendra Naik, 14.55, 2017), 2. Pratham Bangera (DK) 14.54, 3. A. Sushanth (Udupi) 13.61; Javelin: 1. Omkar (Udupi) 46.56m, 2. Sourabha S. Patil (Alva's) 43.84, 3. Kuladeep Kumar (DK) 43.05; 80m hurdles: 1. Mohammed Adhil (Alva's) 11.4s, 2. Ankith Jogi (Udupi) 11.8, 3. Bhushan Patil (Belgaum) 11.86.   U-14: 600m: 1. A.P. Pushya (Mysore) 01:29.3s, 2. Shivanand K.Pujeri (Alva's) 01:29.4, 3. Sunil Mahantesh Naykodi (Alva's) 01:33.6.   Girls: U-20: 1500m: 1. P. Chaithra (Alva's) 05:03.7s, 2. Shruti 05:03.8, 3. C.M. Rashi 05:18.7; 3000m: 1. Malashree Mudukappa Belagali 11:04.5s, 2. C.M. Rashi 11:23.8, 3. Harshitha 12:11.5; Triple jump: M.S. Ankitha 11.68m, 2. P. Rohitha Chowdry 11.40, 3. Pallavi Patil 10.71; High jump: 1. S.B. Supriya 1.75m (NMR; OR: 1.74, Sahana Kumari (2000), Kavya Muthanna (2007), Abinaya S.Shetty (2018), 2. Flarvisha Velisha Monteiro 1.55, 3. Pallavi Patil 1.50m; Hammer: 1. Veeksha 40.25m, 2. Vaishali 36.21, 3. Pragya 36.20; Pole vault: 1. Preethi 2.60m, 2. Bhavitha U.Shetty 2.50m; 100m hurdles: 1. Evangeline Sharon Bhuvan 15.7s, 2. K.K. Chitra Das 16.1, 3. R. Sindhu 16.3; 400m hurdles: 1. Jyothika 57.8s, 2. E.B. Arpitha 59.5, 3. Prajna 59.7.   U-18: 400m: 1. Priya Mohan 56.7s, 2. Deepashree 01:00.2, 3. Sanjana Anand Mallapur 01:03.7; 1500m: 1. Rekha Basappa Piroji 05:03.7s, 2. Priyanka 05:05.1, 3. Pratheeksha 05:37.5; 3000m: 1. Priyanka Gopi 11:48.7s, 2. Shubangi 12:03.4, 3. Anjali Kallappa Sharavi 12:04.0; 5000m: P. Gouthami 31:55.7s, 2. Tina Wankhade 33.29.8, 3. Mary Arul Priya 45:46.5; Long jump: 1. Yashmin N.Shekh 5.43m, 2. Aishwarya Nesarkar 5.29, 3. R.P. Aishwarya 5.12; Hammer: 1. Keerthi 46.57m (NMR; OR: Punyashree S.Rai, 39.87, 2012); 2. Nishel Delphina D Souza 41.53 (BMR), 3. B. Meghana 35.7; Pole vault: 1. Vibha Srinivasa 2.70m, 2. Ananya N.Gowda 2.60, 3. S. Ranjitha 2.30; 100m hurdles: 1. Rithika 16.7, 2. Deekshitha Ramakrishna Gowda 16.9, 3. M.S. Chaithanya 17.6.   U-16: 2000m: 1. Sharanya Vijayaraghavan 07:18.0, 2. Roopashree 07:21.1, 3. Spandana 07:23.7; Shot put: 1. A. Pranjali 11.15m, 2. S. Manasa, 11.02, 3. S.K. Reya 10.74; Javelin: 1. Jeevitha 30.45m, 2. S. Varashitha 15.41m; 80m hurdles: B. Unnathi Aiyappa (Fusion Athletica) 11.9, 2. Shreya Arbi 12.5, 3. Apoorva Naik 12.6; 300m hurdles: 1. B. Unnathi Aiyappa 41.3, 2. Vaibhavi Budruk 43.3, 3. H.S. Harshitha 44.0.   U-14: 600m: 1. Arnika Varsha 01:45.1s, 2. Reethu Shree 01:45.3, 3. Swara Shinde 01:49.0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mohith-supriya-excel/article33613939.ece
20 January 2021||Chennai,||Washington all of talent and composure||Washington Sundar not just has the sense of timing but knows when to time his performances. He has the languid left-hander’s elegance where he picks the length early and plays the ball late. His footwork complements his balance. Knife edge The match was on a knife edge when the debutant joined the heroic Rishabh Pant. At stake was India’s greatest Test moment and breaking through the wall at the ’Gabba, Australia’s bastion for 32 years. ’Gabba was a cauldron when the 21-year-old Washington, all composure under pressure, took guard. Australia seemed to be gaining back momentum. There appeared to be no pressure though when he gloriously off-drove Pat Cummins, Australia’s finest bowler, through mid-off to the boundary. His best was yet to come. When Cummins pitched short testing him, Washington, light on his feet, swivelled around and was airborne as he hooked the paceman for a rousing six. Then, he steered Cummins for another boundary and Australia was feeling the heat again. Pant and Washington pounded the Australian attack for a Test series-clinching rip-roaring 53-run partnership. His 22 was worth a million as his teammates and support staff gave Washington a standing ovation as he walked back. His 62 in the first innings kept India in the game and he picked four wickets on his debut with off-spin of control and subtle variations. Speaking to The Hindu , Washington’s sister Shailaja, a cricketer herself, said, “I remember him telling me, ‘Each time you go out to practise, you must improve by one per cent. He hits the ground running during training,” she said. Shailaja observed, “If you watch him play, he makes cricket look easy. But behind it are countless hours at the nets.” High standard Sundar, a hard taskmaster, sets the bar very high for Washington. “He is God’s child. He has so much ability. I am extremely happy today. He is a different, thinking cricketer. He plays his own way.” In a team effort as India gunned down Australia at the ’Gabba, Washington has played a key part. What a debut!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/washington-all-of-talent-and-composure/article33614184.ece
20 January 2021||January 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Where the mind is without fear and the head is held high||Where the mind is without fear, the head will definitely be held high. This is the message from India’s young players. Shubman Gill is 21, as is Washington Sundar; Rishabh Pant is 23. Each played a role in the Brisbane win. They were unhurried, looked the opposition in the eye, and frankly, sucked the confidence out of the finest bowling side in the world. The future is here. No matter if India missed half-a-dozen players and more, no matter if they had to play to a near-empty stadium; COVID-19 was forgotten, as was that 36 all out in the first Test. No Indian team in nearly nine decades of Tests has faced such odds and triumphed. Greatest series win This was the greatest series win in India’s history — greater than the home win against Australia in 2001, and the win there two seasons ago, greater than victories in the West Indies and England in 1971. No praise can be too high for skipper Ajinkya Rahane’s calm, measured conduct. There is steel in that mild manner; importantly, there is a cricket brain that is one of the finest to have been put at India’s service. India met aggression with a smile, provocation with a sneer, as if to say, “Is that all you can do?” Australia know how to deal with aggression or diffidence — they simply roll opponents over. But this was something new. Suddenly the bowlers were running up to check if the batsman (mainly Pujara) was fine after hitting him; a gift to 100-Test man Nathan Lyon from the Indian team was an unexpected gesture. It seemed to confuse him, just as the Indian batting did on the final day. Were they playing for a draw or going for a win? Rahane was clear — the plan was to go for a win and put up shutters only as a last resort. Take up any challenge It might have been a lesson learnt on an earlier tour when Virat Kohli led for the first time. At Adelaide, he made two centuries, and on the final day inspired his team to chase 364. India didn’t make it on that occasion, but the attitude lingered; any challenge would be taken up. In the search for wins, the odd game might be lost but that’s a small price for playing attractive, positive cricket that will bring fans back to its greatest format. Not so long ago, Indian teams landing in Australia and England said, “We have come here to learn.” No longer. Now they go to teach. It has been a gradual process. Teams don’t change overnight. In nearly four decades of reporting on the game, I have not seen a more resilient, confident, self-aware Indian team. We’ve had tough individuals; this was a tough team. To come back after that 36 in Adelaide and win at Melbourne was merely the appetizer for Sydney — a resolute draw fashioned by two men, Ashwin and Vihari, playing through injury and fire. In Brisbane, a draw would have sufficed. But this team aims high. India have now won two successive series in Australia. The Sachin Tendulkar generation that had some of the country’s (and world’s) greatest batsmen and leading bowlers of all time — it was the golden age — didn’t manage to win one. That should put things in perspective. Ironical situation Ironically, the successful captain is not guaranteed to lead when the original is available. Nor are the successful performers, especially the fast bowlers, guaranteed a long run. Once the frontline bowlers — Bumrah, Ishant, Shami, Yadav, Ashwin, Jadeja — return, the Sirajs, Sainis, Thakurs, Sundars will have to go to the back of the queue. Yet — and this is India’s greatest gain — it is a matter of pride that the first eleven were hardly missed. Bowling coach Bharati Arun has ensured that the reserves were at all times fit and honed to slip into the seniors’ shoes. He is one of the heroes of this series win. As is Pujara. He was the load-bearing wall around whom the batting built its attractive structure. Fourth innings chases require one batsman to frustrate by defence while stroke-players advance by offence at the other end. Knowing their roles Every individual in this team knew what his role was and played it well. There was a healthy disrespect for mere records — something Indian players of the past have been accused of paying too much attention to. Gill, surely the find of the tour, didn’t get into a shell as his century approached; neither did Pant seem to be even aware of the possibility. His 97 in the previous Test had nearly set up a win. That No. 5 slot in the batting line-up is his, whether he keeps wickets or not. The future, as I said, is here. And it will be exciting to watch the tireless striving stretching its arms towards perfection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/where-the-mind-is-without-fear-and-the-head-is-held-high/article33613690.ece
20 January 2021||KOZHIKODE,||Heart-breaking end to Kerala’s campaign||Kerala’s campaign in the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy T20 tournament came to a heart-breaking end at the Wankhede Stadium in Mumbai on Tuesday. A win would have taken the team to the knockout stage, but it went down to Haryana by four runs, chasing 199, in the deciding match in Group-E. Haryana tops the pool The victory took Haryana to the top of the pool, as it advanced with an all-win record. For Kerala, it was the second defeat in a row, after winning its first three matches. The loss would have been particularly disappointing for Sachin Baby, who nearly took the team home with a brilliant knock of 68 (36b, 3x4, 6x6). Kerala needed 12 off the final over bowled by seamer Arun Chaprana, who had Salman Nizar caught brilliantly at deep-midwicket off the third ball. Splendid run out The batsmen had crossed, but Baby was run out by a splendid direct hit from the point boundary by Shivam Chouhan. That left Kerala needing 10 off the last two balls, but Jalaj Saxena could manage only five. If not for Baby’s valiant effort, Kerala’s challenge would have ended sooner. The dismissals of two well-set batsmen — Sanju Samson (51, 31b, 5x4, 3x6) and Mohammed Azharuddeen (35, 25b, 2x4, 2x6) — in the 11th over by seamer Sumit Kumar had brought Haryana back into the match. The second-wicket stand was worth 81. Baby put on 37 for the fourth wicket with Vishnu Vinod (10) and 49 for the fifth with Nizar (five). Earlier, fine knocks from opener Chaitanya Bishnoi (45, 29b, 6x4, 1x6), Shivam (59, 34b, 6x4, 2x6), Rahul Tewatia (41 not out, 26b, 4x4, 2x6) and Sumit (21 not out, 10b, 3x4, 1x6) took Haryana to a challenging total after being put in. Jalaj and Baby took two wickets each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/heart-breaking-end-to-keralas-campaign/article33613699.ece
20 January 2021||January 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Finding heroes and summoning miracles, the India way||When Wednesday arrives with the sun spreading its incandescent rays across India, cricket fans will miss their pre-dawn routines. The cell-phone alarms, hurriedly quaffed coffees and then the sense of awe while watching India take on Australia Down Under. The four-match Test series found its cracker of a finish at Brisbane’s Gabba with Rishabh Pant unleashing a slap-drive for four. Despite being anaemic due to the loss of most of its leading stars to injuries, ‘New India’ still found its beating heart and strung together an epochal 2-1 verdict. A lesser team would have wilted following that 36 at Adelaide. And it is credit to this group that even if that number pops up in quizzes, the first things that would spring to mind are the subsequent miracles which were unearthed at Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane. If the successful 2018-19 tour was a reiteration of India’s core strengths, the latest one emphasised the vast riches within its talent pool. The pandemic-induced restrictions, fitness worries and the off-field bitterness triggered by stray racist taunts were all kept aside as Ajinkya Rahane’s men focused on what could be done on the turf. This was a unit that had to make do without its skipper Virat Kohli after the first Test. And with injuries being a constant shadow, its bowling attack was reduced to such greenhorn levels that it was helmed by Mohammed Siraj, playing only his third Test, at the Gabba! Yet, just like Shubman Gill showed, the freshers seemed ready, be it Siraj, Washington Sundar, Shardul Thakur or T. Natarajan. Add to it the resolve that illuminated Rahane, Cheteshwar Pujara, R. Ashwin, Jasprit Bumrah and Hanuma Vihari, and you had a unit that always found its heroes.  Australia is never easy and its attack was hostile. Even if Mitchell Starc was off-colour, thanks to the likes of Pat Cummins, Josh Hazlewood and Nathan Lyon, Tim Paine had enough venom to dispense. But India had its methods, ranging from Pant’s buccaneering ways to the bat-resembling-a-fortress style intrinsic to Pujara. After the early appetisers of ODIs and Twenty20s, this tour would be remembered for its main-course of dazzling Tests. India against Australia is one for the cricketing gods and their weather counterparts too were so caught up with the riveting action that the rains which were forecast, never happened! Melbourne, 1981; Eden Gardens, 2001; Adelaide, 2003; Perth, 2008; Mohali, 2010 — the list goes on. Now add Brisbane, 2021, to it. Sport is both about the ‘now’ and its resonance when yellowing scorecards acquire cobwebs. Rahane and company offered undiluted joy at the Gabba and years down the line, these moments will be remembered with warmth. This Indian team has gifted enduring memories and for that the credit belongs to the players, the coaching staff led by Ravi Shastri, a robust India-A conveyor belt and the relevance of the National Cricket Academy where Rahul Dravid keeps a close watch. This is ‘India Unbound’ and the fans couldn’t have asked for more.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/finding-heroes-and-summoning-miracles/article33613649.ece
20 January 2021||Pune,||Govt. gives assent for racing at Mahalaxmi||The Maharashtra Government has granted permission to the Royal Western India Turf Club (RWITC) to conduct closed-door racing at the Mahalaxmi race course in Mumbai. As COVID-19 facility Currently, RWITC was conducting the Mumbai racing season at Pune because the Mumbai Municipal Corporation was using the race course enclosures to host a big COVID-19 facility. RWITC chairman Zavaray S. Poonawalla said the assent was given late on Tuesday evening after his meeting with the authorities. He added that it did not mean racing will start immediately, as things were needed to be put in order because of a long gap of almost 10 months. He also said club officials were putting in every effort to restore racing as soon as possible.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/govt-gives-assent-for-racing-at-mahalaxmi/article33614325.ece
20 January 2021||January 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Hyderabad salvages a draw against Odisha||Akash Mishra saved his side from the jaws of defeat as with two goal-line clearances at the very end as Hyderabad FC played out a 1-1 draw with Odisha FC in the Indian Super League at the Fatorda Stadium on Tuesday. Hyderabad remains fourth with 17 points from 12 games, while Odisha is at the bottom with seven. Route one football Hyderabad’s goal was a classic description of route one football. Goalkeeper Laxmikant Kattimani’s long ball was flicked on by Aridane Santana with a backward header. Liston Colaco got at the end of it and bombed down the right flank before squaring it for Halicharan Narzary, who guided it into the net for his fourth goal of the season. Odisha struck back within six minutes of resumption. Stand-in skipper Cole Alexander buried the ball into the left bottom corner, well out of Kattimani’s reach, to restore parity.  The result: Hyderabad FC 1 (Narzary 13) drew with Odisha FC 1 (Alexander 51).   Wednesday’s match: Kerala Blasters vs Bengaluru FC, 7.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hyderabad-salvages-a-draw-against-odisha/article33613696.ece
20 January 2021||Chennai,||Heroic effort, says Joshi||India downing Australia at its fortress, Gabba, to take the Test series 2-1, without its premier pacemen and spinners and without its regular captain and star batsman Virat Kohli, was hailed by Sunil Joshi, India selector, as an “epic win.” The former India all-rounder said, “I want to congratulate the team, the captain and the support staff for a heroic effort under very difficult circumstances when several key players were injured.” Joshi added, “The win showed what a tremendous pool of young cricketers India has. Indian cricket now has outstanding depth.” He said to bounce back from a disastrous first Test when the team was bowled out for 36 to winning the Test series and ambushing Australia in its bastion at the Gabba showed the side’s fighting spirit and character. “Indian cricket has a very bright future,” Joshi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/heroic-effort-says-joshi/article33614185.ece
20 January 2021||London,||Arsenal eases to victory||Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang struck twice as Arsenal defeated Newcastle United 3-0 in the Premier League on Monday, condemning Steve Bruce’s side to a ninth game without a win in all competitions. After a dreadful start to the season, Mikel Arteta’s side is now up to 10th place in the league and it never looked in danger against a Newcastle side that looks demoralised. Arsenal has now kept a clean sheet in five straight games in all competitions. AC Milan striker Zlatan Ibrahimovic scored twice on his first Serie A start since returning from injury, helping his side to a 2-0 win at Cagliari on Monday as the league leader moved three points clear at the top of the standings. Milan is on 43 points, three ahead of city rival Inter Milan, and 10 clear of champion Juventus in fifth.  The results: Premier League: Arsenal 3 (Aubameyang 50, 77, Saka 60) bt Newcastle 0.   Serie A: Cagliari 0 lost to AC Milan 2 (Ibrahimovic 7-pen, 52).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/arsenal-eases-to-victory/article33613703.ece
20 January 2021||January 20 2021 00:00 IST,||India better in key moments, says Paine||A deflated Tim Paine conceded that India’s plans worked better than his side’s and that the visitors won the key moments during the four-match series. “Whether it was with bat, ball or in the field, every time we had a chance to get ahead of the game, we let it slip. It happened a little bit in Sydney with our fielding, and then probably yesterday with our batting,” said Paine, who has been in charge of Australia during both its home series defeats to India. “I think India just managed to play better than us, they managed to get through our plans for longer than we managed to get through theirs, particularly in the key moments,” he added. Commenting on where his side lost the game after taking the first-innings lead, Paine said, “We lost wickets when we tried to put the foot down and couldn’t quite get a partnership together. And I thought every time India needed a wicket, they somehow managed to do it.” The Australian wicketkeeper felt that his side had the advantage going into the fifth day in both Sydney and Brisbane, but credited India’s batting for denying the home team a chance to win. “We turned to Sydney on day five and Gabba on day five in as good a position as you want to be and could not get the job done. There are some things we could have done better, [but] the Indian batting group was amazing on both those day fives,” Paine remarked. “We have been outplayed, we had our chances to win this series, to win this Test match and we didn’t take them,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-better-in-key-moments-says-paine/article33613653.ece
20 January 2021||January 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Rahane praises team’s fighting spirit||Ajinkya Rahane, who took over the captaincy from Virat Kohli after the debacle in Adelaide, has not put a foot wrong as skipper. But speaking after the 2-1 series triumph, Rahane, who led from the front with a century in Melbourne, chose to highlight the performances of his teammates. “I still don't know what happened and don't know how to describe this series win. But credit to each and every individual. If you see, especially after the Adelaide Test, everyone contributed,” he said. “Credit to all the newcomers who chipped in. Nattu (Natarajan) played in his first Test and bowled well. Shardul Thakur played his second Test and contributed with bat and ball. Washington Sundar batted really well and bowled well in the first innings. Ashwin bowled well throughout the series,” he added. Really tough Asked about how the squad dealt with being dismissed for 36 in the first Test, Rahane said, “It was really tough after the Adelaide Test but it was all about showing character and fighting spirit. We were not thinking too much about the result. We just wanted to play good cricket. Credit to everyone in the squad, including the support staff. “It is an honour to lead the country, but it is about the team and not me. I looked good because everyone contributed. We all should enjoy this win, not just us players but every Indian should enjoy this because what we did here is historic,” he added. The skipper praised the efforts of youngsters Shubman Gill and Rishabh Pant, and Cheteshwar Pujara for chasing down 328 on the final day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rahane-praises-teams-fighting-spirit/article33613654.ece
20 January 2021||January 20 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Unreal! One of the greatest series ever’||An emotional Ravi Shastri termed India’s historic series win in Australia as one of the best series the game has ever seen. “I am not someone who generally has tears in my eyes, but I had real tears because this is unreal, what these guys have pulled off. It will go down in history as one of the greatest series ever played,” said Shastri. The head coach added, “To show the stomach for a fight after being bowled out for 36 is unimaginable.” Commenting on how the team approached the final-day chase, Shastri said the plan was to take the game deep before making a decision on whether to go for the target. “Right from the beginning, myself, the support staff and Jinks [Rahane] decided to play normal cricket. Just play your natural game and don't try to manufacture something. Try and set the game up more than anything else by taking it session by session. Pant was always chasing “The innings [Shubman] Gill played set the platform and tone. For someone on his first tour to Australia, on a bouncy Gabba track, to take on the attack the way he did, got the momentum going for us. Then there was Rishabh Pant. You can’t change his style. In his mind, he was always chasing. When he kept looking at the scoreboard, you knew he had some other ideas,” Shastri added. Asked about how the team dealt with the constant injury setbacks Shastri said that it was the work done over the last five to six years that has helped build the bench strength to win Tests. “If you look at the India bowling attack that beat Australia in 2018-19, there was not a single bowler playing [here]. “It is not easy to go out with a bowling attack that is three Test matches old. And then to marshal the resources was an outstanding achievement. Shastri also did not fail to point out that this was Virat Kohli’s side, saying his personality and stamp is there for everyone to see even if he was not on the field.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/unreal-one-of-the-greatest-series-ever/article33613655.ece
20 January 2021||Mumbai,||Kohli, Ishant and Hardik back for England Tests||Captain Virat Kohli, speedster Ishant Sharma, middle-order batsman Hardik Pandya and left-arm spinner Axar Patel have been recalled to India’s squad for the first two Tests against England, starting in Chennai on February 5. The selection meeting was planned for Wednesday, but the BCCI, in a late development on Monday night, rescheduled it for Tuesday morning. Natarajan misses out Opener Prithvi Shaw has been left out while Shardul Thakur and Washington Sundar have been retained. Left-armer T. Natarajan misses out as well.  The squad: Virat Kohli (Capt.), Ajinkya Rahane (Vice-capt.), Rohit Sharma, Shubman Gill, Cheteshwar Pujara, Hardik Pandya, Rishabh Pant (wk), Jasprit Bumrah, Ishant Sharma, R. Ashwin, Kuldeep Yadav, Washington Sundar, Mayank Agarwal, K.L. Rahul*, Axar Patel, Wriddhiman Saha (wk), Shardul Thakur, Mohammed Siraj.   Stand-bys: K.S. Bharat (w.k.), Abhimanya Easwaran, Shahbaz Nadeem, Rahul Chahar, Priyank Panchal*; Net bowlers: Ankit Rajpoot, Avesh Khan, Sandeep Warrier, K. Gowtham, Saurabh Kumar. * subject to proving fitness .   The schedule: Tests: Feb. 5-9, Chennai; Feb. 13-17, Chennai, both 9.30 a.m. starts; Day-Night Test: Feb. 24-28, Ahmedabad, 2.30 p.m.; March 4-8, Ahmedabad, 9.30 a.m.   T20Is: March 12, 14, 16, 18 and 20, all at Ahmedabad, 7 p.m.   ODIs: March 23, 26 and 28, all at Pune, 1.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kohli-ishant-and-hardik-back-for-england-tests/article33613658.ece
20 January 2021||BENGALURU,||Karnataka through||Karnataka sneaked into the quarterfinals of the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy on net run rate. At the end of the group stage matches on Tuesday, Himachal, Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh were tied on 16 points (four wins each) in the race for the two spots available for second-best teams (after group winners). Himachal (NRR: +0.940) and Karnataka (+0.292) qualified over Madhya Pradesh (+0.285).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/karnataka-through/article33613941.ece
20 January 2021||Chennai,||Jagadeesan named vice-captain||N. Jagadeesan has been named vice-captain for the knockout stages of the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy that will be played in Ahmedabad from Jan. 26-31. He will take over the duties from Vijay Shankar who was injured during the first league stage match and has been ruled out of the rest of the tournament. The selection committee has decided not to draft a replacement player for Vijay Shankar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jagadeesan-named-vice-captain/article33614182.ece
20 January 2021||KOCHI,||Ernakulam district TT||The Ernakulam District table tennis championships, organised by EDTTA which is affiliated to Kerala TT Association, will be held at the Regional Sports Centre here on January 23 and 24. Competitions in cadet, sub-junior, junior, youth and senior sections will be conducted. The players to represent Ernakulam in KTTA’s State championships will be selected from this meet. Entries may be sent to EDTTA before 5 p.m. on January 22. Call 9633300533 for more details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ernakulam-district-tt/article33613834.ece
20 January 2021||BANGKOK,||Sameer stuns Lee Zii Jia||Sameer Verma shocked men’s World No. 10 Lee Zii Jia 18-21, 27-25, 21-19 in the Thailand Open Super 1000 tournament here on Tuesday. Meanwhile, Sai Praneeth was withdrawn from the competition after testing positive for COVID-19. His quarantine roommate K. Srikanth, who won his first round match, has also been forced to withdraw.  The results (first round): Men: K. Srikanth bt Sitthikom Thammasin (Tha) 21-11, 21-11; Sameer Verma bt Lee Zii Jia (Mas) 18-21, 27-25, 21-19; Anthony Ginting (Ina) bt Sourabh Verma 21-16, 21-11; Rasmus Gemke (Den) bt P. Kashyap 3-0 retd. Doubles: Satwiksairaj Rankireddy & Chirag Shetty bt Manu Attri & B. Sumeeth Reddy 22-20, 28-26.   Women: P.V. Sindhu bt Busanan Ongbamrungphan (Tha) 21-17, 21-13; Ratchanok Inthanon (Tha) bt Saina Nehwal 21-7, 21-8.   Mixed doubles: Satwiksairaj Rankireddy & Ashwini Ponnappa bt Niclas Nohr & Amalie Magelund (Den) 23-21, 21-18 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sameer-stuns-lee-zii-jia/article33613688.ece
20 January 2021||January 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Sporting snatches a draw||Mohammedan Sporting made a spirited comeback in the second half to erase a deficit of two goals and hold TRAU FC 2-2 in a I- League match at the Kalyani Stadium on Tuesday.   The results:   Churchill Brothers 1 (Clayvin Bernard 85) bt RoundGlass Punjab FC 0.   TRAU FC 2 (Komron Tursunov 2, Helder Ribeiro 45+2) drew with Mohammedan Sporting 2 (Nikhil Kadam 58, Hira Mondal 68)   Sudeva Delhi FC 1 (Shaiborlang Khapran 62) drew with Real Kashmir FC (Mason Robertson 75).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sporting-snatches-a-draw/article33613692.ece
20 January 2021||MUMBAI,||Sterling show by Dube and Sarfaraz||Shivam Dube (44 n.o., 27b, 3x4, 2x6) and Sarfaraz Khan (53, 30b, 6x4, 2x6) put on a sterling partnership to hand Mumbai a consolation win in its last Group E encounter of the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy on Tuesday. The duo’s 87-run stand meant Mumbai chased down a target of 155 set by Andhra with five wickets and seven balls to spare at the Wankhede Stadium for its maiden win of the tournament. The IPL regulars’ deeds overshadowed Ricky Bhui’s (78 48b, 7x4, 4x6) superlative innings earlier in the night, which was instrumental in catapulting a tottering Andhra innings to a respectable 154 for eight. With K.V. Sasikanth holding up an end after Andhra was reeling at 75 for six in the 13th over, Bhui’s calculated risks paid off as Andhra added 70 in the last five overs.  But such was the onslaught of Dube and Sarfaraz that Bhui’s effort proved to be far from enough. When Sarfaraz walked in to join Dube after captain Suryakumar Yadav was dismissed in the 10th over, thanks to a sharp catch by his Andhra counterpart Ambati Rayudu at covers, Mumbai required 91 off 62 balls. They kept nudging the spinners for singles for the next five overs. With 54 required from the last five and pacers being introduced, the duo switched gears. Left-armer C.V. Stephen suffered the wrath first as he went for 18 runs in the 16th over. The left-and- right-handed combination then tonked 20 in the next over off Harishankar Reddy. It brought the equation down to 16 from 18 balls. Despite Sarfaraz being caught sharply by K.S. Bharat off Harishankar just after raising his fifty with four runs required, Dube and Sairaj Patil completed the formalities. Mumbai finished at the bottom of the group. Andhra finished fifth on the basis of a better net run rate than Mumbai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mumbai-beats-andhra/article33614235.ece
20 January 2021||MUMBAI,||Delhi crushes Pondicherry||Pondicherry couldn’t end its Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy campaign on a high as it suffered a crushing 110-run loss against Delhi in their final Group E tie on Tuesday. With neither team being in contention for the quarterfinals, Delhi preferred to rest its regulars, including captain Shikhar Dhawan and speedster Ishant Sharma, and gave virtually everyone on the bench game-time. But even a second-string Delhi outfit proved too hot to handle for Pondicherry. Despite Ashith Rajiv striking twice in as many balls in the first over, Himmat Singh’s fifty (53, 42b, 4x4, 2x6) helped Delhi resurrect its innings. Kshitiz Sharma (65 n.o., 34b, 6x4, 3x6) and Lalit Yadav (36 n.o., 19b, 5x4, 1x6) then put the game beyond Pondicherry with an unbroken 82-run partnership in the last six overs to ensure Delhi piled on a stiff 192 for five. In reply, offspinner Shivank Vashisht (four for 9) led the way as Delhi bundled Pondicherry out for a paltry 82. Delhi finished with 12 points from five games, while Pondicherry had eight.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/delhi-crushes-pondicherry/article33613697.ece
20 January 2021||January 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Rohit, Junaid score centuries; Rohan scalps five||Rohit Rayudu’s 165 (182b, 14x4, 10x6) for Jai Hanuman and Md. Junaid Ali’s 160 (194b, 21x4, 1x6) for Ensconse were some of the highlights of the A1-Division (three-day) league cricket championship here on Tuesday. In other matches, M. Pratyush (115 n.o., 189b, 14x4) for Concorde Cricket Club and M. Anirudh Yadav (146, 142b, 26x4) for Apex Cricket Club also batted well. Rohan Yadav’s five for 34 helped Central Excise bundle out Income Tax for 168. In reply, Central Excise was 132 for four at close.  The scores: A1-Div. three-day (first day):   Group-A: Union Bank of India 253 in 71.4 overs (Harsh Shankpal 37, Amol Shinde 59, M.A. Khader 40, Kaneshkk Naidu 59 n.o., Chiranjeevi 3/31) vs SCRSA 44 for no loss in 9 overs.   Jai Hanuman 404 in 89.2 overs (Rohit Rayudu 165, N. Anirudh Reddy 83, U.A.V. Varma 67 n.o., Md. Abdul Adnan 3/71, A. Varun Goud 3/92) vs Deccan Chronicle.   Income Tax 168 in 43.5 overs (P. Akshath Reddy 35, D. Swaroop 68 n.o., Rohan Yadav 5/34, Azhar 3/21) vs Central Excise 132/4 in 34 overs (Ibrahim Siddiqui 43, Rohan Yadav 39, Chaitanya Reddy 36 batting).   Group-B: Zinda Tilismath 313 in 88 overs (Sai Suprith Yadav 73, Kiran Reddy 55, Shashank Lokesh 49, Abhinay Penna 35, Koushik Reddy 30, K.S. Mithra 4/61, Ashesh Singh 3/29) vs MP Colts.   Hyderabad Bottling 217 in 51.5 overs (B. Harshit 89, B. Akhilesh Reddy 42, Md. Afreedi 3/45, B. Buchi Babu 3/79) vs Combined District 160/3 in 33 overs (B. Vikram 67, G. Ganesh 77 batting).   Ensconse 427/4 in 90 overs (Md. Junaid Ali 160, P. Shiva 84, Owais Abdul Wahed 94, V. Sahasra 61 n.o., Taha Shaik 3/58) vs Gemini Friends six for no loss in 2 overs.   Concorde 243 in 68.1 overs (M. Pratyush 115 n.o., Tushar Tripathi 42, Y. Sai Varun 4/32) vs Continental 26/2 in 8 overs.   Evergreen 161 in 57.5 overs (G. Aniketh Reddy 54) vs AOC 83/3 in 20.1 overs (Amith 32, Ilyaan Sathani 3/29).   Group-C: Mahmood 49 in 20 overs (Anuj Yadav 6/11, C. Aryan 3/9) vs Sportive 213/4 in 51 overs (Shaik Sameer 31, Chandrasekhar 78 batting, Abhishek Murugan 81 batting).   Apex 390/9 in 90 overs (M. Anirudh Yadav 146, A. Avanish Rao 50, S. Dheeraj Goud 41, B. Naresh Kumar 59 n.o., Gaganjot Singh 3/55, Sarthak Bharadwaj 3/30) vs Khalsa.   Rohit XI 292/9 in 90 overs (Shanawaz Khan 70, V.K. Siddharth 67, N. Sai Yadav 61, A. Jayasurya 49, Thakshit Rao 4/47, Kaustab Rao 3/32) vs Secunderabad Nawabs.   Sri Chakra 179 in 51.3 overs vs Gouds XI 104/1 in 26 overs (Krithik Reddy 52 batting, Venu 41 batting).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rohit-junaid-score-centuries-rohan-scalps-five/article33614232.ece
20 January 2021||January 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Wealth of spiritual vision||The Upanishads speak highly of those who intuitively perceive the truth of the Supreme Brahman within themselves. Such people know that all external attainments and worldly goals that many aspire for are not of any worth, especially in comparison with the wealth of spiritual vision they possess. Ambarisha is one such enlightened soul whose story is narrated in the Bhagavata Purana. Parikshit, who is under the curse of a rishi kumara, is eager to hear about this royal sage Ambarisha who was not affected by Durvasa's curse that is generally not easy to resist, pointed out Sri B.Sundarkumar in a discourse. Suka explains that Ambarisha's father and grandfather had stood by truth and dharma and Siva had conferred enlightenment on his father Naabaga. So, Ambarisha’s exemplary devotion is rooted in these basic qualities. His birth and status had conferred on him kingship over the entire earth with the seven continents. He accepted his role as a king and played it to the hilt, while always remembering that all this is only a dream like existence. So, he was not affected by all this wealth and prowess at his command. He managed the affairs of the kingdom and was committed to governing the whole earth meticulously; but he never relinquished in his mind the sense of detachment. He worshipped God with yagnas under the guidance of sages such as Vasishta and Gautama. But he never aspired for any personal benefits such yagnas can confer. He practised bhakti every moment of his life in thought, word and deed, and this influenced his attendants and associates as well. By always hearing and reciting hymns on the Lord they too were steeped in the bliss of savouring His auspicious qualities and attributes. They too remained indifferent to worldly gains or heavenly regions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/wealth-of-spiritual-vision/article33613583.ece
20 January 2021||January 20 2021 09:07 IST,||Sudoku - January 20, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-january-20-2021/article33614698.ece
20 January 2021||January 20 2021 00:00 IST,||The shape of water||Jayasurya rates his role in Malayalm film Vellam: The Essential Drink among his challenging ones, and there are two reasons for that. “I do not live in Kannur and I do not drink,” he says referring to his character in the film. The Malayalam film, the first to be released in theatres since lockdown, is about an alcoholic who loses everything to addiction and later reforms himself to reclaim all that he has lost. When the actor who has effortlessly portrayed a myriad characters; a parapelagic ( Beautiful ), the menacing villain Angoor Rawther ( Iyobinte Pusthakam ), the pervert Abdu ( Trivandrum Lodge ), a sick man ( Apothecary ), a man who overcomes a speech disorder ( Su..Su..Sudhi Vathmeekam ); and a transgender person ( Njan Marykutty ), says that about addiction, it makes one sit up and ask why. “I have ‘been’ an alcoholic before, but Lukka Chuppi’s Raghuram was very different; he was sophisticated. Vellam Murali [of Vellam ] is not like that; he is a complete drunkard and irresponsible. The root problem may be the same but all alcoholics are not the same. That had to be brought in. Then there was the Kannur dialect... It was not easy being a drunkard while speaking a completely different dialect when the recording was sound sync,” Jayasurya explains.  Vellam , inspired by a true story, is his second collaboration with director Prajesh Sen; their first film together was Captain , the biopic based on the life of the late VP Sathyan, former captain of the Indian football team. “This ( Vellam ) is the kind of story that needs to be told. All of us would know someone like Murali. Some stories resonate with people; I am sure this will.” The ‘takeaway’ is the reason he has done a clutch of films inspired by real life stories. His earlier flick Njan Marykutty , for instance, directed by Ranjith Shankar, was a nuanced take on a transgender person, Marykutty’s life. Shankar is another regular collaborator with whom Jayasurya has made more than five films. “It is the creative comfort of working with some people. I can discuss any ‘madness’ with them and we understand each other’s craziness. It is about knowing the extent to which I can go, pushing my boundaries as an artist. These people understand my capability perhaps more than even I. They have faith that I can do a particular role,” he says. Jayasurya seems to have shifted gears around 2010-11, with films such as Cocktail and Beautiful . “I wasn’t interested in the easy roles. If I can become a different person with every film, very different from the kind of person I am...then why not? The world remembers the character, not the actor. Immortal characters are remembered, not so much the actors.” For him, what he plays is more important than screen-time or whether it is the lead character.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-shape-of-water/article33613866.ece
20 January 2021||January 20 2021 00:00 IST,||In a new direction||“It was unforgettable,” recounts actor Semmalar about her 10-day shoot at a Kurumba tribal hamlet in Attapadi, Kerala. She was shooting there for her new Malayalam film titled Mmmmm, directed by Vijeesh Mani. “The title denotes the sound of buzzing honey bees; the film revolves around honey hunters from the Kurumba tribe. With a decline in bee population, there are fewer beehives and the film shows how this impacts their livelihood,” says the actor over phone from Chennai, where she is dubbing for the film. “Two boys, Panali and Ben, accompanied our shoots to aid with translation as the Kurumbas speak a different language. They are here with me for dubbing as well, to make corrections in dialogue delivery and modulation,” says Semmalar, who speaks in an accented Tamil that has a Malayalam flavour. “I love Kerala food. I indulged in pazhamporis and fish curry almost every day while shooting,” she laughs. Former football player and actor I M Vijayan plays the male lead, while Nanjiyamma, an Irula tribal woman, plays his mother. Nanjiyamma’s song ‘Kalakkatha’, written and sung by her in Irula language for the Malayalam film Ayyappanum Koshiyum got over 10 million views on YouTube. “She plays my mother-in-law. During breaks, she would regale us with singing and Vijay sir would start dancing to the beats. We bonded well. His role is a direct contrast to the villain roles he has been doing. He has excelled himself and it helped me emote better,” says Semmalar. The crew wrapped up the shoot in 10 days and the post production work has beencompleted to send the film to the international film circuit. “We shot at a home in the hamlet. There were no sets. I also conducted a three-day acting workshop to train a girl [who plays a fantasy character] in body language and to pick up the Kurumba slang.” Semmalar Annam, who is from Coimbatore, packed her bags to Chennai to become a part of films. She started her journey with a defining performance in Lakshmi Ramakrishnan’s critically acclaimed Ammani . After a degree in Mass Communication/Journalism from PSG College of Arts and Science, Coimbatore, she brushed up her skills in acting and theatre at the Stanislavsky Acting School in Chennai from her teacher and filmmaker, the late Arunozhi Sivaprakasham. “I have done street theatre [mostly on themes around environment]; historical and political plays, independent films, and over a dozen short films. It has been an exciting journey in both commercial and independent movie space,” says Semmalar, who has also been part of popular films like Ponmagal Vandhal and Magalir Mattum to name a few. She will be next seen in Ajith Kumar’s upcoming Valimai , GV Prakash Kumar’s Bachelor, a Sivakarthikeyan film, and a web series directed by Dharani. She lists Leena Manimekalai’s award-winning Maadathy that spoke about a subsection of Dalits in Southern Tamil Nadu. “I had to perfect the Tirunelveli slang for it. Director [Pa] Ranjith sir had nice things to say about my performance. It was very encouraging.” Semmalar also directed a short film First Rain that won an award at the Belgaum International Short Film Festival. She says there is a popular notion that actors from theatre background are good only for melodrama. “That is changing and many theatre actors have proven it with their subtle acting. I would love to see myself doing a comedy role or even a cop. We are getting good opportunities.” Though she wants to direct a film at some point in her career, Semmalar is now happy juggling the two parallel worlds of cinema. “When Ponmagal ... released on OTT, I got so many responses on Facebook and Instagram. It was overwhelming. You have to reinvent yourself to stay up-to-date and relevant. Learning never stops. It keeps you charged.”  Coimbatore-based Semmalar Annam has been part of historical and political plays and has directed over a dozen short films.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/in-a-new-direction/article33613862.ece
20 January 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Notice to Haryana govt. over Panchayati Raj Act||The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Tuesday issued a notice to the Haryana government over certain amendments on reservation system to the Haryana Panchayati Raj (Second Amendment) Act, 2020. Karandeep Dalal, counsel for the petitioners said that the Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli has issued the notice for reply to the Haryana government by April 20. The petition filed by two women, who had held posts of member in Panchayati Raj institutions have challenged the recently passed Haryana Panchayati Raj (Second Amendment) Act, 2020, particularly relating to the scheme of reservation provided therein. The petitioners have submitted that the Act has inter alia amended sections 9, 59 and 120 of the Haryana Panchayati Raj Act, 1994, that deals with the reservation of seats in Gram Panchayat, Panchayat Samiti and Zila Parishad. The petition said as per the amended sub section (1) of sections 9, 59 and 120 of the Amendment Act, all wards are to be sequentially numbered viz. odd and even for the purposes of reservation of seats. Also, as per amended sub sections (3) and (6) of Sections 9, 59 and 120, the posts of Sarpanch, Members and Chairman falling in even numbered wards have been reserved for women — falling in both categories viz. reserved and general. In so far as the odd numbered wards are concerned, the Act provides that “persons other than women” can contest from such wards, it added.  ‘Women excluded’ The counsel for the petitioner argued that the term “persons other than woman” has not been defined under the amendment and would logically include males and transgenders and exclude women. The amendment thus restricts women candidates from contesting from odd numbered wards which are otherwise open or general wards. “The amendment discriminates between eligible women and their male counterparts, which is in violation of Articles 14 and 15 of Constitution,” pointed out Mr. Dalal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/notice-to-haryana-govt-over-panchayati-raj-act/article33613876.ece
20 January 2021||new delhi,||Petition seeks details on Aarogya Setu||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday asked the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology and Central Public Information Officers of its various departments to respond to a petition seeking details of Aarogya Setu app. Justice Prathiba M. Singh gave the direction on a petition by RTI activist Saurav Das challenging a November 24, 2020, order of the Central Information Commission dropping penal proceedings against the CPIOs of various agencies for obstructing access to public records relating to the Aarogya Setu app under the RTI Act. The HC posted the case for further hearing on February 24. Mr. Das has sought details of security audits, data protection assessments and oversight mechanisms of the app.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/petition-seeks-details-on-aarogya-setu/article33613877.ece
20 January 2021||Guwahati,||Cong. to tie up with 5 parties for Assam polls||The Assam Pradesh Congress Committee (APCC) on Tuesday said it will contest the forthcoming Assembly polls in alliance with five parties to oust the ruling BJP from power. APCC president Ripun Bora said following discussions with various parties, it has been decided that the Congress will join hands with the All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF), the CPI, CPI(M), CPI(ML) and the Anchalik Gana Morcha. “Our doors are open for all anti-BJP parties and we invite the regional parties to join hands with us against our fight to remove the ruling party from power,” the Rajya Sabha MP said. The Congress has taken the lead to oust all communal forces in the best interest of the nation, he said. Meanwhile, political parties in Assam on Tuesday urged the Election Commission to conduct the Assembly elections in the State in three phases, and preferably before the Rongali Bihu festival in April. The full bench of the EC is on a three-day visit to the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cong-to-tie-up-with-5-parties-for-assam-polls/article33613875.ece
20 January 2021||Gurugram,||20-year-old arrested after four cartridges found in his bag||A 20-year-old man was arrested by Gurugram Police after four bullet cartridges were found in his bag at MG Road metro station during a routine check on Sunday.The man identified himself as Rohan Yadav, a resident of Mainpuri in U.P. The accused was handed over to Gurugram Police and a case was registered at Metro Police Station under the Arms Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/20-year-old-arrested-after-four-cartridges-found-in-his-bag/article33613977.ece
20 January 2021||New Delhi,||Reservation of ICU beds for COVID patients reduced to 25%, govt. tells HC||The Delhi government informed the High Court on Tuesday it has reduced the reservation of COVID-19 ICU beds in private hospitals here to 25% from 40%. Delhi government’s counsel said the order to reduce the reservation in hospitals with over 100 beds was issued on January 15. The decision was taken keeping in view the low occupancy of COVID-19 beds/ ICU beds in the private hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/reservation-of-icu-beds-for-covid-patients-reduced-to-25-govt-tells-hc/article33613878.ece
