21 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||In a thaw, Centre offers to put off farm reforms for 18 months||Farm union leaders will consider a proposal from the Central government to suspend the implementation of the three contentious farm reform laws for the next year-and-a-half while a committee is formed to look into their demands. Union leaders said the Centre had also offered to submit an affidavit to the Supreme Court to this effect. They will discuss the proposal internally on Thursday, and return with their response at the next round of discussions on Friday. The proposal was made during the 10th round of talks on Wednesday, and is the first serious sign of movement in the negotiations since tens of thousands of farmers began their protest on the borders of Delhi almost two months ago. Their major demands have been a repeal of the three laws on agricultural marketing, and a new legal guarantee for minimum support prices. The government was keen on reaching a final decision at the meeting on Gurpurab.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/in-a-thaw-centre-offers-to-put-off-farm-laws-for-18-months/article33622162.ece
21 January 2021||January 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Biden sworn in, delivers message of unity, hope||While the transfer of power was not peaceful in the world’s oldest constitutional republic, that transfer did occur on Wednesday on the West Front of the U.S. Capitol, as Joseph R. Biden Jr. was sworn in as the 46th President of the U.S. Just two weeks earlier, a mob had broken into the Capitol seeking to block the ratification of the election results. Addressing the country for the first time as President, Mr. Biden delivered a message of unity and hope while laying out the enormous challenges faced by the country, from a raging pandemic to deep political divisions and frayed race relations. “This is America’s day. This is democracy’s day. The day of history and hope,” Mr. Biden said in his inaugural address. “Today, we celebrate the triumph not of a candidate, but of a cause — the cause of democracy. The will of the people has been heard and the will of the people has been heeded,” Mr. Biden said, adding that democracy was precious and fragile but that it had prevailed. He referred to the Capitol violence of January 6, and said attempts to overturn the elections will never be successful. Mr. Biden was administered the oath by Chief Justice John Roberts shortly before noon. Just prior to that, Kamala Devi Harris, the first woman, African American and Indian American to hold the post, was sworn in by Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor — the first Latina in the U.S.’s top court. Prime Minister Narendra Modi congratulated Mr. Biden, and said he was committed to working with him to take ties to greater heights. Past presidents — Barack Obama, George W. Bush, Bill Clinton and their spouses — were also present, as was outgoing Vice-President Mike Pence. Conspicuous by his absence was outgoing President Donald Trump, who had left earlier in the morning for his residence and resort at Mar-a-Lago in Florida. “We’ll press forward with speed and urgency for we have much to do in this winter of peril and significant possibilities,” Mr. Biden said. He referred to the devastation caused by the coronavirus pandemic (more than 400,000 Americans have died), job losses, racial justice, the climate crisis, white supremacy and domestic terrorism. In his speech, Mr. Biden called for unity. “My whole soul is in this… bringing America together, uniting our people, uniting our nation,” he said, asking every American to join him in the cause.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/joe-biden-sworn-in-as-46th-president-of-the-us/article33622158.ece
21 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Karnataka tops in innovation, shows NITI Aayog index||Karnataka retained its leadership position in the major States category in the second edition of India Innovation Index released by NITI Aayog on Wednesday. It was followed by Maharashtra, which moved past Tamil Nadu to occupy the second place. Other States in the top 10 are Telangana, Kerala, Haryana, Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh and Punjab. Barring Maharashtra, all other States in the top five are in the south. Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Bihar scored the lowest on the index, which put them at the bottom in the “major States” category. “Karnataka’s rank is attributable to its substantive number of venture capital deals, registered geographical indicators and information and communications technology exports. Its high Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) inflow has also enhanced the innovation capabilities of the State,” the government think-tank said. With the pandemic triggering an economic shutdown, the role of innovation to revitalise the economy has never been more important, it added. Delhi topped among Union Territories. The India Innovation Index, Niti Aayog said, aims to create an extensive framework for a continual evaluation of India’s innovation environment. The index aims to rank States and UTs based on their scores, recognise opportunities and challenges, and assist in tailoring government policies to foster innovation. “The India Innovation Index will create synergies between different stakeholders in the innovation ecosystem, thus enabling India to shift to competitive good governance,” Niti Aayog Vice-Chairman Rajiv Kumar said. The India Innovation Report also pointed out that the best practices observed within the States should often be documented and disseminated to encourage peer-to-peer learning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/karnataka-tops-in-innovation-shows-niti-aayog-index/article33622160.ece
21 January 2021||TIRUVARUR,||Sweets, souvenirs in Thulasendrapuram||As the countdown for the inauguration ceremony began in Washington D.C., celebrations broke out in Thulasendrapuram, the ancestral village of new U.S.Vice-President Kamala Harris in Tiruvarur district of Tamil Nadu on Wednesday. From children to octogenarians, residents descended on the streets, against a backdrop of lush green paddy fields, to celebrate the “momentous” occasion. The villagers said her assumption of office will strengthen the relationship between the two largest democracies. A festive atmosphere prevailed, and the village was decorated with festoons. Enthusiastic villagers set off firecrackers right from dawn, and children danced to music on the streets. Rangoli portraits Girls and women drew rangoli depicting Ms. Harris in front of their houses. Holding placards with her pictures, some villagers marched on the streets. Special prayers were held at the Dharma Sastha temple, a “favourite temple of her ancestors”, wishing her a successful tenure. Laddus were distributed widely and calendars featuring Joe Biden and Ms. Harris became sought-after souvenirs. “I never dreamt that a person with roots in our village would go on to hold the high office of the Vice-President of the U.S. We are all very excited. It is a proud moment for each and every one of us,” said J. Sudhakar, a villager. Her elevation to the position had made her ancestral village popular even in the United States. “We await her visit to Thulasendrapuram. When she visits India, I hope her itinerary includes our village,” Mr. Sudhakar added. Women were particularly enthused over Ms. Harris’s success. S. Arulmozhi, a resident said,“She has emerged as a symbol of women’s empowerment and inspires us all”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sweets-souvenirs-in-thulasendrapuram/article33622156.ece
21 January 2021||January 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Let police decide on parade: CJI||Chief Justice of India (CJI) Sharad A. Bobde on Wednesday told the government that it was both “improper and irregular” for the Supreme Court to disallow any rally by protesting farmers on Republic Day. “It is for the police to decide. We will allow you to withdraw. You are the executive of the country. You decide,” Chief Justice Bobde, heading a three-judge Bench, addressed Attorney-General K.K. Venugopal and Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta. The CJI’s remarks was in response to a submission by Mr. Mehta to adjourn the hearing on a government plea to bar farmers from holding rallies to “disrupt” the Republic Day celebration. Mr. Mehta submitted, “Consider hearing it on January 25... Let us see how the situation develops”. But the CJI allowed the government to withdraw its plea. “You [government] decide what has to be done,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/let-police-decide-on-parade-cji/article33622157.ece
21 January 2021||Pune,||Need not fear inoculation, says Tope||Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday said while the 54% vaccination turnout across Maharashtra on Tuesday was not up to the mark, it was not particularly unsatisfactory. He clarified that there was a technical problem with the Co-WIN app, which was being rectified. While admitting that a number of beneficiaries were confused about taking the vaccine, Mr. Tope said Covishield and Covaxin were safe and had been approved by the Drug Control Authority, besides being cleared by scientists. Maharashtra on Wednesday yet again recorded more recoveries than fresh COVID-19 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/need-not-fear-inoculation-says-tope/article33622600.ece
21 January 2021||MANGALURU,||‘Culprits in mischief at shrine will be arrested’||Those who deposited unwanted material in the offering box of a daivastana in Ullal will be caught shortly, said Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar here on Wednesday. A set of condoms and a poster with the desecrated images of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and his son B.Y. Vijayendra were found in the offering box of Koragajja Guligajja Daivastana, near Ullal, on Tuesday. After visiting the spot and speaking to people managing the daivastana, Mr. Kumar told reporters that a case of hurting religious sentiments has been registered with the Ullal Police Station. A special team has been formed to trace the accused. “Hurting religious sentiments is a sad thing. Those indulging in such mischief will be caught,” he said. He asked people not to be carried way by such acts of mischief that may lead to disturbances in the city. Mr. Kumar said that a case has been registered in connection with an attempt to steal articles from the Gopalakrishna Bhajana Mandira in Mular under Konaje Police limits. Mr. Kumar asked management bodies of temples, daivastana and other places of worship to install CCTV cameras. “Having CCTV cameras will help find quickly those involved in such acts of mischief and theft,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/culprits-in-mischief-at-shrine-will-be-arrested/article33622583.ece
21 January 2021||CHENNAI,||Evangelist comes under I-T Dept. lens||The Income-Tax Department on Wednesday knocked on the door of evangelist Paul Dhinakaran, who heads the Jesus Calls ministry, on suspicion of tax evasion. At least 28 premises belonging to the group in Chennai and Coimbatore came under the tax officials’ lens. In Coimbatore, the Karunya Institute of Technology and Sciences was also searched. Mr. Dhinakaran is the Chancellor of the institute, which was founded in 1986 by his late father and preacher D.G.S. Dhinakaran. A few other educational institutions and development centres run by the group were also searched. Sources in the I-T Department said the primary reason for conducting the searches was to check if there had been any tax evasion. The I-T officials are also looking into the foreign funds the group had received through various sources. “We suspect that the group has not disclosed details pertaining to the foreign funds it had received,” a source said. When details of seizures were sought, he said, “Since it is a large group, we will be able to provide details only after the searches are completed.” The searches continued late into Wednesday evening, and are expected to go on for another day. Jesus Calls collects donations under various schemes and plans, which it offers on its website. Mr. Dhinakaran also produces the prayer time TV programme, which is telecast globally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/evangelist-comes-under-i-t-dept-lens/article33622222.ece
21 January 2021||HUBBALLI,||Oram panel visits Karwar Naval Base||Chairperson of Parliamentary Standing Committee on Defence (SCOD) Jual Oram accompanied by members of the committee visited Karwar Naval Base on Wednesday as part of a two-day visit. The tour of Goa and Karwar is part of an on-the-spot study of the “state of present operational preparedness in the Arabian Sea, including coastal security”. According to a press release issued by Public Relations Officer of the Naval Base, the delegation was received and conducted by Rear Admiral Mahesh Singh, NM, Flag Officer Commanding Karnataka Naval Area. The delegation was briefed on the progress of activities with respect to the development of Project Seabird, including the modernisation of Naval Ship Repair Yard (Karwar) and the capabilities of Indian Naval Ship Vikramaditya. A capability demonstration at the shiplift facility and a field tour of the Naval Harbour onboard ferry craft towards assessment of marine infrastructure being developed as part of Project Seabird Phase II A were also conducted. On the completion of the visit, the committee left for Goa where it is scheduled to undertake discussions on modernisation of defence public sector undertakings (DPSUs), the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/oram-panel-visits-karwar-naval-base/article33622395.ece
21 January 2021||SRIKAKULAM,||Kala Venkata Rao held for ‘attack’ on Vijaya Sai||Former Minister and and former TDP State unit president Kimidi Kala Venkata Rao was arrested in Rajam of Srikakulam district in connection with the alleged attack on YSRCP MP K. Vijaya Sai Reddy at Ramateertham . He was sent to Cheepurupalli police station of Vizianagaram district. On January 2, a clash ensued between TDP and YSRCP workers when TDP chief N. Chandrababu Naidu and Mr. Vijay Sai Reddy visited the temple simultaneously. TDP leaders reportedly attacked the MP’s convoy by pelting it with stones and footwear, opposing his visit when Mr. Naidu was about to visit the temple where Lord Rama’s statue was vandalised in the December. TDP leaders Srikakulam parliamentary wing president Kuna Ravikumar and TDP Vizianagaram Parliamentary Party president Kimidi Nagarjuna condemned the arrest of Mr. Venkata Rao, alleging that the government was trying to harass him with false charges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kala-venkata-rao-held-for-attack-on-vijaya-sai/article33622654.ece
21 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Cong. demands repeal of farm laws||Farmers and Congress workers from across Karnataka took out a rally in Bengaluru on Wednesday to demand the repeal of the three “draconian” farm laws enacted by the Centre and to express solidarity with the protesting farmers in Delhi. KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar and Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah, among those who led the protest, said that many farmers had been stopped from entering the city to join the rally and this was a violation of their rights. Later, a delegation met Governor Vajubhai R. Vala and through him submitted a memorandum to President Ram Nath Kovind demanding repeal of the laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cong-demands-repeal-of-farm-laws/article33622603.ece
21 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Train to KIA a hassle-free ride: Commuters||Ridership on trains to Kempegowda International Airport, which were introduced on January 4, is yet to pick up. On an average, around 50 people use the services daily, but officials are hoping that the number will increase. The few who are using the services regularly say not only has it made their commute to work hassle-free, it has also reduced their travel time considerably and is cheaper. Regular users suggested that SWR build stations at Betta Halasur and Doddajala in addition to focusing on air passengers and those working at KIA. Others suggested that the road linking the halt station be opened to enable easy access.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/train-to-kia-a-hassle-free-ride-commuters/article33622191.ece
21 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Over 1 lakh vaccinated in State||As of Wednesday evening, the total number of vaccinations in Karnataka crossed the 1 lakh mark. Over 1.17 lakh healthcare workers were vaccinated in the State since the drive began on January 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/over-1-lakh-vaccinated-in-state/article33622185.ece
21 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Cong., farmers take out rally against three laws||A large number of farmers from the State led by KPCC on Wednesday took out Raj Bhavan Chalo, a protest march, in Bengaluru, demanding revoking of three farm laws enacted by the Union government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cong-farmers-take-out-rally-against-three-laws/article33622187.ece
21 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Sasikala hospitalised week before release||Late Tamil Nadu Chief Minister J. Jayalalithaa’s aide V.K. Sasikala, who was to be released from Bengaluru Central Prison on January 27, was hospitalised on Wednesday owing to fever, breathlessness and cough.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sasikala-hospitalised-week-before-release/article33622188.ece
21 January 2021||Mumbai,||Second Mumbai nearby||The City Civil and Sessions Court in Mumbai on Wednesday rejected a bail plea of Partho Dasgupta, former CEO and MD of Broadcast Audience Research Council (Barc), in the Television Rating Point manipulation case. He was arrested from Pune on December 24 and is currently lodged in the Central Jail at Taloja. Special Public Prosecutor Shishir Hiray opposed his bail on the grounds that leaked WhatsApp chats allegedly between him and the Prime Minister’s Office showed that he was an influential person and could tamper with evidence and sway witnesses who were either former or current Barc employees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/second-mumbai-nearby/article33622601.ece
21 January 2021||Mumbai,||Third Mumbai nearby||Senior advocate Indira Jaising, arguing for 82-year-old poet Varavara Rao’s medical bail, told the Bombay High Court on Wednesday that the activist’s detention was cruel and inhuman, and amounted to violation of his right to life and dignity. Ms. Jaising commenced her submissions before a Division Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and Manish Pitale.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/third-mumbai-nearby/article33622602.ece
21 January 2021||Kolkata,||Full bench of Election Commission arrives in Kolkata||The full bench of the Election Commission of India led by Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora arrived in the city on Wednesday. Mr. Arora is accompanied by Election Commissioners Rajiv Kumar and Sushil Chandra. On Thursday, the Commission will meet representatives of different political parties and officials of the Central and State regulatory agencies. “In the post lunch session, a review meeting will be held with divisional commissioners, district election commissioners, zonal and range IGs, SPs and CPs on issues related to the conduct of the Assembly elections,” a press note said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/full-bench-of-election-commission-arrives-in-kolkata/article33622546.ece
21 January 2021||Kolkata,||Now “shoot the traitors” slogan raised at BJP rally||A day after the BJP raised strong objections to the slogan “Bengal ke gaddaron ko, goli maaro….” (shoot the traitors of Bengal) at a Trinamool Congress rally in Kolkata, a similar slogan was raised at a rally organised by the party at Chandanagar in Hooghly district on Wednesday. Senior leaders Suvendu Adhikari and Hooghly Lok Sabha MP Locket Chatterjee were present. The local BJP leader who was seen raising the slogan later defended it by saying the slogan was for the army to shoot those who are involved in anti-national activities. TMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh took a swipe at the BJP and said the party should practise what it preaches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/now-shoot-the-traitors-slogan-raised-at-bjp-rally/article33622547.ece
21 January 2021||HUBBALLI,||NWKRTC to approach banks for loan||With the State government not coming to its rescue, North Western Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NWKRTC), which is facing a funds crunch, is now knocking on the doors of banks to raise loans for payment of its Provident Fund dues. NWKRTC, which has cumulative losses running into a few hundred crores of rupees, is undergoing a rough phase, particularly after the lockdown and post-lockdown developments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nwkrtc-to-approach-banks-for-loan/article33622397.ece
21 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Supreme Court dismisses Aadhaar review petitions||The Supreme Court, in a majority view, dismissed a series of petitions seeking a review of its 2018 judgment upholding the Lok Sabha Speaker’s certification of Aadhaar law as a Money Bill and its subsequent passage in Parliament.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/supreme-court-dismisses-aadhaar-review-petitions/article33622293.ece
21 January 2021||GURUGRAM,||Haryana mulls reopening schools from February 1||The Haryana government is considering reopening schools for classes 6 to 8 from February 1 and hold annual exams in April-end. The Haryana Board of School Education exams are generally conducted in early March. Parents will have the choice to not send their children to school.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/haryana-govt-mulls-reopening-classes-6-to-8/article33622294.ece
21 January 2021||Mysuru,||Improved response to vaccination in Mysuru||The number of people receiving the COVID-19 vaccination in Mysuru went up on Wednesday after the rules were relaxed to allow beneficiaries registered on the Co-WIN app for other days also to receive the jab.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/improved-response-to-vaccination-in-mysuru/article33622605.ece
21 January 2021||Mysuru,||Siddaramaiah warned boycott by Kurubas||Taking exception to former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah’s reported accusation that padayatra led by Kaginele Kanaka Gurupeetha Swami had been sponsored by the RSS, A.H. Vishwanath, BJP MLC, warned the Congress leader that the Kuruba community would boycott him if he did not withdraw the charge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/siddaramaiah-warned-boycott-by-kurubas/article33622606.ece
21 January 2021||Bengaluru,||State gives undertaking to HC on new Ordinance||The State government on Wednesday gave an undertaking to the Karnataka HC that no coercive action will be taken for transporting cattle in breach of Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Ordinance, 2020, till relevant rules are brought into force.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-gives-undertaking-to-hc-on-new-ordinance/article33622607.ece
21 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Sasikala hospitalised week before release from prison||Late Tamil Nadu Chief Minister J. Jayalalithaa’s aide V.K. Sasikala, who is due to be released from the Bengaluru Central Prison on January 27, was hospitalised on Wednesday with complaints of fever, breathlessness and cough. According to prison officials, she complained of uneasiness and was shifted to the prison hospital when the symptoms did not subside. After keeping her under observation, doctors at the prison hospital decided to seek a second opinion on the possibility of a COVID-19 infection and shifted her to the Bowring and Lady Curzon Medical College and Research Institute later in the day. Doctors at Bowring Hospital told The Hindu that she had fever two days ago, but when she was brought in, she had breathlessness but no fever. “She has tested negative in the rapid antigen test and the test report of RT-PCR is awaited,” said Manoj Kumar H.V., dean and director and Medical Superintendent at Bowring Hospital. Her oxygen saturation had dropped to 79%. Later in the evening, after she was administered six litres of oxygen, it came up to 96%, said doctors. “Ms. Sasikala was admitted with co-morbidities of hypertension, diabetes and hypothyroidism. She is stable with supportive measures, antibiotics and oxygen. She will be further evaluated and monitored. Investigation reports are awaited,” said the hospital in a statement. Under observation The former AIADMK leader’s advocate Raja Senthoor Pandian, when contacted, said, “We are getting updates from prison authorities. She is under observation and tests are done. Results are awaited. No one is allowed to meet her.” Security personnel have been deployed at the ward where she has been admitted. Ms. Sasikala, close confidante of Jayalalithaa, was convicted in a disproportionate assets case and is set to complete her four-year prison term on January 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sasikala-falls-sick-shifted-from-prison-to-bengaluru-hospital/article33622101.ece
21 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||1.1 lakh vaccinations, 82 adverse events on Day 5||On Wednesday, 1,12,007 people were inoculated against COVID-19, taking the count of beneficiaries to 7,86,000. There have been four deaths among those vaccinated — three due to cardiac arrest and not linked to the vaccination and one was still being analysed, a Health Ministry official said. All in all, the States have reported 82 adverse events following immunisation. While 10 of them have merited hospitalisation, seven have been discharged and none grave enough to be recorded as a “serious/severe AEFI”. The deaths were reported from Moradabad in Uttar Pradesh, Bellary and Shivamogga in Karnataka and Nirmal in Telangana. On the fifth day since the vaccination has begun, 20 States organised sessions. Andhra Pradesh recorded the highest number at 22,548 whereas Himachal Pradesh pooled only 45. Kerala that has recorded some of the highest infections in the country recorded only 262. So far there have been 14,119 sessions held nationally since January 16 and by the Health Ministry’s original estimate of 100 inoculations per session, there ought to have been 1.4 million inoculations so far but the actual number as of today is around half that. The Centre has said it has now provided for States, which must record vaccinations, using the Co-WIN software to add beneficiaries to a session in case those who were supposed to receive their shots on a particular day don’t turn up. However, only those who were pre-registered could avail themselves of such a facility. Those who were inoculated would get a “provisional certificate” after the first dose and a final certificate after the final dose 14 days later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/11-lakh-vaccinations-82-adverse-events-on-day-5/article33622119.ece
21 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Cong., farmers take out rally against farm laws||A large number of farmers from across the State led by the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee on Wednesday took out Raj Bhavan Chalo, a protest march, in Bengaluru, demanding revoking of three farm laws enacted by the Central government. Farmers holding placards and Congress flags took out the march from Sangolli Rayanna statue at Ananda Rao Circle to Freedom Park in the city. KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah, and his counterpart in Council S.R. Patil, senior leaders Mallikarjun Kharge, K.H. Muniyappa, H.K. Patil, and B.L. Shankar were among those who participated in the rally. They said that an “arrogant Central government” had remained insensible to the pains and sufferings of 63 crore farmers. The rally caused traffic blockade in and around central parts of the city for three to four hours. Motorists were diverted to adjacent roads after traffic came to a near standstill on Sheshadri Road, Nrupatunga Road, and Race Course Road. The protesters also opposed the steep hikes in fuel prices. The Congress leaders said the Central government increased excise duty on petrol by 258% and on diesel by 820% since 2014. In a memorandum submitted to President Ram Nath Kovind, through Governor Vajubhai R. Vala, the leaders demanded calling a session of the Parliament to discuss the three farm laws. Congress leaders urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to hold talks with the leaders of millions of farmers who were staging protests in and around Delhi opposing the laws. They demanded withdrawal of 12,000 FIRs filed against farmers in the case related to burning of stubbles. “If they want to improve these laws, they should bring forth a law that makes MSP mandatory and make it punishable if someone does not adhere to MSP,” the petition said. The KPCC urged the President to intervene and ensure that the Central government concedes the demands of the farmers. Many of the Congress leaders were detained by the police near Raj Bhavan. Soumya Reddy, Jayanagar MLA, complained to the city Police Commissioner alleging aggressive behaviour of the police. “The women police surrounded the women protesters, manhandled and treated us like criminals,” she said. She dismissed allegations that she had “attacked” a police constable. Earlier, speaking to presspersons, Mr. Shivakumar said it was not a Congress protest, but that of farmers. “The Congress is only supporting the protest of farmers,” he said. He added that the police had prevented farmers in Bengaluru, Tumakuru, Ramanagaram, and other districts from participating in the protest. “The government has insulted farmers by denying them the right to protest. I condemn this,” he said. The protest would continue till the central government repeal the farm laws, he added. Meanwhile, the BJP, in a statement, dismissed the Congress protest as "mere theatrics".||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-farmers-take-out-rally-against-farm-laws/article33622093.ece
21 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||India sends vaccines to 2 countries||India on Wednesday began the delivery of COVID-19 vaccines to six “neighbouring and key partner countries”. The delivery began with two special flights carrying the first consignments of Covishield to the Maldives and Bhutan. Sources said Bangladesh and Nepal will receive two large consignments of the same vaccine on Thursday followed by supplies to Myanmar and the Seychelles. As part of the vaccine diplomacy, a consignment of 1,50,000 doses reached Thimphu on Wednesday. Bhutan is the first country to receive the vaccine manufactured by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII). The vaccine is part of an overall programme to build Bhutanese capacity to fight the pandemic. On the request of Bhutan, India has also fast tracked the release of Rs. 501 crore for Thimphu’s “reprioritised projects” to meet the emerging challenges caused by the pandemic. Later on Wednesday, a consignment of 1,00,000 doses was received at the Male airport by Foreign Minister Abdulla Shahid and Health Minister Ahmed Naseem. “Maldives is [among] the first to receive the COVID-19 vaccine. It’s a gift from India. India has proved to be a solid friend of the Maldives. India gave us support when our students had to be evacuated from Wuhan in China. In these difficult circumstances, India is the first country. We thank India for supporting us always in our challenging moments,” Mr. Shahid said. In a press statement, the High Commission of India in Male said, “India gifted 1,00,000 doses of the India-manufactured COVID-19 vaccine to the Maldives today to meet the immediate requirements of vaccinating healthcare workers, frontline workers and those with co-morbidities.” India will ‘gift’ one million doses of Covishield to Nepal and two million doses to Dhaka on Thursday. The Health Department of Bangladesh had earlier announced that it was expecting the vaccine on Wednesday but the delivery was finally slotted for Thursday. At a joint press conference with Ambassador to Kathmandu Vinay Mohan Kwatra, Health and Public Health Minister of Nepal Hridayesh Tripathi said the announcement of the ‘gift’ of the vaccine from India is a ‘wonder’. The announcement came days after Foreign Minister Pradeep Kumar Gyawali placed requirement of the India-manufactured vaccine to fight the pandemic in the Himalayan country. The Ministry of External Affairs on Tuesday declared that India will continue to supply vaccine to “neighbouring and key partner countries”, “keeping in view the domestic requirements of the phased roll-out”. “It will be ensured that domestic manufacturers will have adequate stocks to meet domestic requirements while supplying abroad,” said the Ministry of External Affairs on Tuesday informing that India has also carried out capacity building and training workshops for neighbouring countries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-sends-vaccines-to-6-countries/article33622121.ece
21 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||India is a bipartisan success story: Blinken||India is a “bipartisan success story”, Antony Blinken, Secretary of State-nominee of U.S. President Joseph Biden, said at his confirmation hearing at the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations, making it clear that strategic ties with India will remain strong, especially on the Indo-Pacific, with continuity in dealing with China’s aggressive actions from the Trump administration. “During the Obama administration, we deepened cooperation with India, particularly in the defence procurement area and also on information sharing, and I think the Trump administration carried that forward including with this concept of an Indo-Pacific and to make sure that we were working with India so that no country in the region, including China, could challenge its sovereignty, and also working with it on concerns that we share about terrorism,” Mr. Blinken replied to a specific question on whether the defence ties would be closer due to China’s actions at the LAC, and killing of Indian soldiers in Galwan. However, remarks he made about Russia and Turkey’s purchase of the S-400 missile system, which India hopes to receive later this year, indicate that might become an area for confrontation between New Delhi and Washington. “That one of our strategic partners should be in line with one of our biggest competitors, Russia, is just not acceptable,” said Mr. Blinken adding that he would study whether more sanctions under the CAATSA law would apply to Turkey for the deal. India is sending a military team to Moscow shortly for training on the S-400, making it clear that it is going ahead with the purchase, despite the possibility of U.S. sanctions over it. Mr. Biden’s choice for Defense Secretary General Lloyd Austin and his nominee for Director of National Intelligence Avril Haines also began their confirmation process, giving key insights into future policy on security and foreign affairs. Other important appointments such as National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan and Kurt Campbell as “Indo-Pacific Coordinator” will not need confirmation, but all have indicated that a tough policy on China, renewed tensions with Russia, prioritising relations with the U.S.’s traditional alliance partners in Europe and East Asia and strengthening ties with India will form that policy. “I would further operationalise India’s ‘Major Defense Partner’ status and continue to build upon existing strong defence cooperation to ensure the U.S. and Indian militaries can collaborate to address shared interests. I would also seek to deepen and broaden our defence cooperation through the Quad security dialogue and other regional multilateral engagements,” said Gen. Austin, to a question during his testimony to the Senate Armed Services Committee. Ms. Haines made it clear that she supports an “aggressive stance” on China adding that as DNI she would “provide the necessary intelligence to support long-term bipartisan efforts to out-compete China”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-is-a-bipartisan-success-story-blinken/article33622123.ece
21 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Why cast aspersions on court, asks CJI Bobde||Chief Justice of India (CJI) Sharad A. Bobde on Wednesday said it had become “almost a cultural thing” to brand people while lashing out at articles hinting the possibility of “bias” on the part of members of an expert committee constituted by the Supreme Court to intercede between the protesting farmers and the government. “They [committee members] are brilliant minds in the field of agriculture... Branding of people whom you do not want, this has become almost like a cultural thing. You malign people’s reputation and then you say the court is interested in these people... I am sorry that this kind of opinions are appearing in the Press,” he said. There was criticism in social media and articles in newspapers over the court’s choice of members of the committee constituted on January 12. The opinions published said the members had previously written in favour of the farm laws. Write-ups indicated that the members may not be empathetic to the cause of the farmers, who have been protesting at the Delhi borders for nearly 50 days, for repeal of the laws. Amid this, one of the committee members, Bhupinder Singh Mann, recused himself from the committee. “You unthinkingly cast aspersions on people. Bhupinder Singh Mann had even asked for modifications of the laws, can you say he is in favour of the laws... Or is it that you do not want people to have opinions? Even the best judges have opinions, though he can give a judgment against his own personal opinions... Have you not found in the body-politic people expressing an opinion and changing them once informed?” Chief Justice Bobde addressed some lawyers appearing for farmers. ‘Bid to hear out farmers’ The court said the reputation of the members have been torn to shreds. The committee had been given no power to decide on the farm laws. They have been constituted only to hear out the farmers. “We formed the committee only to hear the farmers’ grievances and submit a report to the court. They were given no adjudicatory powers. So, where is the question of bias here? If you don’t want to appear before the committee, don’t. But why cast aspersions on the court and brand people. We did not want to intervene, but we did only for the sake of the common people and the farmers,” Chief Justice Bobde said. Newspaper reports do not decide disputes in court, he stated. “We are adjudicating the dispute. Are we going to read newspapers and decide disputes? Public opinions cannot be used to determine court proceedings,” he observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/why-cast-aspersions-on-court-asks-cji-bobde/article33622108.ece
21 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Supreme Court dismisses Aadhaar review petitions||The Supreme Court, in a majority view, dismissed a series of petitions seeking a review of its 2018 judgment upholding the Lok Sabha Speaker’s certification of Aadhaar law as a Money Bill and its subsequent passage in Parliament. However, Justice D.Y. Chandrachud dissented with the majority, saying the Aadhaar review petitions should be kept pending. The Bench sat in review on January 11 in their chambers. The decision, however, was published on Wednesday. Two questions had come up for review regarding the five-judge Aadhaar Bench’s judgment in 2018. One, whether the Speaker’s decision to declare a proposed law as Money Bill was “final” and cannot be challenged in court. The second, whether the Aadhaar (Targeted Delivery of Financial and Other Subsidies, Benefits and Services) Act, 2016 was correctly certified as a ‘Money Bill’ under Article 110 (1) of the Constitution. On the first question, the majority judgment in 2018 said the Speaker’s decision could be challenged in court only under “certain circumstances”. On the second, it concluded that the Aadhaar Act was rightly called a Money Bill. Justice Chandrachud, who was on the Bench, had dissented on the second conclusion in 2018. Two years later, marking his dissent again, Justice Chandrachud differed with the four other judges on the Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar. This time, he said that another five-judge Bench in a separate case in November 2019 had questioned the conclusions arrived at by the Aadhaar Bench and referred the issues to a seven-judge Bench for an authoritative take.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/supreme-court-dismisses-aadhaar-review-petitions/article33622111.ece
21 January 2021||Chennai,||Building an app for India means building one for the world: Signal’s Brian Acton||Facebook-owned WhatsApp recently updated its privacy policy, triggering a mass digital migration of users from the messaging platform to those of its rivals. The switch gained momentum after the world’s richest man Elon Musk urged his followers on Twitter to install the Signal app. Since then, millions of users have downloaded Signal to connect with their friends and family. The exodus initially strained telecom service providers’ infrastructure, causing delays in the user sign-up process. The unforeseen user traffic did not deter Signal’s effort to ramp up infrastructure and build capabilities to handle sustained growth in user traffic to its platform. Signal’s unprecedented growth helped it top charts on Apple’s App Store in over 70 countries and in Google’s Play Store in more than 50 countries, Signal Foundation’s co-founder Brian Acton said in an email interview to The Hindu . The Signal app was launched by Moxie Marlinspike in 2013. Mr. Marlinspike and Mr. Acton co-founded the Signal Foundation five years later in response to the continued global need for data protection and privacy, setting out to pioneer a new model of a technology non-profit, focused on privacy and data protection for its users. The foundation is an independent non-profit body, and is not tied to any major technology firm. Product development on the platform is supported by grants and donations, akin to the way Wikipedia is run. “Our non-profit status protects Signal from outside interests demanding rapid returns,” Mr. Acton said. He is also the co-founder of WhatsApp but he left the platform after it was sold to Facebook in 2014. A week after WhatsApp’s policy update, on January 13, the Signal app was downloaded by 17.8 million users over the week, a 62-fold rise from the week prior, Reuters reported. About 810,000 users globally installed the app in a single day on January 10. While Signal installs surged, WhatsApp’s daily downloads number slowed significantly. Signal is scaling up its infrastructure to handle user traffic and to ensure it has enough capacity online. “We are burning the midnight oil,” Mr. Acton said. Signal app users experienced several outages last week after it faced technical difficulties as it dealt with the flood of new users. Services were restored on Saturday. “There are still going to be some challenging moments when you grow so suddenly like we did, but we are moving as fast as possible through it all,” Mr. Acton added. While Signal witnessed an exponential growth in usage and adoption in 2019 — much of it fuelled by increased reliance on digital communication — it is different this time. “All that pales in comparison to what is happening right now though, this movement for privacy is larger than anything I’ve seen, even during my time at WhatsApp,” Mr. Acton noted. The foundation aims to be “financially self-sustaining” and act in public interest, and make a “meaningful contribution to society by building sustainable technology that respects people and does not rely on the commoditisation of personal data”, he added. India continues to dominate Signal’s growth numbers, helping it sustain its top position in the free apps category in Apple’s App Store. It is also the most popular app in India currently. “We believe that building our app for a country as diverse as India will have automatically built it for the world,” Mr. Acton said. He also pointed out that Signal app installs in India started even before the WhatsApp update. “To be honest, we always knew that India was going to be a very big place for Signal as we had seen massive adoption over the summer,” he said. Prominent personalities in India, including Mahindra Group chairman Anand Mahindra, supported the app via Twitter. Mr. Acton said Indian users can expect several features soon, including wallpapers, and animated stickers, the most requested feature in the country, Mr. Acton said. Signal will also support other uncommon features like disappearing messages, a “note to self” feature, and emoji reactions to messages. The app will also support more regional languages, including Gujarati, Kannada, Tamil, Telugu and Punjabi.  (For full interview,   visit: http://bit.ly/3qEku28)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/building-an-app-for-india-means-building-one-for-the-world-signals-brian-acton/article33622110.ece
21 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Depts. asked to give details on SC/ST promotions under Act||In the light of complaints over irregular implementation of reservation in promotion following the Supreme Court order, the Social Welfare Department has asked departments to submit details of promotions effected by them as per the Consequential Seniority to Act, 2017, that provides reservation in promotions to government employees belonging to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. Complaints of promotions not effected in line with the legislation has been there for sometime in the Police, Urban Development, Fire Services, Transport, Agriculture, Public Works, and Forest Departments, among many others. The direction from the Social Welfare Department came after the Karnataka State Government SC/ST Employees Association petitioned Social Welfare Minister B. Sriramulu over the issue. The Additional Chief Secretary, Social Welfare Department, will be chairing a meeting on January 21 to review the implementation. The reservation in promotion has been a burning issue over the last couple of years after two separate Supreme Court decisions caused confusion in the bureaucracy. If the first order that quashed the earlier legislation for reservation in promotion resulted in nearly 4,000 SC/ST employees being demoted, the second order that came in May 2019 upheld the Karnataka Extension of Consequential Seniority to Government Servants Promoted on the Basis of Reservation (to the Posts in Civil Services of the State) Act, 2017, that meant the reinstatement of those demoted and drawing of fresh seniority list. The committee, however, said that the compliance with the court order and the Act had been poor. The petition submitted by the committee president D. Chandrashekaraiah pointed at specific instances in departments where the reservation in promotion as per the 1978 order had not been followed while giving promotion. The committee has sought action under the Untouchability Offences Act, 1955, against those officials who are responsible for delay and confusion and has urged the Social Welfare Department to set up a cell to hear grievances pertaining to the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/depts-asked-to-give-details-on-scst-promotions-under-act/article33622192.ece
21 January 2021||Kozhikode,||Fake online varsities back in business of granting ‘D. Litt’||Fake online universities granting honorary doctorates (Doctor of Letters or D. Litt) seem to be back in the limelight in the State. The latest victim is a prominent actor, who held a press meet a couple of days ago to announce that he had been chosen for the “honour”. Ajmal Mueen, Assistant Professor, Department of History, M.A.M.O. College, Mukkom, Kozhikode, who is part of a group of academics tracking the activities of these universities, said on Wednesday that the actor had claimed to have got a D. Litt from ‘Royal American University’. According to its websitehttps://www.royalamericanuniversity.college/the university is located in Delaware State of the United States of America. Inquiries with the State Library authorities there, however, revealed that accredited universities and colleges in the U.S. have a web address with “.edu” at the end. For example, the web address of the University of Delaware ishttps://www.udel.edu/. “… So this appears to be a fabricated university to our knowledge. In addition, there is not a college of this name physically located in Delaware that we are aware of. After searching extensively, I am not finding any mention of Royal American University listed in any compilation of accredited online degree programmes,” the authorities replied to a message sent by Mr. Mueen. The location given on the website was that of a car repair unit. The actor had said that the D. Litt would be awarded at an event in India “because of COVID-19 restrictions”. It had been reported earlier that around half a dozen “universities”, which claim to be located in other States and abroad, are found to be selling fake D.Litt certificates in Kerala. The certificates could be delivered home on payment between Rs. 25,000 and Rs. 3 lakh. Those who fancy prefixing a ‘Dr’ title to their name and don’t mind spending a few bucks for the purpose included senior officials in the Education Department and school teachers. One such official on deputation was removed from his post in Kozhikode around two years ago. Indian Virtual University; Universal Tamil University, Chennai; Kings University, U.S.A.; International Peace University, Germany; International Tamil University; and University Asia, Kathmandu, Nepal, had been cited as examples of such universities. Other members of the academics’ group said those who paid the money would be asked to show up for a convocation ceremony to be held at star hotels in Chennai, Bengaluru, or Kathmandu. The event would be attended by well-known personalities and the details would appear in newspapers the next day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fake-online-varsities-back-in-business-of-granting-d-litt/article33622086.ece
21 January 2021||KOTTAYAM,||‘Neglected’ elderly man dies||An 80-year-old man died after allegedly being neglected by his son at Asambani near Mundakayam in Kerala. The deceased was identified as Podiyan. Podiyan and his wife Ammini were found by ASHA workers and palliative care team members on Tuesday in a poor condition, without food, water and medicine for days, at the house of his younger son. Although the couple was shifted to the General Hospital, Kanjirapally, with the help of the police and people’s representatives, Podiyan died later in the day. Ammini, who is showing signs of mental health issues, was admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Kottayam. The Mundakayam police said the couple was living with their younger son Reji and his wife. “We have registered a case of unnatural death,” said a police official. Sources said the couple’s son used to lock them in a room and no one was allowed to enter the house. “After being informed by the neighbours, ASHA and palliative care members visited the house. Although the couple’s son and his wife lived in the same house, they never took care of them. Both Podiyan and Ammini were living there in an abandoned state,” said an official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/neglected-elderly-man-dies/article33622090.ece
21 January 2021||Hyderabad,||Telangana man behind Biden’s incisive speeches||When US President Joe Biden stormed the hearts of US citizens with his incisive speech: “I pledge to be a President who seeks not to divide but unify” and “Who doesn’t see red States and blue States, only sees the United States”, there was a Telangana connection to it. The man behind those profound statements was Vinay Reddy Cholleti, who has roots in a remote Telangana village, Pothireddypeta in Karimnagar district. Political acumen His father, Narayana Reddy migrated to the USA in the 1970s to realise his dream of being a cardiologist after completing his MBBS from Hyderabad. The chief speech writer of Mr. Biden, though born and brought up in Dayton, Ohio, perhaps acquired that political acumen from his grandfather Tirupathi Reddy, who served as the Village sarpanch for 30 years. Political sensitivity, judgement and comprehension comes from his blood perhaps, says Vinay’s uncle Kishan Reddy, who also served as the Sarpanch for many years. “The village is on the world map because of our family members and it’s a great honour for all the villagers,” the former Chairman of the Lower Maneru Dam told The Hindu over phone. He says Vinay was the speech writer when Mr. Biden was the VP during Mr. Obama’s time as well. Despite being in the USA for nearly half a century , the family continues its ties with the village. Vinay’s father Dr. Narayan Reddy and mother Vijaya Reddy regularly visit the village and contribute to its development. They have retained their ancestral agriculture land in the village ensuring the connection remains. Love for village Dr. Narayan Reddy’s love for his village, where he was born and raised has not diminished. “He has contributed Rs. 1 lakh for construction of Pochamma temple in the village recently and also earlier,” Mr. Kishan Reddy said. Vinay is the second of the three sons and was raised on Ohio. He attended his schooling in Dayton, Ohio and acquired a Law degree from the Ohio State University College of Law. According to his uncle, he has married a Telugu and they live in New York.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/telangana-bidda-behind-bidens-speeches/article33622434.ece
21 January 2021||AHMEDABAD,||In Gujarat, lotus eaters munch on just dragon fruit||The Gujarat government has decided to rename the dragon fruit as ‘kamalam’, and comments have flooded the Internet and social media platforms. According to Chief Minister Vijay Rupani, the fruit’s outer shape resembles a lotus, which is also the election symbol of the BJP. “We have applied for a patent of the dragon fruit to be called ‘kamalam’, Mr. Rupani said at the launch of the Chief Minister Horticulture Development Mission, a scheme to promote horticulture in unproductive land parcels. Farmers in Kutch, Navsari and other parts were growing the fruit and it should, therefore, have a local name too. “Though it is known as dragon fruit, it does not sound appropriate. The word ‘kamalam’ is a Sanskrit word and the shape of the fruit does resemble the lotus flower,” he said, adding that the renaming had nothing political about it. Another reason Mr. Rupani cited for renaming the fruit was that the word dragon reminded one of China. The move evoked sharp comments on social media. The dragon has been slain, Congress MP Karti Chidambaram said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/in-gujarat-lotus-eaters-munch-on-just-dragon-fruit/article33622126.ece
21 January 2021||Mumbai,||Mumbai court rejects bail petition of Barc ex-CEO||The City Civil and Sessions Court in Mumbai on Wednesday rejected a bail plea of Partho Dasgupta, former chief executive officer and managing director of Broadcast Audience Research Council (Barc), in the Television Rating Point (TRP) manipulation case. He was arrested from Pune on December 24 and is currently lodged in the Central Jail at Taloja. Special Public Prosecutor Shishir Hiray opposed his bail on the grounds that leaked WhatsApp chats allegedly between him and the Prime Minister’s Office showed that he was an influential person and could tamper with evidence and sway witnesses who were either former or current Barc employees. Mr. Hiray said the investigation was on and the police were in the process of filing an additional supplementary chargesheet. The first had highlighted his prima facie involvement. Judge Milind Bhosale took into consideration the gravity of the offence and rejected his bail. T he supplementary chargesheet filed on January 11 mentioned that Mr. Dasgupta, along with chief operating officer of Barc Romil Ramgarhia, conspired to rig the data of random sampling of 40 weeks and misused their position. On January 4, the additional chief metropolitan magistrate rejected his bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mumbai-court-rejects-bail-petition-of-ex-barc-ceo/article33622130.ece
21 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Cong. steps up attack on Arnab||The Congress on Wednesday stepped up its attack on Republic TV promoter and anchor Arnab Goswami. It said the contents of the leaked Whatsapp chats amounted to ‘treason’ and those responsible for the leak of ‘sensitive military operations’ should be punished. Referring to an alleged conversation about influencing judicial decisions, the party asked whether “the judiciary will turn a blind eye or set example” to restore the faith of people in the judicial system. The party fielded former Defence Minister A.K. Antony, former Home Minister Sushil Kumar Shinde, former Law Miniser Salman Khurshid and Leader of the Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad at a joint press conference in which they asked “Prime Minister Narendra Modi to come clean on the accusations to restore the credibility of the highest office”. “Leaking official secret about military operation, national security matters, sensitive military operations especially military strike is treason, anti-national,” Mr. Antony said, referring to the chat between Mr. Goswami and ex-BARC CEO Partho Dasgupta. Referring to Mr. Goswami’s alleged WhatsApp conversation in which the issue of ‘buying’ a judge came up, Mr. Khurshid said, “I have no qualms in saying that as the BJP lets loose people to influence judges, unconstitutionally and illegally, what would the judges do? Where it reacts, rightly so, to irresponsible reportage, it reacts with processes of contempt. Will the judiciary turn a blind eye or, to restore the faith and confidence of the people, will the judiciary set an example?” The former Law Minister, however, stressed that the party “fully backs the judiciary and stands with them”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-steps-up-attack-on-arnab/article33622132.ece
21 January 2021||New Delhi,||India, Singapore sign pact on Navy support||India and Singapore on Wednesday signed the implementing agreement on submarine rescue support and cooperation between the two Navies. This was signed at the 5th Defence Ministers dialogue held virtually between Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and his Singapore counterpart Dr. Ng Eng Hen. “Both sides reviewed the progress of various bilateral defence cooperation initiatives being pursued over the last year and expressed commitment to further elevate the scale of engagements between the armed forces as well as in areas of defence technology and industry,” a Defence Ministry statement said. Expressing satisfaction at the growing defence ties, the two Ministers also discussed new areas of potential cooperation, it stated. The two Ministers also discussed the efforts of both countries in tackling the COVID-19 pandemic and the role of the Armed Forces in the mitigation measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-singapore-sign-pact-on-navy-support/article33622115.ece
21 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Two-day RSS conclave to be held in Bengaluru||Bengaluru is again set to host the annual conclave of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh’s (RSS) highest decision-making body. This year’s meeting of the Akhil Bharatiya Prathinidhi Sabha of the RSS, which was originally scheduled to be held in Nagpur, will be shifted to Bengaluru in view of the prevailing COVID-19 situation in Maharashtra. The meet will be held in Bengaluru on March 19 and 20, according to E.S. Pradeep, media in charge of the RSS Karnataka unit. It will be held at the Janaseva Vidya Kendra at Channenahalli on the city’s outskirts. Bengaluru had hosted the conclave last year too. The meet will be attended by over 500 delegates from across the country, said Mr. Pradeep. The numbers have been reduced this year. The meet has gained importance as election to the highest executive post of the RSS, Sarkaryavah (general secretary), is also likely to take place at the two-day event, he said. Top leaders of the RSS, including its national president Mohan Bhagwat, will participate in the event. This will be the eighth ABPS meeting to be held in Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-day-rss-conclave-to-be-held-in-bengaluru/article33622193.ece
21 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Cattle transport: govt. gives undertaking to HC||The State government on Wednesday gave an undertaking to the High Court of Karnataka that no coercive action will be initiated for transporting cattle in breach of Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Ordinance, 2020, till the relevant rules are brought into force based on the draft rules notified recently. Advocate-General Prabhuling K. Navadgi made submissions in this regard before a Division bench, comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum, during the hearing of PIL petitions challenging the constitutional validity of the Ordinance promulgated recently. Also, the A-G assured the Bench that the government would inform the court before enforcing the rules after it were finalised considering the objections and suggestions being received for the draft rules, which were notified on January 18. The government gave the assurance after the Bench during earlier hearing asked the clear apprehension about likely prosecution of farmers for transporting cattle within the State even for the exemption granted for bonafide agriculture and animal husbandry purpose as the government is yet to frame rules prescribing manner of such transportation. Following these assurance, the Bench said that there was no need to pass any interim order at this stage while adjourning hearing till February 26. While orally pointing out that several legal issues raised in the petitions were settled by the judgements of the apex court, the Bench said that it may have examine a few provisions of the Ordinance. Population reduced Earlier, the government, in its preliminary statement justifying the ordinance, has stated that the cattle population over the past eight years has substantially reduced from 95,16,484 in 2012 census (19th livestock census) to 84,69,004 in 2019 (20th live stock census), and that as per the 2019 census 2,38,296 head of cattle are being slaughtered every year and on an average it works out to 652 head of cattle per day. Validity questioned The petitioners, Mohamed Arif Jameel, a social worker from Bengaluru and the Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha, have questioned the constitutional validity of the Ordinance on various grounds, including the contention that it would adversely affect the farmers as they would be forced to maintain unproductive cattle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cattle-transport-govt-gives-undertaking-to-hc/article33622091.ece
21 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||‘CAG’s remarks aimed at tarnishing govt. image’||Kerala Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac has said the adverse comments made by the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) on the State Finance Audit Report was aimed at tarnishing the image of State government and to scuttle development initiatives. “The CAG had said that all loans sourced by the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board [KIIFB] were unconstitutional. The Opposition said they shared the same views. The Left Democratic Front [LDF] will make it a poll plank in the elections,” Dr. Isaac said in his reply to the adjournment motion moved by Congress member V.D. Satheesan in the Assembly on Wednesday. Reiterating that the CAG cannot include comments without seeking an explanation from the State, Dr. Isaac said the Opposition was supporting the move by vested interests to tarnish the government and stall development. The CAG report was not binding to the State government as the Assembly could drop any paragraph after examination. “The CAG report is a challenge and a disrespect to the Assembly as three pages were inserted in the final report,” he said. Pointing out that the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) had given a NOC for loans taken by the KIIFB from abroad, Dr. Isaac said the KIIFB was a body corporate and that only States had been barred from taking foreign loans. Launching a scathing attack on the Opposition, the Finance Minister said the model adopted was control leverage and the changes were visible in the infrastructure front. “We passed the laws jointly. You are parting ways as elections are approaching as you fear that we will get an upper hand,” Dr. Isaac said. Following the Finance Minister’s reply, the Speaker dismissed the motion. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said Dr. Isaac had failed to answer the queries raised by them and should step down. The Opposition walked out in protest. Earlier, the House had witnessed a heated debate over the KIIFB sourcing off-budget loans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cags-remarks-aimed-at-tarnishing-image/article33622096.ece
21 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Glitches in Co-WIN slow down vaccination efforts||Glitches in the Co-WIN app persisted on Wednesday as a result of which the vaccination drive either halted or slowed down in several hospitals in the city. However, despite the problems, Karnataka continued to have the highest number of healthcare workers vaccinated in the country. Of the 1.12 lakh healthcare workers vaccinated across the country, 36,211 were from Karnataka. On Wednesday evening, the number of healthcare workers vaccinated touched over 1.17 lakh. Krishnaiah, medical superintendent, Jayanagar General Hospital in Bengaluru, said that vaccination could not take place on Tuesday and Wednesday. “The portal is not allowing us to enter the names of healthcare workers who can get vaccinated. So far 128 people have been vaccinated, but 380 of our staff still need the shot,” he said, and added that the glitches may be resolved on Thursday evening. Manoj Kumar H.V., Dean and Director and Medical Superintendent of Bowring and Lady Curzon Medical College and Research Institute, said that the drive did not take place at their hospital on Wednesday as they did not get the list of healthcare workers that were to be vaccinated from the State war room. At the K.C. General Hospital too, although 100 health workers were supposed to be vaccinated on Wednesday, only 42 of them underwent the process. An official of the Department of Health and Family Welfare stated that there was heavy load on the servers as all hospitals were trying to enter the data at the same time. “We have told many of our hospitals that they will have to get good internet connectivity to ensure that the pace of the vaccination improves over the next few days,” he said. On Wednesday in across eight zones in BBMP limits, 55% of the total 6,836 who were the targeted beneficiaries were vaccinated from both government and private health establishments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/glitches-in-co-win-slows-down-vaccination-efforts/article33622098.ece
21 January 2021||January 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Karnataka tops NITI Aayog’s Innovation Index||Delhi topped among Union Territories, and Himachal Pradesh among North-Eastern and Hill States. The India Innovation Index, Niti Aayog said, aims to create an extensive framework for a continual evaluation of India’s innovation environment. The index aims to rank States and UTs based on their scores, recognise opportunities and challenges, and assist in tailoring government policies to foster innovation. ‘Create synergies’ “The India Innovation Index will create synergies between different stakeholders in the innovation ecosystem, thus enabling India to shift to competitive good governance,” Niti Aayog Vice-Chairman Rajiv Kumar said. The India Innovation Report also pointed out that the best practices observed within the States should often be documented and disseminated to encourage peer-to-peer learning. State-level policies In addition, to ensure that the index’s framework is even more robust to capture the best picture for the Indian innovative ecosystem, a micro-analysis of the State-level policies must be done. “The objective of this reform is to focus on state innovation policies, local innovation cells, and the Knowledge Output developing from such entities. This will further delve into the state-level nuances required to understand the underlying innovative tendencies within a state,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/karnataka-tops-niti-aayogs-innovation-index/article33622102.ece
21 January 2021||January 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Biden sworn in, delivers message of unity, hope||He referred to the devastation caused by the coronavirus pandemic (more than 400,000 Americans have died), job losses, racial justice, the climate crisis, white supremacy and domestic terrorism. In his speech, Mr. Biden called for unity. “My whole soul is in this… bringing America together, uniting our people, uniting our nation,” he said, asking every American to join him in the cause. Racism, nativism, fear and demonisation have torn America apart, he said. “We can join forces, stop the shouting and lower the temperature... Politics doesn’t have to be a raging fire, destroying everything in its path,” Mr. Biden said. “We must reject the culture in which facts themselves are manipulated and even manufactured,” Mr. Biden said about the rise in the level of misinformation during the Trump presidency, including from the former President himself. “It did not happen. It will never happen. Not today, not tomorrow, not ever, not ever,” he said about the Capitol violence trying to overturn the election results. He said he would be a President for all Americans — those who voted for him and those who did not. “We must end this uncivil war, that pits red against blue, rural versus urban, conservative against liberal.” Lady Gaga sang the national anthem and Jennifer Lopez sang a patriotic song. Mr. Trump, who had contested the election results and addressed the mob minutes before they attacked the Capitol weeks ago, refused to meet Mr. Biden at the White House and travel with him to the inauguration in accordance with tradition. However, he had, as per reports, left a personal note in the Oval Office for his successor, as is the custom. While he wished the next administration “great luck and great success” at the Joint Base Andrews prior to departing for Florida, Mr. Trump did not mention Mr. Biden by name. The former President, who has hinted that he may run again in 2024, said: “We will be back in some form.” The Pences were seen off to their limousine by Ms. Harris and her husband, Doug Emhoff, and the two couples shared a laugh — a particularly significant moment, given the tumultuous few weeks in the run up to Wednesday and Mr. Trump’s absence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/biden-sworn-in-delivers-message-of-unity-hope/article33622148.ece
21 January 2021||January 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Centre offers to put off reforms for 18 months||Their major demands have been a repeal of the three laws on agricultural marketing, and a new legal guarantee for minimum support prices. The government was keen on reaching a final decision at the meeting on Gurpurab.  The Centre thus said it was ready to keep the three farm laws suspended for one to one-and-a-half years, during which a solution can be reached through mutual dialogue, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar told journalists after the meeting. “If the agitation is ended, and the farmers can go home, then that will be a victory for Indian democracy, not for any individual,” he added. “In order to increase the farmer unions’ belief and trust in the fact that they are very serious and sincere about the suspension idea, the government said it is willing to do this through an undertaking in the Supreme Court,” said Mahila Kisan Adhikaar Manch leader Kavitha Kuruganti, who was one of the farmers’ delegation members. “We wanted a repeal of the three laws. The unions will discuss this new proposal at a joint meeting of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha tomorrow [Thursday] afternoon and then take a decision,” said Krantikari Kisan Union leader Darshan Pal. The Punjab unions will hold their own meeting to decide their stance on Thursday morning before the SKM meeting. When the negotiations began on Wednesday, the unions raised the issue of National Intelligence Agency issuing notices to supporters of the agitation, as well as FIRs filed against protesting farmers in Haryana. “On the one hand, the government is talking about finding solutions, but on the other hand, the NIA and State police are harassing and pressuring the protesters and those providing moral support,” said Rakesh Tikait, who heads one faction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union. Mr. Tomar promised to take up the issue with the Home Ministry, added Mr. Tikait. Before the talks began, the unions welcomed the Supreme Court’s refusal to stop the proposed tractor parade on Republic Day, leaving it to the Delhi police to decide on whether to grant permission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-offers-to-put-off-farm-laws-for-18-months/article33622105.ece
21 January 2021||January 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Let police decide on parade, says CJI||But the CJI allowed the government to withdraw its plea. “You [government] decide what has to be done,” he said. The court said farmers should ensure that the citizens of Delhi were assured of “complete peace” on January 26. The CJI called upon advocate Prashant Bhushan to advise his clients, several farmers’ unions who have resolved not to come before the expert committee, to embrace peace. “We want a resolution of the dispute,” he told Mr. Bhushan. Mr. Bhushan responded, “Everybody wants it. But they are convinced that these laws need to be repealed. The laws were passed without prior notice or consultation. They were not placed for consideration before any parliamentary committees. There was even no voting in the Rajya Sabha on them”. Chief Justice Bobde told Mr. Bhushan, “In a democracy, other than repeal, a way of striking down a law is through the court. The court is now seized of the issue”. Mr. Bhushan replied, “Protest is a way of putting pressure on government. If it stops, pressure wanes... Suppose My Lords come to a conclusion the laws are constitutional...” There had been a call for peace among the protesting farmers’ unions on Republic Day, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/let-police-decide-on-parade-says-cji/article33622106.ece
21 January 2021||New Delhi,||Trinamool, BJP spar at MPs’ panel meeting||A meeting of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Home Affairs saw the Trinamool Congress and the BJP blaming each other for the political violence in West Bengal. The committee headed by senior Congress leader Anand Sharma was deliberating on the subject of “atrocities and crimes against women and children”. Haryana and West Bengal officials made a presentation on the subject. According to sources, Trinamool MP Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar started the argument. “Without naming the BJP, she said that the youth wing of a certain party in West Bengal has been targeting women in the State, especially the TMC workers. They threaten the women workers with rape,” a member said. At this, the BJP members claimed that many of their party workers had been killed in the State. The Left parties too had made a similar charge against the Trinamool.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trinamool-bjp-spar-at-mps-panel-meeting/article33622152.ece
21 January 2021||Mumbai,||Tandav team granted transit anticipatory bail||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday granted transit anticipatory bail for three weeks to the writer, the director and the producer of web series Tandav and the content head of Amazon after a criminal case was registered against them in Uttar Pradesh. A single Bench of Justice P.D. Naik was hearing a plea filed by director Ali Abbas Zafar, producer Himanshu Mehra, writer Gaurav Solanki and content head Aparna Purohit seeking transit anticipatory bail for eight weeks through advocate Aniket Nikam. Mr. Nikam argued that the atmosphere in Lucknow was tense and that arrangements needed to be made for their protection and therefore temporary relief must be granted. However, Additional Public Prosecutor Yogesh Nakhwa opposed the plea, saying all the accused should appear before the police station in Lucknow and seek a similar relief in court there. Mr Nikam told The Hindu , “We will soon file a petition for quashing the FIR before the Allahabad High Court.” FIR filed On January 17, an FIR was registered against all the four at the Hazratganj police station in Lucknow on charges of promoting communal enmity.   Tandav is a series on politics in India and was released on January 15 on Amazon Prime TV and stars Saif Ali Khan, Dimple Kapadia, Mohammed Zeeshan Ayub and others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tandav-team-granted-transit-anticipatory-bail/article33622133.ece
21 January 2021||New Delhi,||CWC to meet tomorrow, may discuss internal poll||The Congress Working Committee will meet on Friday to firm up the dates of the organisational elections, discuss the farmers’ agitation and the strategy for the Parliament session that gets under way on January 29. The party’s highest decision-making body is likely to meet virtually, said a source on Wednesday. Fixing the schedule for the internal polls including the president’s post and the CWC is likely to top the agenda as organisational revamp has been a key demand of the group of 23 dissenters. In September, Ms. Gandhi constituted a five-member central election authority (CEA) to conduct the internal polls. The CWC will also discuss the course of action on the farmers’ agitation and strategy for the Budget session. The Congress has demanded the repeal of all the three farm laws and has extended full support to the farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cwc-to-meet-tomorrow-may-discuss-internal-poll/article33622151.ece
21 January 2021||Hyderabad,||KCR wants KTR to succeed, but unsure when||TRS party working president, K. T. Rama Rao is all set to step into his father's shoes, but interestingly his father and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao himself is apparently not sure about the timing of that huge political decision. "CM wants his son to succeed him, most probably in this term itself, but so far he has not revealed his plans to anyone," a party leader close to the Chief Minister told The Hindu , reacting to the strong rumours in the political circles of the imminent change in the State leadership now. "I don't think anyone has the gall to even ask KCR about these strong rumours," he said while admitting that a section of the party MLAs are strongly advocating KTR's promotion. "Watching CM sir closely for a decade I can tell you he will not reveal the plans till the last minute," the leader said recalling how KTR was made party working president and Mr. Kadiyam Srihari Deputy Chief Minister surprising all. What gave fire to the rumours was the sudden burst of opinions from senior Ministers saying there was nothing wrong if KTR was made CM. After Health Minister Eatala Rajender made some interesting comments on the elevation, a string of senior Ministers, including Errabelli Dayakar Rao and Talasani Srinivas Yadav and MLAs like A. Jeevan Reddy gave enough fodder to media men, both solicited and unsolicited. Interestingly, KTR himself dismissed the earlier rumours with The Hindu correspondent, on the surge of CM demand earlier by the MLAs, smilingly saying 'Perhaps, no one wants to be left behind.' The rumours surfaced in several phases since the 2018 Assembly elections but this time they gained pace and credence for various factors. Several MLAs to whom this correspondent spoke, were confident that this time the news indeed was right. They have their own reasons including the way KTR has been handling the entire administration with KCR confining himself to the farm house for a large part of the last few months. Curiously, KTR had held a review meeting with Ministers and senior officials of major departments on a single day a few months ago. All the senior officials including the Chief Secretary and the DGP too calling on KTR with New Year greetings gave scope for rumour mills to run full time. A second-time MLA from North Telangana also reasoned that KCR was deliberately keeping himself away sending a message to officials that KTR was the man to go to for discussions. A senior Minister, on condition of the anonymity, said that the rumours of it happening by February-end may not come true given the Chief Minister's strong belief in muhurtams. There are no good muhurtams till April. However, he was confident that the change would happen in this term itself. Meanwhile, efforts to reach out to KTR for his reaction did not elicit any response.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kcr-wants-ktr-to-succeed-but-unsure-when/article33622453.ece
21 January 2021||Tirumala,||Wild boars invade Tirumala temple surroundings||The incursions of wild boars into the Mada Streets encircling the sacred hill temple of Lord Venkateswara has of late become a major cause of concern to the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams. The animals, which were never sighted atop the town till a decade and half back, are now seen moving in herds much to the embarrassment of devotees. The acquisition of all private properties atop the town that saw the local denizens shifted to Tirupati as part of implementation of master plan by TTD coupled with the nationwide lockdown wherein the devotees were barred from visiting the temple for over 80 days has led to the increase in the population of the animals. At first, TTD officials did not attach much importance to the menace on the pretext that the town was actually a ‘Varaha Kshetram’. But the precipitous increase in number has rather pushed the management into second thought. The omnivorous animals which were earlier found at the cottages and guest houses are now frequently found invading the open space available in front of the main temple complex, Akhilandam (place of breaking coconuts) and the rear side of the Annadanam complex in search of food. Health personnel said that more than half the existing food kiosks atop the town remain closed owing to the pandemic which, in turn, has forced the animals to explore new avenues of food. TTD Vigilance officials have recently provided chain link fencing at all the entry gates leading into the Mada Streets as a temporary measure. TTD DFO Mr. Chandrasekhar said the nimals get easily attracted to the waste food generally strewn around by pilgrims. Even if driven away into the woods, they are returning in no time. As an immediate measure, manual patrolling has been increased in over 22 identified locations frequented by the wild boars. The personnel drive them into the adjoining forests without causing any harm as they fall under the wildlife family. Underlining the need to educate pilgrims not to scatter eatables, Mr.Chandrasekhar said that the authorities were even ready to translocate them if the situation warranted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/wild-boars-invade-tirumala-temple-surroundings/article33622398.ece
21 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Ethics panel gives clean chit to Isaac||The Privileges and Ethics Committee of the Assembly headed by A. Pradeep Kumar has give a clean chit to Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac in connection with the breach of privilege notice moved by Congress legislator V.D. Satheesan. Mr. Satheesan had alleged that Dr. Isaac had infringed on the rights of the House by disclosing the contents of the Comptroller and Auditor General’s State Finance Audit Report for the year ending March 2019 at a press conference before tabling in the Assembly. After seeking a reply from Dr. Isaac, Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan had referred the privilege notice to the committee for scrutiny and report. Dissenting note In its report to the Assembly on Wednesday, with disagreement from V.S. Sivakumar, Mons Joseph and Anoop Jacob, all UDF legislators, the committee observed that the leak of CAG report ahead of its submission was not a violation of privileges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ethics-panel-gives-clean-chit-to-isaac/article33622094.ece
21 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Films for IFFK competition section announced||Ten more films have been selected for the International Competition section of the 25th International Film Festival of Kerala (IFFK) to be held from February 10. Among the selected films is the Iranian film There Is No Evil, directed by Mohammad Rasoulof, which won the Golden Bear for Best Film at the 70th Berlin International Film Festival.  Lesotho’s entry  This Is Not a Burial, It’s a Resurrection directed by Lemohang Jeremiah Mosese is Lesotho’s entry for the Best International Feature Film at the 93rd Academy Awards. This is the first time that the country is making a submission to the category.  The Names Of The Flowers , the debut work of Bahman Tavoosi, is a Bolivian-Qatarese co-production. Azerbaijani film In Between Dying , directed by Hilal Baydarov, had also featured in the main competition at the Venice festival. Another film from Azerbaijan featured in the competition is Bilesuvar , directed by Elvin Adigozel. Joao Paulo Miranda Maria’s debut directorial Memory House , is on the racial tensions in Brazil. Desterro is the debut work of Brazilian poet and screenwriter Maria Clara Escobar. Mexican filmmaker Andrea Martinez Crowther’s film Birdwatching is about a woman diagnosed with Alzheimer’s who wants her deterioration to be recorded on film. Vietnamese filmmaker Tran Thanh Huy’s Rom is set around an old apartment complex that is about to be demolished. Argentinian filmmaker Alejandro Telemaco Tarraf’s film Lonely Rock is about a Llama herder who goes in search of a puma which has been killing his livestock.  The films which were recommended by a nomination committee were selected by a final selection committee headed by filmmaker V.K.Prakash. The other members on the committee were film critics Namrata Joshi, C.S. Venkiteswaran and filmmakers Vipin Vijay and Rajeev Vijayaraghavan. Other films In addition to these ten films, two Malayalam films Churuli and Hasyam , and two Indian films Kosa and Sthalpuran will also compete for the top prize Suvarna Chakoram. Of the 14 films, eight films are by debut filmmakers and two by women filmmakers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/films-for-iffk-competition-section-announced/article33622481.ece
21 January 2021||HYDERABAD,||Ambulance driver dies within a day of vaccination||A 42-year-old healthcare worker in Telangana, who received COVID-19 vaccine at the Kuntala Primary Healthcare Centre (PHC) in Nirmal district on Tuesday, was ‘brought dead’ to a government hospital on early Wednesday morning. This is the first such case reported in the State. Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao said preliminary findings suggest that the death seems to be unrelated to vaccination. The man, G. Vital Rao, who worked as a driver of ‘108’ ambulance, received the vaccine at about 11.30 a.m. on Tuesday, along with 79 others. He did not have any co-morbidities. Dr Srinivasa Rao said none of the 80 vaccine recipients, including Vital Rao, developed even mild Adverse Effect Following Immunisation (AEFI). From January 16, only Covishield has been administered in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ambulance-driver-dies-within-a-day-of-vaccination/article33622417.ece
21 January 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,||MLA’s PA held under IT Act||Chitikina Sandeep, personal assistant to Rajamahendravaram Rural MLA G. Butchayya Chowdary, was arrested in connection with a fake campaign on social networking sites over an alleged attack on a Hindu temple in the State. Rajamahendravaram East Zone DSP K. Lakshmana Reddy said Sandeep was arrested on Tuesday in a case registered against him on September 12, 2020, for launching a fake campaign on an attack on Hindu temple. He was produced before a local court on Tuesday and sent to Judicial custody. The investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mlas-pa-held-under-it-act/article33622641.ece
21 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Nadda to kick off rath yatras in West Bengal||BJP president J.P. Nadda will kick off a series of rath yatras in each of West Bengal’s 294 Assembly constituencies on February 5 in the run-up to State polls later in the year. The party decided this in a series of meetings on keeping up its campaign pitch for the polls. In the same series, Trinamool Congress MLA from Shantipur Arindam Bhattacharya joined the BJP at the party’s national headquarters in the presence of BJP general secretaries Kailash Vijaywargiya, Bhupendra Yadav and Arun Singh. According to sources, some major joinings, including that of State Forest Minister Rajib Banerjee, are expected during Home Minister Amit Shah’s visit on January 29-30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nadda-to-kick-off-rath-yatras-in-bengal/article33622112.ece
21 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Trade unions to write to ILO||A joint platform of 10 central trade unions on Wednesday demanded that the government put the implementation of the four labour codes passed by Parliament in 2019 and 2020 on hold, after attending a meeting called by Labour Minister Santosh Kumar Gangwar to discuss the draft rules framed under them. The unions alleged the government had not followed the norms or tripartite consultations. Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) national secretary A.R. Sindhu said the platform would be writing to the International Labour Organisation about the matter soon. The joint platform had boycotted the last two meetings with the Minister as they were held virtually and demanded a physical meeting, which was held on Wednesday. “The joint platform of central trade unions has outright rejected the move of the government to frame rules on the labour codes which were passed in Parliament without any discussion with the central trade unions and when all the Opposition Members of Parliament were absent as they were on boycott demanding withdrawal of expulsion of some MPs,” a statement said. It said the government had bypassed tripartite consultation, in violation of international commitments on labour standards and ILO conventions of which India was a signatory. The unions said the meeting on Wednesday was a “farce”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/joint-platform-of-trade-unions-to-write-to-ilo-over-labour-codes/article33622113.ece
21 January 2021||LUCKNOW,||Call to remove Savarkar’s portrait in U.P.||A Congress MLC in Uttar Pradesh has demanded that the portrait of Hindu Mahasabha leader Vinayak Damodar Savarkar be removed from the picture gallery of the State Legislative Council saying that the installation of his frame next to those of freedom fighters amounted to an “insult” to them. Savarkar, within months of being jailed, had written a letter of apology to the British and offered to express loyalty towards them in exchange for his release, Mr. Singh, leader of the Congress in the council, said in a letter to the chairperson of the council.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/call-to-remove-savarkars-portrait-in-up/article33622122.ece
21 January 2021||Kolkata,||Another Trinamool MLA joins BJP||In yet another defection, Arindam Bhattacharya, Trinamool Congress (TMC) MLA from Santipur in West Bengal’s Nadia district, on Wednesday joined the BJP in its headquarters in New Delhi in the presence of national general secretary Kaliash Vijayvargiya and other leaders. The MLA said he was not allowed to work freely and the Trinamool Congress government had failed to bring in any industrialisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/another-trinamool-mla-joins-bjp/article33622150.ece
21 January 2021||Kolkata,||14 killed in road accident||Fourteen persons, six of them of a family, lost their lives in a road accident at Dhupguri in Jalpaiguri district of West Bengal late on Tuesday. The accident occurred when the visibility was low due to fog. People travelling in several vehicles were caught in the accident when a truck coming in the opposite direction collided head-on with a multipurpose vehicle. The deceased included four children and six women. Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed anguish over the accident. “From the PMNRF, Ex-gratia of Rs. 2 lakh each would be given to the next of kin... Rs. 50,000 each would be given to those injured,” a tweet by the Prime Minister’s Office said. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee announced a compensation of Rs. 2.5 lakh to the kin of the deceased and Rs. 50,000 to the injured.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/14-killed-in-bengal-road-accident/article33622124.ece
21 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||CM flays Centre’s decision to transfer airport||The Centre’s decision to transfer the Thiruvananthapuram International Airport to Adani Airports Ltd. drew sharp criticism from Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday. Replying to questions in the Assembly, the Chief Minister said the petition filed by the State government was pending before the Supreme Court. However, the Centre had opted to ignore it and go ahead with its decision. He termed the BJP government move unsound and irresponsible and said it amounted to a violation of the federal principles. In normal circumstances, a government would have waited for a decision from the court, Mr. Vijayan said. Urging the Centre to rethink its decision, the Chief Minister said it was obvious that airport development would not move forward even an inch if the facility was privatised. The State government had, on multiple occasions, requested the Centre to entrust the management of the airport to the State. However, the Centre had chosen to ignore the State’s request, he said. He accused the Centre of attempting to create a monopoly in the sector. The matter came up in the Assembly on Wednesday on the heels of the Airports Authority of India inking the concession agreement with Adani Airports Ltd. for the operation, management and development of the airport for 50 years. Kannur airport Replying to a related question, Mr. Vijayan urged the Centre and the Ministry of Civil Aviation to facilitate further development of Kannur International Airport Ltd. Their cooperation was essential for airport development, but it did not appear to be forthcoming, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cm-flays-centres-decision-to-transfer-airport/article33622097.ece
21 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Unsold ticket makes Kerala lottery seller crorepati||A 46-year old lottery vendor in Kollam has become a crorepati overnight after an unsold ticket won the first prize of Rs. 12 crore in the Kerala government’s Christmas-New Year bumper issue. Sharafudeen A., who hails from Tenkasi in neighbouring Tamil Nadu, learnt that the ticket with him among other unsold ones had bagged the top prize in the lottery.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/unsold-ticket-makes-kerala-lottery-seller-crorepati/article33622103.ece
21 January 2021||HYDERABAD,||Set up vaccine testing lab in Hyderabad: KTR to Centre||Telangana Industries and IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao has highlighted the need to set up a vaccine testing and certification laboratory in Hyderabad on the lines of the Central Drug Laboratory (CDL) in Kasauli, Himachal Pradesh. In a letter to Union Minister for Health and Family Welfare Harsh Vardhan on Wednesday, he said in manufacturing over six billion doses annually and contributing to one-third of the global vaccines output, Hyderabad has come to be known as the ‘Vaccine Capital of the world’. The vaccines are to be sent to the facility in Kasauli for testing and certification.  “The logistics and the time involved in sending the vaccines to the CDL in Kasauli were constraining the industry in being a more effective and competitive destination,” he said. The Minister said this mentioning that the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) is establishing the country’s largest National Animal Resource facility for biomedical research in Genome Valley, Hyderabad. The State government has provided the required land for the project free of cost to ICMR. “I am happy to note that this facility already has a mandate of testing and certifying the drug, including vaccines, medical devices and to certify them on behalf of the government of India. I would like to request that the establishment of this facility be expedited and this institution strengthened further to conduct testing and pre-release certification of immuno biologicals meant for human use in India,” the Minister said. GMSD facility He also sought setting up of a Government Medical Store Depot facility by the Centre in Hyderabad with state-of-the-art data monitoring and tracking system. Such a facility would go a “long way in supporting the vaccine manufacturing efforts in the country. Currently, such facilities are available in Karnal, Mumbai, Chennai and Kolkata,” Mr.Rama Rao wrote to the Union Minister.  The logistics and the time involved in sending the vaccines to the CDL in Kasauli were constraining the industry in being a more effective and competitive destination. K.T. Rama Rao, IT Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/set-up-vaccine-testing-lab-in-hyderabad-ktr-to-centre/article33622104.ece
21 January 2021||New Delhi,||CBI DSP and Inspector, lawyer arrested on graft charge||A CBI Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) R.K. Rishi, Inspector Kapil Dhankad and an advocate have been arrested by the agency on graft charge. The arrested lawyer has been identified as Manohar Malik. “Searches have also been conducted in two premises of the accused DSP in UP’s Deoband and Roorkee in Uttarakhand,” said an official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-dsp-and-inspector-lawyer-arrested-on-graft-charge/article33622114.ece
21 January 2021||Kannur,||Malayalam actor Unnikrishnan Namboothiri passes away||Noted film actor Unnikrishnan Namboothiri died on Wednesday, sources from his family said. Namboothiri was 98. The actor had survived COVID-19 and was discharged from a hospital on Tuesday. A family friend of the actor said Namboothiri felt some uneasiness and was admitted to a private hospital on Wednesday, but he passed away in the evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/malayalam-actor-unnikrishnan-namboothiri-passes-away/article33622147.ece
21 January 2021||ALAPPUZHA,||Fresh bout of bird flu at Kuttanad||A fresh bout of avian influenza flu (H5N8) has been detected at Kuttanad in Alappuzha. According to officials, around 500 birds, mostly chicken, died at Kainakary recently. Samples of the dead birds sent to the National Institute of High-Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD), Bhopal, for analysis were found to have been infected with the H5N8 subtype of the Influenza A virus. Meeting convened A meeting chaired by District Collector A. Alexander reviewed the situation on Wednesday. District Animal Husbandry Officer P.K. Santhosh Kumar said rapid response teams started culling birds and burning carcasses within one km radius of the epicentre as per the Central government guidelines. The teams culled 305 ducks 223 chickens. “The culling and sanitisation process is likely to be completed by Thursday,” Mr. Kumar said. Officials said the result of samples collected from Muttar, where bird deaths had been reported, was awaited. “Samples taken from the dead birds at Kainakary and Muttar were sent together. While samples from Kainakary tested positive for the virus, a communication from NIHSAD mentioned that the analysis of the samples from Muttar is under process,” said an official with the Animal Husbandry Department. Recently bird flu was detected from five places at Kuttanad, Nedumudi, Thakazhi, Pallippad and Karuvatta in Alappuzha district and Neendoor in Kottayam district. Five samples tested positive for bird flu. Following this, rapid response teams culled and burned the carcasses of 57,687 birds, mostly ducks, within a one-km radius of the five hotspots in the two districts in the second week of January. The teams had destroyed 32,592 eggs and 5,078 kg of feed. Besides, 25,265 ducks died due to the outbreak.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fresh-bout-of-bird-flu-at-kuttanad/article33622088.ece
21 January 2021||New Delhi,||Gandhi statue at Parliament shifted||The statue of Mahatma Gandhi opposite the main entrance of Parliament House was shifted to a new location opposite the Lok Sabha Speaker’s entrance on Tuesday to make way for the construction of the new Parliament building, said sources. The statue would be moved again once the new building comes up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gandhi-statue-at-parliament-shifted/article33622149.ece
21 January 2021||New Delhi,||Wear uniforms, medals as per rule, Army tells veterans||The Army has issued an advisory to all veterans, reminding them of the guidelines on the use of uniform and medals. The advisory comes in the backdrop of instances reported at the ongoing farmers’ protest where veterans were seen in uniform.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/wear-uniforms-medals-as-per-rule-army-tells-veterans/article33622116.ece
21 January 2021||Jaipur,||Rajasthan Cong. MLA Gajendra Singh Shaktawat passes away at 48||Gajendra Singh Shaktawat, a Congress MLA from Vallabhnagar in Rajasthan's Udaipur district, died at a hospital in New Delhi on Wednesday after a prolonged illness. Mr. Shaktawat, 48, was being treated for a liver-related ailment. He had earlier served as State Parliamentary Secretary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajasthan-cong-mla-gajendra-singh-shaktawat-passes-away-at-48/article33622117.ece
21 January 2021||New Delhi,||Sonia calls Test win a shot in the arm in a difficult time||A day after India’s historic Test win at the Gabba (Brisbane Cricket Ground), Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Wednesday congratulated the team. In a letter to Team India, Ms. Gandhi lauded the team for its exemplary team spirit, discipline and mental toughness to fight difficult conditions such as racial abuse and quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sonia-calls-test-win-a-shot-in-the-arm-in-a-difficult-time/article33622128.ece
21 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Over 1.57 lakh electors added to city’s final electoral rolls||The Chennai District Election Office has deleted 40,513 electors from the rolls and included 1.57 lakh names ahead of the Assembly elections this year. Many of the electors deleted from the rolls of 16 Assembly constituencies have been evicted and resettled in neighbouring districts in the past few months. A total of 12,032 electors in five Assembly constituencies of Villivakkam, Anna Nagar, Harbour, Chepauk- Thiruvallikeni and Thousand Lights were shifted to Perumbakkam after demolition of slums along the Cooum. As many as 13,335 names were deleted following their deaths in the past few months. A total of 2,474 were deleted because of repetition. Chennai District Electoral Officer and Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash published the final electoral rolls on Wednesday in the presence of representatives of political parties. According to the rolls, the city district has 40.57 lakh electors, with 19.95 lakh men, 20.6 lakh women and 1,081 transpersons. According to the draft electoral rolls released in November 2020, the city had 39.4 lakh electors, with 19.39 lakh men, 19.99 lakh women and 1,015 transpersons. Draft rolls After the release of the draft rolls in November, a total of 1.57 lakh residents submitted applications for inclusion. Names of 76,777 men, 80,310 women and 82 transpersons have been added after scrutiny. The number of electors has increased by 1.16 lakh when compared to the draft rolls. Harbour constituency has the lowest number of electors and Perambur has the largest, according to the final rolls. A total of 64,152 first time voters have been included in the rolls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-157-lakh-electors-added-to-citys-final-electoral-rolls/article33622242.ece
21 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Palaniswami says he became CM the way Karunanidhi did||Countering DMK president M.K. Stalin’s comment that AIADMK leader Edappadi K. Palaniswami was not elected Chief Minister by popular support, the latter on Wednesday contended that he assumed office the way former DMK leader M. Karunanidhi occupied the post, following the death of C.N. Annadurai in 1969. “He [Annadurai] became the Chief Minister by hardwork, but he unfortunately died. Karunanidhi became the Chief Minister indirectly. He [Karunanidhi] was not elected as Chief Minister. People voted only for Annadurai because they thought he had the qualification and standing for it. In a similar manner, this Edappadi K. Palaniswami also became the Chief Minister,” he said. During his election campaign at Sriperumbudur near Chennai, Mr. Palaniswami referred to Mr. Stalin’s narrative and said only MLAs elected by the people could elect the Chief Minister. Only parties with majority MLAs can elect a leader to become the Chief Minister, he said. “Mr. Stalin said I crawled to become the Chief Minister. His father jumped to become the Chief Minister. Kavignar Kannadasan, in his autobiography, has explained how Karunanidhi travelled on a train. But I did not come that way. I was born in a farming family and I am involved in agriculture even today. Mine is the straight way. You took the short cut, and, hence, have a crooked mind,” he said. As for Mr. Stalin’s criticism that Mr. Palaniswami repeatedly called himself a farmer, the Chief Minister questioned: “What else should I call myself? You tell me.. He does not have any other occupation. What can we do about that? It would have been okay had he come up in life, working hard. He is depending on people’s work.” He said, “If people make you the Chief Minister, accept it. I have nothing against it. I have never said I am the Chief Minister. The people are the Chief Minister. They are. The Chief Minister’s job is to implement their orders.” He went on to say that Mr. Stalin can go on dreaming about become the Chief Minister, but it would never happen. Referring to Mr. Stalin’s public meetings with the people, Mr. Palaniswami asked why the DMK leader did not meet the people when he was in power. “What happened to all the petitions Mr. Stalin received before the elections in 2019? You cheated the people and won the election. Now you are trying to cheat them again,” he said. He said during his chief ministership of three years and 11 months, the AIADMK government had received several prizes and laurels at the national level. Later, in Wallajabad, Mr. Palaniswami said if the DMK came to power, the law and order situation in the State would deteriorate and women would not be able to walk freely. He accused DMK youth wing leader Udhayanidhi Stalin of making derogatory remarks against women and warned that Mr. Stalin would lose the position of the Leader of the Opposition because of him. Recalling an attempt to assault Jayalalithaa in the Assembly premises in 1989, he said: “The people should think how the DMK will protect women.” At a campaign meeting in Chengalpattu, he referred to the AIADMK government’s Rs. 2,500 assistance for rice ration cardholders, and said Mr. Stalin did not have the heart to give to people and went to court to challenge the scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/i-became-cm-the-way-karunanidhi-did/article33622224.ece
21 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 vaccination drive kicks off in two more private hospitals in the city||The COVID-19 vaccination programme was kickstarted in two more city-based private hospitals on Wednesday — Dr. Rela Institute and Medical Centre and Saveetha Medical College and Hospital. Rela Hospital on Wednesday launched the drive with Covishield vaccine. This will cover healthcare workers as well as frontline workers at the hospital. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan, taking part in the launch, stressed on the need to follow scientific development. “Like how Tamil Nadu is always a leading State in disease prevention, and also in COVID-19 prevention, the State should lead in vaccination too,” he told reporters. He added that vaccination centres were being started in private hospitals in a phased manner. He said vaccination could prevent the second wave of infections and urged people to continue wearing masks, not to be careless in crowded spaces or closed spaces and follow hand hygiene measures. Mohamed Rela, chairman and managing director of the hospital, said they had treated nearly 2,500 patients with COVID-19. “We are moving to the next step in the prevention of COVID-19 with the launch of the vaccination drive today,” he said. “Public should put their trust in vaccination and get vaccinated, so that 2021 goes smoothly,” he said, adding that vaccination was important to control the pandemic. He added that he was administered the Covishield vaccine during the trial period in Chennai two months ago, and he experienced no side effects. “I have a high level of antibodies and I feel comfortable,” he said. Ilankumaran, chief executive officer, Rela Hospital, said they would complete the vaccination drive for their 1,100 healthcare workers by next week and were prepared to provide vaccination to other healthcare workers. A total of 100 persons were vaccinated with Covishield to mark the launch of the drive at the hospital, according to a press release. The vaccination programme was started at Saveetha Medical College and Hospital. On the first day, 100 healthcare workers were vaccinated. This included heads of departments, senior doctors, nurses, support staff and sanitation workers. The first vaccine was administered to N.M. Veeraiyan, chancellor of Saveetha Institute of Medical and Technical Sciences, followed by V. Saveetha, director of the medical college and hospital. The hospital has so far managed more than 4,000 patients with COVID-19. Deputy Director of Health Services, Kancheepuram, Palani was present during the launch, according to a press release. One more centre Kauvery Hospital has also established a COVID-19 vaccination centre. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan visited the centre on Tuesday. Senior consultant geriatrician S. Sivakumar got himself vaccinated in his presence.  We are moving to the next step in the prevention of COVID-19 with the launch of the vaccination drive today Mohamed RelaChairman and MD, Dr. Rela Institute and Medical Centre||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-vaccination-drive-kicks-off-in-two-more-private-hospitals-in-the-city/article33622245.ece
21 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Metrowater will use API system to monitor water tanker trips||Metrowater will soon implement an application programming interface (API)-based integrated system to monitor water tankers and track violations in trips. The water agency has floated tenders for the project, seeking bidders for the automated tracking system in an effort to regulate the operation of water tankers. Officials of the Metrowater said the API-based system will provide a common platform for monitoring operations at filling stations and vehicle movement. Metrowater had earlier installed smartcard-based water dispensers in its 191 filling points across the city. In the system, only a specific volume of water would be dispensed once the driver swipes the smartcard. Officials said the new interface would ensure full-fledged operation and monitoring of smartcard-based online system with GPS and water-level sensors to be installed in lorries. The API system will transmit and interpret data and take necessary measures. It would be a fool-proof system and facilitate tracking lorry movement and detect unauthorised trips at the earliest point, said an official. “If any water theft or unassigned trips are detected, the smartcard will be blocked. Computerised bills will be generated,” the official added. The API-based integrated system will be installed in 575 tankers and the chosen contractor will have to carry out operation and maintenance for three years. The water agency is also in the process of issuing work orders for lorries to be hired for three years. At present, about 3,900 trips, including for street supply, are being operated daily. The project is expected to be implemented by this summer. Lorry owners noted that the number of trips has reduced. Tankers, even those in the core parts of the city, operate only up to five trips a day. Even then, GPS tracking and smartcard systems are yet to be implemented fully. The new software would help prevent illegal trips and divert more water to domestic consumers, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/metrowater-will-use-api-system-to-monitor-water-tanker-trips/article33622244.ece
21 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fishermen want firefighting system installed inside Kasimedu harbour||Fishermen have urged the government to install a firefighting system inside the Kasimedu fishing harbour. They made the appeal after a fire broke out inside the boat-building area on Sunday evening. Nanjil Ravi of the Akila Indhiya Meenavar Sangam said that fires were common inside the boat-building area since the materials used were flammable. “Wood and fibre-reinforced plastics burn easily. Since welding also happens, sparks fly and one spark on the other materials is enough to start a fire. We need a mechanism with water sprinklers and fire alarms in that area,” he said. Sources in the department said that if the waste was carried and kept at the designated spot at the northern breakwater, fires would not happen. Waste removal “We have been telling them repeatedly to move waste material to that spot, so that we would be able to get the Chennai Corporation to remove them on a regular basis,” the official said. The department has been removing wastes from the harbour at least once a month. For the past two days around 300 tonnes of waste has been removed from inside the harbour.  Fires are common inside the boat-building area since the materials used are flammable. Wood and fibre-reinforced plastics burn easily Nanjil Ravi Akila Indhiya Meenavar Sangam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fishermen-want-firefighting-system-installed-inside-kasimedu-harbour/article33622246.ece
21 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu sees sharp drop in fatalities in road accidents||Fatalities in road accidents in the State have reduced by 54% when compared to the base year of 2016. The total number of fatalities dropped from 17,218 in 2016 to 10,525 in 2019. As many as 7,287 fatalities were reported until November 30 last year. The State had been seeing a steep rise in the number of accidents, the number of fatal accidents and the number of persons injured in accidents. At one point, the figures were the highest in the country. In 2008, the number of persons who died in fatal accidents was 12,784. It kept rising year after year and reached 17,218 in 2016. Since 2016, the State has been implementing a series of steps like collecting robust data on accidents, identifying and eliminating black spots, providing immediate emergency response and healthcare to those affected, educating motorists about the importance of safe driving, and effective enforcement by the Police and Transport Departments. Tamil Nadu was adjudged the Best Performing State in Road Safety for two years — 2018 and 2019 — and received an annual award from the Union Ministry of Road Transport & Highways (MoRTH) for two consecutive years. The award was presented by Union Ministers Rajnath Singh and Nitin Gadkari to the State, represented by Inspector General of Police, Traffic and Road Safety, Pramodh Kumar, on Monday. Based on the Road Accident Report 2019, published by MoRTH, the State registered the maximum reduction in accident-related deaths — 1,691 in 2019, when compared to 2018, registering a decline of 13.84% over the previous year. So, it was adjudged the Best Performing State in terms of road safety. Millenium goal “The State has already achieved the millenium goal — to reduce accidents by 50% by 2025. Compared to the base year of 2016, when the State had the highest number of accidents, at 17,218, we have brought the figure down by 54%, and have been consistently taking steps to reduce accidents,” Mr. Kumar told The Hindu.  “Some institutional changes made since 2016 really helped us reduce fatalities. Performance on the road safety front was made a critical input while analysing the performance of field officers in the annual performance report. This made them accord top priority to traffic and road safety work. An Additional Superintendent of Police-level officer in every district was appointed as a nodal officer for traffic and road safety work,” Mr. Kumar said.      Performance on the road safety front was made a critical input while analysing the performance of field officers in the annual performance report Pramodh Kumar Inspector General of Police, Traffic and Road Safety||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-sees-sharp-drop-in-road-accident-fatalities/article33622263.ece
21 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu’s electorate stands at 6.26 crore||The electorate in Tamil Nadu stands at 6.26 crore — 3.18 crore women, 3.08 crore men and over 7,200 persons from the third gender, according to the Election Commission of India. The Commission on Wednesday published the final electoral rolls of the Special Summary Revision of Photo Electoral Rolls, 2021, with January 1, 2021, as the qualifying date. The electoral rolls are available on the Chief Electoral Officer’s website, http://elections.tn.gov.in., and electors can check their names by visiting the portal, Chief Electoral Officer Satyabrata Sahoo said. As per the final rolls, the Sholinganallur Assembly constituency in Chengalpattu district continues to have the highest number of electors, at 6,94,845, while the Harbour Assembly constituency in Chennai continues to have the lowest, with 1,76,272 electors. A total of 47 overseas electors have also been enrolled during the Special Summary Revision, 2021. “The period of continuous updation is in operation now,” the Commission said. All eligible persons who have completed 18 years, as of January 1, 2021, and who do not find their names in the electoral rolls, can apply either by visiting the respective offices of the electoral registration officers and submitting Form 6, or by applying online at www.nvsp.in. They can also apply using the Voter helpline app, available on the Google Play Store, the Commission said. “As per directions of the Election Commission of India, district contact centres have been established in all districts of Tamil Nadu. The centres have been provided with the toll-free helpline number, 1950, uniformly across the State. For any election-related queries, people can call the district contact centres. The State contact centre is functioning from the office of the Chief Electoral Officer, and can be reached through the toll-free number, 180042521950,” an official release stated. During the Special Summary Revision, over 21.39 lakh entries were included in the rolls, and over 5.09 lakh persons’ entries were deleted. A total of 8,97,694 persons, in the 18-19 age group, were included in the rolls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadus-electorate-stands-at-626-crore/article33622226.ece
21 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Up to 10% of dogs in city have heart diseases, say veterinarians||Thamma, a one-and-a-half-year-old Caravan Hound, was resting near its pet parent, Lakshmi, on a sofa after lunch. All of a sudden, it gave a howl and fell off the sofa. The dog, which remained unresponsive, was rushed to the Madras Veterinary College (MVC) Hospital in Vepery, where the clinician said it had died of a cardiac arrest. “The death could have been due to arrhythmia caused by an abnormal rhythm of the heart. In the case of Thamma, it could have been congenital,” explained S. Balasubramanian, director of clinics, Tamil Nadu Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (Tanuvas). The most common heart disease afflicting dogs is degenerative mitral valve disease, followed by dilated cardiomyopathy, pericardial disease, congenital heart disease and cardiac neoplasm. ‘Increase with age’ “Five to 10% of dogs have heart diseases, and this increases with age. Do not breed a dog which has heart disease, as there is a possibility of the ailment getting passed on to the next generation,” said K. Jeyaraja, professor of Veterinary Clinical Medicine, MVC. He said that if a dog frequently faints at a young age, the pet owner should consult a veterinarian to rule out life-threatening arrhythmias or congenital heart disease. Valve disorder Clinicians at the Madras Veterinary College Hospital have found that degenerative mitral valve disease is common in breeds like the Pomeranian, Spitz and Dachshund, and usually occurs during old age. Dr. Jeyaraja said the common symptoms of a heart disease were persistent cough, exercise intolerance, breathing difficulty and abdominal distension. “If the cough does not subside in a few days, pet owners should consult a veterinarian. A dog with an advanced heart disease would have difficulty breathing while resting and would prefer to sit or stand. It may exhibit a reluctance to walk or engage in regular exercise,” he said. Clinicians advise cardiac screening for dogs above six years of age. “Besides thorough physical examination, electrocardiography, radiography and echocardiography would help us narrow it down to the underlying cause and the disease,” said S. Kavitha, head of the Department of Veterinary Clinical Medicine, MVC, Chennai. Dr. Balasubramanian said medical management would improve the quality of life of the dogs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/up-to-10-of-dogs-in-city-have-heart-diseases-say-veterinarians/article33622240.ece
21 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State records 549 new cases; 4 districts have no additions||On a day when 549 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu, four districts — Cuddalore, Kallakurichi, Perambalur and Ramanathapuram — recorded none. Among the remaining districts, 19 recorded under 10 cases each. This included Madurai (9), Ranipet (8), Tiruvannamalai (2), Thoothukudi (6) and Virudhunagar (9). In Chennai, 150 persons tested positive for the infection, followed by Coimbatore with 54 cases. There were 46 cases in Chengalpattu, 28 in Tiruvallur, 24 in Erode and 22 in Tiruppur. Those testing positive included seven returnees — five from West Bengal and one each from Delhi and Andhra Pradesh. The fresh cases took the State’s tally to 8,32,415. Chennai’s total count stood at 2,29,537, followed by Coimbatore (53,804), Chengalpattu (51,024) and Tiruvallur (43,312) Presently, there are 5,314 active cases, including 1,867 in Chennai and 530 in Coimbatore. While 713 persons— including 173 in Chennai, 79 in Coimbatore, 52 in Salem and 38 each in Chengalpattu and Tiruppur — were discharged, nine persons succumbed to the infection. Till date, 12,290 persons have died. In the last 24 hours, 60,249 samples were tested in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-records-549-new-cases-4-districts-have-no-additions/article33622235.ece
21 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘47% residents hesitant to take vaccines immediately’||A survey has found that 47% residents in Tamil Nadu are hesitant to take the COVID-19 vaccines, immediately. In the survey, conducted by LocalCircles, a community social media platform, 2,819 responses were received from people in different districts in the State. It found that though COVID-19 vaccines were now available, 47% residents were hesitant to take them immediately, and 42% said they had decided to take the vaccine. Of the 47% who were of the opinion that they would wait and then decide, 11% voted for three to six months of waiting, 21% for zero to three months, 11% for six to 12 months, and 4% said they would not take the vaccines at all, according to a press release. Since October 2020, LocalCircles has been collecting responses from citizens to know their approach towards taking COVID-19 vaccines, to understand if the percentage of reluctance or hesitancy has increased, reduced or has remained unchanged. In the survey conducted in October, 61% citizens across the country expressed hesitancy in getting the vaccine, followed by 59% in November and 69% in December. the body decided to conduct a State-wise survey to see if public acceptance had changed. At the national-level, the same survey, with over 17,000 responses from 230 districts, found that 62% people were hesitant about taking the vaccines, immediately. Of the 8,658 responses, 32% said they would take the vaccine and 6% said they would take it whenever the vaccines were available via private hospitals/channels. On the primary reason for being hesitant, 59% people of the 8,782 responses pointed out to unknown side effects, while 18% voted for the vaccines’ effectiveness being unknown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/47-residents-hesitant-to-take-vaccines-immediately/article33622238.ece
21 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||3 Bulgarians imprisoned||The Judicial Magistrate Court at Alandur on Wednesday sentenced three Bulgarian nationals to three years in prison for withdrawing money from ATM kiosks in the city using cloned credit/debit cards. Bozhichkov Nikolay Katev, 30, Volkov Boris Ventsislavov, 30, and Spasov Lyubomir Maksimov, 33, were arrested by the Anti-Bank Fraud Wing police in July 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3-bulgarians-imprisoned/article33622253.ece
21 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Gambling can’t be protected under the Constitution, T.N. govt. tells High Court||Gambling cannot be considered a trade or business. Therefore, private companies involved in offering online rummy with stakes cannot seek protection under Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution which guarantees the right to carry on any occupation, trade or business, the State government contended before the Madras High Court. In a counter affidavit filed before first Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy through Advocate General Vijay Narayan, the government said that rummy might be a game of skill and not of chance. Yet, it could be banned if betting or wagering was involved while playing such a game. The counter affidavit was filed in response to a batch of writ petitions filed by online game portals based in Haryana and other parts of the country. The petitioner companies had challenged the Constitutional validity of an Ordinance promulgated by the Tamil Nadu government in November 2020 for banning all online games played with stakes on the cyberspace.  No interim relief When senior counsel P.S. Raman, representing one of the game portals, sought time to file a rejoinder to the government’s counter affidavit, the Bench accepted his request and adjourned the hearing to February 10. However, it turned down a request made by senior counsel Abhishek Manu Singhvi, representing another firm, to grant interim relief. The counter affidavit, filed on behalf of the Chief Secretary as well as the Home Secretary, stated that seven individuals had committed suicide in the State in the last five years after losing money in online gambling. Further, four more deaths and 10 other criminal offences had been reported in connection with online gambling, it added.  A grocer in Thoothukudi district had obtained Rs. 1.25 lakh from his wife to run the shop but ended up losing all the money in online gambling. When his wife refused to part with more money, he attempted to murder their kids aged four and three by poisoning them and also attempted suicide. Sathankulam police had booked a case in this regard, the government said. “It has also come to light that many children are playing online games with stakes. They are using their parents’ credit cards / debit cards. Many parents have lost their hard-earned money in this manner. No complaint can be made in this regard since children play the games by giving their consent to rules framed by online game companies,” the counter read. It was to prevent such incidents, the government had promulgated the Tamil Nadu Gaming and Police Laws (Amendment) Ordinance of 2020 for banning online games played with stakes by amending the relevant provisions of Tamil Nadu Gaming Act of 1930, Chennai City Police Act of 1888 and Tamil Nadu District Police Act of 1859, the government said.  Telangana example The State also pointed out that Justice B. Pugalendhi of the High Court had on July 24, 2020 pointed out that the Telangana Gaming (Amendment) Act of 2017 prohibited all forms of gaming, being games of skill or games of chance, for money. “When the menace of lottery was at its peak sucking the blood and life of several families, the Government of Tamil Nadu had taken a rigid stand in 2003 and banned the sale of all kinds of lotteries, including those sold online, within the territory of the State, by issuing a Government Order (G.O.) on January 8, 2003. “Though the G.O. was challenged before the courts of law, it still holds the field. By virtue of this order, the Government has prevented suicidal deaths of those who had not only lost their hard-earned money but also their family peace and reputation,” Justice Pugalendhi had said and suggested a suitable legislation to regulate online games too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gambling-cant-be-protected-under-the-constitution-tn-govt-tells-high-court/article33622257.ece
21 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Come up with roadmap to recover stolen idols, jewellery, artefacts’||The Madras High Court on Wednesday directed the Commissioner, Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department to coordinate with the State government and come up with a roadmap to recover ancient idols, jewellery and other artefacts reportedly missing from several temples in the State. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy ordered that an affidavit should be filed in the court within two weeks indicating the steps proposed to be taken by the department. The interim order was passed on a public interest litigation petition filed by R. Venkataraman of Nesapakkam, Chennai. During the course of arguments, the judges concurred with the petitioner that national treasures could not be allowed to be looted and smuggled abroad. They directed the HR&CE Commissioner to locate the temples from where idols, jewels and ancient artefacts were missing and take appropriate action to retrieve them. The petitioner submitted that the HR&CE department had commenced a mega exercise in November 2020 for creating a database with respect to 42,155 temples under its control for filing a report in the court in reply to a suo motu public interest litigation petition taken up in 2015 for preserving the heritage temples. During such exercise, some of the temples were found ‘missing’ and some were in very bad condition without even the Moolavar (presiding deity). He also claimed that some of the temples were visited by the HR&CE officials for the first time in last 60 years. In few other temples, the registers regarding their movable and immovable properties were missing. Accusing the officials of having failed to lodge police complaints in this regard, he claimed that the officers, instead, began preparing new registers reflecting the present condition of the temples. The litigant also alleged that copies of the original master registers of some temples were missing even from the office of the HR&CE Commissioner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/come-up-with-roadmap-to-recover-stolen-idols-jewellery-artefacts/article33622260.ece
21 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. college teachers welcome adoption of new UGC regulations||The Higher Education Department in Tamil Nadu has adopted the 2018 regulations of the University Grants Commission for appointments and promotion of faculty in institutions of higher learning. The department released an order to this effect on January 11. The Tamil Nadu Government Teachers’ Association has welcomed the move saying the regulations would benefit college teachers immensely. R. Damodaran, general secretary, said, “We had been demanding that the regulations be accepted. The implementation would not only financially benefit college teachers but also bring in much needed improvements in faculty appointments, college work hours, and teacher-student duties and responsibilities.” The new regulations are exhaustive, with detailed norms for appointment of assistant professors, associate professors and professors besides principals. The Government Order would benefit thousands of faculty in government colleges who have not received any benefits for the past seven years, Mr. Damodaran said. It would also pave the way for career advancement of faculty due from April 2015 and pay incentives due to those who had completed M.Phil and Ph.D. The regulations would also enhance the possibility of faculty in government and aided institutions to reach professorship. Until now, college faculty had little upward movement from assistant professorship or associate professorship. The regulations have provided guidelines for faculty to take up research work which would enable them to get benefits and advance their career as well, Mr. Damodaran said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/government-college-teachers-in-tamil-nadu-welcome-adoption-of-new-ugc-regulations/article33622256.ece
21 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State receives 5,08,500 more Covishield doses||Tamil Nadu has received the second tranche of 5,08,500 doses of the Covishield vaccine, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said on Wednesday. Earlier, the State had received 5,36,500 doses of Covishield, followed by 20,000 doses of Covaxin — a total of 5,56,500 doses. “Today [Wednesday], we received an additional 5,08,500 doses of Covishield from the Union Health Ministry. It was brought from the Chennai airport and has been stored at the State vaccine store of the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine,” he told reporters after inspecting the store, along with T.S. Selvavinayagam, Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine. With this, the State has received a total of 10,65,000 doses of COVID-19 vaccines. “Taking the two doses into account, we can immunise [around] 5,32,000 individuals [two doses each]. We have already identified and pre-registered 6 lakh healthcare workers. Till Tuesday, 25,908 persons, including doctors, nurses, paramedical personnel and frontline workers of the Health Department were administered the vaccines,” he said. He added that they had received applications from private hospitals seeking to become vaccine centres, and were providing the same. Minister to get vaccine When asked whether there was hesitancy among healthcare professionals, he initially said that there was a slight hesitancy, but this had been overcome. “I will get vaccinated on Friday at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, not as a Minister but as a doctor and a member of the IMA, to create confidence among our doctors, nurses and healthcare staff. I am ready to take any of the two vaccines,” Mr. Vijayabaskar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-receives-508500-more-covishield-doses/article33622228.ece
21 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Digital conclave on diabetes to be held on January 24||The South India MICE Association (SIMA) will organise a digital diabetes conclave on ‘Living Longer with Diabetes’ in association with USV and supported by Dr. Mohan Diabetes Specialities Centre from 11 a.m. on Sunday.  According to a press release here a panel of diabetologists from India consisting of V. Mohan from Dr. Mohan’s Diabetes Specialities Centre, Chennai, Ambrish Mithal from Max Healthcare Hospital, New Delhi, and Mala Dharmalingam from M.S. Ramiah Medical College, Bangalore, will address various aspects of diabetes care. The conclave will be open to all and can be watched on YouTube, Facebook and Zoom with the links accessible through www.thesima.in, said the release from M.K. Ajit Kumar, spokesperson, SIMA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/digital-conclave-on-diabetes-to-be-held-on-january-24/article33622252.ece
21 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Woman held for murder of son-in-law||Personnel from the Avadi Tank Factory police station on Wednesday arrested Sakunthala, 42, who was wanted in connection with murder of her son-in-law. S. Prakash, 26, was found dead near Avadi. The police suspected that he was killed in a drunken brawl and after a probe, arrested Karthik, 30, Kumar, 28, and Arvindh, 20. The accused said they committed the crime at Sakunthala’s instigation. A search was on for Sakunthala since October last.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-held-for-murder-of-son-in-law/article33622247.ece
21 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Create panel to improve water table: HC||The Madras High Court on Wednesday granted four weeks to the State government to constitute an expert committee for coming up with suggestions and ideas on augmenting the water table by harnessing rainwater through various means, rather than letting copious water flow into the sea. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy said the committee could take four more weeks to come up with a preliminary report on the ways in which water could be saved. They requested Advocate-General (A-G) Vijay Narayan to bestow attention to the issue since it involved larger public interest. Entering appearance in the case,the A-G said he would hold discussions with officials in the Water Resources Department, and explore the possibility of constituting a body of experts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/create-panel-to-improve-water-table-hc/article33622229.ece
21 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||7,762 persons vaccinated on day five||A total of 7,762 persons received the two COVID-19 vaccines across the State on Wednesday — the fifth day of immunisation. Of the State’s capacity to inoculate 16,500 in a day, Covishield vaccines were administered to 7,614 persons in 165 session sites. A total of 148 persons received Covaxin, against a capacity of 600. Overall, 33,670 persons have been administered the vaccines, till date. This includes 776 Covaxin jabs, according to a daily report from the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine. In Chennai, the vaccines were administered to 500 persons, while the capacity was 1,300 [52 of them received Covaxin]. A total of 831 persons were administered the Covishield vaccine in Salem, more than the day’s capacity of 700. In Coimbatore, of the planned 400, 535 persons were vaccinated. In Namakkal, 340 persons were administered the vaccine, while 300 were planned. Vaccination coverage remained low in a number of districts. For instance, only 11 of the planned 500 were vaccinated in the Tiruvarur health unit district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/7762-persons-vaccinated-on-day-five/article33622236.ece
21 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IIT-M awards fellowships to 3 researchers||The Robert Bosch Centre for Data Science and Artificial Intelligence of the Indian Institute of Technology Madras has awarded the RBCDSAI distinguished fellowship to three international researchers for their contribution to data science and artificial intelligence. The awardees are: Srinivasan Parthasarathy, professor in Department of Computer Science and Engineering and the Department of Biomedical Informatics at Ohio State University who works in the areas of data mining, database systems and high-performance computing; Sriram Natarajan, Director of the Centre for Machine Learning at the University of Texas, whose research interests are in the fields of AI, ML and their application to healthcare problems; and Kirthi Ramamritham, who has spent an equal amount of time in the University of Massachusetts, and IIT Bombay as chair professor in the Department of CSE. His current research involves applying computational approaches to energy management, based on SMART: Sense Meaningfully, Analyse and Respond Timely.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iit-m-awards-fellowships-to-3-researchers/article33622681.ece
21 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Open drain, damaged pavement on 100 Feet Road trouble road users||The condition of pavement on 100 Feet Road is in stark contrast to the D.B. Road, R.S. Puram, which is a couple of kilometres away. Both the roads are commercial streets housing a number of big and small shops, see good pedestrian movement and bus routes. But, the similarity ends there. The Corporation that is spending Rs. 24.36 crore to improve the pavement and road condition on D.B. Road seems to have ignored the pavement on 100 Feet Road, where the missing and displaced covering slab at several places expose the sewage flowing beneath. The road had been in this condition for at least a few months now, complained Shameem Basha, a member of the mosque at the Fourth Street Junction. The Corporation had removed a few culverts and slabs in the area a few months ago with the promise to repair the drain and cover it with new slabs. The delay in executing the work had resulted in sewage overflowing onto the road during rain, leaving the entire stretch stagnated with dirty water. As a result pedestrians had very little space to walk on the road, the width of which had been reduced because of the flyover, he added. Another shopkeeper said another problem with damaged pavement and open drain was that shopkeepers like him, their employees and customers had great difficulty in entering and exiting the shops. Almost all shopkeepers had to make temporary arrangements like placing iron steps to help the people get into shops. The condition continued to this day in a few stretches. Former councillor of the area, A. Nandhakumar, wanted to know why the Corporation that was spending crores of rupees to develop a part of the city was ignoring others. It did not make sense that a street in a part of the city was world-class and others were below par. Such a lopsided approach represented the uneven approach that the Corporation adopted towards the city’s development, he commented and added that such an approach also went against the Smart City tag that the Corporation wanted to give to the city. Sources in the civic body said the Corporation had repaired a part of the damaged pavement sometime ago and would in the next few days repair the remaining part. The civic body had sanctioned Rs. 8 lakh for the purpose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/open-drain-damaged-pavement-on-100-feet-road-trouble-road-users/article33622276.ece
21 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Rare snake rescued||A Yellow-spotted Wolf Snake ( Lycodon flavomaculatus ), which is seen in their natural habitats in the Western Ghats, was rescued from Sanganoor in Coimbatore on Tuesday. R. Sanjai of ‘Snake Helpline’ organisation rescued the nocturnal nonvenomous snake from the parking area of an industrial unit. "It was an adult female snake. The yellow spots differentiate the species from the normally seen wolf snake," said Mr. Sanjai. The snake had a mild abrasion on its skin. Mr. Sanjai produced the snake before the Coimbatore forest range office on Wednesday. An entry was made in a register on the rescue of the snake species. Following directions from the Forest Department officials, the snake was released in a forest area named Anaimaduvu, near Maruthamalai, on Wednesday afternoon. Three other snakes rescued from other places were also released in the forest. According to Mr. Sanjai, it could possibly be the first rescue of a Yellow-spotted Wolf Snake in Coimbatore district. “When checked with other snake rescuers in the district, none of them had rescued the species so far. This snake species is normally seen in natural habitats in the Western Ghats,” he said. Snake rescue organisation 'Snake Helpline' can be reached at 88700-49875.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rare-snake-rescued/article33622274.ece
21 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Land acquisition for Western Bypass road project to start soon||The long-pending Western Bypass road project here is expected to take off as the land acquisition process will commence shortly. The Revenue Department will start acquiring land next week for the first phase of Western Bypass road project here. According to District Revenue Officer D. Ramaduraimurugan, the disbursements for the first phase will be completed by mid-February. Official sources said the State Highways Department plans to develop the road, planned from Madukkarai to Narasimhanaikenpalayam, in three phases - 11.8 km in the first phase, 12.1 km in the second phase, and 8.53 km in the final phase. The total land to be acquired for the project in 15 villages across the proposed alignment is nearly 355 acres, including 294 acres of private land. The government has approved Rs. 320 crore for land acquisition. It has recently released Rs. 171 crore for the first phase. The lands to be acquired have been identified and notified for the entire project, the sources said. In the first phase, 136 acres will be acquired in five villages - Madhampatty, Sundakamuthur, Theethipalayam, Perur-Chettipalayam and Madukkarai. The Revenue Department officials had conducted negotiations with the land owners in these villages and will now start disbursing the amount, the officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/land-acquisition-for-western-bypass-road-project-to-start-soon/article33622278.ece
21 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Former bank officials convicted for fraud||The Special Court for CBI cases in Coimbatore on Wednesday convicted former senior branch manager of a Vijaya Bank branch in Tiruppur district and three others in a 2007 bank fraud case which caused the bank loss to the tune of Rs. 51 lakh. Additional District Judge for CBI cases S. Nagarajan sentenced V.R. Radhakrishnan, former senior branch manager of the bank, R. Uma Maheswari, former forex officer of the bank, P. Sampath Kumar, a former executive of Sigma Garments, a knitted garment exports company in Tiruppur, and a fourth person named Syed Frouk, to undergo three years of rigorous imprisonment, said a release. The four persons entered into a criminal conspiracy to cheat Vijaya Bank and in pursuance, the two bank officials purchased three forged export bills referred by Sampath Kumar and credited the amounts in the account of Sigma Garments.  The court slapped a fine of Rs. 2,10,000 each on Radhakrishnan and Uma Maheswari, Rs. 2,50,000 on Sampath Kumar and Rs. 50,000 on Syed Frouk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-bank-officials-convicted-for-fraud/article33622282.ece
21 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Former bank officials convicted for fraud||The Special Court for CBI cases in Coimbatore on Wednesday convicted former senior branch manager of a Vijaya Bank branch in Tiruppur district and three others in a 2007 bank fraud case which caused the bank loss to the tune of Rs. 51 lakh. Additional District Judge for CBI cases S. Nagarajan sentenced V.R. Radhakrishnan, former senior branch manager of the bank, R. Uma Maheswari, former forex officer of the bank, P. Sampath Kumar, a former executive of Sigma Garments, a knitted garment exports company in Tiruppur, and a fourth person named Syed Frouk, to undergo three years of rigorous imprisonment, said a release. The four persons entered into a criminal conspiracy to cheat Vijaya Bank and in pursuance, the two bank officials purchased three forged export bills referred by Sampath Kumar and credited the amounts in the account of Sigma Garments. The court slapped a fine of Rs. 2,10,000 each on Radhakrishnan and Uma Maheswari, Rs. 2,50,000 on Sampath Kumar and Rs. 50,000 on Syed Frouk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-bank-officials-convicted-for-fraud/article33622380.ece
21 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Stolen car traced to Kanyakumari||The Madukkarai police on Wednesday recovered a car belonging to a Kerala native which a four-member group took away from him on January 11. The police traced the car to Kanyakumari district. The police said that four unknown men waylaid the car of K. Mohammad Musthafa (34), a native of Mannarkad in Palakkad district, near Madukkarai when he was travelling from Coimbatore to his native place along with a friend named Sharjah Hussain around 9 p.m. on January 11. Musthafa complained to the Madukkarai police that the men took away the car and a box containing money.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stolen-car-traced-to-kanyakumari/article33622285.ece
21 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Beware of fake websites’||The Regional Passport Office, Coimbatore, has urged people to be cautious about fake websites which claim to offer passport-related services. A statement issued by Passport Officer, Coimbatore, K. Palravindran, said that some fake websites are functioning with domain address likewww.passportonlineindia. com, in the guise of extending various passport services by charging exorbitant rates apart from receiving personal information from the public. The release said that personal information of applicants might get compromised through such websites apart from losing money. It requested the public to use the official websitewww.passportindia.gov.infor passport related services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/beware-of-fake-websites/article33622288.ece
21 January 2021||COLOMBO/PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Bodies of two fishermen recovered’||Two bodies, reportedly of fishermen, have been recovered in the Palk Strait, the Sri Lankan Navy said on Wednesday. “Diving operations have been hampered because of bad weather. Search for the remaining two fishermen will resume soon,” spokesman Indika de Silva told The Hindu . The boat that sank has been found. The recovery follows news of four Tamil Nadu fishermen “going missing” late Monday, hours after they set out fishing. The Sri Lankan Navy had earlier said that one boat, with four fishermen on board, “sank”, as the Sri Lankan patrol units tried apprehending it, along with some 50 fishing trawlers, found “poaching” in the Sri Lankan territorial waters. The boat sank after it “resisted arrest”, according to officials. Asked of reports emerging from fishermen in Tamil Nadu, of the said vessel being seen “towed away” by the Sri Lankan Navy before it went “missing”, Captain de Silva said, “That is not true. Before our patrol vessel could apprehend them, they resisted the operation and rammed onto our Navy vessel. It destabilised and sank.” The Sri Lankan Navy recently stepped up efforts to arrest foreign vessels fishing “illegally” in its waters. Fishermen of Kottaipattinam, from where a group of four had ventured into the sea for fishing on a mechanised boat, have expressed shock and anguish over the reported deaths. The fishermen, A. Mesia, 30, V. Nagaraj, 52, N. Sam, 28, and S. Senthil Kumar, 32, all belonging to Ramanathapuram district had gone missing after setting sail on the boat. A search party of 12 fishermen, who went on three fishing trawlers, returned on Wednesday. The fishermen of Kottaipattinam and adjoining fishing hamlets in Ramanathapuram district raised suspicions over the death of their colleagues. “We strongly feel that there is a mystery behind the death of the fishermen. Facts are being distorted and hidden. We apprehend that they were killed,” said U. Arulanandam of the Alliance for the Release of Innocent Fishermen (ARIF).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bodies-of-two-fishermen-recovered-in-the-palk-strait/article33622267.ece
21 January 2021||Cuddalore,TAMIL NADU||Final electoral rolls for Cuddalore released||The final electoral rolls for all the nine assembly constituencies in Cuddalore district with January 1, 2021 as the qualifying date was released here on Wednesday. According to the final electoral roll, the total electorate in Cuddalore district is 21,41,935 — 10,55,291 men, 10,86,436 women and 208 third gender. Releasing the final electoral roll at the Collectorate, District Election Officer and Collector Chandra Sekhar Sakhamuri said that 69,418 forms were received of which 67,660 were accepted. After the release of draft electoral roll on November 16, 2020, 67,660 voters were included in the roll and names of 8,645 voters were deleted owing to double entry and migration. As per the final roll, the highest number of voters in the district are in Virudhachalam (2,51,703) followed by Chidambaram (2,50,735) and Bhuvanagiri (2,48,257) while Neyveli (2,17,888) had the lowest number of voters. Villupuram As per the final electoral roll, women outnumber men among voters in Villupuram district. Of the 16,84,504 voters, 8,51,082 are women while men are 8,33,206 and 216 others. Releasing the final electoral roll for seven assembly constituencies in the district, Collector A. Annadurai said 46,429 voters were included in the roll and names of 10,286 voters were deleted. The highest number of voters in the district are in Villupuram (2,60,970) followed by Gingee (2,60,159) and Tirukovilur (2,53,981). The lowest number of voters are in the Mailam segment (2,19,868). Kallakurichi As per the final electoral roll, men outnumber women among voters in Kallakurichi district. Of the 10,80,525 voters from the district, 5,43,472 are men while 5,36,751 are women and 202 belong to the third gender.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/final-electoral-rolls-for-cuddalore-released/article33622685.ece
21 January 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Final electoral rolls released in four districts||District Collector M. Vijayalakshmi released the final electoral rolls here on Wednesday. The district has six Assembly Constituencies – Palani, Oddanchatram, Arthur, Nilakottai, Natham, Dindigul and Vedasandur. The Collector said that the district had 18,73,438 voters including 9,60,280 women, 9,12,943 men and 215 others. The number of women voters were more than the men voters. The final rolls will be available at all the 1,209 designated centres and at the Revenue offices in the district. The Collector released the rolls in the presence of revenue, election department officials and representatives from the recognized political parties.  Theni District Revenue Officer K Ramesh released the final electoral rolls here on Wednesday. The district, which has four Assembly Constituencies - Andipatti, Periakulam, Bodinayakkanur and Cumbum, has a total electorate of 11,24,500 including 5,51,826 men, 5,72,479 women and 195 others. The DRO, who released the list in the presence of revenue and election department officials, representatives from recognised political parties, said that persons qualified to enrol their names in the list can file the same with the authorities concerned. The Election Commission of India had organised special campaigns to rope in all the eligible voters, he said and added that the voter list would be available at all the designated polling stations, block development offices and at the Municipal offices. The officials said that Andipatti Assembly Constituency has 2,75,931 voters, Periyakulam: 2,85,031, Bodinayakannur: 2,77,964 and Cumbum has 2,85,574 voters. Ramanathapuram A total of 11,57,540 voters including 5,81,132 women, 5,76,343 men and 65 others were enrolled in the final electoral list, said District Collector and Returning Officer Dinesh Ponraj Oliver here on Wednesday. Releasing the electoral list as per the Election Commission of India guidelines, he said that during the special campaign conducted in the district during November and December 2020, the officials had received application forms from the eligible public to include their names. After due verification, 29,771 voters were included on the voter list. Similarly, Mr. Ponraj said that they had also received application forms from people to delete names for various reasons from the list. After proper enumeration was conducted, 10,614 names were removed from the voter list. The Collector said that the public can view their names on the official websites -www.elections.tn.gov.inorwww.nvsp.inand in the event of any amends, they can file the same online or through proper submission at the designated offices. After releasing the list in the presence of officials from the revenue, elections department and representatives from recognised political parties, Mr. Dinesh said that Paramakudi Assembly Constituency has 2,54,381 voters, Tiruvadanai: 2,87,875, Ramanathapuram: 3,06,372 and Mudukalathur has 3,08,912 voters respectively.  Sivaganga Releasing the final electoral list, District Collector P Madhusudhan Reddy said that the district has 11,81,877 voters including 5,80,722 men and 6,01,082 women and 73 others. The district has four Assembly Constituencies, namely, Karaikudi: 3,15,351 voters, Tirupathur: 2,90,647, Sivaganga: 2,99,118 and Manamadurai: 2,76,761 voters. Speaking to reporters, the Collector responded that there were proposals to limit voters to a maximum of 1000 per polling station in the wake of covid-19 pandemic. Similarly, exclusive stations or preference to the differently abled and those above 80 years of age were also being examined. However, only the Election Commission of India would make the final announcement, he clarified. The Collector also said that people, who were willing to include their names in the voter list may do so by filing the applications in the appropriate forms. Be it for inclusion or deletion or for change in constituency or within the constituency, could be done either online or through offline mode, he informed. Special Observer and Social Welfare Commissioner D Abraham, officials from the revenue and election department, political party representatives from recognised outfits were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/final-electoral-rolls-released-in-four-districts/article33622364.ece
21 January 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Final electoral rolls released for Erode, Salem, Namakkal||District Election Officer and Collector C. Kathiravan released final electoral rolls for the eight Assembly constituencies in the district here on Wednesday in which there are a total of 19,57,481 electors, including 278 service electors. As per the draft electoral published on November 16, 2020, there were 19,16,531 electors. A total of 58,620 electors were added while the names of 17,948 electors were deleted during the special camps. Of the total general electors, 9,53,767 were men while 10,03,332 were women electors and 104 were third gender. Likewise, women electors outnumber men in all the eight constituencies in the district. The total number of polling stations was 2,215 at 926 locations. Electors in each constituencies - Erode (East) – 2,26,936 (1,10,934 men and 1,15,987 women, 15 third gender), Erode (West) – 2,91,316 (1,42,913 men, 148,373 women, 30 third gender), Modakurichi – 2,37,457 (1,13,952 men, 1,23,493 women, 12 third gender), Perundurai – 2,27,398 (1,10,325 men, 1,17,067 women, six third gender), Bhavani – 2,40,531 (1,18,231 men, 1,22,291 women), Anthiyur – 2,19,009 (1,07,712 men, 1,11,215 women, 18 third gender), Gobichettipalayam – 2,55,502 (1,22,945 men, 1,32,551 women, six third gender) and Bhavani Sagar (SC) – 2,59,118 (1,26,755 men, 1,32,355 women, eight third gender). The final roll was received by District Revenue Officer S. Kavitha in the presence of Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan and representatives of recognised political parties. In Salem, there are 30,04,140 electors in all the 11 Assembly constituencies in the district. District Election Officer and Collector S.A. Raman released the rolls at the Collectorate in the presence of representatives from recognised political parties. Rolls include 14,95,165 men, 15,08,771 women and 204 transgender in the district. Electors in each constituency: Gangavalli (SC) – 2,38,253 (1,15,581 men, 1,22,668 women, four transgender), Attur (SC) – 2,53,800 (1,22,440 men, 1,31,348 women, 12 third gender), Yercaud (ST) – 2,82,656 (1,38,409 men, 1,44,231 women, 16 third gender), Omalur – 2,94,712 (1,51,085 men, 1,43,623 women, four third gender), Mettur – 2,85,767 (1,45,073 men, 1,40,687 women, seven third gender), Edappadi – 2,84,378 (1,44,757 men, 1,39,597 women, 24 third gender), Sankari – 2,73,143 (1,38,013 men, 1,35,110 women, 20 third gender), Salem West – 2,97,985 (1,48,477 men, 1,49,452 female, 56 third gender), Salem North – 2,4,776 (1,34,319 men, 1,40,436 women, 21 third gender), Salem South – 2,59,229 (1,26,698 men, 1,32,508 female, 23 third gender) and Veerapandi – 2,59,441 (1,30,313 men, 1,29,111 female, 17 third gender). In Namakkal, there are 14,41,201 electors in all the six Assembly constituencies in the district. District Election Officer K. Megaraj released the rolls at the Collectorate that has 7,01,104 men electors, 7,39,937 women electors and 160 third gender in the district. Electors in each constituency: Rasipuram (SC) – 2,36,060 (1,15,161 men, 1,20,84 women, 15 third gender), Senthamangalam (ST) – 2,42,569 (1,18,702 men, 1,23,842 women, 25 third gender), Namakkal – 2,57,04 (1,24,210 men, 1,32,792 women, 46 third gender), Paramathi Velur – 2,20,986 (1,06,572 men, 1,14,408 women, six third gender), Tiruchengode – 2,30,316 (1,12,215 men, 1,18,154 women, 37 third gender) and Kumarapalayam – 2,54,222 (1,24,334 men, 1,29,857 women, 31 third gender).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/final-electoral-rolls-released-for-erode-salem-namakkal/article33622387.ece
21 January 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Erode district reports 24 new cases||Erode district reported 24 new cases taking the district’s tally to 14,142 on Wednesday. While 18 persons were discharged, 147 persons continue to be under treatment. Salem district reported 17 cases taking the district’s tally to 32,221. While 52 persons were discharged, 185 persons continue to be under treatment. Namakkal district reported 15 cases taking the district’s tally to 11,501. A total of 12 persons were discharged, while 91 persons continue to be under treatment. Krishnagiri recorded four new cases and nine discharged cases. This has taken the total number of current cases to 56 and the total number of infections in the district to 8,018. Dharmapuri recorded three new cases and seven discharged cases. This has taken the total number of current cases to 33 and total number of infections to 6,543 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-district-reports-24-new-cases/article33622383.ece
21 January 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Farmers to take out motorcycle rally on January 26||Members of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) have decided to take out motorcycle rally from various parts of the district towards the Collectorate here on the Republic Day in support of the proposed farmers’ tractor rally in New Delhi on the day. The district coordination committee meeting was held here on Tuesday in which members decided to take out motorcycle rallies from Sathyamangalam, Gobichettipalayam, Anthiyur, Bhavani, Chennimalai, Perundurai, Kodumudi, and Sivagiri and from Kalaimadu Silai towards collectorate on January 26 and assemble in front of the Collectorate at Sampath Nagar by 1 p.m. AIKSCC members said that farmers and members of various trade unions would take part in the protest urging the Central government to repeal the three farm laws. They said that they had submitted a letter to the Superintendent of Police seeking permission to hold the rallies and also to stage a protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-to-take-out-motorcycle-rally-on-january-26/article33622388.ece
21 January 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Panel formed to check installed name boards at T.N.-Karnataka border||The district administration has formed a committee to check the installed name boards at the Tamil Nadu – Karnataka border and relocate the boards if they are installed in areas coming under Karnataka. On January 10, members of a Kannada outfit damaged and blackened two name boards written in Tamil at the border on the Dindigul – Bengaluru NH 209 near Talavadi. They raised slogans that Kannada was not written on the boards. Talavadi police registered a case against 15 persons for damaging the boards that belonged to the National Highways Authority of India. However, surveys by revenue officials revealed that the locations came within the Karnataka border and the district police had sought legal opinion for transferring the case to Chamrajanagar Rural police in Karnataka. Again on January 17, a name board in Tamil was found damaged on the road near Bainapuram village that leads to Otralli village in Karnataka. Inquiries by Talavadi police revealed that the spot comes within the Karnataka border. Addressing media persons at the Collectorate on Wednesday, Collector C. Kathiravan said that road contractors, who executed the projects, had installed the boards and a committee comprising Tahsildar, Assistant Director (Survey), Assistant Director (Highways) and Police Inspector, has been formed to inspect the spots and study the locations of the boards. “If boards were installed mistakenly inside the Karnataka border, it will be removed and reinstalled within our border”, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panel-formed-to-check-installed-name-boards-at-tn-karnataka-border/article33622381.ece
21 January 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Unfortunate that Chief Minister supported farm laws: Alagiri||Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K.S. Alagiri on Wednesday questioned how Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, who calls himself a farmer, supported the legislations. Speaking to reporters here on Wednesday, he said the Congress was the first in the country to condemn the Central government for introducing the farm laws following which many State governments had passed resolutions against the laws. “It is unfortunate that the Chief Minister had supported the law,” he said. ‘No proof’ Asked about the Chief Minister during his election campaigning focusing on the 2G spectrum scam blaming the DMK and the Congress, Mr. Alagiri said that no investigation agency had proved in the court that any wrong was committed. “It is fabricated one and taken up only during election,” he added. He said that the party’s election manifesto would highlight opposition to the farm laws, need to strengthen the public distribution system, abolition of NEET, development of MSMEs and to implement M.S. Swaminathan Commission recommendations. Mr. Alagiri said that former Congress president Rahul Gandhi would visit Erode on January 24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/unfortunate-that-chief-minister-supported-farm-laws-ks-alagiri/article33622265.ece
21 January 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Paddy procurement centres to be opened tomorrow||With paddy harvest in areas irrigated by Lower Bhavani Project (LBP) canal commenced in the district, the administration has planned to open 20 Direct Procurement Centres (DPC), through Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation, from January 22. Collector C. Kathiravan in a press release said that farmers can sell their paddy at the centres at the price fixed by the government. He said that grade ‘A’ variety paddy will be procured for a minimum support price of Rs. 1,958 a quintal and the common variety for Rs. 1,918 a quintal. Centres will start functioning from January 22 at Nasiyanur, Bhavani, Ammapettai, Nagaranai, Ukkaram, Kavindapadi, Periyapuliyur and Pallapalayam, from January 25 at Kodumudi, Anjur, Vellode, Vaikalpudur, K.G. Valasu, Modakurichi, Thandampalayam, Avalpoondurai, Elumathur, Sivagiri and Kaspapettai. The existing centres at Puduvalliyampalayam, Karattipalayam, Kasipalayam, Polavakalipalayam, Kanjikovil, Pethampalayam and Ganapathipalayam will continue to function until the harvest season is over.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/paddy-procurement-centres-to-be-opened-tomorrow/article33622389.ece
21 January 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||DVAC raid at constable’s house||Sleuths from the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) raided the house of a special branch constable at Palapalayam Odaimedu here on Wednesday. Based on complaints, that Velkumar (48), attached to Erode Town Police Station, has amassed wealth disproportionate to his known source of income, a DVAC team led by its Deputy Superintendent of Police Dhivya and Inspector Rekha, also conducted raid at his another house at Municipal Chatiram in the city. The raids continued till evening as further details are awaited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dvac-raid-at-constables-house/article33622384.ece
21 January 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||Due to various works, power supply will be disrupted in the following areas:  Bhavani Road line, January 21, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.: Kamaraj Nagar, Sunnambu Odai, B.P. Agraharam, Bhavani Main Road, Lakshmi Theatre, Annapoorani Theatre, Ashokapuram, Tahsildar Thottam, 16 Road and Nerikalmedu.  Karungalpalayam line, January 22, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.: EVK Sampath Road only.  Gandhi Nagar line, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.: Kanjikovil, Pallapalayam, Coundampalayam, Karattupalayam, Chinniyampalayam, Ayyanvalasu, Perumapalayam, Mullampatti, Olapalayam, Kandampalayam Pirivu, Samicoundampalayam, Vettaiperiyampalayam, Gandhi Nagar, Naduvalasu, Karukkampalayam, Thudupathi, Ponnandavalasu, Kolathanvalasu, Suriyampalayam, Pethampalayam, Elayampalayam, Osapatti, Madhanaickenpalayam, Sanarpalayam, Theerthampalayam, Samathanapuram, Seerangoundampalayam, Palakarai, Thottiyanur and Kovilkattu Valasu.  Town line, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.: Meenatchi Sundaranar Road, NMS Compound areas, Eswaran Kovil Street, TVS Street, Manikoondu, Nethaji Street, Periyar Mandram, Ramasamy Street, Venkadachalam Street, Periyanna Street, Panneerselvam Park, Kalaimagal Kalvi Nilayam Road, Vamalai Street and Muthurangan Street.  Thindal line, 12 noon to 4 p.m.: Thindal, Amman Nagar, Sivan Nagar, Sakthi Nagar, Selvam Nagar, Palayapalayam, URC Nagar, Rajiv Nagar, Sengodampalayam and Chinna Sengodampalayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article33622390.ece
21 January 2021||KRISHNAGIRI/Dharmapuri,TAMIL NADU||Krishnagiri registers 15.99 lakh voters, Dharmapuri 12.60 lakh||The final electoral roll for the district has registered 15,99,018 lakh voters for the six Assembly constituencies. The final electoral roll that was released here at the Collectorate by Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy has recorded 280 transgender voters, 7,93,220 lakh female voters, and 8,05,518 male voters for Uthangarai(reserved), Vargur, Krishnagiri, Vepanapalli, Hosur and Thally constituencies. Krishnagiri has registered 2,65,238 voters, Uthangarai- 2,35,051; Bargur- 2,46,269; Vepanapalli- 2,50,657; Hosur 3,49,224 and Thally 2,50,579 voters. The final electoral roll is posted for public perusal in all the 1,863 polling booths, taluk offices, revenue divisional offices, municipal and corporation offices and in all local bodies. According to the administration, the draft roll was released on November 16, 2020 and any revisions, depletions, additions, corrections were invited from the electorate up to December 15, 2020. The final roll has been prepared with January 1, 2021 as qualifying date for eligible voters. The final voter roll was released in the presence of representatives of all political parties.  Dharmapuri  The final electoral roll for the district has registered 12,60,909 lakh voters for the five Assembly constituencies. The final electoral roll that was released here by Collector S. P. Karthika has recorded 161 transgender voters, 6,22,857 lakh female voters, and 6,37,891 male voters for Harur (reserved), Pennagaram, Paapireddypatty, Dharmapuri, and Palacode constituencies. Dharmapuri has registered 2,67,980 voters, Palacode 2,35,089; Pennagaram 2,45,338; Paapireddypatty 2,63,883; and Harur (Reserved) 2,48,619 voters. The final electoral roll is posted for public perusal in all government offices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/krishnagiri-registers-1599-lakh-voters-dharmapuri-1260-lakh/article33622393.ece
21 January 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Women voters outnumber men in Madurai district||There are 26,85,671 voters in the 10 Assembly constituencies of Madurai district, nine of which have more women voters. The total number of women voters in the district exceeded men voters by 43,163, according to the final electoral roll released by Collector T. Anbalagan here on Wednesday. There are 13,21,153 men voters, 13,64,316 women voters and 202 voters from the third gender in the district. Highest number Madurai East constituency has the highest number of voters – 3,27,254, whereas Sholavandan has the lowest number of voters – 2,17,470. Usilampatti is the only Assembly constituency with more men voters. Increase over draft roll There has been an increase of 77,978 in the final tally of voters in the district. the draft electoral roll released on November 16, 2020, had 26,07,693 voters. Additions and deletions were made in the draft electoral rolls from November 16 to December 15. Special camps were held on November 21, 22 and December 12 and 13.  Walkout Representatives of various political parties staged a walkout during the release of the final electoral roll on Wednesday, complaining that the officials of the district administration did not take steps to ensure that the political party representatives were given coverage in the news platforms during the release of the poll roll.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/women-voters-outnumber-men-in-madurai-district/article33622578.ece
21 January 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Upload revised master plans on website: PIL petition||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday ordered notice to the State on a public interest litigation petition that sought a direction to the government to upload revised master plans on the official website and ensure mentioning of land classification at the time of registration for the benefit of the public. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice M.M. Sundresh observed that if revised master plans were uploaded on the official website, it would ensure that things moved according to the plans and reduce red tapism. The court directed the State to file a comprehensive report in this regard. The court was hearing the PIL petition filed by M. Maruthupandian of Ramanathapuram. The petitioner said he had come across a number of cases where innocent purchasers were victimised. They purchased properties on the belief that they were commercial properties. But, when they went to authorities for building planning permission, it was denied. The local planning authorities denied permission stating that building areas were commercial areas. The purchasers were unaware of this since the information was not being made available on the public domain. Facts were being kept a secret. If the details were uploaded on the official website, the purchasers would not fall prey to middlemen, he said. He said the main objective of the Tamil Nadu Town and Country Planning Act, 1971, was to maintain transparency in the development of lands and towns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/upload-revised-master-plans-on-website-pil-petition/article33622568.ece
21 January 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Bid to make the ‘black spot’ a safe zone||Nine fatal accidents and 25 non-fatal accidents in six years have made Vaikkom Periyar Nagar – Madurai Ring Road junction a major black spot in the city. As part of making this junction safe for road users, the City Traffic Police have taken a series of measures. On Tuesday, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic) K. Sugumaran led officials from other related departments in inaugurating new facilities like zig-zag barricades and three sign boards cautioning vehicle users on Ring Road to restrict the speed to 30 kmph at the junction. The boards bring the attention of the vehicle users to ‘accident zone,’ ‘30 kmph speed restriction’ and ‘go slow’. “These measures will help slow down the vehicles on the Ring Road and prevent collision with vehicles that perpendicularly crosses the highway from Vaikkom Periyar Nagar Road to Avaniyapuram Road,” said Mr. Sugumaran. The Deputy Commissioner also suggested to Independent Engineer in Tamil Nadu Road Infrastructure Development Corporation S. Ramachandran to put up a high-mast light at the junction to provide more visibility at night. He also asked officials to consider moving the junction from a perpendicular position to 100 metres away on both sides to make it safe for the vehicle users. Mr. Ramachandran said proposals for constructing flyovers at Mandela Nagar junction and Chintamani junction were under consideration. Police officials sought street lights on the entire stretch of Ring Road that runs in city limits. Assistant Commissioners of Police (Traffic) A. Tirumalai and Mariappan, and Regional Transport Officers S. Selvam (North) and M. Singaravelu (South) were also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bid-to-make-the-black-spot-a-safe-zone/article33622570.ece
21 January 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Minister reviews Corporation works||Cooperation Minister Sellur K. Raju chaired a meeting at Arignar Anna Maligai here on Wednesday to review the works by all the departments of Madurai Corporation. Mr. Raju reviewed the Smart Cities projects, developmental projects and works undertaken under AMRUT scheme. Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan and City Engineer S. Arasu attended the meeting. The Minister instructed the officials to repair roads that were severely damaged in the recent rains. High importance must be given to basic necessities of the public, including street lights, drinking water, sanitation and underground drainage system, and all complaints from the residents must be immediately addressed, he said. The Minister also said garbage accumulated on streets must be regularly cleared. All engineering and health officials must visit their wards daily and address all the grievances of the people. Roads that had been dug up for laying underground and drinking water pipelines must be closed immediately. Steps must be taken to address stray cattle problem, he said. Mr. Raju said the officials must take efforts to complete Smart Cities projects by February. The cremation grounds must be cleaned and maintained regularly. It must be ensured that doctors and medical staff were present at Amma Clinics during their allotted time slot, he said and asked the officials to expedite the works undertaken under Mullaperiyar drinking water project. The Minister also distributed 80 electronic tablets to Corporation school teachers. The tablets were sponsored by American India Foundation and HCL Foundation. The Minister said the tablets would help teachers conduct online classes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-reviews-corporation-works/article33622575.ece
21 January 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||PIL plea wants voting via EVMs for those on poll duty||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday ordered notice to the Election Commission of India on a public interest litigation petition that sought to do away with voting via postal ballot for those on election duty. The electronic voting machines (EVMs) must be used instead, the petitioner said. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice M.M. Sundresh ordered the notice on the PIL petition filed by S. Pandidurai, a schoolteacher from Theni district. The petitioner said it must be ensured that there was cent per cent voting via the EVMs even for those on election duty. The petitioner, district secretary of Tamil Nadu Graduate Teachers Association – Theni district, said teachers, clerical staff, government officials and ex-servicemen acted as polling personnel during general elections. They faced a lot of problems in exercising their Right to Vote, guaranteed under the Constitution, through the postal ballot. He said the Rules 17 - 20 of the Conduct of Election Rules, 1961, provided that voters on election duty were entitled to vote by post. The Report on General Elections to Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly, 2011, stated that the total persons for polling duty were 3,07,174, but only 1,06,094 of the votes were valid. In the case of votes cast through the EVMs, out of 3,67,56,813 votes valid votes numbered 3,67,39,276 (99.5%). Similarly in the 2016 elections, out of the 4,29,04,285 votes, 4,29,00,661 were valid (99.99%), he said. He pointed out that voting via the postal ballot involved various difficulties. The person on election duty had to apply for the postal ballot paper, then submit it to the returning officer. After it was ensured that the details were filled up, the person would again obtain the ballot paper and cast the vote. After the vote was cast by ticking the symbol of his or her choice the ballot paper would be put in a separate cover accompanied by a declaration and attestation. The cover had to be sent through post to the returning officer. Therefore, instead of using the postal ballot method, the EVMs could be used for those on poll duty, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pil-plea-wants-voting-via-evms-for-those-on-poll-duty/article33622360.ece
21 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Madurai as second capital will spur growth’||Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry has urged the State government to form a high-level advisory committee to look into the possibilities of making Madurai the second capital of Tamil Nadu. In a statement, its president N. Jegatheesan said the panel should be formed before the Assembly elections with the view to promoting industrial development of southern districts. Most of the headquarters of public sector departments were in Chennai. New entrepreneurs from southern districts had to travel to Chennai to get clearances from the officials to run their units. This caused severe inconvenience to them. Madurai, referred to as the cultural capital, was an ideal place to be the second capital of the State. Nearly one-third of the State’s population was in southern districts. If Madurai became the second capital, many large-scale industries would come to the district. Ancillary units would be set up in the southern region, generating more job opportunities, said Mr. Jegatheesan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madurai-as-second-capital-will-spur-growth/article33622567.ece
21 January 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||33 kg of ganja seized, four held in Madurai||During a vehicle check, a team of police from S.S. Colony station, led by Inspector Flower Sheela, intercepted a car at Fenner Colony. The police found 33 kg of ganja kept in the car. Besides seizing the contraband and the car involved in smuggling, the police arrested four persons – S. Chelladurai of Usilampatti, M. Prakash (33) of Sittalatchi Nagar, P. Tamilarasan (37) of Keeripatti and A. Pandi (31) of Cumbum in Theni district. During interrogation, the accused said that they had procured 500 kg of ganja from Andhra and had sold them to two persons – Navas Khan and Wasim Khan of Ramanathapuram. The duo used to smuggle narcotics to Sri Lanka through sea route, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/33-kg-of-ganja-seized-four-held-in-madurai/article33622566.ece
21 January 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Switch off TV when Sanskrit news is read’||Disposing of a petition that challenged the telecast of Sanskrit news on Doordarshan channel, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court observed that there were matters of greater social concern which had to be addressed and such petty issues should not be looked into by it. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice M.M. Sundresh observed, “For one, Doordarshan channel has limited viewership. Secondly, it is a matter for the government to decide. Thirdly, the news read in Sanskrit hardly takes up a fraction of the entire day.” Further, the judges observed that when the writ petitioner did not find Sanskrit to be tasteful or useful, there was no compulsion for him to tune in and it was open to him to switch off the TV when Sanskrit news was read and get some other form of entertainment. The judges hoped that the petitioner would keep up his public spirit and bring matters involving public interest to the court. The writ petition was disposed of with liberty to the petitioner to make an appropriate representation to authorities concerned. The court was hearing the petition filed by advocate S. Muthukumar of Madurai who had sought a direction to forbear the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, Prasar Bharati and Doordarshan from telecasting Sanskrit news in Doordarshan’s Tamil language regional channel Podhigai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/switch-off-tv-when-sanskrit-news-is-read/article33622361.ece
21 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Building sinks into ground||Several residents of a two-storey building, housing six dwelling units and a shop, at Meenakshi Pallam in Madurai had a miraculous escape after the entire ground floor sunk into the ground on Wednesday. Madurai City police and Corporation officials rushed to the spot and cordoned off the area to prevent any untoward incident. According to one of the residents, M. Manimaran (39), each of the three floors has two houses and the ground floor has a shop too.“The walls in the houses had started developing cracks on Tuesday night. We could not close the doors too,” he said. However, the families spent the night in the building. In the morning, when workers of the shop on the ground floor found that they could not open the door, they attempted to break it open. As the building shook all the inmates of the houses rushed out of the building around 11.30 a.m. While his wife and son had gone to the ration shop, Mr. Manimaran, a tailor, was just returning home from a tea shop, when an elderly woman, his neighbour, told him about the fresh cracks in the walls. “Even as we were talking, the crackling noise increased and the building came crashing down. Within seconds, I pulled the woman out and we both came out to a safe distance,” he said. “A youth who was taking a bath at the time, jumped to the next building. A young woman escaped with minor injuries,” Mr. Manimaran said. A Corporation employee said the three-decade-old building had sunk into loose soil after the recent rains. The first floor has come down to the ground and the building now leans against a neighbouring building. Mr. Manimaran said all his belongings, including valuables, had been trapped under the debris. Efforts are on to demolish the building as a precautionary measure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-decade-old-building-sinks-into-ground/article33622572.ece
21 January 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Inspector dies of cardiac arrest||Dinakaran, Inspector of Elumalai police station, died of cardiac arrest at his official quarters in Elumalai on Wednesday evening. The 50-year-old police officer is survived by his wife, a son and a daughter. The police said that Dinakaran, who was staying alone in the quarters, was getting ready to go for his evening rounds when he suddenly collapsed. Dinakaran’s driver alerted others and the Inspector was rushed to a private hospital. But the doctors there referred Dinakaran to Usilampatti Government Hospital. When he was brought to the Government Hospital in Usilampatti, the doctors declared him brought dead. His body has been taken to his native place in Theni district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inspector-collapses-dies/article33622365.ece
21 January 2021||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Farmers in tail-end areas seek relief||Farmers in the tail-end areas of Mayiladuthurai and Nagapattinam districts whose paddy fields have been inundated by the unseasonal rainfall on an unprecedented scale this month have urged the government to sanction a compensation of Rs. 30,000 per acre. Several thousands of acres in Vadakarai, Thenkarai, Sellur, Kattur and many other villages in Nagapattinam district, and in Kollidam, Nallur, Kunnam, Athiyur, Thittai in Sirkazhi taluk of Mayiladuthurai district present sights of rotting crops. Farmers have not been able to clear the fields of the damaged crops due to paucity of financial resources. After the major impact caused by the Nivar and Burevi cyclones, they least expected the last spell of rainfall spanning over 10 days during this month that turned out to be proverbial last straw on the camel’s back. They are in a state of agony and gloom since the last spell of rainfall had battered their fields at harvest-stage Earlier this week, farmers in a state of desperation staged protests along with their family members in some tail-end villages. The destruction of the paddy crop by the unseasonal rainfall was a double whammy as they would be deprived of hay for their livestock. Accompanied by Nagapattinam Collector Praveen P. Nair, the Joint Director of Agriculture, State Schemes, Chennai, Velayutham, inspected the rain-damaged crops at Palayur and Sangamangalam villages on Wednesday. Compensation for crops damaged due to heavy rainfall brought in by Cyclones Nivar and Burevi has been provided to 1.29 lakh farmers in the Nagapattinam and Mayiladuthurai districts so far, Mr. Praveen P. Nair said. The heavy rain due to two cyclones had caused damage to 82,85 hectares cultivated by 1.45 lakh farmers. For the rest of the farmers, minor hitches in transferring the amounts to their bank accounts were being rectified, the Collector said. There has been a major damage to paddy crops at a harvest stage due to the spell of rainfall in January. The damage was being assessed through the Agriculture and Revenue departments. Direct purchase centres will be opened at 266 locations in the two districts during this month. There will be 155 DPCs in Mayiladuthurai district and 111 in Nagapattinam, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-in-tail-end-areas-seek-relief/article33622346.ece
21 January 2021||Nagercoil,TAMIL NADU||Five held for robbing jewellery showroom employees of Rs. 76 lakh||The Thuckalay police have arrested five persons who robbed Rs. 76.40 lakh from employees of a Kerala-based jewellery showroom even as they were taking the cash to their workplace from Nagercoil on Tuesday afternoon. Police said Sampath, 46, of Neyyaatrinkara in Kerala, who owns a jewellery showroom there, used to supply gold to jewellery showroom owners of Kanniyakumari and Tirunelveli districts. As he had to send 1.50 kg gold to his relative Sushant owning a jewellery showroom in Tirunelveli and 800 grams of gold to another shop in Nagercoil on Tuesday, three employees of Mr. Sampath took the gold in a car. Mr. Sushant received the gold after handing over Rs. 76.40 lakh to the employees at Azhagiyamandapam near Thuckalay. The trio then went to Nagercoil to handover the 800 grams of gold and received Rs. 40.44 lakh from the buyer. When they were returning to Neyyaatrinkara in the car with the cash on Tuesday afternoon, four unidentified persons, including two in police uniform, stopped the car at Villukkuri and told the occupants that they had to check the car for ‘hawala money’. Even as the jewellery showroom workers were confused, the foursome took the bag containing Rs. 76.40 lakh from the car and snatched the mobile phones from the employees. They escaped from the scene of crime in another car. The panicked workers alerted Mr. Sampath over the phone and they were asked to file a complaint with the Thuckalay police. The police then scanned the CCTV cameras fitted near the scene of crime. On establishing the identity of one of the robbers, the police nabbed five persons in connection with the daylight robbery including the driver of the robbers’ car on Wednesday. The culprits were identified as S. Sajin Kumar, 37, of Kuttriyaanikaadu in Kaattaakadai, V. Rajesh Kumar, 40, of Perunkadavizhaa in Neyyaatrinkara, K. Suresh Kumar, 34, of Paariyodu in Neyyaatrinkara, R. Kannan, 29, and Gopakumar, 37, both from Maavarthalaveedu in Neyyaatrinkara. Further investigations are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-held-for-robbing-jewellery-showroom-employees-of-rs-76-lakh/article33622728.ece
21 January 2021||NEW DELHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Delay in Perarivalan case is extraordinary’,||The Supreme Court on Wednesday said the case of A.G. Perarivalan, who was convicted over his involvement in the assassination of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi, was ‘extraordinary’, as the Tamil Nadu Governor had been delaying a decision for years, despite the State government having recommended a pardon. “The government appears to have recommended it. But the Governor is delaying. This is an extraordinary issue,” Justice L. Nageswara Rao, heading a three-judge Bench, observed. Additional Advocate-General of Tamil Nadu, Balaji Srinivasan, remarked, on a lighter note: “A gentleman is furiously signing pardons elsewhere. Hope that could have been done here.” The Additional Advocate-General of Tamil Nadu was obliquely referring to the last act of United States President Donald Trump while in office. “That could have saved us a lot of trouble,” Justice Rao replied. Additional Solicitor General K.M. Nataraj, for the Centre, argued that Perarivalan’s pardon plea should go to the President instead of the Governor. “So, for the past 70 years, we have been doing wrong by sending pardon pleas to the Governors. All prisoners should now go to the President? He [Perarivalan] was in custody and solitary confinement for years. The State government has recommended his release...” senior advocate Gopal Sankaranarayanan and advocate Prabu Ramasubramanian, for Perarivalan, said while countering the Centre’s submission. The Centre had raised the point about the Tamil Nadu Governor’s power to grant remission to Perarivalan under Article 161 of the Constitution last November. Significantly, the submission came on the heels of a CBI affidavit saying it was entirely up to the Governor to pardon him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/delay-in-perarivalan-case-extraordinary-sc/article33622251.ece
21 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Chief Minister wants barricades in White Town to be removed||The State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA) headed by Chief Minister Narayanasamy has directed the District Administration to remove the barricades put up in the White Town area. After chairing a meeting of SDMA at the Secretariat on Wednesday, the Chief Minister said the government does not have any issue in providing security to Raj Nivas but the arrangements should not cause inconvenience to the public. “There is no necessity to promulgate [prohibitory orders under] Section 144 of Criminal Procedure Code. The barricading of the area around Raj Nivas is causing inconvenience to the people coming to the GH, Post Office, Ashram and Manakula Vinayakar temple. So, the SDMA meeting has asked the authorities to remove the barricades by Thursday,” he said. The administration should remove all barricades so that people are allowed free access inside the White Town, he added. ‘Officers threatened’ When asked whether the Police Department was under the control of the Home Minister, the Chief Minister said “I will not blame the police officers for Tuesday’s incident (preventing the CM from meeting Social Welfare Minister at the protest venue near Raj Nivas). But there is an extra constitutional authority which functions beyond the rules in the Union Territory. It is Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi. The officers are being threatened. I will not blame the officers.” On the appointment of Purva Garg as Collector, the Chief Minister said he had clearly mentioned in the file that a Tamil speaking officer should be appointed for the post. “I have mentioned in the file that a Tamil speaking officer should be appointed for the post because elections are going to come. The appointed officer for the post should be able to interact with the public. It will not be appropriate to appoint a non-Tamil speaking officer. The Lt. Governor has appointed her despite my objections. We will take appropriate decision.” The Chief Minister said he had also sought an explanation from Collector Purva Garg on the imposition of Section 144 without the knowledge of the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chief-minister-wants-barricades-in-white-town-to-be-removed/article33622688.ece
21 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||After revision, Puducherry has over eight lakh voters||The size of the electorate in Puducherry region, comprising 25 Assembly constituencies including Mahe and Yanam, has grown to 8,42, 217 voters, after the latest round of revision of electoral rolls. District Collector Purva Garg, who released the final voters list on Wednesday, said there were 3,97,997 male voters, 4,44,123 female voters and 97 third gender electors in the Puducherry region. The voter population in Karaikal, which houses the other five Assembly constituencies, is 1,61,464. The final voter list will be placed for public view at the respective polling booths in the constituencies for a week to allow the electors to verify their details, Ms. Garg said. The Collector handed over the final list to representatives of various political parties. The final list was prepared after a summary revision of electoral rolls on the directive of the Election Commission of India effected between November 16 and December 15. The month-long drive had set January 1, 2021 as the qualifying date.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/after-revision-puducherry-has-over-eight-lakh-voters/article33622691.ece
21 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 immunisation coverage low||The COVID-19 immunisation coverage in the Union Territory has been below par in the early phase of the roll out of vaccination. Official data for the first three days of vaccination schedule across centres in Puducherry, Karaikal, Mahe and Yanam show that only about 31.62% of registered healthcare volunteers turned up for the first shot. The data also pointed to the number of volunteers falling to the lowest on Day three of the drive. To date, 759 beneficiaries have received the first dose of Covishied during the vaccination drive organised at five centres in Puducherry, in addition to solitary centres in Karaikal, Mahe and Yanam. In Puducherry, the centres were at the IGMCRI, Indira Gandhi Government General Hospital, Rajiv Gandhi Women and Children Hospital, CHC Karikalampakkam and Jipmer. While 150 volunteers were administered the first shot on the launch day on Saturday, the numbers on the subsequent two days were 117 and 146. At Jipmer, where 101 persons took the first shot on the first day of the roll out, the number of volunteers dropped to 70 and 50 on the following days. For the Union Territory as a whole, 274 volunteers took the jab on the first day, 280 on the second day while just 205 turned up on the third day. The immunisation coverage is least in Karaikal where only 28 beneficiaries have received the first dose so far. The Health Department had made arrangements to administer vaccines to 100 beneficiaries at each centre. So far, 413 healthcare personnel have been immunised in Puducherry, 28 in Karaikal, 229 in Mahe and 89 in Yanam. A Health Department official said the low numbers were “inexplicable” and hoped that the numbers would pick up once people got over the phase of vaccine hesitancy. It is also being proposed to allow any registered healthcare worker to walk in for immunisation at a designated centre instead of streamlining the schedule solely through the app. The Health Department had received a stock of 17,500 doses of Covishield ahead of the roll out of the nation-wide immunisation programme on Saturday last.  The numbers will pick up once people get over the phase of vaccine hesitancy Health Dept. official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-immunisation-coverage-low/article33622693.ece
21 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||BJP stages protest||The Bharatiya Janata Party on Wednesday held protest in 30 Assembly segments to highlight the “non - performance” of the ruling Congress in the Union Territory. Workers belonging to the party staged agitations in all the constituencies raising slogans against the government. Nominated legislator and president of BJP V. Saminathan led the protest in Lawspet constituency. Addressing the workers, he said the Chief Minister was unnecessarily blaming the Centre and the Lt. Governor to hide the failures of his administration. The government failed to fulfill any of the poll promises during its tenure and hence trying to shift the blame on the Centre and the Lt. Governor, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-stages-protest/article33622686.ece
21 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry adds 31 cases, infection rate falls below 1%||Puducherry added 31 fresh cases to its COVID-19 tally on Wednesday while no deaths were reported in the last 24 hours. Of the new cases, which were identified at the end of examination of 3,679 samples, Puducherry accounted for 24, followed by Mahe (five) and Karaikal (two). No cases in Yanam No cases were reported in Yanam. With the discharge of 32 patients, the number of active cases in the Union Territory stood at 296. Of this, 127 were in hospitals and 169 in home isolation. The test positivity rate was 0.84%, case fatality rate was 1.66% and recovery rate 97.58%. The tally stood at 643 deaths, a total of 38,737 cases and 37,798 recovered patients. Of the estimated 5.42 lakh samples tested so far, 4.99 lakh samples were negative.  Six cases in Villupuram Villupuram district reported six fresh cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday, taking the district’s tally to 15,126. While 14,974 have been discharged, the active cases in the district stands at 41. No fresh cases were reported in Cuddalore and Kallakurichi districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-adds-31-cases-infection-rate-falls-below-1/article33622689.ece
21 January 2021||S. Prasad,TAMIL NADU||CCTVs, metal grills come to aid to protect statues||The Kallakurichi district police have started installing Closed Circuit Television cameras to prevent desecration of statues. Kallakurichi district, encompassing three police sub-divisions — Kallakurichi, Ulundurpet and Tirukovilur has about 120 statues of leaders. The statues of Mahatma Gandhi, B.R. Ambedkar, Periyar, former Chief Ministers, C.N. Annadurai, M.G. Ramachandran and Jayalalithaa are located in both public and private places. The district police, with the cooperation of political parties and sponsors, have started erecting grills around the statues to protect them from vandals in the wake of the desecration of statues of some of the leaders. “The exercise started last year and covered all the 120 statues. Now we have started the installation of CCTVs to safeguard them and have covered 10 statues so far,” Superintendent of Police Ziaul Haque told The Hindu . “The police department coordinated with local residents, private parties and sponsors to cover the statues. The high-resolution cameras installed near the statues have also been integrated with the police control room. The surveillance will not only act as a strong deterrent to keep miscreants at bay but will also help the police in the event of law and order or incidents of crime,” Mr. Haque said. Over 500 police personnel in the rank of Special Sub-Inspector, Head Constable and Grade I constable have been appointed as Village Vigilance Police Officers (VVPOs). They will be in charge of 562 mother villages and hamlets coming under the three police sub-divisions and resolve basic issues. The VVPOs will also ask residents to make the hamlets safe, Mr. Haque added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cctvs-metal-grills-come-to-aid-to-protect-statues/article33622683.ece
21 January 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Paddy drier raises hopes of farmers||A trial run of the portable paddy drier deployed at the direct purchase centre at Ponnappur East hamlet near Uloor on Tuesday was found to be useful to farmers. The tractor-driven machine, developed by an agriculture implement manufacturing company in Hosur, was brought here last week and was put on a trial run in the presence of Collector M. Govinda Rao. After inspecting the trial run, he said the machine had scaled down moisture content in paddy from 24% and above to around 18%. The machine was able to dry up two tonnes of paddy in about two hours. The results of the trial run would be forwarded to the government for further action, he said and suggested that the Farmers Producers Organisations could opt for these machines as the price quoted by the company hovers around Rs. 11 lakh. Deployment of such technology would help realise a better harvest this season in view of unseasonal heavy downpour in the district.  Though the ceiling on moisture content was relaxed for procurement this season, the rain resulted in a sharp increase in the moisture content in paddy harvested, they said. Meanwhile, progressive farmers such as G. Srinivasan of Ganapathi Agraharam and P.R.Pandian, general secretary, Thamizhaga Cauvery Vivasayigal Sangam, have urged the government to ensure that paddy driers were made available in delta districts in adequate numbers in the years to come as it would help them comply with the moisture content criteria while measuring the paddy at the DPCs. Pointing out that the moisture content in paddy raises above the prescribed limit not only due to heavy rain or inundation but even when the crop was exposed to misty condition, they said that the investment on such machines would be worthy. Another progressive farmer, S.Sundaram of Maharajapuram said that paddy driers were used in the delta districts three to four decades ago when the paddy procurement was not decentralised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/paddy-drier-raises-hopes-of-farmers/article33622342.ece
21 January 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Do not believe Panneerselvam this time, DMK chief tells voters||Accusing Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam of having done nothing for the people of his Bodinayakkanur constituency in Theni district, DMK president M.K. Stalin on Wednesday urged voters not to trust the AIADMK coordinator, this time around. Addressing a Makkal Gram Sabha organised by his party, Mr. Stalin said Mr. Panneerselvam had not done anything for the people, in the last 10 years. Had he paid attention to the constituency, the standard of living of the people might have improved, he said. The DMK leader told the people at Aranmanai Pudur, in Bodi Municipal limits, that all through its years in power, both the AIADMK government and Mr. Panneerselvam had done nothing for the people. “He was lucky not once, but thrice, that he enjoyed the seat of the Chief Minister of the State,” Mr. Stalin said. “And now, he is claiming to be the man of the masses and is releasing videos and advertisements. It is like singing Hosannas about himself... Beware, he will come again with a pleasant smile and an innocent appearance, do not believe him this time,” Mr. Stalin said, amid applause from the gathering. On Jaya panel During his interaction with women, who were present in large numbers, he said Mr. Panneerselvam had said that there was mystery behind the death of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa. After the AIADMK government formed the Justice Arumughasamy Commission to probe her hospitalisation, Mr. Panneerselvam had not found the time to appear before the judge and depose, the DMK leader said. Appealing to the women to shoot questions to the AIADMK leaders and think twice before they vote, Mr. Stalin reiterated his promise to unravel the “mystery” behind Jayalalithaa’s death, if voted to power. A few women said they were unhappy with the government and that they preferred a change. Mr. Stalin said the DMK had provided support to the people during the floods and the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/do-not-believe-panneerselvam-this-time-dmk-chief-tells-voters/article33622233.ece
21 January 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Unseasonal rains delay salt production||The recent unseasonal rains that lashed the district before ‘Pongal’ has delayed the start of salt production this year as most of the saltpans are still submerged in rainwater. The coastal district, India’s second largest salt producer after Gujarat, produces 25 lakh tonnes of salt every year from saltpans in Vembar, Vaeppalodai, Tharuvaikulam, Ayyanarpuram, Muthaiahpuram, Mullakkaadu, Pazhayakaayal and Arumuganeri. Salt producers would usually start the season with the preparatory works in January every year by rectifying the damages caused by the northeast monsoon to the saltpans between October and December. Subsequently, salt production would start in February and go up to September last week before the onset of northeast monsoon. There will be no production during the northeast monsoon i.e. between October and December.  “We can prepare the saltpans for this season only after the stagnant rainwater completely drains. If there is no fresh spell of rain and sunny days continue, we can prepare the saltpans by February alone and salt production will start only in the second week of March. So the producers stand to lose a month’s production this year,” says A. R. A. S. Dhanapalan, secretary of Small Scale Salt Producers’ Association. He also warns that the salt production would suffer further setback if there were another round of unexpected rains before or after the production started. Interestingly, the salt producers, who usually have to wind-up their operations by September-end every year, could continue their production till October-end last year as the northeast monsoon started only in November. And, the district produced 22.50 lakh tonnes of salt in 2020 (from February to October). After selling nearly 18.50 lakh tonnes, around 4 lakh tonnes of salt has been stocked in the stockyards to meet the demand till February even as a tonne of salt is being sold anywhere between Rs. 1,500 and Rs. 2,000. “If we cannot start salt production in March, it will create a demand in the market and the price will go up,” Mr. Dhanapalan says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/unseasonal-rains-delay-salt-production/article33622371.ece
21 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Voter strength goes up||Collectors released final electoral rolls in the central region on Wednesday. The summary revision was carried out with January 1, 2021 as the qualifying date and the final list was published after inclusions and deletions based on applications received during the process in the past couple of months. Thanjavur The total number of voters in eight assembly constituencies in Thanjavur district stood at 20,56,548 with 10,00,709 men, 10,55,671 women and 168 transgenders. Collector M. Govinda Rao said 71,266 voters had been added to the rolls. He said the final rolls will be placed before the gram sabha meetings to be held on Republic Day. The draft roll published on November 16, 2020 had 20,06,215 voters comprising 9,80,016 men, 10,26,069 women and 130 transgenders. During the summary revision, the names of 20,933 voters were deleted on account of death or migration. Thanjavur has voter strength of 2,88,900 while Peravurani 2,19,661 electors. The number of voters in other constituencies are: Kumbakonam – 2,72,506; Thiruvaiyaru – 2,67,796; Papanasam – 2,60,339; Thiruvidaimaruthur – 2,59,074; Pattukottai – 2,45,258 and Orathanadu – 2,43,014.  Tiruvarur  The total number of voters in the four assembly segments of Tiruvarur district stood at 10,50,569 with 5,35,963 women, 5,14,536 men and 70 transgenders. As per the final electoral roll released by the Collector V.Santha, 44,338 voters were added and the names of 9,324 have been deleted. The following is the voter strength in the four assembly segments: Tiruvarur 2,81,534 voters; Nannilam 2,71,466, Mannargudi 2,58,433 and Thiruthuraipoondi 2,39,136 voters.  Nagapattinam  As many as 48,707 new voters were added to the rolls and names of 12,149 voters were deleted from the electoral rolls in the combined Nagapattinam district (including the newly formed Mayiladuthurai district). The total voter strength stood at 13,41,305 with 6,58,437 men, 6,82,815 women and 53 transgenders. The following was the voters’ strength in the six constituencies: Sirkazhi – men: 1,23, 899, women: 1,27,868 and transgenders: 12; Mayiladuthurai - men :1,21,166, women: 1,23,841and transgenders: 15; Poompuhar – men: 1,35,862, women: 1,39,713 and transgenders: 7; Nagapattinam: men: 95,558; women: 1,01,748 and transgenders: 10; Keezh Velur – men: 87,677; women: 91,578 and transgenders: 9; and Vedaranyam: men: 94,275 and women: 98,067. Collector Praveen P.Nair released the final rolls.  Pudukottai  Pudukottai district with six assembly constituencies has a total of 13,48,964 voters. Collector P.Uma Maheswari released the rolls. The district had 6,83,516 women, 6,65,376 men and 72 transgenders. As many as 53,124 voters have been added and names of 14,228 voters have been deleted; 6,375 voters had migrated.  Perambalur  The two assembly constituencies in this district has 5,75,986 voters including 2,93,392 women, 2,82,560 men and 34 others as per the final rolls released by Collector P.Sri Venkada Priya. The number of voters in Perambalur (reserved) constituency was 3,02,291 while it was 2,73,695 voters in the case of Kunnam assembly constituency.  Karur  The voter strength in Karur district stood at 8,96,713 including 4,64,699 women, 4,31,934 men and 80 transgenders. Collector S.Malarvizhi said 35,111 voters have been enrolled and names of 17,480 voters have been deleted. The number of voters in four Assembly segments: Karur - 1,15,835 men, 1,28,321 women and 19 others; Aravakurichi – 1,01,902 men, 1,11,201 women and seven transgenders; Krishnarayapuram – 1,03,736 men, 1,08,865 women and 43 others and Kulithalai - 1,10,462 men,1,16,312 women and 11 others.  Ariyalur  The voter strength in Ariyalur district stood at 5,30,025 voters as per the final rolls released by Collector D.Rathna. While Ariyalur constituency had 2,64,012 voters including 1,31,335 men, 1,32,670 women and seven others; Jayankondam constituency had 2,66,013 voters including 1,31,663 men, 1,34,347 women and three others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/voter-strength-goes-up/article33622350.ece
21 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Airport gets upgraded landing system||Tiruchi International Airport would soon be equipped with an upgraded Instrument Landing System (ILS). The Airports Authority of India (AAI) has started civil and electrical works connected with the installation of the system. The new ILS system will have 16 localiser antennae instead of 12 antennae in the existing one, Airport Director S. Dharmaraj said on Tuesday. A new platform is being constructed at Runway 27-end of the airport adjoining the Tiruchi - Pudukottai national highway for installation of the new antennae. A technical team from the Radio Construction and Development Unit of the AAI will come from New Delhi for installation of the new system. The localiser antennae of the ILS would provide the centre line information to the aircraft while landing and the glide path would provide information pertaining to angle of descent. The new system would aid in smoother landing. While the localiser antennae would be installed at Runway 27-end, the glide path would come up at Runway 9-end on the Nathamadipatti side. The migration of the existing system to the new one would start next month. After installation, the technical team would carry out flight calibration tests following which necessary documents would be submitted to the Directorate General of Civil Aviation seeking its approval for commissioning the new ILS. He said the new ILS would be in place by March adding that the total cost of the project was Rs. 3.5 crore. The Tiruchi airport witnessed a freak accident in October 2018 when a Dubai-bound Air India Express flight hit the perimeter wall of the airport while taking off resulting in significant damage to its belly. The undercarriage of the Boeing 737-800 aircraft hit the antennae of the Instrument Landing System and the wheels hit the boundary wall causing damage. The ILS was rendered non-functional for a few days which led to a probe by the Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau. The ILS was restored days later after some localiser antennae dispatched from the Lucknow airport were installed by a technical team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/airport-gets-upgraded-landing-system/article33622721.ece
21 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown today||Power supply will remain suspended from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. on Thursday in the following areas due to maintenance work to be taken up by Tangedco at the Thiruvanaikovil substation: Thiruvanaikovil Sannidhi Street, North and South Inner streets, Othatheru, Raghavendra Garden, Gandhi Road, Trunk Road, Kumbakonam Salai, Sivaram Nagar, M.K.Pettai, Chennai Bypass Road, Kallanai Road, Keezh Kondayampettai, Nadu Kondayampettai, Jambukeswarar Nagar, Akilandeswari Nagar, Periyar Nagar, Akila Nagar, Ganapathi Nagar, Veereswaram, Venkateswara Nagar, Tagore Street, Thiruvennainallur, Ponnurangapuram, Thiruvalarsolai, Panaiyapuram, Uttamarseeli, Killikoodu, Tollgate, Bikshandarkovil, Maruthi Nagar, Gokulam Colony, V.N.Nagar, Raja Nagar, Anand Nagar, Rayar Thoppu and Thalakudi. There will be no power supply from 9.45 a.m. to 4 p.m.on Thursday in the following area at the Srirangam sub station: Srirangam, Moolathoppu, Melur, Vasantha Nagar, Railway Station Road, East, West, North and South Uthira Streets, East, West, South and North Chithra Streets, Adayavalanjan, Periyar Nagar, Amma Mandapam Road, Veereswaram, Raghavendrapuram, Mangamma Nagar, Cauvery Nagar, Geethapuram, Pushpak Nagar, Renga Nagar and Rayarthoppu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown-today/article33622722.ece
21 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||44 injured in jallikattu at Peria Suriyur in Tiruchi||Forty-four persons were injured during the jallikattu held at Peria Suriyur on Wednesday. Of the 44, eight were tamers and the remaining were spectators. Four among the seriously injured were referred to the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital. The Peria Suriyur Jallikattu, said to be one of the biggest in the central region, was held at a village off Pudukottai Road in Tiruchi. The event was originally scheduled for January 15 but was postponed due to heavy rainfall. As many as 575 bulls were released through the vadivasal with 350 tamers taking the arena. Bulls from Tiruchi, Thanjavur, Ariyalur, decorated in bright colours and garland were brought in mini-trucks for the event. Revenue Divisional Officer N. Vishwanathan inaugurated the event. DMK MLA Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi attended the event and sponsored some prizes for bull owners and tamers. Spectators did not follow the Standard Operating Procedure to be followed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. A total of 200 police, including from the Armed Reserve, were stationed at the event to control a crowd of at least 2000 people, according to a rough estimate made by the police. A team of veterinarians from the Department of Animal Husbandry equipped with the animal ambulance and a medical team with the 108 ambulance were stationed at the venue to provide first aid in case of injuries and rush the injured to the Tiruchi GH. Official sources at the Tiruchi GH said that of the four men, who were admitted, one was discharged while the other three, whose wounds required suturing, are being treated. Organising committee members and sponsors gave away cash, silver coins, silver lamps, appliances, utensils and even two-wheelers to bull owners and tamers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/44-persons-injured-in-jallikattu-at-peria-suriyur-in-tiruchi/article33622264.ece
21 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||IIM-T starts certificate programme||The Indian Institute of Management-Tiruchi inaugurated the first batch of post graduate certificate programme in Leadership and Change Management (PGCLCM) earlier this week. The six-month programme targeted at working executives is to be offered in a blended mode (with one campus visit) and regular classes on Sunday afternoons in a direct-to-device model. IIM-Tiruchi has roped in Times TSW as delivery partner to conduct the programme, designed to sensitise a growing leader to see change as a daily occurrence. Godwin Tennyson, Director (in charge), joined other senior faculty members and S. Rajesh Balaji, Chief Human Resource Officer, Matrimony.com, the chief guest, in felicitating 67 participants of the PGCLCM programme. The specialised course, he said, would help a mid-career professional to fast-track her/his career. He spoke of the relevance of using a structured approach to managing change, and viewing change from a growth perspective.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iim-t-starts-certificate-programme/article33622358.ece
21 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Classes begin for first-year MBBS students||Professors and senior students at the K.A.P. Viswanatham Government Medical College welcomed the fresh batch of first year students to the college on Wednesday. An inaugural ceremony was held for all 150 students following personal distancing norms and wearing masks. While it was a different inaugural ceremony at the KAPVGMC this year, senior students made an attempt to warmly welcome new students to the college. The white coat ceremony, during which a white coat is placed on each student’s shoulders and the Hippocratic Oath is recited, signifying their entrance into the medical profession was held. Dean K. Vanitha, W. Edwina Vasantha, Medical Superintendent, A. Arshiya Begum, Vice-Principal, took part in the event. COVID-19 norms were reinstated to the students to ensure their safety.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/classes-begin-for-first-year-mbbs-students/article33622359.ece
21 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||University to set up Tiruchi campus||The Central University of Tamil Nadu in Tiruvarur is firming up its plan to establish a satellite campus in Tiruchi district. A year back, Tiruchi district administration agreed to allot 47 acres of land on Thuraiyur road for the same. Citing the distance from the city, the university had sought a nearer location. Subsequently, a 100-acre site with approach from Madurai and Dindigul National Highways was suggested. This proposal will materialise if the Ministry of Education gives its approval, said officiating Vice-Chancellor R. Karpagakumaravel. “A satellite campus in Tiruchi will enable the university to increase intake of students,” he said. The university has expanded its presence in the State through MoUs with leading institutions under the control of Central government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/university-to-set-up-tiruchi-campus/article33622719.ece
21 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Slight dip in cases||The central region on Wednesday reported a slight dip in fresh COVID-19 cases with 58 patients testing positive. A 55-year-old woman with a history of asthma and diabetes died at a private hospital in Nagapattinam. Thanjavur reported 18 fresh cases and Tiruchi 12. Meanwhile, two patients who were undergoing treatment at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital for COVID-19 were discharged. Tiruvarur reported 11 fresh cases while the five other districts in the region reported less than 10 fresh cases. Karur reported eight cases. Among the patients who tested positive in Karur were residents from Velayudhampalayam and Karudayampalayam. Interdistrict travellers too, tested positive. Pudukottai reported four while Nagapattinam reported three fresh cases. Two patients tested positive in Ariyalur district while in Perambalur no fresh case was reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/slight-dip-in-cases/article33622344.ece
21 January 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Final electoral roll released||After the recently organised special camps for including or deleting names of voters, the district has 13,53,159 voters including 6,62,326 men, 6,90,732 women and 101 other electorate, as per the electoral roll released by Collector V. Vishnu here on Wednesday. Of this, 27,205 voters are ‘first-time voters’ in the 18 – 19 age group and the remaining 13,25,954 voters are in the age of 20 and above. When the draft electoral roll was released on November 16 last, the district had 13,16,762 voters including 6,45,494 men, 6,71,179 women and 89 other voters. After the special summary revision organised between November 16 and December 15 for inclusion and deletion of voters, 20,124 men, 22,626 women and 12 other voters have been included while 6,365 electors have been removed from the voters’ list. The neighbouring Thoothukudi district has 14,81,799 voters including 7,24,484 men, 7,57,151 women and 164 other voters, as per the roll released by Collector K. Senthil Raj on Wednesday. Tenkasi district has 13,33,880 electorate with 6,53,540 men, 6,80,262 women and 78 other voters as per the electoral rolls released by Collector G.S. Sameeran, which was received by Collector’s Personal Assistant (General) Kavitha. In Kanniyakumari district, Collector M. Aravind released the final voters’ list with 15,67,627 voters with 7,82,936 men, 7,84,488 women and 203 other voters. Barring Colachel, Padmanabhapuram and Killiyoor Assembly segments, all other constituencies have more number of women voters. Kanniyakumari has more number of other voters (104) among the southern districts which is followed by Tirunelveli, having 55 other voters. The final electoral roll will be on display in the Offices of Sub-Collectors and the Tahsildars, polling stations, panchayat offices and the residents’ welfare associations to enable the voters to verify their names. If the name of any qualified voter who has completed 18 years as on January 1, 2021 has not been included, he or she can submit the application in the designated centres. Voters can check their names in the electoral roll via Voters’ Helpline App orwww.nvsp.inand also by calling voters helpline number 1950 with the respective STD code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/final-electoral-roll-released/article33622730.ece
21 January 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Plan to count waterbirds from January 29||Are you interested in seeing waterbirds that have camped in huge number at water bodies? Please come and join the 11th Tamirabharani Waterbird Count 2021 to be organised in Tirunelveli, Tenkasi and Thoothukudi districts from January 29 to 31. The Tamirabharani and its associated tanks are overflowing this year due to heavy rainfall this month. Forests in the Western Ghats capture the monsoon rain and release the water into the streams and rivers which includes Tamirabharani and others that feed into a larger network of irrigation tanks in these districts. These tanks support over 100 species of aquatic birds, mostly migratory birds, during winter. ATREE’s (Ashoka Trust for Research in Ecology and Environment) Agasthyamalai Community Conservation Centre (ACCC) conducts the count from 2011 onwards with the participation of local citizens to document birds’ abundance and diversity in this region. It has joined hands with Pearl City Nature Society, Thoothukudi, Nellai Nature Club, Tirunelveli and District Science Centre, Tirunelveli, to conduct count at Koonthankulam, Vadakku Kazhuvur, Vijayanarayanam, Manur and Rajavallipuram tanks in Tirunelveli district, Vaagaikulam and Thuppakudikulam in Tenkasi district and Kadambakulam, Perunkulam, Arumugamangalamkulam, Vellurkulam and Melputhukudi Sunai in Thoothukudi district, which attract large number of water birds during winter every year. Important role “These birds play very important role in conserving the ecosystem and the people have strong cultural links associated with the arrival of these birds. Unfortunately, many of the wetlands are threatened by encroachment, pollution and urbanization and there is no concern for local biodiversity found in these places. With increasing demand for water both for developmental needs and human use, these wetlands are further threatened. The local communities around the wetlands should be aware of the precious natural resources and protect it against such changes for the benefit of both people and biodiversity. The count is an effort to create awareness of conserving water bodies and birds camping there,” said Mathivanan, coordinator of the programme. Interested volunteers can register their names online athttps:// forms.gle/D2CyJjAuc8R7 RcHTA. They can also contact A. Saravanan via email:twbc2020@gmail.comand 99947 66473. Registration will close on January 26, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plan-to-count-waterbirds-from-january-29/article33622726.ece
21 January 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Highway robbers from Karnataka nabbed||The Palayamkottai Crime Branch police have arrested a team of highway robbers from Karnataka even as they were escaping in their car after robbing a youth of a gold chain and cash on Tuesday night. Sources in the police said the robbers, intercepted A. Senthilvel, 31, of Sawyerpuram in Thoothukudi district as he was crossing the Reddiyarpatti hillock on the 4-lane national highway in the outskirts of Palayamkottai on Tuesday night in the guise of inquiring about an address. They attacked him and even before he could scream for help, the robbers snatched his gold chain, weighing 3.50 sovereigns and Rs. 5,000 in cash. The robbers escaped in the car after orchestrating the crime. After Mr. Senthilvel alerted the police control room over phone, the Tirunelveli city police gave an alert to look for a car with Karnataka registration before it crossed the city limits. When a patrol team saw the car parked in front of a non-vegetarian restaurant near the 4-lane national highway, the team alerted Inspector of Police, Palayamkottai Crime Branch, Adam Ali. He rushed to the spot with his team and nabbed Raghuvaran of Mandya in Karnataka and his associates Manoj Kumar, Praveen and Abhishek, all from Bengaluru. The police team also seized the gold chain, cash and the car used by the robbers, who were remanded in judicial custody on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/highway-robbers-from-karnataka-nabbed/article33622727.ece
21 January 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||DVAC arrests inspector||The Cherambadi police inspector was arrested by the Directorate Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) personnel for demanding and receiving a bribe of Rs. 10,000 from the owner of a lorry transporting M-sand into the State on Tuesday. The accused Anandavelu, 50, had allegedly demanded Rs. 40,000 from the owner of a fleet of lorries in Nilambur in Kerala, failing which he threatened to seize the lorries. A DVAC team, led by Tirupur DSP, Dakshinamurthy, laid a trap and arrested Anandavelu while he was accepting Rs. 10,000 from the complainant at the Cherambadi police station. He was booked under sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act and remanded to judicial custody. A top DVAC official, said that Anandavelu is believed to have been demanding money from multiple business owners. “As the Cherambadi police station limits is located along the Kerala-Tamil Nadu border, he had been demanding money from lorry owners to allow the vehicles to pass,” said the official. When contacted, Nilgiris district superintendent of police V. Sasi Mohan said that he hoped that the arrest would serve as a warning to other police personnel in the district, that any illegal or corrupt activities will be punished. Public can register their complaints directly with the district SP or through the District Special Branch Office, which can be reached at 0423-2223828.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dvac-arrests-inspector/article33622283.ece
21 January 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Elephant’s death was caused by humans: autopsy||A post-mortem conducted on the remains of a 40-year-old tusker that died shortly after its capture in the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) has revealed that its injuries were human-induced, caused most likely by a crude incendiary device. Top officials in the Forest Department, requesting anonymity, told The Hindu that a post-mortem conducted by a team of forest veterinarians had revealed that the injury to the elephant’s ear was consistent with burn injuries. “This is extremely distressing, as these injuries point to humans being responsible for the tusker’s death,” said a top Forest Department official. The official post-mortem report was yet to be returned to the Department, the official added.  Focus will now shift to finding the culprits responsible for the animal’s death, officials said. “We will now track the location where the animal was spotted at the time the injury occurred, and question people in the vicinity, and check on the cars that were passing through the area at the time,” said the official. “This should be feasible as forest staff had been monitoring it from last month itself,” he added. The elephant’s death has caused extreme sadness for many residents as well as forest staff who were tasked with tracking the animal. On Wednesday, residents of Masinagudi condoled the death of the elephant, said to be one of the largest and most popular elephants in the region. They put up notices condoling the death and also prayed for the animal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/death-of-masinagudi-elephant-caused-by-human-induced-injuries-autopsy/article33622258.ece
21 January 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Virudhunagar sees 41,623 more voters||With an addition of 54,793 voters and deletion of 13,170 dead voters and double entries, Virudhunagar district has got 16,68,751 voters when the final electoral list was published on Wednesday. The Virudhunagar Collector, R. Kannan, released the final voter roll in the presence of representatives of recognised political parties. The final voter list has got 41,623 more voters following the special summary revision taken up after releasing the draft voter list in November 2020. Women outnumber men in all the seven Assembly constituencies in the district. The district has 8,12,683 men voters and 8,55,875 women voters. The number of transgenders has increased by 10 and stood at 193. Sivakasi Assembly constituency has got the highest number of voters with 2,60,941 voters and Tiruchuli has got the least number of voters that is 2,20,720. The maximum number of 10,151 voters was included in Sattur Assembly constituency. The least number of inclusion of 6,657 voters was in Aruppukottai constituency. The maximum number of deletion of 2,938 voters was in Rajapalayam and the least number of deletion of 799 voters was in Sattur Assembly segment. The Collector said that inclusion of names, deletion and incorporating corrections in names and addresses can be done from Friday through online or submission of petitions at the respective Taluk offices. Revenue Divisional Officer, R. Mangalaramasubramanian, Sub-Collector (Sivakasi), C. Dinesh Kumar, Personal Assistant (General) to Collector, Kalimuthu, Revenue Divisional Officers, Murugesan (Aruppukottai) and Kasiselvi (Sattur), Tahsildar (Election), Ayyakutti, were among those who were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/virudhunagar-sees-41623-more-voters/article33622377.ece
21 January 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Man dies as car catches fire||A 34-year-old man, M. Gurunathan, of Goundampatti near Sivakasi was killed when the SUV in which he was driving caught fire on Erichanatham Road on Tuesday night. The police said that the man, who was running a travel agency, had left home late in the night. He called his father, Muniyandi (63), at around midnight. He told him that his vehicle had got fire and he was trapped inside it. Later, when Muniyandi went to the spot he found his son dead with burn injuries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-dies-as-car-catches-fire/article33622372.ece
21 January 2021||January 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Final electoral rolls released||The final electoral roll (photo electoral roll) released on Wednesday has listed 30,62,744 voters in the 10 Assembly constituencies in Coimbatore district. M. Karunakaran, Director of Handlooms and Textiles and Electoral Roll Observer for Coimbatore, Tiruppur, Erode, the Nilgiris districts, released the final roll in the presence of Coimbatore District Collector K. Rajamani and senior officials. As per the final electoral roll, there are 15,09,531 male voters, 15,52,799 female voters and 414 voters in the other gender category in Coimbatore district. Of the total voters who have found places in the final electoral roll, 37,667 voters are aged 18 and 19. Kavundampalayam Assembly constituency has the highest number of 4,61,000 voters among the 10 constituencies. As per a release issued by the district administration, future revisions in the electoral roll will be done at the offices of electoral registration officers and the assistant electoral registration officers. It said that arrangements have also been made on the websitewww.nvsp.inand Voters’ Helpline App for further addition and deletion of names in the electoral roll. Differently-abled voters can update information on disabilities through the nearest village administrative offices, taluk offices, through PWD App and also through 1,950 voters’ service centres using their voters identification card. This information will help authorities arrange facilities for people with disabilities for voting. Tiruppur Tiruppur district has 23,52,785 voters in its eight Assembly constituencies, according to the final electoral roll. District Collector and District Election Officer K. Vijayakarthikeyan released the electoral roll in the presence of representatives from various political parties at the Collectorate, a release said. A total of 11,88,733 voters were women and 11,63,767 were men. The remaining 285 voters were from the third gender. The eight Assembly constituencies in the district are Dharapuram (reserved), Kangeyam, Avinashi (reserved), Tiruppur North, Tiruppur South, Palladam, Udumalpet and Madathukulam. As many as 2,493 polling stations will be available for these constituencies in total. About 70,715 new voters were added to the electoral roll and 21,772 names were removed from the roll, according to the release. Palladam Assembly constituency had the highest electorate in the district with 3,87,111 voters and Madathukulam Assembly constituency had the least number of voters- 2,47,629. The Nilgiris The electoral rolls released by the Nilgiris Collector revealed that the there were a total of 5,85,049 voters in the three constituencies of Udhagamandalam, Coonoor and Gudalur. In a press release, the district administration stated that there were a total of 2,81,762 male voters, 3,03,270 female voters and 17 voters belonging to the third gender. Since November, when the draft electoral rolls were last published, a total of 6,271 male voters, 7,074 female voters and five belonging to the third gender were added to the rolls. The Collector said that people can check whether their names have been included in the electoral rolls by calling the number – 1950.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/final-electoral-rolls-released/article33622286.ece
21 January 2021||January 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||54 positive cases in Coimbatore district||As many as 54 new cases of COVID-19 were reported in Coimbatore district on Wednesday. The Health Department said that 79 persons from the district recovered from COVID-19 on Wednesday and got discharged from hospitals. 530 undergoing treatment On Wednesday, 530 COVID-19 patients from Coimbatore district were undergoing treatment. Tiruppur district had 22 new cases and 186 active cases on Wednesday. A total of 38 persons returned to their homes after recovering from the disease, said the Health Department. In the Nilgiris, eight persons tested positive for the disease. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 8,129. The number of deaths in the district stood at 47 on Tuesday. A total of 61 persons are undergoing treatment. ‘1,087 persons administered vaccine’ Speaking to reporters on Wednesday, District Collector J. Innocent Divya said that a total of 1,087 persons have been administered the vaccine. She added that no one has suffered any adverse effect from the vaccine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/54-positive-cases-in-coimbatore-district/article33622287.ece
21 January 2021||January 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Governor unilaterally extended tenure of Vice-Chancellors’||Higher Education Minister K.P. Anbalagan has said that Governor-Chancellor Banwarilal Purohit did not consult the government before extending the tenures of the Vice-Chancellors of two State universities recently. In an interview, he has also defended the constitution of an Inquiry Commission to probe allegations against the Vice-Chancellor of Anna University. Edited excerpts:  You are the Pro-Chancellor of State universities. Did the Governor’s office seek your opinion before extending the tenures of the Vice-Chancellors of Bharathidasan University (BDU) and Periyar University? In the case of BDU, a VC search committee and convenor committee had been constituted. The outgoing VC was even given a farewell. After that, the Governor extended his tenure. The Higher Education Department did not make any request to the Chancellor for an extension. The Governor acted on his own. You have to ask him why he did it. The Madras High Court recently came down heavily on the government for permitting BDU to adopt a roster system for the appointment of faculty, which goes against the communal reservation rule…  A department-wise roster system would deny opportunities to several communities as the rules of superannuation are different for educational institutions. If we apply the 200-point roster system and consider a university as a single unit instead of treating each department as a unit, then all communities would get opportunities. In universities, when a faculty member attains superannuation in April, they are relieved in May. However, if their retirement is due in June, then we allow them to continue in their post till the end of the academic year. Also, faculty vacancies would arise only when a faculty member retires or moves to another university, which is rare. If we follow the department-wise roster system, then if two vacancies arise in a department, one candidate must be appointed under the General Turn and the next one must be from the ST category, as per the rules. The next vacancy in the same department may arise after 10 or 15 years. This means candidates from other categories such as BC, MBC or BCM would not get opportunities. There is no harm in considering the entire university as a single unit, as it would provide more opportunities to candidates from other categories. This way, in a year, 12 vacancies may arise, giving opportunities to all reserved categories. The court had rapped the Higher Education Secretary as well… Had BDU asked for a department-wise roster, we would have approved it. I wish the court had merely pointed out that the Secretary should have followed the State’s communal reservation. I have asked the Secretary to seek the Advocate-General’s opinion on filing an appeal against the verdict, as we do not want it to become a precedent. Why did you appoint an external inquiry commission to probe corruption charges against Anna University Vice-Chancellor M.K. Surappa instead of an internal committee, as was done in the past? In the past, complaints had been made about former Vice-Chancellors. Now, charges have been levelled against an incumbent Vice-Chancellor. But former Anna University Vice-Chancellor E. Balagurusamy said the addresses and phone numbers of the complainants against Mr. Surappa were found to be fictitious… He [Mr. Balagurusamy] has made several allegations of corruption against me as well. There is no basis to any of his charges. I have approached the court [accusing him of defamation] and the case will come up for hearing soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/governor-unilaterally-extended-tenure-of-vice-chancellors/article33622255.ece
21 January 2021||January 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi Corporation to start pumping station work soon||Nearly five years after the launch of construction of a new drinking water scheme for the five wards added to the Tiruchi corporation a few years ago, the civic body is likely to start construction of a pumping station on the Cauvery riverbed near Melur in February. The government accorded administrative sanction for the project in 2015 and civil works began in 2016. A sum of Rs. 63.70 crore was allotted for the project, aimed at supplying 135 litres of drinking water per head to residents of 61, 62, 63, 64 and 65 wards in Tiruverumbur, Kattur and adjoining areas. The project was divided into three phases - construction of pumping station; construction of overhead tanks; and laying of mains and distribution lines so as to complete the works as early as possible. It was proposed to construct a pumping station on the Cauvery riverbed near Melur. A pumping main was to be laid across the river up to a point near Kambarasampettai so as to carry water to Tiruverumbur through pipes. It was planned to be completed by 2018. The civic body could not start the head works on time due to stiff opposition from farmers in Melur and delay in getting the no-objection certificate from the Public Works Department for drawing water from the Cauvery riverbed. The farmers had apprehended that the plan would deplete the groundwater. After some efforts, the civic body received the approval in 2018. Though more than two-and-a-half years have passed since then, the head work has not been started yet, triggering criticism from residents of Tiruverumbur and Kattur. Though officials cited water flow on the Cauvery as the reason for the delay in launching the head work, residents blamed official apathy. They staged demonstrations on several occasions demanding early completion of the project. It is learnt that Corporation officials have asked the contractor to position his men and machinery to start the headworks in February. An official said  that all hurdles on starting the pumping station had been cleared. A note had been sent to the Collector. There should not be flow of water on the river for carrying out the work. In normal circumstances, discharge of water should have been stopped by this time. But the water flow continued mainly due to unseasonal rain. However, it is hoped that the flow will dwindle within this month and the work would start in February. Since chances of the opening of Mettur dam on June 12 for irrigation are bright, the contractor has been instructed to expedite the work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-corporation-to-start-pumping-station-work-soon/article33622720.ece
21 January 2021||January 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Various events mark launch of Road Safety Month||The inaugural celebrations of the Road Safety Month, an initiative by the Central government to increase awareness on road safety, were held at Coimbatore and Tiruppur districts on Monday. In Coimbatore Corporation limits, the celebrations were organised by the Transport Department in association with the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation. Sources said that the Regional Transport Officers – Central, South, West and North – and the Coimbatore City Police officers distributed roses to motorists who were not wearing helmet on two-wheelers and seat-belts on cars to insist that they adhere to the rules. Those found wearing helmets and seat-belts were congratulated with chocolates. The event was conducted at Nava India and Lakshmi Mills junctions. Apart from this, about 150 TNSTC employees took out a ‘helmet rally’. In Tiruppur, District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan participated in the awareness campaign. A release said that he distributed pamphlets on road safety and handed over roses to two-wheeler riders wearing helmet. Honda Motorcycle and Scooter India has, so far, educated over 1.92 lakh people, including children, in Coimbatore through its regular activities at Children’s Traffic Training Park located on Dr. Balasundram Road. Honda has digitally trained over 15,000 resident. During the month, it will look at seven online training modules, including sessions on Motor Vehicle Awareness Act and pedestrian safety.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/various-events-mark-launch-of-road-safety-month/article33622280.ece
21 January 2021||January 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Centre to take steps to control raw material prices’||The Union Government is looking at measures to control raw material prices, Nitin Gadkari, Union Minister for MSMEs, said in Coimbatore on Wednesday. Foundry conclave The Minister interacted with the industry after inaugurating a Foundry Conclave organised online jointly by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) and the Institute of Indian Foundrymen. Regarding volatility in prices and shortage of raw materials faced by the engineering industry, he said, “We are very seriously working on a proposal on how we can control prices of raw materials.” The government is aware of the problems faced by the MSMEs because of the issue. The Minister urged the industry also to suggest measures to resolve it. On shortage of containers for exports, the Minister said the situation is expected to normalise in the next 15 to 20 days. Asked about the Vehicle Scrappage Policy, he said it is in the process of getting approval from the appropriate authority. Inaugurating the conference, he said the government wants to make India a global manufacturing hub. The Indian exporters can become major suppliers to different countries that are looking at alternatives. The manufacturers should focus on quality and also reduce the production cost. “We need good technology for it,” he said.  Joint ventures The country has good technologies. However, if needed, he urged the industry to explore joint ventures to get better technology. Hari Thiagarajan, chairman of CII Tamil Nadu, said nearly 5,000 foundries operate in the country and 90% of these are MSMEs. The major foundry clusters in the country include Coimbatore, Rajkot, Belgaum, and Kolhapur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centre-to-take-steps-to-control-raw-material-prices/article33622272.ece
21 January 2021||January 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Evangelist comes under Income-Tax Dept. lens||Sources in the I-T Department said the primary reason for conducting the searches was to check if there had been any tax evasion. The I-T officials are also looking into the foreign funds the group had received through various sources. "We suspect that the group has not disclosed details pertaining to the foreign funds it had received," a source said. When details of seizures were sought, he said, “Since it is a large group, we will be able to provide details only after the searches are completed." The searches continued late into Wednesday evening, and are expected to go on for another day. Jesus Calls collects donations under various schemes, which it offers on its website. Mr. Dhinakaran also produces the ‘Prayer Time’ TV programme, which is telecast globally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/evangelist-comes-under-income-tax-dept-lens/article33622231.ece
21 January 2021||January 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||NIA searches house of SSI murder suspect||Two officials of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) searched the house of Shihabudeen alias Sirajudeen alias Khalid (39), a suspect in the case pertaining to the murder of special sub-inspector Wilson, at Podanur here on Wednesday. The two NIA officers accompanied by two policemen and a revenue inspector searched the house of Shihabudeen at Thirumarai Nagar at Podanur from 10 a.m. to 3.30 p.m. Though Shihabudeen hailed from Coimbatore, he had not been to the house here for the last several years, said sources. Shihabudeen was arrested by the NIA from Chennai airport when he arrived from Qatar on January 6.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nia-searches-house-of-ssi-murder-suspect/article33622270.ece
21 January 2021||January 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Commendable feat||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/commendable-feat/article33622695.ece
21 January 2021||January 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||57 Home Guard recruits pass out||As many as 57 recruits of the Home Guards, Coimbatore city, passed out on Wednesday after completing training. Coimbatore City Police Commissioner Sumit Sharan, also the Commandant of Home Guards, received the guard of honour at the parade held at the PRS Grounds. He advised them of their duties and responsibilities. T.K. Dhanashekar, Area Commander, Home Guards, Coimbatore city, said that the recruits passed out after 45 days of training. G. Stalin, Deputy Commissioner of police (Law & Order), Coimbatore City, and other officers were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/57-home-guard-recruits-pass-out/article33622281.ece
21 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Local train to KIA awaits passengers||A little over a fortnight after South Western Railways (SWR) introduced services to Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) on January 4, patronage is yet to pick up. While five pairs of trains operate to and from Krantiveera Sangolli Rayanna (KSR), Yeshwanthpur and Yelahanka stations to the KIA halt station, only around 50 people use the service every day. SWR officials, who are monitoring the services, are hoping that the ridership will pick up in the coming weeks. The few passengers who do use the trains every day are happy with the service. Suresh, who works in the airport campus and boarded the train at Doddajala with his friend Ramamurthy, said, “Before this service was introduced, we were depending on taxis to reach the airport. More people will start travelling by train.” On Wednesday, there were only two people on board the train from Yelahanka to the KIA halt station. As scheduled, the train left at 7 a.m. and reached KIA halt station at 7.20 a.m. The punctuality factor The return trip from Devanahalli station to Cantonment had many local passengers who said it was a convenient way to commute to the city. However the train was delayed for more than 30 minutes. It reached KIA halt station at 8.40 a.m. instead of 7.50 a.m. Officials attributed the delay to a weld failure between Yelahanka and Devanahalli. Regular train users say that success of the service will depend on punctuality. Sundaramurthy, who wanted to take the train, but returned his ticket because of the delay said, “I wanted to travel to Baiyappanahalli and decided to take the train instead of a bus. I use a monthly bus pass to reach my workplace. I have to change buses twice and face traffic congestion at Nagawara, Hebbal and other locations, which increases my travel time. But maintaining punctuality is very crucial.” ‘Economical, hassle-free’ Sreenivas Babu, a Namma Metro employee who uses the train service to travel from Baiyappanahalli to Devanahalli, said, “I used to spend around Rs. 3,500 per month to travel from my residence to my workplace. Now, I can manage with around Rs. 600. There is no need to catch multiple buses. My commute has come down from three-and-a-half hours to one-and-a-half hours.” Mohammed Farhan, a student who had come to the airport to leave his brother, said, “While I was coming from the city, I paid around Rs. 600 for a taxi. Now I can go back with just Rs. 10.” Others were of the opinion that the railways should also cater to the needs of locals by building stations at Betta Halasur and Doddajala. They feel that villagers living near the airport should be able to access the new halt station. “The authorities have closed the road linking the halt station to the national highway citing security. If that opens, people from Bachahalli Gate, Kanmangla, Poojanahalli, Bhuvanahahalli and other villagers will be able to use the train,” said a passenger. Chief PRO of SWR E. Vijaya said that train timings have been fixed in consultation with airport authorities. “The timings are designed to cater to peak hour traffic generally between 6 to 8 a.m. and 7-10 p.m. Wide publicity has been given for train services to the airport. We are trying to publicise it on social media too by posting schedules of 10 trains,” she said.  I used to spend around Rs. 3,500 per month to travel from my residence to my workplace. Now, I can manage with around Rs. 600. My commute has come down from three-and-a-half hours to one-and-a-half hours Sreenivas Babu, employee, Namma Metro   The authorities have closed the road linking the halt station to the national highway citing security. If that opens, people from Bachahalli Gate, Kanmangla, Poojanahalli, Bhuvanahahalli and other villagers will be able to use the train Passenger||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/local-train-to-kia-awaits-passengers/article33622205.ece
21 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘No material to transfer probe of cases against Munirathna to CBI’||Observing that there is no material at this stage to transfer criminal cases against Munirathna, Rajarajeshwarinagar MLA, to an independent agency, the Karnataka High Court on Wednesday directed the State police chief to designate a senior police officer to supervise further investigation being carried out against him in two cases of alleged illegalities during Assembly elections in May 2018. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum passed the order while disposing a PIL petition, filed in February 2020 by Anand Kumar N. and Santosh Kumar G., sympathisers of BJP and residents of Bengaluru city. The Bench passed the order after going through a report, submitted by Additional Commissioner of Police (East zone, Bengaluru city). The court on November 11 had directed the State police chief to examine correctness of conducting probe against the MLA by appointing a senior police officer. Under progress The report, the Bench noted, had pointed out certain lacunae in the investigations carried out earlier, and clarified that some of them have been remedied and some would be correct during the course of further investigation, which is under progress. The Bench also noticed from the report that the Additional Commissioner had dealt with the allegations made in the petitions besides hearing them. The Bench took note of the remark made in the report that the petitioners and some other witnesses were not cooperating with the probe. However, the Bench said that investigating officers, while conducting further probe, are required to bear in mind the allegations made in the petitions. Also, the Bench said it cannot go into the merits of the probe while observing that the court cannot take petitioners’ allegation on face value as there could be political rivalry between them and the MLA. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) had several months ago shown its unwillingness to take up the investigation of the two cases, the Bench noted, while stating no case had been made to transfer the probe to an independent agency like the CBI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-material-to-transfer-cases-against-munirathna-to-cbi-hc/article33622210.ece
21 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Attendance for class X||Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) examination students need not have 75% attendance to be eligible to sit for the examination this year. The Karnataka Secondary Education Examinations Board (KSEEB) issued a notification on Wednesday relaxing this criteria due to the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/attendance-for-class-x/article33622201.ece
21 January 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Clear and auction encroached govt. land in Bengaluru’||The State government on Wednesday directed bureaucrats to clear encroached government lands and auction them in Bengaluru. The directions by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, at a meeting of Deputy Commissioners and CEOs of zilla panchayats in Bengaluru, is seen as an attempt by the government to raise resources for development works amidst financial crisis following the pandemic. “Encroachments have been cleared with respect to only 2.70 lakh acres of government lands though a total of 14.18 lakh acres have been encroached in the State,” the Chief Minister noted. He directed the officials concerned to clear government lands worth crores of rupees in Bengaluru and then auction them. The regional commissioners were given the responsibility of identifying encroached government land in their jurisdiction and initiating measures to clear encroachments. Mr. Yediyurappa issued stern direction that all the officials right from Deputy Commissioner to village accountant should visit villages regularly. He also fixed the responsibility of ensuring the success of campaign to convince people to take COVID-19 vaccine on bureaucrats. Even as the anti-cow slaughter Ordinance has evoked mixed reactions, he issued directions to the bureaucrats to take strict measures for the effective implementation of the legislation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/clear-and-auction-encroached-govt-land-in-bengaluru/article33622212.ece
21 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Explore multiple facets of truth’||The fundamental aspiration of creative writing must be the search for multi-faceted truth and today’s young writers need to create valuable works by focusing on this, said writer H.S. Raghavendra Rao. He was speaking on Wednesday at the book release of young writers at Ravindra Kalakshetra. The event was hosted by the Kannada Book Authority. A new writer should immerse himself in his surroundings and search for the many faces of truth and take a holistic view, said Mr. Rao, citing the example of Kuvempu’s works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/explore-multiple-facets-of-truth/article33622196.ece
21 January 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||KSRTC depots bag State award||KSRTC Mysuru Bannimantap, Davangere and Mysuru Rural-2 depots were awarded best depots at State-level in KMPL improvement from October 2019 to September 2020 byPetroleum Conservation Research Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ksrtc-depots-bag-state-award/article33622208.ece
21 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Six arrested||The Konanakunte police have arrested a couple and four of their associates for allegedly duping a businessman by selling him a site using forged documents. The accused have been identified as Shekhar, his wife Keerthana, Prajwal Ramaiah, Pawan Kumar, Umamaheshwar Rao and Jayaprakash. The police have recovered Rs. 16.3 lakh worth of gold valuables, two cars and a bike from the gang. “Shekhar, 36, works in a private firm in Nelamangala while Keerthana, 29, worked at a real estate company, The other accused, Pawan Kumar, is a loan agent in a private bank and Bageshwar Rao is a sales associate,” said an officer. They created fake documents and property deeds of a site in Gottigere belonging to a Michael D’Souza and sold it to a businessman for Rs. 1 crore a few months ago. “The accused hired a man to impersonate the owner and con the businessman who paid them an advance of Rs. 69 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/six-arrested/article33622617.ece
21 January 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Bannerghatta Biological Park to remain open on Jan 26||Bannerghatta Biological Park (BBP) will remain open on January 26. BBP urged citizens to visit its websiteand book tickets online.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bannerghatta-biological-park-to-remain-open-on-jan-26/article33622195.ece
21 January 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Shivamogga doctor dies two days after being vaccinated||An orthopaedician in Shivamogga died on Wednesday, two days after being vaccinated for COVID-19. However, officials said that the death was was due to a suspected case of myocardial infarction (heart attack). Meanwhile, there will be no vaccination in public health centres on Thursday in Bengaluru Urban. The drive will continue in a few private and government hospitals in Bengaluru Urban.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shivamogga-doctor-dies-two-days-after-being-vaccinated/article33622215.ece
21 January 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||NWKRTC decides to approach banks for loan to clear PF dues||With the State government not coming to its rescue, North Western Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NWKRTC), which is facing a funds crunch, is now knocking on the doors of banks to raise loans for payment of its Provident Fund dues. NWKRTC, which has cumulative losses running into a few hundred crores of rupees, is undergoing a rough phase, particularly after the lockdown and post-lockdown developments, and it didn’t have funds even to pay salaries at one point of time. Although after much delay, the government extended salary grants during the initial period of the lockdown, it has subsequently cut the quantum of salary grants following resumption of public transport services leaving the corporation to mobilise the remaining funds. However, barring the salaries, the corporation has accumulated Provident Fund (PF) dues and also has to pay gratuity to employees. Sources in NWKRTC said that the pending PF dues were around Rs. 200 crore and that of gratuity was around Rs. 160 crore. What is even worse is that as per rule, NWKRTC has to pay penal interest of 12 % for delayed payment of PF dues as they are pending from February 2020. NWKRTC already has loans to the tune of Rs. 300 crore for repayment of which it has to set aside Rs. 7 crore every month. Now, NWKRTC plans to raise Rs. 200 crore from banks for a period of seven years, and will have to mortgage its property for the purpose. The road transport corporation will have to keep aside around Rs. 4 crore additionally, which would mean Rs. 11 crore every month for loan repayment, once the loan is raised. Help didn’t come NWKRTC did approach the State government seeking grants for payment of PF dues. However, such has been the financial position of the government that the government itself is raising loans to meet its funds requirement for various expenses. “In turn, those in the government told us to raise loans to meet the fund requirements. The Minister too has given the go-ahead,” an official said on the condition of anonymity. At present, NWKRTC is recording a daily revenue of Rs. 4.3 crore, which is far better compared to the average of Rs. 1.5 crore it recorded during the initial months of unlock period. But still it is a burden on the corporation as revenue would still be insufficient to pay salaries, perks and other benefits, an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nwkrtc-to-approach-banks-to-clear-pf-dues/article33622194.ece
21 January 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Drive against illegal layouts continues in Dharwad||Continuing its special drive against unauthorised layouts in the twin cities, Hubballi-Dharwad Urban Development Authority (HDUDA) began clearance of structures erected in unauthorised residential layouts in Dharwad on Wednesday. HDUDA began the drive on Mantur Road in Hubballi two days ago and on Wednesday, it cleared structures in unauthorised layouts in Dharwad. HDUDA Chairman Nagesh Kalburgi led the drive in a bid to send a strong message to those engaged in developing residential layouts without getting valid permissions from the competent authorities. On Wednesday, the HDUDA staff, under police security, cleared structures in 12 unauthorised layouts that had come up at Hosayellapur and Charantimath Gardens. Using earthmovers, electricity poles and boundary stones were removed. The land owners did enter into arguments with the HDUDA officials and raised objection to the drive. However, the authorities warned them and continued with the clearance drive. Commissioner of HDUDA Vinayak palankar said that although notice were issued twice to the owners of the unauthorised layouts, they failed to respond to them. Consequently, they had to take action and demolish the structures in the illegal layouts, he said. HDUDA Chairman Nagesh Kalburagi said that the drive was aimed at protecting gullible people from fraud. Those investing in these layouts had no protection from law and there had been several cases of the same plots being sold to multiple persons. “Land owners who want to develop residential layouts, should compulsorily convert their agriculture land into NA (non-agriculture) land and then get requisite permissions before selling them to the general public. I also appeal to people against investing their hard earned money in such illegal layouts,” he said. HDUDA has identified 120 illegal layouts that have come up on the outskirts of the twin cities and of them, 21 are in Dharwad. Mr. Kalburgi said the drive would continue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/drive-against-illegal-layouts-continues-in-dharwad/article33622402.ece
21 January 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Marathas condemn Uddhav’s statement||Condemning the recent statement of Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackarey about including Marathi-speaking areas of Karnataka in Maharashtra, members of the Maratha Kranti (Mouna) Morcha staged a protest in Dharwad on Wednesday. The protestors said that lakhs of Marathas were residing across Karnataka for the last few centuries and have all become Kannadigas. They said that they would oppose and condemn any such statement aimed at creating animosity between Marathas and Kannadigas in Karnataka. After marching to the Deputy Commissioner’s office in Dharwad, the morcha members staged a demonstration. Addressing the protestors, district convenor of the morcha Bhimappa Y. Kasayi urged the Maharashtra Chief Minister to refrain from issuing such statements of mischief. Belagavi, Karwar and Nippani were integral parts of Karnataka and they would not give away an inch of Kannada land to Maharashtra, he added. “Over 65 lakh Marathas were residing in almost every village in Karnataka from Bidar in the North to Chamarajnagar in the South and from Ballari to Gokarna. We are deeply hurt by the Chief Minister’s statement. It is a statement unbecoming of you(Thackarey),” he said. Questioning the rationale behind Mr. Thackarey’s statement, Mr. Kasayi sought to know whether Marathi-speaking areas in the North such as Ujjain in Madhya Pradesh and Vadodara (Baroda) in Gujarat would be given away to Maharashtra. “Being a Chief Minister, you should stop issuing such illogical statements that may disturb the bonhomie among Marathi and Kannada speaking people in Karnataka,” he said. Before making any comment, Mr. Thackarey, who represents a party built in the name of Shivaji Maharaj, should first make attempts to know about the history of Shivaji Maharaj who had his roots in Karnataka, Mr. Kasayi said. He also sought to know whether he had visited the monuments related to Shivaji Maharaj and whether he had made any contribution towards their conservation and development. The protestors then submitted a memorandum addressed to the Maharashtra Chief Minister to the Dharwad district officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/marathas-condemn-uddhavs-statement/article33622406.ece
21 January 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||MES to stage protest today over flag||With the deadline given by Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti (MES) to remove the Kannada flag from the municipal corporation premises in Belagavi ending on Wednesday, office-bearers of the samiti have decided to hold an agitation on Thursday. The MES leaders had said that they would launch an agitation on January 21, if the Kannada flag hoisted on the municipal corporation premises was not removed by January 20. With the deadline ending, preparations are on to stage the agitation. And, according to sources, MES and Shiv Sena leaders from Maharashtra are likely to join the agitation in an attempt to rake up the border row again. According to sources, Marathi-speaking people residing in the villages of Belagavi district are being asked to come to Belagavi on Thursday to join the protest, which has the tacit support of the Shiv Sena. The agitation, according to the sources, is to a plan, when a statement by Maharasthtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackarey about including “Karnataka Occupied Areas” in Maharashtra evoked strong reactions from both ruling and opposition party leaders in Karnataka. With elections to the Belagavi Municipal Corporation due, MES leaders are likely to convert it into a poll issue, the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mes-to-stage-protest-today-over-flag/article33622403.ece
21 January 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Order today on Vinay Kulkarni’s bail plea||After hearing arguments of both sides on the bail plea for Congress leader and former Minister Vinay Kulkarni, the High Court of Karnataka, Dharwad Bench, has posted the matter for orders on Thursday. A single judge bench headed by Justice K.N. Nataraj on Wednesday heard the arguments from both the sides and posted the matter for orders on Thursday. Arguing on behalf of CBI, Additional Solicitor General S.V. Raju said that the investigating team had begun interrogating the suspects and so far, statements of 164 persons had been recorded. As the investigation had reached a crucial stage, the court should not grant bail to the accused, he said. Appearing on behalf of the former Minister, advocate Shashikiran Shetty contended that the arrest was politically motivated and appealed to the court to grant his client bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/order-today-on-vinay-kulkarnis-bail-plea/article33622404.ece
21 January 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Four year old murdered||In a ghastly incident, a four-year-old boy was hacked to death over a property dispute in Harugoppa village of Saundatti taluk in Belagavi district. The incident came to light on Wednesday. And, the deceased boy has been identified as Maruti Viresh Sankannavar. The police suspected that Irappa Basappa Sankannavar (35), uncle of the deceased boy, could have committed the crime following a property dispute. The Muragod Station Police have registered a case. Investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-year-old-murdered/article33622407.ece
21 January 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Activists condemn Kalaburagi CMC for returning funds for Ambedkar statue||Hundreds of activists associated with Republican Youth Federation (RYF) staged a demonstration outside the Kalaburagi City Municipal Corporation here on Wednesday condemning the civic body for returning the funds released for installing an Ambedkar statue at Jagat Circle. The agitating activists said that tender was called for the project about four years ago but the municipal authorities did not take up the project. “Tenders were called for installing the statues of Ambedkar and Basaveshwara at Jagat Circle. The authorities installed the statue of Basaveshwara alone. They did not take steps to install Ambedkar’s statue. Now, they have returned the funds allocated for the Ambedkar statue. When asked, the authorities gave an evasive answer,” Hanumantha Itagi, district convenor of RYF, said during the protest. The activists also questioned why the project to install a statue of Gautama the Buddha was not taken up even 15 years after the project was approved of. “The Municipal Corporation had built a pedestal for installing the Buddha’s statue. But, it did not install the statue. The Municipal Commissioner should take action against the officials who deliberately stalled these projects,” Mr. Itagi said. The agitating activists then submitted a memorandum to the Municipal Corporation demanding the release of Rs. 1 crore for installing Ambedkar’s statue in the place as had been planned earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/activists-condemn-kalaburagi-cmc-for-returning-funds-for-ambedkar-statue/article33622399.ece
21 January 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||70.9 % vaccinated in Kalaburagi||A total of 1,467 healthcare workers against the target of 2,069 health workers in Kalaburagi district were given COVID-19 vaccination on Wednesday. The district covered 70.9 % of targeted health workers. Sedam taluk and Jewargi taluk have recorded the highest number of vaccinated people with 75.9 % and 75.5 %, respectively. Aland taluk recorded the lowest number of vaccinated people with 59.2 %.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/709-vaccinated-in-kalaburagi/article33622400.ece
21 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Those getting traffic notice can soon pay fine at post offices||Traffic offenders who receive notice from the city police will soon be able to pay fines at post offices as the Postal Department is finalising a proposal for the purpose. Speaking at a function to inaugurate National Road Safety Month here on Wednesday, Senior Superintendent of Post Offices, Mangaluru region, N. Shriharsha, said that Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar has in-principle agreed to the proposal. “It will take about two months to integrate the systems of India Post with that of the city police and launch the service,” he said. When the system is through, traffic offenders can pay fine in any post office in the State, including 500 post offices in Dakshina Kannada, Mr. Shriharsha said. With this, if anybody residing outside Dakshina Kannada received such notices, they need not come to the traffic police station or to MangaluruOne centres in the city to pay the fine. For example, if someone is in Mysuru, he can pay the fine by there itself. Later, Mr. Srisharsha told The Hindu that the Chennai City Police have introduced such a system where traffic offenders can pay fines in post offices across Tamil Nadu. Earlier, at the inaugural programme, the Police Commissioner said that the traffic police will not stop vehicles on busy roads to check documents related to vehicles. He said that he has instructed traffic police to book cases on visible traffic violations such as triple riding, not wearing helmet and not putting on seat belt. “There are CCTVs through which footage can be watched and notice for over-speeding, jumping traffic signals and other traffic offences can be sent to offenders,” he said Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) Hariram Shankar said that the city traffic police toil hard in the sun to ensure safety of motorists. “Please bear this in mind and do not misbehave with our personnel,” he said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime and Traffic) Vinay Gaonker and Assistant Commissioner of Police (Traffic) M.A. Nataraj also spoke. A team of students from the School of Social Work, Roshni Nilaya, staged a street play on road safety. Deputy General Manager of Union Bank of India Jagannath Shetty symbolically presented 200 reconditioned barricades to the city police on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/those-getting-traffic-notice-can-soon-pay-fine-at-post-offices/article33622596.ece
21 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||KCCI says Mangaluru region best suited for Tesla to set up shop||The Kanara Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI) on Tuesday urged Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to promote Mangaluru region that has every facility required for the proposed manufacturing plant of Tesla, the electric car company. Congratulating Mr. Yediyurappa for ensuring Tesla incorporated its Indian subsidiary in Bengaluru, KCCI president Isaac Vas has, in a letter, said that Tesla was in the process of conducting a location search for setting up its operations. “Mangaluru region is one of the best suited area for setting up the proposed manufacturing plant in India and we request you to promote this location,” he said. Mangaluru region, Mr. Vas said, has all the required facilities for the manufacturing plant of electric vehicles, including land, skilled manpower, four types of connectivity, good social infrastructure, among other things. Land stretches were available for the plant around Padubidri, Mulur and Bolkunje around Mangaluru. Being an education hub, Mangaluru area has 21 engineering colleges, besides several industrial training institutes and polytechnics that produce hundreds of engineers and technicians. With high literacy level in Mangaluru, Tesla would be able to get skilled workforce in the region. As far as connectivity was concerned, Mangaluru has air, sea, rail and road connectivity, which no other region in the State has. While Mangaluru International Airport offers air connectivity, the New Mangaluru Port provides connectivity through the sea for easy export and import; railway lines connect Mangaluru with Mumbai and further North, Kerala as well as Bengaluru and the region has a good network of National Highways connecting it to Mumbai, Kerala, Bengaluru and other parts of the State. Mangaluru was also a crucial business hub with banking, insurance and other service sectors readily available. It is also a centre of technology with many top technology companies having their presence and many more expected, through the proposed IT Park. Good social infrastructure, including housing, education, healthcare facilities, recreational avenues, are abundantly available. Mr. Vas said that the chamber would lend a helping hand to the government in its efforts to convince Tesla to set up shop in Mangaluru. The chamber has also written to Tesla founder Elon Musk in this regard, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kcci-says-mangaluru-region-best-suited-for-tesla-to-set-up-shop/article33622586.ece
21 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Volunteers discouraging people from dumping garbage on highway flanks||When newcomers to Mangaluru area travel from Thokkottu towards the city on NH 66, they may be surprised to watch people standing or sitting and holding placards urging people not to dump garbage, not to pollute river etc., just as they approach the Netravathi Bridge. The place is a “holy” one for thousands of people residing South of Mangaluru, including in Thokkottu, Konaje, Ullal, Talapady and even Manjeshwara in Kerala, for their routine and religious dumping of domestic waste on the flanks of NH 66 before entering Mangaluru for work every morning. This made voluntary organisations, including Anti Pollution Drive Foundation, to resort to Gandhigiri on Monday to tell such people not to dump garbage there. From 5.30 a.m. till 9 a.m., just before peak traffic sets in, volunteers line up around the “holy” place holding placards urging people not to dump garbage. “We were standing and holding placards yesterday. Today, the Ullal City Municipal Council (CMC) sent plastic chairs so that we could sit here for hours,” said Vani, one of the volunteers when The Hindu visited the place on Tuesday. Nagaraj, another volunteer, said, “Most of the people throwing garbage appear educated ones, who want to keep their houses clean by dumping garbage in public place. They are not aware that their action was polluting the entire area, including the Netravathi,” he said. When told they should have urged the area municipality to install CCTV cameras, Mr. Nagaraj said that technically the locality falls under Mangaluru City Corporation, though it is located after the Netravathi Bridge. Ullal Municipal Commissioner Rayappa, who joined the volunteers later, said that he too had thought so for long before realising that the corporation limits extended up to near Kallapu Junction. Yet, the Ullal CMC has periodically been lifting dumped garbage, he said. Mr. Rayappa said that communications to the Police and Transport departments to take action against owners of vehicles who dump garbage at public places did not yield any result. “We submitted requests with photographs of vehicles; but in vain,” he said. He said that the NGO’s initiative urging people not to dump garbage could yield some positive response. The Ullal CMC has, in its limits, in place a good waste collection and disposal system, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/volunteers-discouraging-people-from-dumping-garbage-on-highway-flanks/article33622588.ece
21 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Mediclaim card launched||Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE) has, in association with Mogaveera Yuva Sanghatane of Udupi, launched Manipal Cigna Pro Health Group Mediclaim Card. Launching it recently, Pro-Chancellor of MAHE H.S. Ballal said that the card has been introduced to offer quality and affordable medical facilities to the economically weaker sections of society. Dr. Ballal said that those having the card can avail themselves of both in-patient and out-patient services. The card offered personal accident cover. The Mogaveera Yuva Sanghatane supported by G. Shankar, trustee of G. Shankar Family Trust, Udupi, has brought 52,504 families under the new scheme, he said. Vice-Chancellor of MAHE M.D. Venkatesh said that the initiative will give Manipal Cigna Health Insurance Company a better understanding of the requirements of rural masses. Some of the features of the card included in-patient medical facilities up to Rs. 50,000 per family per year on a floater basis, personal accident cover for each one of the members enrolled under the scheme and a compensation of Rs. 50,000 payable in case of an unfortunate event of death of a member due to an accident. It also covers pre-existing diseases and covers medical cost of a newborn baby in case of medical exigencies, Pro-Vice-Chancellor of MAHE P.L.N.G. Rao and Mr. Shankar and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mediclaim-card-launched/article33622593.ece
21 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||38th TAPMI Founder’s Day||President and Chief Human Resources Officer, Tata Motors, Ravindra Kumar G.P., has said that a successful career depends on the contribution one makes in the chosen field of profession. Delivering the 38th T.A. Pai Memorial Lecture in the virtual mode on the topic “Scripting enduring career” at the Founder’s Day celebration of T.A. Pai Management Institute (TAPMI), Manipal, recently, he said that the first stage of career is learning and following process, the second stage is taking responsibility and delivering the things assigned. In the third stage, one becomes very good at the job and others approach seeking guidance. In the fourth stage, one begins to define new boundaries and in this stage, one’s impact on the organisation one is working for is felt, he said. Recalling the contributions of late T.A. Pai, he hailed his achievements. Vinod Madhavan, Arun Kumar Tantry and Parimala Hegde were felicitated with the “long service” award, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/38th-tapmi-founders-day/article33622589.ece
21 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Two head of cattle stolen in Karkala||Two head of cattle were stolen from the cowshed of Lizo Mone George in Ontijaru Baprabailu of Kervashe village of Karkala taluk in Udupi on Wednesday. In a complaint filed at the Ajekar Police Station, George said that the two head of cattle worth Rs. 30,000 were stolen between 2 a.m. and 6 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-head-of-cattle-stolen-in-karkala/article33622598.ece
21 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||829 vaccinated in Udupi dist.||While 829 health workers received the vaccine jab in Udupi, 681 health workers received it in Dakshina Kannada on Wednesday. It was 66 % coverage among the 1,256 health workers registered in Udupi. And, 62.08 % of the 1,097 health workers who had registered were covered in Dakshina Kannada. In the last five days, a total of 1,439 health workers received the COVID-19 vaccine of the total of 2,230 health workers who were registered in Udupi. On Thursday, 1,300 health workers are registered to receive the vaccine at 13 vaccination centres. There are 22,103 health workers in Udupi. In Dakshina Kannada, all the 100 health workers who had registered their names turned up to at the vaccination centre — Father Muller College and Hospital — on Wednesday. As many as 94 of the 100 health workers received the jab at Adarsh Hospital in Puttur and 80 of the 100 health workers turned up at the centre in A.J. Hospital. Only 92 of the 200 health workers received the jab at Yenepoya Hospital In government hospitals, 64 of the 75 health workers turned up at the Primary Health Centre (PHC) in Aladangady, 68 of the 100 health workers turned up at the PHC in Aranthodu and 30 of the 59 health workers received the jab at PHC in Paladka. Only 37 of the 100 health workers received the jab in Puttur Government Hospital, 33 received at the Bellare PHC and 17 health workers received at the Beluvai PHC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/829-vaccinated-in-udupi-dist/article33622594.ece
21 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Woman dies in road accident||A 30-year-old worker, hailing from Koppal district, died after being hit by a motorcycle near Kodikkal Auto Works in Kannur in Manglauru Traffic South Police Station limits on Wednesday. The police said that Renuka (30) was hit by the motorcycle coming towards the city from BC Road. Renuka and motorcycle rider Mohammd Sadiq were injured. Both were brought to the Government Wenlock Hospital where Renuka died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/woman-dies-in-road-accident/article33622597.ece
21 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Farmers leave Mysuru to join tractor parade in Delhi on Jan. 26||About 100 farmers from Mysuru, Chamarajanagar and Hassan left the city on Wednesday to participate in the tractor parade organised by farmers in the national capital on Republic Day. The farmers’ delegation was flagged off from Kuvempu Park in the city by Karnataka State Sugarcane Farmers’ Association president Kurubur Shanthakumar. The delegation led by farmers’ leader Manje Gowda left the city in four vehicles including two tempos after offering tributes to the statue of B.R. Ambedkar in front of Town Hall and the Mahatma Gandhi statue at Gandhi Square. “We organised about 50 kg of rice, 40 kg of vegetables, coconuts and medicine, besides filling fuel for the vehicles,” Mr. Shanthakumar said. The delegation of farmers is expected to reach Delhi by January 25 and will be joined by another 100 to 200 people, who will leave the State by train. Mr. Shanthakumar said the farmers, who left Mysuru on Wednesday, have been told to communicate to the farmers gathering in Delhi on January 26 for the tractor parade that the farmers in Karnataka will stand by them in their struggle against the three farm Bills introduced by the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmers-leave-mysuru-to-join-tractor-parade-in-delhi-on-jan-26/article33622612.ece
21 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Initiative to boost rural entrepreneurship launched||An initiative to give thrust to rural entrepreneurship with digital and technological intervention has been launched in Chamarajanagar to scale up local businesses and generate employment. The initiative is supported by eSaumdaay, a Bengaluru-based local commerce platform, the JSS Rural Incubation and Skill Development Centre (JSS RISDC), and other partners to help empower local communities economically.  Producer network A release said a producer network will be developed in Chamarajanagar to create more employment opportunities and also to help in building self-reliant communities, empowering youth and women in the district. The effort in Chamarajanagar is to create a production hub focussing on agro-related and food produce, health and wellness, textiles, home decor, arts and crafts to start with. eSamudaay plans to develop a network of ecosystem players who can provide end to end assistance for local entrepreneurs right from incubation to skill development to digitising their businesses and scaling them. The technology infrastructure, digital skill development and access to a vernacular-enabled user interface for these rural businesses will be offered by other partners who are part of the initiative, the release stated. The incubation of the emerging businesses in Chamarajanagar will be anchored by JSS RISDC, while eSamudaay will be the digital platform enabling local commerce and connecting the local producers to the market outside of Chamarajanagar, it added. Speaking of the initiative, Anup Pai, founder and CEO, eSamudaay said, “Atmarnibhar Bharat and making India a trillion-dollar digital economy by 2024 can be attained only when our collective focus includes strengthening the rural economies along with overall growth.” B. Shivashankar, CEO, JSS RISDC, said ‘Empowering Rural Community’ is the theme under which RISDC is envisioned to create local business, entrepreneurs and employment for sustainable growth of the region by facilitating and connecting with ecosystem partner across the region to make it self reliant rural India. 20 years He said the JSS RISDC has more than 20 years of experience in rural areas and was leveraging its expertise and exposure in technology and rural development issues to bridge the digital gap and encourage entrepreneurship development in rural areas. The facilities and support at JSS RISDC will be ground up initiatives to engage entrepreneurs, self-employed and individuals or groups to start their activities to move up the value chain in the ecosystem for betterment of local economic activities, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/initiative-to-boost-rural-entrepreneurship-launched/article33622613.ece
21 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Vishwanath warns Siddaramaiah of boycott by Kuruba community||Taking serious exception to former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah’s reported accusation that padayatra led by Kaginele Kanaka Gurupeetha Swami had been sponsored by the RSS, A.H. Vishwanath, BJP MLC, warned the Congress leader that the Kuruba community would boycott him if he did not withdraw the charge against their revered seer. Speaking to reporters in Mysuru on Wednesday, Mr. Vishwanath claimed the swami, who is leading the 340 km-long padayatra to seek the Scheduled Tribe (ST) tag for the community, was disappointed with Mr. Siddaramaiah’s insinuations against him. “If he does not take back the allegation against the swamiji, the community will have to boycott Mr. Siddaramaiah,” the BJP MLC warned. Launching a broadside against Mr. Siddaramaiah, Mr. Vishwanath said the Congress leader may have forgotten the role played by the mutt and the Kuruba community in his growth in politics and subsequent elevation to the post of Chief Minister of the State. “You have no respect for the mutt. You have no gratitude for the people of the community. You are disrespecting swamiji in front of all other communities. Does it bring you any respect? Does it suit your personality and status?,” Mr. Vishwanath questioned while accusing Mr. Siddaramaiah of being ‘small-minded’ in the campaign launched by the leaders of Kuruba community to seek ST status.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vishwanath-warns-siddaramaiah-of-boycott-by-kuruba-community/article33622610.ece
21 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||G.T. Deve Gowda should join BJP, says MLC||Responding to queries from reporters in Mysuru on Wednesday, A.H. Vishwanath, BJP MLC, said JD(S) leader G.T. Deve Gowda, who has fallen out with the JD(S) leadership, should consider joining the BJP. He reminded Mr. Gowda of his previous stint with the saffron party that had not only treated him with respect, but also made him the chairperson of Karnataka Housing Board (KHB) when D. Sadananda Gowda was Chief Minister. The BJP MLC, who had earlier quit the Congress to join the JD(S) before moving to BJP, opined that it was better for Mr. Gowda to join the BJP instead of going to the Congress. Reacting to the JD(S) leadership ignoring Mr. Gowda while giving party’s responsibilities, Mr. Vishwanath said Mr. Gowda was a strong leader in Mysuru district and had launched Kumara Parva, a campaign for re-election of Mr. Kumaraswamy as CM, from Chamundeshwari Assembly constituency before the 2018 Assembly elections. Mr Gowda’s help and support was crucial for Mr. Kumaraswamy to become CM again. Mr. Vishwanath said his political strength in Hunsur along with Mr. Gowda’s sway over the voters of the constituency were together responsible for his victory in the Assembly elections in 2018. Hence, Mr. Gowda cannot be treated lightly by the leaders of his party, the BJP MLC argued. Mr. Vishwanath, who had lashed out at Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa over the recent Cabinet expansion and inclusion of party MLC C.P. Yogeshwar in the Ministry, said he agreed with BJP’s Central leader Arun Singh’s argument that the party high command was not involved in the selection of candidates for Ministerial berths during the recent expansion. “It is the prerogative of the CM to constitute, reconstitute or expand his Cabinet. How will the high command know who is Vishwanath and who is Yogeshwar and how many cases he has against him”, Mr. Vishwanath said. He said the BJP high command has sought time to resolve the differences that had arisen in the party over the recent Cabinet expansion. When his attention was drawn to Mr. Yogeshwar’s reported efforts to become the Minister in-charge of Mysuru district, Mr. Vishwanath sarcastically said the leadership can make him in charge of the entire State. “He will make megacities everywhere and dupe people,” Mr. Vishwanath said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gt-deve-gowda-should-join-bjp-says-mlc/article33622615.ece
21 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Improved response to vaccination in Mysuru||The number of people receiving the COVID-19 vaccination in Mysuru went up on Wednesday after the rules were relaxed to allow beneficiaries registered on the Co-WIN app for other days also to receive the jab. The number of people who were vaccinated in Mysuru on Wednesday was 2,858 against 3,892, which is around 73.43%, according an official release. The percentage of vaccination was 52.79 on the first day of the drive on January 16 and 59.36 % on the second. By Wednesday, a total of 6,043 persons against the 9,353 beneficiaries listed so far in Mysuru had been vaccinated, which is around 64.61%. Health Department officials attributed the increase in percentage to the permission given for beneficiaries listed for vaccination for other days to receive the jab on Wednesday. “Beneficiaries, who had missed the vaccination earlier, and the ones, whose turn was to come later, were also allowed to receive the jab today. That may be the reason for the increase,” said an official. No adverse effects were reported among any of the beneficiaries receiving the vaccination on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/improved-response-to-vaccination-in-mysuru/article33622614.ece
21 January 2021||January 21 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Identify unauthorised religious structures within three days’||BBMP officials have been directed to identify unauthorised religious structures in public places, including footpaths, parks, and government property, within three days. The Commissioner will be submitting a report on this to the HC as a case on this is coming up for hearing later this month, said senior officials. Cut-off date On Wednesday, BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad, accompanied by Special Commissioners, chaired a video conference with zonal joint commissioners and engineers. He referenced a PIL on unauthorised religious structures that had been filed in the Supreme Court in 2009, which directed States to conduct a survey and identify unauthorised religious structures. “Structures that have come up before 2009 may be shifted to other locations. Those that have come up after September 29, 2009, are not allowed,” said Mr. Prasad. He directed ward engineers and revenue inspectors to identify structures that have come up before and after 2009 and submit a report within three days. He also directed the officials to issue show cause notices to unauthorised religious structures that have come up after 2009 by January 27, apart from seeking their response within a week. “Once the details have been submitted to the court, the structures will have to be brought down with assistance from the police department,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/identify-unauthorised-religious-structures-within-three-days/article33622197.ece
21 January 2021||January 21 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||HC relief to Premji, wife||In a relief to Azim H. Premji, former Chairman and Managing Director of Wipro, and his wife, the Karnataka High Court has set aside an order passed by a city civil and sessions court for restoration of a private complaint for allegedly not disclosing information of a company of which they were directors in violation of Companies Act, 2013. Also, the court upheld dismissal of another private complaint against them for allegedly violating a provision of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934, in relation to operation of non-banking finance companies sans registration. Justice Suraj Govaindaraj passed the order while allowing petitions filed by Mr. Premji and others questioning the July 3, 2020, order of a city civil and sessions court, which had directed the Special Court for Economic Offences to restore the private complaint filed against them by India Awake for Transparency, a Chennai-based NGO. The allegations relate to their role as directors of M/s Vidya Investment & Trading Company Limited. While setting aside the civil court’s order, the High Court held that the Special Court had rightly dismissed the complaint while holding that the complaint against the directors of a company can be lodged only by persons or authorities permitted under Section 439 of the Companies Act, and complaint does not fall in those categories. Meanwhile, Justice Govindaraj dismissed another petition, filed by India Awake for Transparency challenging dismissal of its complaint by a metropolitan magistrate’s court. The High Court held that the magistrate’s court was right in rejecting the complaint, seeking direction to the RBI to register criminal case against them, as the Delhi High Court had already issued such a direction to the RBI, which had acted on the complaint. The complaint was related to the role of Premjis and others in Prazim Investment and Trading Co., Tarish Investment and Trading Co., and Hasham Investment and Trading Co.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-relief-to-premji-wife/article33622198.ece
21 January 2021||January 21 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||D.J. Halli violence: HC upholds warrants to search SDPI premises||The Karnataka High Court has rejected a petition filed by Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) questioning the legality of warrants issued by a special court to search its premises in connection with the August 11, 2020, violence in D.J. Halli-K.G. Halli. Contending that the investigating agency should have issued summons under provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure (Cr.PC) for production of materials and documents prior to approaching the court for a search warrant, it was argued on behalf of SDPI that search warrants issued on August 30 were not as per the law. However, the counsel for the National Investigation Agency (NIA) contended that the petitioner had not approached the High Court with “clean hands”, as it has not disclosed the fact that the cases were transferred to the National Investigation Agency and the party had moved the special court for NIA cases for release of seized materials, and that the application was rejected in October last year. ‘No need for summons’ Justice Suraj Govindaraj, who heard the petition, held that it was not required in all circumstances to issue a summons prior to issuance of a search warrant. “A perusal of the mahazar report indicates that all the requirements of carrying out of the search have been complied with... there is no infirmity in the search and seizure made in the present case,” the court observed while dismissing the petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dj-halli-violence-hc-upholds-warrants-to-search-sdpi-premises/article33622200.ece
21 January 2021||January 21 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Police recover stolen valuables from Nepal||The Chamarajpet police, with the help of their counterparts in Nepal, recovered gold valuables worth over Rs. 60 lakh that a security guard had stolen in Bengaluru. “When in Nepal, he was a policeman but was dismissed from service for dereliction of duty and involvement in anti-social activities. He came to Bengaluru and got a job as a security guard in a house in Chamarajpet,” said a police officer. In December 2020, he robbed the family of gold jewellery and cash, amounting to Rs. 62 lakh, and went to his hometown where he was arrested in connection with another case. When the Chamarajpet police, who were tracking him, learned of his arrest, they got in touch with officials from the embassy of Nepal and Interpol. With their help and the local police in Nepal, they managed to get back the stolen valuables, which were handed over to the owner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-recover-stolen-valuables-from-nepal/article33622203.ece
21 January 2021||January 21 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||KPCC gets two more working presidents||R. Ramalinga Reddy, seven-time MLA, and Dhruvanarayan, former MP, have been appointed working presidents of the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC). With this, the number of working presidents in KPCC increased to five. The other working presidents are: Eshwar Khandre, Satish Jarkiholi, and Saleem Ahmed. More responsibilities  Mr. Reddy, who served as Home Minister in the previous Congress government, is likely to play an important role for party’s Bengaluru city unit. He is expected to get more responsibility during the coming elections to the BBMP. Mr. Dhruvanarayan, who represented the Congress in the Parliament from the reserve (SC) Chamarajanagar constituency during 2014-19, lost the last general elections. He is expected to get the responsibility of galvanising the SC cadre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kpcc-gets-two-more-working-presidents/article33622211.ece
21 January 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Title deeds of 54 acres at Wagamon cancelled||District Collector H. Dinesan has cancelled the title deeds of 54 acres of land encroached on by Jolly Stephen with the support of the revenue officials at Ranimudy in Wagamon. The land encroachment came to light after the Crime Branch inquired into a complaint filed by Sherly, Jolly Stephan’s former wife, regarding a dispute with regard to another property at Wagamon. It was revealed that 12 title deeds of the land under the ownership of Jolly Stephen were fake and in the name of ‘unknown’ persons. It was found that the land in the name of ‘unknown’ persons were secured through power of attorney. It was done in connivance with the officials at the village and taluk offices. The title deeds were cancelled as per the 1964 land assignment rules. With this, all ‘tandaper’ there will be cancelled.  Mr. Dinesan told The Hindu on Wednesday that the fake title deeds were created in the name of unknown persons with the connivance of the Revenue Department officials. Using the power of attorney, Jolly Stephen sold the land to people who were not aware that the land documents were fake. A number of persons from outside the district purchased the land, it was revealed in a hearing by the Collector. He said that it was found that there were fake documents for 36 acres of land, though the encroacher had held 54 acres of land. The inquiry found that a ‘sarvamuthkthyar’ was made on March 3, 1994, with the power of attorney in the name of Jolly Stephen, his father K.J. Stephen, and one Biju Mandapathil. Collector’s report A 20-page report submitted by the Collector to the government said that those officials who had connived with the encroacher should be brought before the law through a Vigilance or Crime Branch inquiry. Nearly 200 resorts are on the encroached land at Ranimudy now. The property would be attached as per the law, said sources. There were 10.52 acres of land in the name of Sherly and her mother Elizabeth at Ranimudy. After the divorce, they gave a complaint to the Wagamon police station that the land was sold after creating fake documents by Jolly Stephen. An initial inquiry by the police found that Jolly Stephen had constructed a few buildings on the land owned by Sherly and Elizabeth. Following this, a Crime Branch inquiry was ordered and it was found that vast areas of land were encroached upon and sold by Jolly Stephen. The land was sold as plots and those purchased them had built resorts there. There is no marked boundary to the encroached land. The entire encroached land will be attached as per the law, said Mr. Dinesan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/title-deeds-of-54-acres-at-wagamon-cancelled/article33622557.ece
21 January 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||336 new cases in Idukki||The largest number of COVID-19 cases was reported in the district on Wednesday. The total number of cases was 336. Kokkayar, Kumaramangalam, and Adimali grama panchayats had more positive cases in addition to the municipalities of Kattappana and Thodupusha. The Nedumkandam grama panchayat recorded the highest number of 57 cases. There were nine cases where the source of the virus was untraced and three contracted the disease after travelling outside the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/336-new-cases-in-idukki/article33622556.ece
21 January 2021||K.S. SudhiKOCHI,KERALA||‘Address management issues of sanctuaries’||Wildlife sanctuaries in Kerala should address the “overarching problems” of fire, grazing, invasive species and monoculture plantations to improve their scores in management effectiveness, suggested a national-level evaluation report. The Management Effectiveness Evaluation (MEE) of the national parks and wildlife sanctuaries in the State was done as part of a national exercise, jointly carried out by the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change and the Wildlife Institute of India. The effectiveness of Malabar, Neyyar, Peechi- Vazhani, Wayanad, Kottiyoor and Kurunjimala wildlife sanctuaries and the Thattekkad and Mangalavanam bird sanctuaries were evaluated for the 2018-19 period. While Thattekkad Bird Sanctuary got a very good rating with a MEE Score of 77.50%, six others were rated good. Poor performance Mangalavanam Bird Sanctuary turned out to be a poor performer among the lot with a score of 56.25% and was categorised as fair. The presence of large human settlements in protected areas such as Wayanad forced the managements to spend significant time to sort out their issues besides addressing the problems related to weed and invasive species management and proliferation of livestock, it said. The report suggested rationalising the boundaries of some of the protected areas such as the Kottiyoor and Aralam sanctuaries. These two could be made a single unit with a compact and modest-sized landscape under a better and unified management regime than being two small protected areas with separate management regimes, it suggested. The report commended on the efforts of the sanctuaries to establish linkages with professional research organisations and institutions for research, documentation and monitoring of important flora and fauna. Community role The Eco Development Committees of these protected areas won appreciation for community participation and eliciting support in management. The “systematic and well-organised” nature education camps in well-appointed education and interpretation centres also won a word of praise. The contiguity of the protected areas of Kerala with the larger interstate, trans-boundary habitat landscapes was also appreciated in the report. The absence of programmes for development of capable and skilled human resource, including professional training in wildlife management, is a major drawback, the report noted.  The absence of programmes for development of skilled human resource, including professional training in wildlife management, is a major drawback Environment Ministry report||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/address-management-issues-of-sanctuaries/article33622485.ece
21 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Excise Dept. initiatives set to go modern||Awareness campaigns by the Excise Department in the district against drug and alcohol addiction is set to reach a cutting edge, with a 3D theatre and museum combo at its office complex in Kacheripady here. The construction of the 60-seater 3D theatre jointly by Keltron and Kerala Artisans Development Corporation at an investment of Rs. 2 crore is in the final stages. The plan is to commission it within the next 45 days under the State government’s 100-day programme. The project is being executed under Vimukthi, the drug- and addiction-free mission of the department. “The work is more or less complete, and the trial run has also gone well. We have approached the Excise Commissionerate, seeking permission for production of 3D-enabled awareness videos. Quality short videos will have to be produced, and we hope to make a few at very nominal rates by appealing to the social commitment of major players in media production,” said T.A. Ashok Kumar, Deputy Excise Commissioner, Ernakulam. Till 3D videos are made, the theatre will be used for screening normal awareness videos of the department that are now being screened using laptops and basic projectors. “We have also proposed a museum dedicated to de-addiction, which will be probably the first of its kind in the country. The project, estimated to cost Rs. 30 lakh, is still in its infancy,” said Mr. Ashok Kumar. The idea is to showcase visual and object installations to drive home the many dangers of drug addiction. Once both the facilities are up and running, the department plans to club them as a package for half-day-long awareness tours for students and youngsters. “The message on the devastating impact of drug and alcohol addiction on the human body will carry that much weight when shown in 3D images,” said Mr. Ashok Kumar. The department has been running awareness campaigns mainly through webinars considering the COVID-19 restrictions. A letter writing competition was held on the role of students in fighting drug addiction, and three district-level winners were felicitated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/excise-dept-initiatives-set-to-go-modern/article33622504.ece
21 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Corpn. told to ensure proper disposal of construction waste||The State Pollution Control Board (PCB) has recommended that the Kochi Corporation and other local bodies impose a condition for proper disposal of construction and demolition waste while issuing building permit as per norms under the Construction and Demolition Waste Management Rules, 2016. The proposal has found place in the board’s response filed before the Principal Bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) in the case pertaining to unscientific handling of waste by the corporation and civic bodies by dumping biodegradable waste at the Brahmapuram yard. The regional office of the board will soon convene a meeting of the corporation, municipalities, and panchayats to discuss the existing mode of collecting construction and demolition waste. A preliminary assessment revealed that local bodies, including the Kochi Corporation, were yet to get authorisation from the board for collection and disposal of construction and demolition waste. The board is awaiting a reply from the Kochi Corporation Secretary on the action plan for proper disposal of construction and demolition waste that had emerged following the demolition of the flyover at Palarivattom. The corporation has not yet identified land for depositing construction and demolition waste and sanitary landfill, according to the report filed before the NGT. Meanwhile, the Corporation Secretary claimed that construction and demolition waste materials were not collected or mixed with other waste, transported and treated by the corporation. Construction and demolition waste is reused to fill low-lying and basement areas. It is also used for making pavement tiles and kerb stones. Such waste is processed and reused by builders themselves and has never been a menace to the public. Interestingly, the agency engaged by the corporation to quantify construction and demolition waste had said that it could not find any such waste in Kochi, according to a letter from the Secretary in November last year. The PCB had earlier proposed a recycling plant for the Kochi cluster of local bodies that would turn debris into usable sand and gravel. However, the local bodies turned down the proposal, citing non-availability of land.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corpn-told-to-ensure-proper-disposal-of-construction-waste/article33622517.ece
21 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Tourism spells trouble for bird sanctuary||The habitat of Salim Ali Bird Sanctuary, Thattekad, is facing threat from grazing, collection of fuel-wood and invasive species, according to an evaluation report. Human-wildlife conflict, especially involving wild boar and birds, has created a negative feeling about the sanctuary among the local villagers. There are human habitations in nearly one-third of the sanctuary, which raises serious management concerns, according to the report prepared by the Union Ministry of Environment Forest and Climate Change and Wildlife Institute of India, Dehra Dun. Tourism pressure is high in the protected area and it sometimes disturbs sensitive species such as the Ceylon frogmouth. The considerable presence of tourism infrastructure, such as homestays, within the protected area is a matter of concern, noted the report. The bird sanctuary, located in the foothills of the Western Ghats, supports a large number of mammalian, reptilian, amphibian, and fish species, including endemic ones. The presence of 234 bird species was recorded in the sanctuary. The report assessed the sanctuary as very good in terms of management effectiveness, with a score of 77.5%. Suggestions The panel suggested the ‘rationalisation of boundaries’ of the protected area and wanted the ‘inclusion of private lands in the sanctuary’ to be reviewed. Adequate mechanisms shall be put in place to monitor the rare, endangered, and threatened species and the special habitats and unique species present at the sanctuary. Measures shall be introduced to reduce human-wildlife conflicts. Availability of water in aquatic habitats shall be ensured for the wetland-dependent wildlife, the report suggested. The panel also called for technically sound anti-poaching, patrolling, and perambulation activities and their linkage with the GPS-based tracking system. The possibility of obtaining CSR funds shall be explored, it proposed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tourism-spells-trouble-for-bird-sanctuary/article33622490.ece
21 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||KWA views sought on water scarcity at Cheranalloor||The Kerala High Court on Wednesday asked the State government and the Kerala Water Authority (KWA) to respond to a plea seeking resolution of drinking water issues in Cheranalloor. In his petition, Dixon Chakkiath Antony, a resident, pointed out that the people of Cheranalloor had been facing drinking water problems because of inadequate water supply. Various proposals had been forwarded to the State government and the KWA with regard to the matter. One proposal was to erect a large water tank, as the region with a population of over 26,000 does not have a water tank. Residents had been going without sufficient drinking water for the past 13 days. The petitioner sought a directive from the court to take urgent steps to supply water and construct a water tank. The court also impleaded the KWA Chief Engineer, Central Zone, and the Ernakulam District Collector as respondents. It adjourned hearing on the petition to January 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kwa-views-sought-on-water-scarcity-at-cheranalloor/article33622488.ece
21 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Agri Hack event to evolve sustainable farming solutions||A hackathon centred around sustainable agricultural development will be part of the annual agri expo VAIGA (Value Addition for Income Generation in Agricultrue) this year, with the forum being thrown open to students of classes 8 to 12 and college students as well as the public. An official of the Department of Agriculture said registration for the farm hackathon would begin on January 21. The site will be officially opened by Minister for Agriculture V.S. Sunilkumar on the day. Those interested in joining the hackthon can register teams. Registrations will end on January 31 and by February 3, participants will have to identify a problem and present a solution to it, based on which 20 teams each will be selected from each category. This will make up a total of 60 teams. They will then participate in the final round of the hackathon at VAIGA 2021 to be held in Thrissur between February 10 and 14. At the core of ‘Agri Hack’ is finding sustainable solutions, based on technology, for challenges facing agriculture in the State. Issues like drawing more young people to farming and agriculture management are among the topics expected to be addressed. VAIGA has been an annual event over the past four years and is a platform on which current and emerging national and international trends, technology, product diversification, and machinery are brought together. The fourth edition of VAIGA had for its theme ‘Sustainable Development through Agripreneurship’. The event had a host of programmes, including workshops and presentations, on solving problems and technology in agriculture. Prizes Winners will be given certificates and cash prizes. They will also be backed by incubation facilities and start-up support. Besides, winning ideas and solutions will be used by the Agriculture Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/agri-hack-event-to-evolve-sustainable-farming-solutions/article33622496.ece
21 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Treatment plant proposed for creek remediation||The State Pollution Control Board (PCB) has asked Hindustan Insecticides Ltd. (HIL) at Eloor to speed up the process of handing over nearly 75 cents for the installation of an effluent treatment plant (ETP) as part of restoring the heavily-polluted Eloor-Kuzhikandam canal. The board has filed a report before the Southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT), saying that directions had been issued to the public sector company at Udyogamandal to hand over the land on lease basis for 99 years at a nominal rate or free of cost. Remediation work will be done in three stages that include A1 area (inside HIL); A2 area (inside Merchem), and A3 area (residential area). A2 and A3 sites are near the company. The major activities under remediation include excavation, storage of excavated soil and sediments, analysis of soil, and pumping of surface and ground water. The work proposed include treatment of surface and groundwater, analysis of treated water, discharge of treated water and disposal of hazardous soil / sediments to the treatment storage disposal facility. The land will be used to set up the plant and allied infrastructure. The PCB had pointed out that the land should be easily accessible with provision for vehicular movement, power requirement, and proper transportation and loading / unloading activities. The board found that the site at HIL was ideal, as it met all project requirements. Being a public limited company, all necessary safety measures can be assured for the facilities on its premises. The next phases of remediation that include A2 and A3 remain close to the company. Water and sediments / soil excavated at the two sites can be easily pumped to the effluent treatment plant, if it is installed on the land, according to the board.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/treatment-plant-proposed-for-creek-remediation/article33622515.ece
21 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||‘Clean’ local bodies to earn revenue by selling waste||Nearly 30 local bodies in Ernakulam that had achieved ‘clean’ status in solid waste management will enhance their revenue by selling segregated waste. The government-run Clean Kerala Company (CKG) will hand over cheques to representatives of civic bodies from next week. The earnings from segregation of waste are expected to boost the income of municipalities and local bodies. Haritha Karma Sena members in each local body will be responsible for sorting waste. CKG has notified the rate for each material. Senior officials of the Department of Local Self-Governments said milk covers would earn Rs. 12 per kg for baled items and Rs. 10 for non-baled products. The corresponding figures for high-density polyethylene waste are Rs. 17 and Rs. 15 respectively. As per preliminary estimates, each model local body can earn up to 10,000 for a tonne of segregated waste based on the price fixed by CKG. The rate will vary as per the classification and type of sorted waste. Cans made of aluminium can get up to Rs. 40 per kg, while the price of a kilogram of steel is Rs. 20. A member of the Haritha Karma Sena is expected to segregate nearly 50 kg of waste daily. There are green volunteers who are capable of handling up to 100 kg. Panchayats and municipalities can also hand over waste to private vendors or firms involved in recycling, if they are able to earn a better price for sorted waste. Chottanikkara panchayat had handed over 2.3 tonnes of sorted waste.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/clean-local-bodies-to-earn-revenue-by-selling-waste/article33622519.ece
21 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Lack of organ donations leaves patients waiting for years||While the need for organ transplantation remains high, donations, particularly cadaver donations are few, leaving patients waiting for years. Hari, a patient in Thrissur, has been awaiting a liver transplant for four years, said his wife. He was diagnosed with liver issues in 2006. Four years ago, they were informed that he would need a transplant, but have been unable to find a donor, leaving them with financial problems stemming from the illness, she said. She was speaking at an online awareness session organised by the Institute of Medicine and Law. In Kerala, there have been 879 organ transplantations and only 321 cadaver donations from 2012 to 2020. Kiran, a liver transplant recipient in Kochi, said finding donors could be an ordeal. The procedure, involving extensive paperwork, is strenuous. Besides, liver transplants are mostly being done in the private sector, which can cost between Rs. 21 lakh and Rs. 30 lakh, he said. At a government facility, it costs only Rs. 1 lakh to Rs. 1.5 lakh, but even the Government Medical College Hospital in Thiruvananthapuram has not been doing liver transplant surgeries, he said. Dr. Noble Gracious, State nodal officer, Kerala Network for Organ Sharing, said liver transplant surgeries would resume soon at the hospital. Mahendrakumar Bajpai, Supreme Court lawyer, said a uniform definition of death was the need of the hour. Brain-stem death must be delinked from organ donation, he said. Sumana Navin of Mohan Foundation, a Chennai-based NGO, stressed the role that transplant coordinators played in hand-holding patients through the various options before them.  (Patient names have been changed to protect their identities)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lack-of-organ-donations-leaves-patients-waiting-for-years/article33622495.ece
21 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||IT exemption for coop. societies welcomed||The Supreme Court verdict on January 12 upholding income tax exemption under Section 80P for primary agricultural credit societies has widely been welcomed. “The verdict has saved more than 90% of cooperatives from closure. These primary institutions will benefit from the verdict,” said Kince Varghese, secretary, Mavilayi Service Cooperative Bank, Kannur, on Wednesday. The verdict, exempting credit societies and other primary societies from paying income tax, was delivered by a three-judge bench comprising justices R.F. Nariman, Naveen Sinha and K.M. Joseph. The SC ruling came on a Kerala High Court full bench verdict of March 2019, said Mr. Varghese. He added that there were 1,638 primary agricultural credit societies in the State, which would benefit from the SC verdict. There are, among others, miscellaneous societies and women’s cooperatives that stand to benefit. The Cochin Chamber of Commerce and Industry welcomed the verdict. P.M. Veeramani, vice president of the Chamber, said the verdict would save co-operatives from incurring huge liabilities of over Rs. 5,500 crore. He added that the ruling had given a new impetus to the economy of Kerala in the context of COVID-19. Disputes since 2007 have now been laid to rest. According to the verdict, Mr. Varghese said, all cooperatives registered under the Kerala Cooperative Societies Act could be considered as cooperative societies, and that only those operating with Reserve Bank of India licence could be considered as cooperative banks.  The SC ruling has given a new impetus to the economy of Kerala. Disputes since 2007 have now been laid to rest P.M. Veeramani Vice president, Cochin Chamber of Commerce and Industry||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/it-exemption-for-coop-societies-widely-welcomed/article33622513.ece
21 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Homemaker, student bring laurels to Kochi||Sulfath Moideen, a home maker at Edavanakkad and a veteran terrace farmer, and P. Krishna Theertha, a Standard VII student of HDPY Senior Secondary School, Moothakunnam, hailing from Madaplathuruthu in Vadakkekara panchayat, have earned top positions in their categories in the annual State Karshaka Awards announced on Wednesday. While Ms. Sulfath has more than three dozen awards under the belt for her farm ventures in over 27 years, recognition has come to Ms. Theertha for the first time. Both are delighted with the way their efforts have borne fruit despite the pandemic situation. Ms. Sulfath won the first prize for terrace farming of vegetables, while Ms. Theertha is the third best student farmer in the State. The veteran farmer has around 600 pots and bags on her 2,500 sq.ft. terrace. The vegetables being cultivated include vegetable cowpea, okra, bitter gourd, green chilli, tomato as well as tubers like yam. Ms. Theertha had her farming skills sharpened by her mother, who is an enthusiastic farmer herself. She said she had been cultivating all types of vegetables on the terrace of her home. The lockdown left her with a lot of time to engage herself in the hobby she loves best. Ms. Sulfath said she had won 36 awards, including the first prize in the district for the vegetable cultivation programme ‘Onathinu Orumuram Pachakkari’. She started her farming activities at the age of 17 and since then has been an enthusiastic farmer. Besides the 2,500 sq.ft. terrace, she cultivates on 1.5 acres, where vegetables and bananas are grown. She also keeps goats, chicken, quails as well as ornamental fish varieties. St. Mary’s UP School, West Cheranalloor, won the award for the best educational institution in the vegetable cultivation category. The other farm award winners from Ernakulam include K.I. Isaac, who was chosen as the second best vegetable farmer in the State. He hails from Thiruvaniyoor, a village renowned for its vast areas under vegetable farming. The district also won two Haritha Keerthi Awards for the government farm at Aluva. Honours have also gone to Lissymol J. Vadakkat at the Aluva farm and Bincy Abraham, ADA, Kalamassery. E.V. Latha of Edathala was honoured as the best agricultural officer promoting vegetable cultivation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/homemaker-student-bring-laurels-to-district/article33622499.ece
21 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Spike in COVID-19 cases continues in Ernakulam||Ernakulam district continued to reel under rising COVID-19 cases with 1,031 fresh cases reported on Wednesday. The newly-infected included eight health workers. Thrikkakara recorded 30 new cases followed by Elanji (29), Karukutty, Kalamassery, Kizhakkambalam, and Sreemoolanagaram (25 each). Meanwhile, District Collector S. Suhas said that private and government hospitals had been instructed to ramp up testing. Even those with mild symptoms were being tested. Free testing was available in primary health centres too, he said. While the COVID-19-related death rate in the State was 0.41%, it was just 0.36% in Ernakulam, he said, attributing it to the coordinated work done by health workers. The district had seven FLTCs with 567 beds and four second LTCs with 386 beds. These apart, treatment facilities were available in private hospitals. A total of 803 people recovered from the disease on Wednesday. The total number of patients in the district stood at 11,027. A fresh batch of 7,034 samples were sent for testing from the district on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/spike-in-covid-19-cases-continues-in-ernakulam/article33622507.ece
21 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||A macabre practice rearing its head?||Two months ago, excise sleuths nabbed a 24-year-old from North Paravur with ganja and nitrosun tablets, a prescription drug used mainly to treat insomnia. It emerged that he has been into drugs from his teens when he used to inject it before gradually shifting to ganja and tablets. Then nearly a week ago, the Excise nabbed his 22-year-old friend and a fellow drug abuser with 53 grams of diazepam, another prescription drug used to treat anxiety. However, he had not yet made the shift and was still jabbing the drug, triggering concerns whether injections, which were considered an outdated mode, were making a comeback, especially in the North Paravur area. Excise sleuths have no idea how the youngsters are getting introduced to the far more dangerous mode of drug abuse. “Our hunch is that in huddles of vulnerable youngsters, those who are into drugs boastfully reminisce about how they used to get on a high by injecting drugs, and their impressionable listeners feel the urge to emulate, thus falling into the habit. The youngsters are also prone to experimenting, and that may be another reason. Other than that, there is no logical explanation behind this archaic method making a comeback,” said S. Nijumon, Excise Circle Inspector, North Paravur. That it may go beyond North Paravur became evident when in a recent seizure of MDMA in Aluva, some WhatsApp videos were found in the phones of the accused showing youngsters injecting the drug. T.A. Ashok Kumar, Deputy Commissioner of Excise, Ernakulam, felt that the more severe and violent addicts might be prone to injecting drugs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-macabre-practice-rearing-its-head/article33622508.ece
21 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Drill conducted at LNG terminal||A mock drill to check the emergency preparedness of various agencies engaged in ensuring safety was conducted successfully at the LNG terminal on Puthuvype island on Wednesday. The drill was conducted under the aegis of the District Disaster Management Authority. It said full coordination between the various agencies was achieved during the drill. The collectorate housed the central control centre, Elamkunnappuzha panchayat hosted the secondary coordination centre and the on-site control room was established at the LNG terminal itself. The drill started at 11 a. m. and was completed by 3 p.m. District Disaster Management Authority Deputy Collector S.Shahjahan, Election Deputy Collector P.A. Pradeep and hazard analyst Anajali Parameswaran were among those involved in coordinating efforts of the agencies including the police, Health Department, Fire Department, Motor Vehicles Department and the Pollution Control Board.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/drill-conducted-at-lng-terminal/article33622493.ece
21 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Summit for students||Kerala Startup Mission (KSUM) will hold IEDC Summit 2021 this month-end, providing delegates from across the State an opportunity to express their entrepreneurial ideas and interact with experts attending the event from the world over. “Innovations and Creativity in Time of Crisis” is the theme for the January 28-30 event, which is Asia’s largest virtual aspiring student entrepreneurship summit. KSUM is organising the summit in association with Adi Shankara Institute of Engineering and Technology, Kalady. Registrations can be made atwww.iedcsummit.in. The event features a series of technology tracks in extended reality, blockchain, startup expo, panel discussions, brainstorming sessions, interactive community and meet-ups. Student innovators from various IEDCs (Innovation and Entrepreneurship Development Centres) will exhibit their projects, according to a release. Integral to the summit will be knowledge and skill development sessions, where corporate leaders are slated to provide students an insight about the latest trends in technology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/summit-for-students/article33622500.ece
21 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Muziris Paddle flag-off on February 12||Kayakers, stand-up paddlers and sailors from India and abroad are expected to converge in Kochi to paddle along the National Waterway 3 on February 12 and 13 for this year’s edition of the famed Muziris Paddle. The fourth edition of the Muziris Paddle, jointly organised by Kerala Tourism, Muziris Heritage Project and Jellyfish Watersports will be flagged off on February 12 at Kottappuram Corniche, Kodungalloor. Muziris Paddle 2021 that kicks off from the amphitheatre near Kottappuram market at 8 a.m. will travel through the Periyar and enter the National Waterway 3 near Munambam. The team will resume the tour on February 13 from Sravanam Greens and subsequently enter the Vembanadu Lake, covering Nedungadu Veeranpuzha and Vypin Manjanakkadu. After savouring the beauty of Mulavukadu island, it will circle the Bolgatty island beneath the Goshree Bridge. By 3.30 p.m., the paddlers will reach KTDC Marina, close to the Bolagatty Palace. Muziris Paddle will also spread a message on river/lake conservation and keeping them plastic-free. Registration Those interested may contact 9745507454 or 9400893112 for registration. To book online, log on towww. jellyfishwatersports.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/muziris-paddle-flag-off-on-february-12/article33622510.ece
21 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Approver ordered back to custody||The special court considering the actor rape case has ordered the arrest of Vipinlal, an accused-turned approver in the case. The court also ordered that he shall be taken back to judicial custody. It was on a petition moved by actor Dileep, the eighth accused, that the court passed the order. The actor had also sought action against the investigation officer and jail authorities whom he accused of colluding with the approver to ensure his safe passage out of the jail.  Opposing the plea, the prosecution contended that the accused had no locus standi to raise such a demand. Special judge Honey M. Vargehse noted that the accused had managed to stay out through illegal means and no competent court had granted him bail. Onus on prosecution The court noted that the prosecution should have brought the issue of illegal release of the approver to the attention of the court. It was against public policy to release an approver from judicial custody. He shall remain in custody considering his personal safety. If the approver was arrested, he shall be produced before the court for examination as witness on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/approver-ordered-back-to-custody/article33622539.ece
21 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Chief Judicial Magistrates, sub judges promoted||As many as 27 Chief Judicial Magistrates (CJM) and sub judges were promoted as District Judges on Wednesday. Those who have been promoted are D. Sudheer David, sub judge, Chengannur; P.T. Prakashan, Chief Judicial Magistrate, Thrissur; R. Jayakrishnan, CJM, Thiruvananthapuram; P.P. Pooja, sub judge, Punalur; C. Suresh Kumar, Secretary, District Legal Services Authority (DLSA), Thalassery; G.R. Bilkul, Secretary, DLSA, Pathanamthitta; Rajiv Jayaraj, CJM, Kottayam; C. R. Dinesh, CJM, Kozhikode; K.P. Pradeep, CJM, Kalpetta; K.P. Sunil, CJM, Ernakulam; P. S. Saima, CJM, Pathanamthitta; V. Udayakumar, CJM, Manjeri; K.P. Sunitha, CJM, Kasaragod; Usha Nair, CJM, Kollam; Prasanna Gopan, Deputy Registrar, Kerala Administrative Tribunal, Thiruvananthapuram; T.G. Varghese, Principal sub judge, North Paravur;. Dinesh M. Pillai, Secretary, District Legal Services Authority, Thodupuzha; K. Vishnu, CJM, Alappuzha; T.K. Suresh, CJM, Thalassery; R. Sudhakanth, CJM, Palakkad; G. Mahesh Secretary, DLSA, Kottayam; A.V. Unnikrishnan, DLSA, Kozhikode; G. Rajesh, Deputy Director, Kerala Judicial Academy, Athani; S.K. Anilkumar, Secretary, DLSA, Ernakulam; Bindu Sudhakaran, Principal sub judge, Thrissur; M. Muhammed Raees, Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate, Ernakulam; and P.S. Binu, sub judge, Thiruvalla.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chief-judicial-magistrates-sub-judges-promoted/article33622521.ece
21 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Meet held on Thrikkakara drinking water crisis||Water Resources Minister K. Krishnankutty has asked Kerala Water Authority technical member G. Sreekumar to immediately submit a report on the feasibility of using water from the storage facility of Fertilisers and Chemicals Travancore (FACT) at Ambalamedu to resolve the drinking water crisis in the Thrikkakara Assembly constituency. Water storage According to information made available by P.T. Thomas, MLA, Thrikkakara, a meeting to address the drinking water issue also decided to ask the Ernakulam district administration or the municipality to make available sufficient land for the construction of two water tanks for storage of as much as 50 lakh litres of water. Pipe laying Concurrently, discussions would be initiated with the National Highways Authority of India officials on laying pipes along Kundannoor and Vyttila to bring five lakh litres of water from the Muvattupuzha river.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/meet-held-on-thrikkakara-drinking-water-crisis/article33622494.ece
21 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||More Covishield vaccine doses reach Kochi||The second tranche of COVID-19 vaccine Covishield, comprising 1,47,000 doses from the Serum Institute of India, Pune, reached Kochi on Wednesday. The consignment landed at 11 a.m. at the Nedumbassery International Airport. The vaccine was brought to the General Hospital by 12.30 p.m., said a communication here. The vaccine will be supplied to Thrissur (31,000 doses), Kottayam (24,000), Palakkad (25,500) and Idukki (7,500) districts. Ernakulam district received 59,000 doses of the vaccine. The vaccines arrived in 21 boxes. Of these, 12 boxes are meant for Ernakulam, nine for Kozhikode and one for Lakshadweep Islands. The vaccine for Lakshadweep was dispatched by helicopter immediately on arrival at the Kochi airport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-covishield-vaccine-doses-reach-kochi/article33622505.ece
21 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Drug, ganja seized from four persons||Excise officials seized 2.6 mg of MDMA, popularly known as “ecstasy” and 2 kg of ganja from four persons in separate instances on Wednesday. Faizal Nazar, 28, of Kappalandimukku Desathu and Arun Chandran, 20 of South Giri Nagar, were arrested by a team led by S.B. Muraleedharan, Excise Inspector, Mattancherry, for alleged possession of 2.6 mg of MDMA following an inspections held at Thoppumpady, Karuvelippady, and Chullikkal. The accused were selling the drug at prices ranging between Rs. 4,000 and Rs. 6,000 per gram after procuring it from Bangaluru for Rs. 2,000. Suraj, 26, of Edakochi and Romish, 30, of Rameswaram were arrested for possession of 2 kg of ganja. They were found selling the narcotic in packets of 250 gm at Rs. 10,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/drug-ganja-seized-from-four-persons/article33622514.ece
21 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Ensure ration supply to tribespeople||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Wednesday directed the State government to ensure uninterrupted supply of ration articles and other benefits available under the law to the tribal people at Edamalakudy in Idukki. The Bench comprising Chief Justice S. Manikumar and Justice Shaji P. Chali directed the State government to explore the possibility of constructing a road up to the tribal colonies to facilitate easy and convenient supply of ration articles. The directives were passed in a case initiated on the basis of a letter by former High Court Judge Kemal Pasha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ensure-ration-supply-to-tribespeople/article33622538.ece
21 January 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||4 types of dengue viruses in Kollam||The Health Department has intensified dengue preventive measures in Kollam after four types of dengue viruses were found in a study conducted in the district. Areas with a large number of vacant houses pose a challenge in Kollam Corporation as the possibility of spreading the infection is highest in such places. “Since a second infection of dengue can be serious, eliminating mosquito breeding sources should be a priority,” said District Medical Officer R. Sreelatha. The department has instructed the residents to observe at least one day in a week as ‘dry day’ to destroy all potential breeding sources. “Educational institutions, offices, and households can observe the day on Friday, Saturday, and Sunday respectively.” Source reduction While the excessive use and careless handling of plastic and tarpaulin has led to an increase in mosquito density in Kulasekharapuram and Mynagappally, rubber plantations are the major breeding points at Anchal. In coastal areas, boats that had been lying idle during the trawling ban season and prohibition became potential breeding sites. The department has directed to prevent stagnation of water in the tyres attached to the boats. Fogging and source reduction have started in high-risk areas. Anchal, Yeroor, Ayalamon, Anchalumood, Kollam Corporation, Poruvazhy, Karungapally, Chavara, Mynagappally, and Nedungolam fall in the category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/4-types-of-dengue-viruses-in-kollam/article33622558.ece
21 January 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Three farm awards for Kollam school||Government Higher Secondary School, Sadanandapuram, has bagged awards in best school, best teacher, and best student farmer categories instituted by the Department of Agriculture. While the school won the first position in the best school category, B. Mohanlal and Abhiram Krishna are the teacher and students who brought laurels. A 12-phase organic farming project launched by the school four years ago and a string of other green initiatives were considered for the award. Wide variety The school agricultural club has been cultivating various crops with the help of Vettikavala Krishi Bhavan, Krishi Vigyan Kendra, and Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme workers. The school had harvested a spate of vegetables and tubers that include ginger, purple yam, beans, tapioca, colocasia, taro, tomato, eggplant, snake gourd, ivy gourd, bottle gourd, green chilli, spinach, cucumber, and cauliflower in 2019. All the students of the school had been participating in paddy farming and vegetable cultivation using drip irrigation.  Corn too Last year, the students had cultivated corn, an unusual crop seen in Kerala farms. After the school harvested a good yield from the half-acre farm, the students also conducted a corn festival.  School launched 12-phase organic farming project four years ago and a string of other green initiatives||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-farm-awards-for-kollam-school/article33622561.ece
21 January 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Pinarayi to inaugurate rail overbridges||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate the construction of Eravipuram and Maliyekkal rail overbridges through videoconferencing on January 23. Public Works Minister G. Sudhakaran will preside over the function and Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac will be the chief guest on the occasion. MPs N.K. Premachandran and A.M. Arif; and MLAs M. Naushad and R. Ramachandran will attend.Mayor Prasanna Earnest, and district panchayat president Sam K. Daniel will attend the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-to-inaugurate-rail-overbridges/article33622559.ece
21 January 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Guest demonstrator post||IHRD Model Polytechnic College, Karunagapally, will conduct an interview for the post of guest demonstrator in Electronics at 10 a.m. on January 23. Qualification required is first class in BSc Electronics or first class diploma in Electronics. Interested candidates can walk in with original certificates and two copies to the office at Maliyekkal Junction. For details, contact 8547005083.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/guest-demonstrator-post/article33622562.ece
21 January 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||704 new cases, 314 recoveries in Kottayam||As many as 704 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam district on Wednesday. Among the new cases, 697 people contracted the virus through local contact. Seven people who came from outside the State also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Meanwhile, 314 people recovered. The district currently has 6,502 active cases. 654 in Pathanamthitta The district reported 654 COVID-19 cases. Among the new cases, as many as 623 people contracted the virus through local transmission and among these, the source of infection of 37 people remains unidentified. Eighteen people who came from abroad and 13 from other States were also diagnosed with the disease. With 808 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 5,382 active cases. 639 in Kollam The district reported 639 new cases of COVID-19 and 2,303 recoveries on Wednesday. Among the patients are 626 contact cases, four NRIs, three persons from other States, five health workers, and one case with no known source. The district currently has 11,902 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 6,78,093. While 1,081 persons completed home quarantine on Wednesday, the Health Department has traced 1,54,399 primary and 13,746 secondary contacts of the positive cases. 422 in Alappuzha The district logged 422 COVID-19 cases on Wednesday. Of the new cases, 413 patients contracted the disease through local transmission. The source of infection of three other persons remains unknown. Four persons who came from other States, one from abroad, and a health employee also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Meanwhile, 264 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district tested negative. The active caseload in the district stands at 4,246.  (With inputs from Pathanamthitta, Kollam, and Alappuzha bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/704-new-cases-314-recoveries-in-kottayam/article33622563.ece
21 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Active COVID-19 caseload rising steadily in Kozhikode||It looks like the active COVID-19 caseload in Kozhikode district, which dipped below 6,000-mark in the first week of the month, is steadily increasing now. This fact is not being perceived as a surge because an equal number of recoveries are being reported every day. The number of people under treatment for the infection in the district had dropped to 5,857 on January 3. In two weeks, however, it jumped above 6,000 again when the active caseload reached 6,487 on January 16. With 770 people testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Wednesday, the number of people undergoing treatment for the infection reached 7,036 now. The daily test positivity rate (TPR) is oscillating between 8% and 13% for quite some time now. The cumulative TPR is 9.2%. An equally significant issue is the number of people who test positive for the virus after their death. According to the medical bulletins released by the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, in the last few days, every day there are one or two patients who are brought dead to the casualty ward, and later found to be infected. Health Department sources said that there could be an inordinate delay in detecting the infection, because more and more people are reluctant to undergo tests, going by the frequent dip in its numbers over the past few weeks. By the time they reach the hospital, their condition would have been critical. With a majority of people opting for home isolation, there is a drastic dip in the number of those getting admitted to hospitals as well. Ground-level staff, however, refuted the allegation that there were lapses in their surveillance of those under home isolation. The arrival of the Covishield vaccine, a general lethargy towards observing the pandemic protocol and the shift of attention towards political developments have been cited as some of the reasons for the current situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/active-covid-19-caseload-rising-steadily-in-kozhikode/article33622476.ece
21 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Auto, taxi operators back in business||After long months of uncertainty and financial struggle following the COVID-19 outbreak, autorickshaw drivers and taxi operators are back in business, making a good daily income. Many of them have started the repayment of deferred vehicle loans, and are trying to buy new electric vehicles. During the lean period, many of them were dependent on various supportive and credit schemes by the government and welfare societies. Drivers themselves had formed collectives to support the needy for addressing their medical emergencies, children’s educational needs and marriages. “There were days when drivers went for odd jobs like fish sale, loading and catering services. Now, many of them are back in business as the situation has improved. Commuters are also not reluctant now to hire autos,” says V. Babu, a driver from Vengali. Those conducting service on the outskirts of the city are also hopeful. Their customers are mostly senior citizens who avail of the service through phone booking. As buses are not yet their preferred mode of transport, autorickshaw drivers are in good demand. Tourism destinations With the reopening of tourism destinations, taxi drivers operating in the areas are also heaving a sigh of relief. The number of long-distance and inter-district travellers has been found increasing since December-end. Though the number of foreign tourists is still low, the arrival of domestic tourists from other States has given fresh hopes to drivers. “As companies are now withdrawing the work-from-home option, there is also an increase in the number of daily services for various official purposes. For over eight months, we have been struggling to get such pre-booked trips from private companies and an assured source of income,” says Sukumaran Villath, a taxi driver from Elathur. He also hopes that the online taxi service will resume full-fledged operation within a couple of months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/auto-taxi-operators-back-in-business/article33622475.ece
21 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Congress strives to revive its fortunes||As if stuck in a time warp, the Congress party in Kerala is once again experimenting with the age-old and tested formula of balancing religion, caste and group equations for the upcoming Assembly elections. The Central leadership appears to have got its act together, bringing senior leaders, especially Oommen Chandy, Ramesh Chennithala, and Mullappally Ramachandran, on the election scene to take on the ruling CPI (M)-led Left Democratic Front (LDF). Clear message The leadership wants to send out a message to the rank and file of the party that though the three leaders are notionally equal, only Mr. Chandy, as a mass leader, has the Machiavellian manoeuvres to lead from the front. While the leadership admitted that Mr. Chennithala did his work as Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly, he failed to pull off a victory at a crucial juncture in the local body elections. Besides, he was unable to do a ‘V.S. Achuthanandan act’ despite cornering the government on multiple issues, they said. The party intends to field leaders from the Christian, Nair, Ezhava communities in the electoral battle, addressing the alienated segments and circumventing the party’s shrinking vote base. However, the dominance of the ‘I’ group over the ‘A’ group in the party will continue in the seat-sharing package. The Congress leadership feels that a rejig in its election strategy proves that the United Democratic Front (UDF) has a game plan unlike its runway success even without an election plan in the Lok Sabha polls in 2019. It remains to be seen how the Congress can match up to the ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) which has started the process of cherry-picking the best to fight the polls to reach the magical figure of 71 in the 140-member House. A dilemma For the Central leadership, it is also a catch-22 situation as the Congress and the Left parties have forged an electoral alliance in West Bengal. Hence, only State-level leaders are likely to engage in serious confrontations during the election campaign. Moreover, it will have to do some arm-twisting tactics to deal with estranged leaders seeking to return to State politics through the Assembly polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/congress-strives-to-revive-its-fortunes/article33622520.ece
21 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||770 fresh cases reported||As many as 770 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode district on Wednesday and there were 510 recoveries. According to the District Medical Officer, there were 738 locally acquired infections and 24 without a known source. A total of 6,627 samples were tested and daily test positivity rate is 11.61%. So far 2,023 front-line health workers have been administered the Covishield vaccine. The drive was not held on Wednesday as it was National Immunisation Day. Kozhikode Corporation had 177 cases of local transmission, while Villiappally had 36, Chathamangalam 29, Eramala 27, and Onchiyam 25. Active caseload is 7,036.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/770-fresh-cases-reported/article33622477.ece
21 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Webinar on MSMEs today||The Malabar Chamber of Commerce will hold a webinar on ‘How technology can help small, micro, and medium enterprises during the COVID period’ as part of its ‘Way forward’ series on January 21 at 4.30 p.m. Sanjay Sahay, technology expert, and P.T. Harris, president, Calicut Forum for IT, will speak. The link is https://us02web.zoo.us./j/82956468754 and the meeting ID is 82956468754.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/webinar-on-msmes-today/article33622478.ece
21 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||‘Include all eligible persons in LIFE’||The Kerala State Human Rights Commission has asked local bodies to include all eligible persons in the list of beneficiaries of LIFE Mission and to ensure that all homeless get home under the housing project. The decree was based on a complaint by Lakshmi from Unnikulam in Kozhikode district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/include-all-eligible-persons-in-life/article33622471.ece
21 January 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Tribal worker survives elephant attack by hanging on to tusk||Fear is stalking several areas of the Nilambur forest as wild elephants are posing a threat to the life of people living in the forest fringes. Especially vulnerable are the tribespeople living in ramshackle tents in several hamlets in the Nilambur forest. Babu, a 35-year-old rubber tapper from Thandankallu hamlet, had a miraculous escape from an elephant attack on Wednesday morning as he hung on courageously to a tusk of the elephant. He survived the attack with serious rib injuries The attack took place at Vaniyampuzha rubber plantation of the Plantation Corporation of Kerala around 6 a.m. on Wednesday. Babu was trapped in front of a wild tusker when he reached the plantation for tapping along with his friend Asokan. While Asokan ran for cover, Babu could not run. As the elephant charged at him, he managed to catch hold of the tusk and hang on to it for a brief while. The elephant walked a short distance with Babu hanging on to its tusk, before he was flung to a distance. He broke his ribs as he fell on the bushes. He was rushed to the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode. “Babu would not have survived the attack had he not hung on to the tusk. His bravery saved his life,” said Nikhil E.K., a Kudumbashree animator from Iruttukuthi tribal hamlet. Anoop D. John, beat forest officer at Vaniyampuzha forest station, who led the rescue operation, said the elephant menace had increased considerably in the recent weeks. Dozens of families in Vaniyampuzha, Iruttukuthi, Tharippapotti, and Kumbalappara hamlets across the Chaliyar river near Munderi farm are living under constant threat of elephants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tribal-worker-survives-elephant-attack-by-hanging-on-to-tusk/article33622473.ece
21 January 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Walayar case: two accused in judicial custody||A special POCSO court here remanded two of the accused in the Walayar case in judicial custody on Wednesday. V. Madhu and Shibu were remanded as the prosecution insisted on their judicial custody. However, the court granted bail to another accused M. Madhu, aka Kutty Madhu. The court will consider the bail application of Madhu and Shibu on Friday. The court will also take a decision on further investigation in the case on Friday. The High Court had ordered a retrial of the Walayar case, in which all the accused had been exonerated by the POCSO court here following the failure of the prosecution in proving them guilty of the alleged rape and murder of the two minor sisters. The minor sisters of a family at Walayar were found dead hanging in their house on different occasions four years ago. The High Court ordered a retrial after the victims’ mother approached it. Three of the accused, V. Madhu, M. Madhu, and Shibu, appeared before the POCSO court here on Wednesday. The High Court had already given bail to M. Madhu. The POCSO court found that the High Court’s bail would be valid for M. Madhu. The government has appointed a fresh investigation team under the leadership of Railway SP R. Nishanthini. Pradeep Kumar, another accused in the case, had committed suicide a few months ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/walayar-case-two-accused-in-judicial-custody/article33622543.ece
21 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||New fissures in Cong. threaten unity||New fissures in the Congress in Kerala seem to imperil the semblance of unity beat into shape by the party’s national leadership ahead of the Assembly elections. Senior Congress leader K.V. Thomas has reportedly threatened to jump ship. Mr. Thomas reportedly felt cold-shouldered and out of the loop. The Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] appears eager to take advantage of the ‘insurgency’ to score a propaganda victory over the Congress. Its district secretary in Ernakulam C.N. Mohanan has hinted that the Left Democratic Front (LDF) would consider accommodating Mr. Thomas if he broke ranks with the Congress. Mr. Thomas is likely to hold a press conference on Saturday amid speculation that he might contest the Assembly polls as an LDF Independent from Ernakulam. The timing of Mr. Thomas’s ‘mutiny’ could not be more bothersome for the Congress. It comes shortly after the AICC tipped former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy to head the election campaign. The AICC had assembled a galaxy of leaders to steer electioneering to offset the party’s poor showing in the local body polls. Change at helm? Speculations about an election-eve leadership change in the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) were also rife on Wednesday and has exposed the party to a fresh set of uncertainties. KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran has hinted that he might contest the Assembly polls. Such a move could open the door for either of the working presidents, K. Sudhakaran or Kodikunnil Suresh, to helm the party. Two other senior leaders are also contesting the Assembly polls. They are former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy and Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala. A party insider said the AICC might also field P.J. Kurien, former Deputy Chairman of the Rajya Sabha, from a seat in Pathanamthitta district. He said many party workers felt that the presence of an assemblage of top leaders in the electoral fray could individualise the campaign. Star campaigners were likely to focus more on their respective constituencies. The top-heavy candidate list could also lay the ground for future power struggles.  LDF hints at willingness to accommodate Thomas||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-fissures-in-cong-threaten-unity/article33622522.ece
21 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Malayalam cinema’s jovial grandpa no more||Actor Unnikrishnan Namboothiri, the humorous grandfather of Malayalam cinema, passed away here on Wednesday. He was 98. Namboothiri, who was admitted to a hospital in Kannur a few days ago as he was suffering from pneumonia, had also tested positive for COVID-19. He was discharged from the hospital on Sunday after he tested negative. On Wednesday, he complained of breathlessness and was taken to the Payyannur Cooperative Hospital, where he died at 6 p.m. In his hugely popular role as Thekkedathu Gopalakrishnan in Kalyanaraman , he had the audience in splits with his attempts to hide his ‘love affair’. Debut in his 70s Though remembered more for his humour, he had made his film debut in his 70s with a sombre role in Jayaraj’s Deshadanam in 1996. Over the next two decades, he acted in several films, standing out even in the smaller roles with his facial expressions. He made his foray into Tamil in Rajiv Menon’s Kandukondain Kandukondain in 2000. Two years later, he played the character of Kamal Haasan’s grandfather in Pammal K Sambandam . Some of his major films in Malayalam are Kaikkudanna Nilavu , Rappakal , Loudspeaker , Photographer , Madhuranombarakattu , Pokkiri Raja and Vasanthathinte Kanal Vazhikalil . Born in a family of temple priests in Kannur, he had worked as the manager of a local school for several years. He had maintained a close relationship with Communist leaders. CM condoles death Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who condoled his death, said it was also a personal loss for him. He had a unique place in the film field, said Mr. Vijayan. The actor’s mortal remains will be cremated at 11 a.m. on the premises of his house at Korom on Thursday by adhering to COVID-19 protocol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/malayalam-cinemas-jovial-grandpa-no-more/article33622526.ece
21 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Several AMRUT projects pending as deadline nears||With the extended deadline of March for the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) scheme fast approaching, the city Corporation has still some way to go, having completed 187 out of the total 270 projects. The total expenditure stands at 44.91%, with maximum spendings being in water supply projects, for which 67% of the funds allocated have been spent, as per figures till last week. Two years ago, the capital city was leading in the number of projects implemented under the scheme, among nine local bodies across the State where the scheme is being implemented. Now it stands fifth behind Alappuzha, Guruvayur, Kannur and Palakkad. However, among the large Corporations, the city is still leading by some distance in project implementation. In the amount spent too, the Corporation leads the rest with an expenditure of Rs. 160.48 crore. The total cost of all the projects being implemented in the Corporation is Rs. 357.50 crore. Thiruvananthapuram is way ahead of the rest of the nine urban local bodies in the State in the number of projects completed too. Initial phase In the initial years of the project, comparatively smaller sewerage, water supply and storm-water drainage projects were completed. Out of a total of 103 storm-water drainage projects, 88 have already been completed. Work on the 75-mld water treatment plant at Aruvikkara, one of the major projects in the city under AMRUT, has been completed and is expected to be commissioned soon. The least percentage of utilisation is for projects related to urban transport, for which only Rs. 4.82 crore out of the Rs. 31.73 crore allocated has been utilised till now. One of the major projects under this is the multi-level parking lot inside the Corporation office, which has not yet been opened to the public despite the formal inauguration two months ago. The work on two more parking lots at Putharikkandam and Medical College are remaining. In the four projects related to green spaces and parks, the fund utilisation is 24.96% only. Tenders awarded Among the projects to be completed, tenders have been awarded and works started for all the projects, except 12 projects related to sewages. Though tendering of most works was done much earlier, several of them got stuck after the COVID-19 pandemic struck, with workers becoming unavailable. Now, it is a race against time to complete the projects as a new administration has taken charge at the Corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/several-amrut-projects-pending-as-deadline-nears/article33622711.ece
21 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Salary hike ahead of poll code: Isaac||Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac said the government would hike the salary of government employees. Rounding up the discussion and voting on the final supplementary demands for grants in the Budget for the financial year 2020-21, Dr. Isaac said salary expenditure made up 25.24% of the total revenue. Half of the amount went to teachers and health workers. Their role in shaping a modern Kerala could not be discounted. Salary revision was mandatory and would not exceed the 5 to 10% increase recommended by the expenditure review committee. The government would issue orders to revise the salary well before the model code of conduct kicks in on April 1. The State hoped to get the salary revision commission report on or before January 31. High tax collection Tax remittances had touched an all-time high of 22%. Dr. Isaac called for speedy automation of the GST system. He announced the formation of a toddy board. The administration has prepared the draft toddy board laws. Dr. Isaac also announced Rs. 20 crore to Khadi Grama Industries Board to tide over shortfall caused by rebate sales. The current Budget was a precursor of better budgets in future. The State had registered a 19% fall in revenue. Expenditure had gone down by 10%. The State could keep the revenue deficit and financial deficit at three and 4.2% respectively. Dr. Isaac said the government would bring sand and granite mining under State control to increase revenue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/salary-hike-ahead-of-poll-code-isaac/article33622523.ece
21 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Test positivity rate soars to 11.08%||Kerala’s new cases of COVID-19 shot up on Wednesday when compared to the last few days with 6,815 cases being reported when 61,532 samples were tested in 24 hours. The test positivity rate soared to 11.08% The cumulative case burden of the State has risen to 8,64,195 cases. The active case pool which has been steadily rising and which crossed 70,000 on Tuesday, dropped slightly to 69,691 on Wednesday. A total of 7,364 persons were discharged from hospitals on Wednesday. The cumulative recoveries reported in the State has risen to 7,90,757. The addition of 18 new deaths on Wednesday to the official list of COVID fatalities has taken the State’s toll to 3,524 deaths. Thiruvananthapuram reported four deaths, Alappuzha, Malappuram and Kozhikode reported three each, Ernakulam and Kannur two each, and Kottayam reported one death. Among districts, Ernakulam continues to report the highest number of cases in the State with 1,031 cases, Kozhikode 770, Kottayam 704, Pathanamthitta 654, Kollam 639, Malappuram 537, Thrissur 441, Alappuzha 422, Thiruvananthapuram 377, Idukki 336, Wayanad 322, Kannur 281, Palakkad 237 and Kasaragod 64 cases. 2 from U.K. positive A total of 65 persons who arrived in the State from the U.K. have so far tested positive, with two more confirmed cases in the past 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/test-positivity-rate-soars-to-1108/article33622535.ece
21 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Kannur farmer, Alappuzha samiti win top agri honours||The 24,000 Kayal Padasekhara Samiti, Alappuzha, has won the Mithranikethan K. Viswanathan Memorial Nelkathir Award for group farming and Aneesh P.B. of Kannur the Sibi Kallingal Karshakothama Award for 2020. Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar announced the farm sector awards here on Wednesday. The awards will be presented in Thrissur on February 14, the final day of the 2021 edition of the VAIGA Expo. Srividya M. of Chankalavaya, Kasaragod, won the young farmer award for women while Saifulla P. of Vattallur, Malappuram, won the young farmer award for men. Shivaganesh of Meenakshipuram, Palakkad, won the Kera Kesari award for best coconut farmer, Jacob Joseph of Eraviperoor, Pathanamthitta, the Haritha Mithra award for the best vegetable farmer and Sheeja S. of Umayanalloor, Kollam, the Udhyana Shreshta award for the best floriculturist. Swapna of Pattikkadu, Thrissur, won the Karshaka Thilakom award for best woman farmer. Anil Kumar A. of Nallila, Kollam, won the Karshaka Jyothi award for the best farmer in the SC/ST category, while M. Manoharan won the Shrama Shakthi award for best agricultural labourer. The Krishi Vigyan Award for the best agricultural scientist went to V.S. Santhosh Mithra, Principal Scientist, ICAR-Central Tuber Crops Research Institute (ICAR-CTCRI), Sreekaryam. Shameer S. of Nedumangadu, Thiruvananthapuram won the award for best hi-tech farmer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kannur-farmer-alappuzha-samiti-win-top-agri-honours/article33622542.ece
21 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||EICL told to inform on relief in a week||The State government has directed the management of English Indian Clays Ltd. (EICL) to inform it within one week of the company’s decision regarding the payment of interim relief to the EICL employees. The government decision was conveyed to the EICL management at a meeting on Wednesday. The company management and trade unions will meet on February 24 for finalising a decision on reopening the EICL Kochuveli unit, which has remained shut since August 10, 2020. On Wednesday, company representatives met Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan, Labour Minister T.P. Ramakrishnan and Cooperation Minister Kadakampally Surendran following the impasse over the reopening of the EICL units in the district. Labour Department officials and EICL union leaders also were present. The company has been directed to inform the Labour Commissioner of its decision regarding the interim relief. It should also inform the Labour Commissioner regarding the welfare measures for the family of Prafullakumar, the employee who was found hanging on the company premises on January 2, the government said. Labour Commissioner Pranab Jyotinath, Additional Labour Commissioners K. Sreelal and K.M. Sunil, EICL CEO B. Bhojwani and senior EICL officials S. Shyam and S. Mahesh were present.  Management, unions to meet on Feb. 24 to decide on reopening Kochuveli unit  Directive to inform on welfare measures for dead employee’s kin||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/eicl-told-to-inform-on-relief-in-a-week/article33622715.ece
21 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Raise knowledge in transplant, doctors told||Many young health-care professionals in Kerala are very keen and motivated to take the deceased organ donation programme forward, but they need to raise their level of confidence and knowledge of all aspects of organ transplant, Maria Paula Gomez, Executive Director, Donation and Transplantation Institute (DTI ), Spain, said. She was interacting with the media at the end of a three-day training workshop for Transplant Procurement Managers, organised by Kerala Network for Organ Sharing (KNOS) and DTI Foundation here on Wednesday. Dr. Gomez, who has been working closely with the KNOS, the nodal agency for State’s deceased donor organ donation programme, Mrithasanjeevani, pointed out that it is the lack of commitment on the part of various heads of departments and individual hospital administrations that is preventing deceased donation from taking off in Kerala. It is totally unacceptable that a centre like the Thiruvananthapuram Government Medical College Hospital has been doing so poorly when it comes to deceased organ donations, she added. Life-saving therapy Deceased organ donation is a life-saving therapy and health-care professionals, who have committed themselves to saving lives, should do their best to enable it, especially when so many people with end-stage organ failure are waiting for organs and dying in Kerala, Dr. Gomez said. The workshop, attended by some 70 health-care professionals from various hospitals across the State, was led by DTI Foundation, Spain. It focussed on improving the skills and knowledge levels of health-care professionals in various aspects of deceased donor organ donation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/raise-knowledge-in-transplant-doctors-told/article33622716.ece
21 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Psychosocial support given to 66 lakh||Psychosocial support has been provided to 66 lakh people under the State Mental Health Programme as part of steps taken in the wake of COVID-19. Health Minister K.K. Shylaja, in a statement here on Wednesday, said 1,304 mental health providers had been arranged across the 14 districts as part of ‘Ottakkalla Oppamundu.’ The programme, which began on February 4 last year, provided mental health support to 28.24 lakh people under observation in hospitals and homes. The mental health team, comprising school counsellors and those from Integrated Counselling and Testing Centres , reached out to people under observation to help them overcome tension, stress, lack of sleep and problems caused by isolation. The programme was extended to students in June last year to address the various problems faced by them and reduce the suicidal tendencies among them. DISHA can be contacted on 1056 and 0471-2552056 round the clock.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/psychosocial-aid-given-to-66-lakh-people/article33622491.ece
21 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||377 cases in capital||The district reported 377 new COVID-19 cases and 375 recoveries on Wednesday. The active case pool stands at 3,553, the district administration said. Local transmission accounted for 251 cases. The list also included two health workers. The toll in the district, as per available statistics, has risen to 707, with four more recent deaths being confirmed as due to COVID-19 on Tuesday. On Wednesday, 1,488 more people were quarantined in the district as part of the precautions against the spread of infection. This takes the number of people presently in quarantine to 20,306.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/377-cases-in-capital/article33622714.ece
21 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||No serious side effects post-vaccination: Minister||No serious side effects have been reported so far in the State after the COVID-19 vaccination was rolled out on January 16, Health Minister K. K. Shylaja said on Wednesday. Replying to questions in the Assembly, the Health Minister said mild fever and itching were common after vaccination. In this case, however, even such reports have been few in Kerala. “Very few side effects have been reported in the country as a whole,” Ms. Shylaja said. To a related question, she said the State has again approached the Centre seeking permission to open more vaccination centres. Permission has not been granted so far, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-serious-side-effects-post-vaccination-minister/article33622527.ece
21 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Panel moots action against P.C. George||The Privileges and Ethics Committee of the Assembly headed by A. Pradeep Kumar has recommended action against P.C. George, MLA, for making derogatory remarks two years ago against a nun in connection with a rape case. Censure recommended In its seventh report submitted to the Assembly on Wednesday, the committee said the allegations raised against the legislator were ‘serious’ and ‘inappropriate’. It said Mr. George had violated the conduct of rules for legislators and his comments had affected the dignity of the Assembly and that it was recommending censure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/panel-moots-action-against-pc-george/article33622533.ece
21 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||SHRC directive on family aid||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has directed the Land Revenue Commissioner to bring to the notice of the Union government that financial assistance under the National Family Benefit Scheme for bereaved households in case of death of primary breadwinner has been stalled since May 2014. Fund crunch Commission chairperson Antony Dominic said it was serious that the assistance to destitute women who had lost their husbands had come to a halt owing to inadequate funds from the Union government. The commission was acting on a complaint from T. Leelamma, whose husband died in 2014.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shrc-directive-on-central-aid/article33622502.ece
21 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Quiz for students||The district administration will organise a quiz for college students in connection with National Voters’ Day. To register, fill the Google Form available on the Collector’s Facebook page from 10 a.m. on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/quiz-for-students/article33622709.ece
21 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Power disruption||Electricity supply will be disrupted to areas serviced by the Kannettumukku transformer from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/power-disruption/article33622710.ece
21 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Mango orchard project to be given poet’s name||An Agriculture Department initiative aimed at the conservation of local mango varieties has been named after poet and activist Sugathakumari who passed away in December. Agriculture Minister V. S. Sunil Kumar said on Wednesday that the ‘Sugathakumari Smaraka Naattu Maanthoppukal’ project will be launched next month. Under the initiative, mango orchards boasting 100 varieties will be planted in every panchayat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mango-orchard-project-to-be-given-poets-name/article33622528.ece
21 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Election in seven wards today||Seven local body wards, where elections were put off following the deaths of candidates, will go to polls on Thursday. The polling will be held from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. The counting of votes will begin at 8 a.m. on Friday. The wards are as follows: Parambimukku and Chola wards in Panmana grama panchayat, Kollam; PHC ward in Chettikulangara grama panchayat, Alappuzha district; Municipal ward in Kalamassery municipality; Pullazhi ward in Thrissur Corporation; Thathoorpoyyil in Mavoor grama panchayat, Kozhikode; and Thillankeri division in Kannur district panchayat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/election-in-seven-wards-today/article33622529.ece
21 January 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Byelection to Pullazhi ward to be held today||Preparations for the byelection to the 47th (Pullazhi) division of the Thrissur Corporation, which will be conducted on Thursday, have been completed. Election for the Pullazhi division was postponed following death of LDF candidate M.K. Mukundan. There are six candidates in the election fray. Madathil Ramankutty (LDF); K. Ramanadhan (UDF); Santhosh Pullazhi (NDA); Jogish A. John (Aam Admi); Antony Pullazhi (Independent ) and Joshy Thaikkad (Independent ) are the candidates. Election will be held in three booths of the Little Flower Girls School, Pullazhi. There are 4,533 voters in Pullazhi division. They include 2,101 men and 2,432 women. Polling materials have been distributed to the booths, according to Returning Officer K.S. Kripakumar. Voting will be held from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. COVID-19 positive persons can cast vote from 5 p.m. to 6 p.m. In all 16 COVID-19 patients have already cast their votes. Counting will be held at the booth at Maharaja Technical Institute on January 22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/byelection-to-pullazhi-ward-to-be-held-today/article33622678.ece
21 January 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||441 new COVID cases in Thrissur||A total of 441 COVID-19 cases were reported in the district on Wednesday while 442 people recovered from the pandemic. There are 4,814 active cases in the district and 110 people from the district are undergoing treatment in hospitals in other districts. So far 82,667 COVID-19 cases have been reported from the district and 77,299 people have recovered. According to the official statistics, 430 people, including three health workers, contracted the disease through local contact on Wednesday. Of them, 61 people are above the age of 60 and 32 children are below the age of 10. 3,470 under home care In all, 3,470 people are under home care. In all, 126 people were admitted to the hospital for treatment of the COVID-19 on Wednesday. A total of 5,406 samples were collected for the test on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/441-new-covid-cases-in-thrissur/article33622679.ece
21 January 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||SME teachers, staff stage dharna in front of KUHS||Teachers and staff of the School of Medical Education (SME) staged a dharna in front of the Kerala University of Health Sciences (KUHS) at Mulangunnathukavu, near here, on Wednesday. The dharna staged under the banner of the Self Financing College Teachers and Staff Association (SFCTSA) wanted restoration of recognition for various courses at School of Medical Education (SME). The SME was started in 1993 under M.G. University. When KUHS started, all the courses in the health sector were transferred to the health university. As guidelines for conducting paramedical courses changed, the SME lost recognition for many courses. They protesters demanded recognition for all courses in the health sector. Former MP, P.K. Biju inaugurated the dharna. Recognition was denied for some of the courses of the School of Medical Education as it does not have sufficient number of teachers, said KUHS Vice Chancellor. Recognition will be reinstated once teachers have been appointed, the Vice Chancellor said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sme-teachers-staff-stage-dharna-in-front-of-kuhs/article33622501.ece
21 January 2021||January 21 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Safe zone||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/safe-zone/article33622487.ece
21 January 2021||January 21 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Keeping with tradition||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/keeping-with-tradition/article33622512.ece
21 January 2021||January 21 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Livelihood matters||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/livelihood-matters/article33622718.ece
21 January 2021||January 21 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||With charm, comes harm||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/with-charm-comes-harm/article33622537.ece
21 January 2021||January 21 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Preventive measure||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/preventive-measure/article33622565.ece
21 January 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||754 mini trucks to supply PDS rice to cardholders in Anantapur||The district will have 754 mini trucks supplying goods at the doorstep of the 11,75,522 ration cardholders within the purview of 3,012 ration depots, District Collector Gandham Chandrudu said on Wednesday. Making this announcement here along with Joint Collector Nishant Kumar, the Collector said that the trucks were given as a revenue-generating benefit to 754 persons as driver-cum-owner with the beneficiary contribution of Rs. 58,119 and Rs. 1.74 lakh as bank loan and remaining as subsidy out of the unit cost of Rs. 5.81 lakh. The beneficiaries selected by the BC, OBC, ST, SC, and Minority Corporations, will get a monthly pay of Rs. 10,000 in addition to Rs. 3,000 as hamali charges and Rs. 3000 as fuel expenses. They would be required to repay the loan amount in six years. Each day, the truck owner will supply goods to 90 beneficiaries and a trial run will be done between January 27 and 31, to be prepared for actual distribution from February 1. On Thursday, all the vehicles will be launched by Roads and Buildings Minister Malagundla Sankaranarayana at Tapovanam Junction at 9.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/754-mini-trucks-to-supply-pds-rice-to-cardholders-in-anantapur/article33622644.ece
21 January 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 125 cr. for setting up milk cooling units||The State government will invest Rs. 125.61 crore for establishing 798 bulk milk cooling units next to every Rythu Bharosa Kendram in Anantapur district, and these will be managed by Amul, a cooperative run by the Gujarat Co-operative Milk Marketing Federation Ltd., District Collector Gandham Chandrudu said on Wednesday. The Panchayat Raj and Rural Water Supply(RWS) Departments will execute the construction of the cooling units and the work will begin within two days, for which administrative sanction has been received, he added. Cooperative societies would be formed involving members of Development of Women and Children in Rural Areas(DWCRA), who will collect milk at a higher price (Rs. 4 to Rs. 5) than the prevailing rate in the open market. Amul will handle the marketing aspects of the milk, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rs-125-cr-for-setting-up-milk-cooling-units/article33622642.ece
21 January 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials review arrangements for President’s one-day visit||Collector Narayana Bharat Gupta and Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar on Wednesday reviewed the arrangements for President Ram Nath Kovind’s one-day visit to Madanapalle and Sadum mandals in Chittoor district scheduled for February 7. The officials inspected the BT College grounds, Satsangh Foundation premises in Madanapalle and the Peepal Grove School at Sadum. As per official itinerary, the President would arrive at Madanapalle by helicopter at 12.30 p.m. and visit Satsangh Foundation, where he would attend the specified programmes. After visiting Sadum at 3.30 p.m., Mr. Ram Nath Kovind would fly to Bengaluru. The official machinery involved in making arrangements for the President’s visit were sought to strictly adhere to the COVID-19 guidelines and keep the paraphernalia such as gloves, facemasks and sanitizers ready at all the venues. The officials of the Roads and Buildings and Panchayat Raj departments were asked to keep all the areas coming under the roadmap properly sanitised. The Southern Power Distribution Corporation Limited staff was directed to maintain uninterrupted power supply during the visit. District Medical and Health Officer M. Penchalaiah, Deputy Transport Commissioner Basi Reddy, Deputy SPs A. Ravimanohar Achari and K. Kesappa, Satsangh Foundation’s spiritual leader Mumtaj Ali Khan and senior officials took part in the Collector’s inspections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/officials-review-arrangements-for-presidents-one-day-visit/article33622646.ece
21 January 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Youth who ‘killed’ his girlfriend found dead||A 19-year-old degree final student who allegedly stabbed his girlfriend to death at Thurpupalle village in Penumuru mandal on Tuesday was found dead a day later. His body was found hanging from a tree in a forest location close to the village on Wednesday. Delhi Babu reportedly eloped with Gayatri (20) on December 11 last year. Some photographs showed that the couple exchanged vows at a temple in Tirupati. Acting on a complaint lodged by the girl’s parents, the police traced the couple and they were let off after counselling. The police handed over the girl to her parents. On Tuesday, Babu allegedly accosted Gayatri when she was returning home on a two-wheeler after purchasing vegetables at Penumuru. After a heated argument, Babu allegedly stabbed the girl multiple times. She succumbed to her injuries at the CMC Hospital near Chittoor. After attacking the girl, Babu fled into the nearby forest. Special parties were on the job to trace him. A two-hour search by the police yielded no result on Tuesday. “Preliminary investigation revealed that the accused was seen carrying a rope while attacking his girlfriend. The accused seemed to have planned to end his life after the attack,” said Penumuru SI Praveen Kumar. A has been registered and investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/youth-who-killed-his-girlfriend-found-dead/article33622671.ece
21 January 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lukewarm response to vaccination in Chittoor||Even five days after the commencement of the COVID vaccination programme, the drive has generated lukewarm response from the target group of health workers in Chittoor district. As the percentage of daily target plummeted to 37% on Tuesday, the District Medical and Health authorities had increased the sessions to 66, covering all the mandals on Wednesday. Addressing a meeting with the medical officers at the DMHO office here, Joint Collector Veerabrahmam sought all the health workers, who are being administered the vaccine in the first phase of the inoculation programme, in both the government and private sector have to voluntarily come forward to join the programme. The Joint Collector said that proposals were sent to the central agencies to enhance the session centres to 155 in the district. Chittoor district received 41,500 doses of Covishield vaccine while the number of health workers stood at 35,000. The initial target was set for 20,000 members to suit twin doses. Though on January 16, the percentage of those who received vaccination remained more than 70%, it started decreasing in the following sessions. COVID tally Meanwhile, the number of infections on Tuesday was 40 in Chittoor district, as against just ten last week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lukewarm-response-to-vaccination-in-chittoor/article33622647.ece
21 January 2021||GUDIVADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Beautician arrested in SI’s suspicious death case||The Gudivada police arrested a beautician, identified as Bandaru Surekha, in connection with the suspicious death of sub-inspector P. Vijay Kumar in Krishna district. Surekha, mother of a child, was reportedly in a live-in relationship with Vijay Kumar. Trouble reportedly started when the SI married another woman three months ago. An argument reportedly ensued between the beautician and the SI on Monday night over the marriage of the deceased police officer, and Vijay Kumar was found dead in his flat later. Police arrested the beautician on Wednesday and produced her before the court, which remanded her in judicial custody for 14 days, said Gudivada Deputy Superintendent of Police N. Satyanandam. Meanwhile, Krishna Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu condemned the statement made by former TDP Minister Devineni Umamaheswara Rao that the SI had died due to the pressure over the gambling raids conducted in the district recently. “The SI had some personal issues and died under mysterious circumstances. The death of Vijay Kumar is no way related to the raids as alleged by the former Minister,” the SP said. The police officers from the district also condemned the statement of Mr. Umamaheswara Rao. Investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/beautician-arrested-in-sis-suspicious-death-case/article33622675.ece
21 January 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Christian leaders take a dig at Naidu||Several Christian leaders slammed TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu for making derogatory remarks against Christianity at a meeting organised by All India Christian Youth Associations here on Wednesday. Philip. C. Tochar, a long-standing loyalist of Mr. Naidu, and former MLA under Anglo Indian quota, said that ever since he resigned from the party, he has been getting calls threatening to kill him and said that he even complained to the DGP. Mr. Tochar also said that he was hurt over the manner in which Mr. Naidu made statements regarding Christianity in the aftermath of desecration of the idol of Rama at Ramateertham in Vizianagaram district. Mr. Tochar said he was pained by the utterances of Mr. Naidu in the aftermath of the incident and said that the latter’s remarks were aimed at creating disharmony among communities. “In spite of the fact that the incident had no connection with Christianity, Mr. Naidu was bent on fomenting the communal discord and inciting passions. In what way Christianity is connected to the incident? Why should he try to bring in Christians and Bible in the issue?’’ questioned Mr. Tochar. Dalit Christian leader Raja Sundar Babu demanded that Mr. Naidu be arrested for making baseless allegations against Christianity and alleged that the desecration of idols, was in fact, the handiwork of Mr. Naidu who wanted to destabilise the government. Immanuel Ministries president B. Ravi Prakash said that the TDP president wanted to create differences among various communities living in peace. Rebba Immanuel said that a conspiracy was hatched to create a law and order problem in the State. Rally taken out Earlier in the day, a motorcycle rally was taken out in the town, protesting against the remarks made by Mr. Naidu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/christian-leaders-take-a-dig-at-naidu/article33622735.ece
21 January 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||SP denies political involvement in murder of TDP leader||The Guntur Rural police have claimed to have unravelled the mystery behind the murder of Telugu Desam Party leader in Gurazala constituency, Puramsetti Ankulu, 64, and arrested six sympathisers of Janasakthi organisation. The incident that took place on January 3 caused a flutter across the constituency with former TDP MLA Yerapathaneni Srinivasa Rao alleging that the murder was planned by Gurazala MLA Kasu Mahesh Reddy. Superintendent of Police, Guntur Rural, Vishal Gunni, said that the murder was planned and executed by the sympathisers of Janasakthi organisation due to personal grudges against the deceased. The SP said that the accused were arrested following a thorough investigation and denied any political involvement in the murder. The accused were identified as Karpurapu Venkata Kotaiah, Gurram Venkateswara Reddy, Pottasiri China Sankara Rao, Mekala China Koteswara Rao, Pottasiri Anka Rao, and Addanki Ramesh. Land issue The police said that Mr. Koteswara Rao developed a grudge against Ankulu as the latter did not support him in getting a patta on his land measuring four acres, and later Ankulu sold out his land to Chettinad factory without his knowledge. He also bore a grudge against Ankulu as he did not propose him to the post of sarpanch. Pre-planned The accused came together and hatched a plot to kill Ankulu. On January 3, Ankulu was asked to come to an apartment by China Koteswara Rao. China Sankara Rao and China Koteswara Rao came to the apartment by an auto. Anka Rao brought sleeping tables and knife and a small blanket. China Sankara Rao mixed the sleeping pills powder in food and served it to Ankulu. While discussions were on, Ankulu tried to call the driver, but meanwhile, Anka Rao gave a signal to Ramesh, who put the towel around the neck of Ankulu, while Anka Rao slashed his throat. The accused fled the scene after killing Ankulu, according to the police. The SP said that accused were arrested following a thorough investigation and denied any political involvement in the murder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sp-denies-political-involvement-in-murder-of-tdp-leader/article33622736.ece
21 January 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vaccination drive picks up pace in South Coastal A.P.||Vaccination of health professionals for COVID-19 continued on a steady pace across South Coastal Andhra Pradesh under the close supervision of expert medical officers. SPSR Nellore District Medical and Health Officer S.Rajyalakshmi said 51% of the targeted 3,663 health workers took the jab on Wednesday. “As many as 1,792 health workers are covered today,” said District Medical and Health Officer S. Rajyalakshmi while overseeing the drive across 43 session sites till late on Monday. So far, over 6,000 health workers have been covered since Saturday. In Prakasam district, 2,800 health workers were vaccinated till late on Monday from across the 56 session sites. So far, 6,716 beneficiaries have been covered in the district, said Prakasam DMHO P Ratnavalli said. The health authorities planned to cover 53,000 health workers in the two districts during the first phase. In Nellore district, all the targeted health workers took the jab in Kavali urban health centre, while the coverage was just 10% in Kaligiri public health centre. The caseload increased slightly to 1,24,401 in the two districts in the last 24 hours following seven fresh cases in Nellore district and 4 new cases in Prakasam. Active cases The number of active cases declined to 205 in the region as 14 persons in Nellore district and 5 in Prakasam were recuperated during the period. Meanwhile, dentist N. Kiran kumar who took the jab in Ongole said: “I am feeling fine after taking Covishield”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vaccination-drive-picks-up-pace-in-south-coastal-ap/article33622650.ece
21 January 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Award for Telugu poet||City-based Telugu poet Perugu Ramakrishna has bagged the Global Icon Award-2020 instituted by Italy-based Writers Capital Foundation. He is among the the few contemporary writers selected from across the world for the award. His works were appreciated for promoting humanity in global literature, a communique from Writers Capital Foundation president Preeth Nambiyar and secretary general Irene Dowra Cawadia said. The elated poet dedicated the award as a tribute to his parents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/award-for-telugu-poet/article33622648.ece
21 January 2021||PULLA (WEST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Mysterious illness cases in W. Godavari rise to 29||The number of patients suffering from the mysterious illness at Pulla village of Bhimadole mandal in West Godavari district, Andhra Pradesh increased to 29 on Wednesday. “The patients are showing symptoms of epilepsy, and suffering from giddiness, fever, vomiting and convulsions,” according to doctors treating them at the local PHC. “The condition of the patients is stable and there is no need to panic. Medical camps have been set up and ambulances are kept ready at Pulla and the neighbouring habitations,” officials said. Health Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas visited the village, along with District Collector R. Mutyala Raju, Joint Collector Himanshu Shukla and a team of doctors. Mr. Srinivas also visited the colonies and inspected the sanitation, drinking water supply, sewage system and clearing of garbage in the village. He also interacted with the family members of the patients. “We have shifted a few patients to the district headquarters hospital and their condition is stable. Instructions have been given to inquire into the reasons for the outbreak,” the Minister said. Mr. Himanshu Shukla, who was monitoring the situation at Pulla, said about 30 ASHA workers and 10 ANMs were conducting a door-to-door survey to monitor the situation. “In all, 20 doctors, who include three physicians, and five medical teams have camped in the village. The disease is confined only to Pulla,” Mr. Shukla told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mysterious-illness-cases-in-ap-increase-to-29/article33622099.ece
21 January 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||House committee urged to bifurcate Telugu University||The three-member A.P. State Legislative Council Committee on Telugu Language and Development led by its Chairman Mohammad Ahmed Shareef on Wednesday sought the support from academic and literary quarters for various initiatives during its field-level study. During an interaction, Mr. Ahmed Shareef said that a report on the Telugu language and the initiatives needed to promote it would soon be submitted to the State government. Participating in the session, MLC P.V.N. Madhav highlighted the plight of the branches of the Telugu University at Bommuru and Srisailam. He stressed the immediate need for bifurcation of the Telugu University, saying that the branches have not been getting the necessary support since the State bifurcation. “The Telugu University should be bifurcated for the revival of its branches in Andhra Pradesh,” he said. Andhra Pradesh Sahithya Parishad Museum (Kakinada) Assistant Director K. Timma Raju said the museum has collection of more than 5,000 palm leaf manuscripts. Responding on the preservation of the treasure trove of the manuscripts, Mr. Ahmed Shareef asked the museum authorities to go for the digitisation of the collection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/house-committee-urged-to-bifurcate-telugu-university/article33622673.ece
21 January 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP condemns Kala’s arrest, plans stir today||The arrest of former TDP State president Kimidi Kala Venkata Rao caused uproar in the TDP cadre of both Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts on Wednesday. The party planned agitation in both districts on Thursday to condemn the arrest and his immediate release. Srikakulam MP and TDP national general secretary Kinjarapu Rammohan Naidu alleged that Mr. Venkata Rao was arrested at the behest of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. “The government which is unable to reply to the questions raised by TDP with regard to Ramateertham incident is trying to harass the TDP leaders,” said Mr. Rammohan Naidu. Former Union Minister P. Ashok Gajapathi Raju, TDP senior leaders Aditi Gajapathi Raju, I.V.P. Raju and others criticised the government for arresting a leader who was respected by everyone irrespective of party affiliation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-condemns-kalas-arrest-plans-stir-today/article33622747.ece
21 January 2021||Tirupati,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘CM trying to divert people’s attention from temple attacks’||TDP State president K. Atchannaidu has accused Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy of trying to divert people’s attention from the spate of attacks on temples by launching scheme after scheme. He has cited as examples the laying of foundation stone for reconstructing the temples and participation in ‘Gopuja’, and said that they are noting but an attempt to cover-up the government’s failure. Mr. Atchannaidu was on Wednesday to inaugurate the party’s office ahead of the Tirupati Lok Sabha bypolls. He squarely blamed the Chief Minister for ‘trying to divide society on religious lines’ for political gain. “After mutely witnessing the demolition of temples ever since he came to power, the Chief Minister has turned devout. And he thinks that people will forget the inept handling of the issue,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-trying-to-divert-peoples-attention-from-temple-attacks/article33622660.ece
21 January 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Orient your attitude towards career’||Students should orient their attitude towards achieving a flying career of their choice and at the same time, work towards the betterment of the society at large, said Superintendent of Police (Tirupati Urban) Avula Ramesh Reddy. Orientation programme The SP was addressing first year B.Tech students at the orientation programme at Chadalawada Ramanamma Engineering College here on Wednesday, which was presided over by group chairman and former TTD chief Chadalawada Krishnamurthy. Mr. Reddy gave tips to the students on punctuality, developing practical knowledge, time management and a career-centric approach. Narrating interesting events from his past and sharing his experiences in the workplace, he inspired the students to achieve their goals. ‘Don’t neglect sports’ SVIMS Director B. Vengamma spoke on the importance of co-curricular activities, adding how sports and arts would help develop the capability of handling life practically. “The present generation students are suffering from mental stress and inabilities due to lack of practical learning,” Dr. Vengamma rued. JNTU Ananthapur former Vice-Chancellor K. Rajagopal spoke on the advantages of engineering as a career and on how self-confidence would act as a morale booster in making it big in life. JNTU-A former Rector K. Soundararajan, career counsellor Bhaskar Patel and principal P. Sanjeeva Rayudu spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/orient-your-attitude-towards-career/article33622164.ece
21 January 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Improvement in internal efficiency: APSPDCL chief||Andhra Pradesh Southern Power Distribution Company Limited (APSPDCL) Chairman and Managing Director H. Haranatha Rao has said that the internal efficiency of the company improved substantially. He was speaking at the first-ever virtual meeting conducted here on Wednesday, in reply to the queries and objections raised at the public hearing by Andhra Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (APERC), held recently at Visakhapatnam by Justice C.V. Nagarjuna Reddy. In his address, Mr. Rao said the fact that the objections raised had not pointed to any power interruption or consumer services was indication to an increase in the company’s internal efficiency. He appreciated the officials who render service tirelessly with high efficiency and integrity, in spite of the ‘old network’.  Billing “Approximately 30-40% of network and equipment was nearly forty years old. About 20% of positions are vacant in core engineering activity. In spite of such challenges, the AP Discoms have occupied the top position in the country in terms of standard of performance and reduction in losses,” Mr. Rao pointed out. Referring to the billing-related miscommunication during the lockdown triggered by COVID-19, he said the billing was done for two months to avoid personal contact, which had given a wrong impression that the bill was hiked due to calculation under higher slab. The company’s preparedness and effective planning were in for an acid test during the Nivar cyclone, when the staff attended on a war-footing to the minimal repairs and rectification.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/improvement-in-internal-efficiency-apspdcl-chief/article33622163.ece
21 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||All set for mobile delivery of essential commodities||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will flag off a fleet of 9,260 ‘mobile delivery’ vehicles at Benz Circle here on Thursday that will used for the new Public Distribution System (PDS) programme. The government is spending Rs. 830 crore for the new scheme. These vehicles will be used to deliver essential commodities to the PDS beneficiaries at their doorstep from February 1, Minister for Civil Supplies Kodali Venkateswara Rao (Nani) has said. The Minister visited Benz Circle on Wednesday to oversee the arrangements. He reviewed the arrangements at the dais and the order of placing vehicles and gave a few suggestions to the officials. The vehicles to be flagged off will be used in Krishna, Guntur and West Godavari districts. ‘Jagan’s promise’ The Minister said that Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy had promised daily wage coolies, the physically handicapped and the elderly people who had complained of problems in collecting their groceries from the PDS shops, that he would address these issues effectively during his padayatra. “True to his word, from February 1, the mobile delivery vehicles will supply essential commodities to the beneficiaries at their doorstep,” the Minister said. Referring to the move to supply quality rice through the fair price shops, the Minister said, as a pilot project, it was implemented in Srikakulam district, and it would soon be replicated across the State. Mr. Venkateswara Rao said these mobile vehicles, equipped with electronic weighing machines, EPOS (Electronic Point of Sale) machines, first-aid kits, cash boxes and seating arrangement, would work 18 days in a month, supplying essential commodities to not less than 90 beneficiaries in a day. The new system would also promote transparency, he added. Self-employment The mobile delivery vehicles purchased at a cost of Rs. 539 crore would also become a source of self-employment for youth identified by the SC, ST, BC and minority corporations. The government would hand over these vehicles to the unemployed youth on 60% subsidy. The cost of each vehicle was Rs. 5,81,000, but the respective corporations would give them to the beneficiaries with a subsidy of Rs. 3,48,600, the Minister said. Krishna District Collector A. Md. Imtiaz, Chief Minister’s Programme Coordinator T. Raghuram, Chairman of the Brahmin Welfare Corporation Malladi Vishnu, Gannavaram MLA V. Vamsi, Joint Collector K. Madhavi Latha, DCPs Vishnuwardhan Raju and Vikrant Patil, in-charge Sub-Collector K. Rajyalakshmi, and YSRCP leader Devineni Avinash were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/all-set-for-mobile-delivery-of-essential-commodities/article33622666.ece
21 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Panel inspects colleges, interacts with parents and students||Members of the Andhra Pradesh School Education Regulatory and Monitoring Commission (APSERMC) conducted surprise checks on a few colleges and enquired with the parents and students about the fee particulars and facilities being provided on the campuses. Three teams comprising commission members B. Eswaraiah, Prof. V. Narayana Reddy, K. Ajay Kumar and C.A.V. Prasad visited private and corporate colleges on Wednesday. They inspected the classrooms, hostels, toilets and other facilities in Sri Chaitanya Junior College, Narayana College and other institutions at different locations in Krishna district. The teams recorded the statements of the parents on the amount of fee charged enquired whether the college managements were following COVID-19 guidelines. “The commission observed that some branches of the corporate education institutions are running without proper sanitation and social distancing. The managements did not provide sanitisers to the visitors and parents,” said Mr. Narayana Reddy. “We visited Sri Chaitanya Junior College, Raman Bhavan, located at Gudavalli, on the outskirts of Vijayawada. The commission observed that there were 60 students in each classroom and the corridors and classrooms were in unhygienic conditions,” said Mr. Eswaraiah. Parents complained that the college managements were collecting Rs. 1.80 lakh per year for a boarder and classes commenced from December. “We paid Rs. 1.80 lakh towards college fee, Rs. 5,000 for pocket money and Rs. 5,000 towards lab charges. But, no lab and other facilities have been provided. Classes are being conducted for 12 hours a day and there is no drinking water, and running water in toilets. Some students returned home unable to pay fee during the pandemic,” a few students complained. Mr. Narayana Reddy said the commission had observed several violations, including collection of excess fee, violation of COVID-19 protocol, poor quality of food and conducting classes in congested classrooms. A report would be sent to the government recommending action against the managements, which were not following the instructions and were harassing the parents and students, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/panel-inspects-colleges-interacts-with-parents-and-students/article33622741.ece
21 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||UV sanitisation kiosk opened at railway station||The South Central Railway inaugurated a UV sanitisation and baggage wrapping services kiosk at the Vijayawada railway station on Wednesday. The kiosk will help to prevent spreading of COVID-19 among passengers. The kiosk has been set up under New, Innovative Non-Fare Revenue Ideas Scheme, said Divisional Railway Manager (DRM) P. Srinivas. Senior Divisional Commercial Manager P. Bhaskar Reddy said the kiosk had been opened at East booking office, near the main entrance. The UV sanitiser facilitates 360 degrees sanitisation of luggage with the help of ultraviolet rays.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/uv-sanitisation-kiosk-opened-at-railway-station/article33622745.ece
21 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||No death reported in State in 24 hours||The State reported 173 new COVID-19 infections in the 24 hours ending Wednesday morning. There were no fatalities during the period. For the third time this month, the State witnessed no deaths in a day. In the six days, only four deaths were reported. Meanwhile, 196 patients recovered and the recovery rate increased to 99.01%. The number of total recoveries went up to 8,77,639. The number of people undergoing treatment was put at 1,637. While the overall tally of infections reached 8,86,418 and the death toll remained at 7,142. The overall positivity rate of 1.269 crore samples tested came down to 6.99% and that of the 46,852 samples tested in the last one day was 0.37%. No district in the State reported more than 50 infections. Chittoor reported new 46 cases. It was followed by Visakhapatnam (27), Guntur (19), Krishna (19), East Godavari (12), Kadapa (11), Anantapur (8), Kurnool (7), Prakasam (7), Nellore (4), Srikakulam (3) and West Godavari (3). The overall district-wise tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,24,097), West Godavari (94,117), Chittoor (86,886), Guntur (75,338), Anantapur (67,570), Nellore (62,269), Prakasam (62,132), Kurnool (60,751), Visakhapatnam (59,578), Kadapa (55,197), Krishna (48,395), Srikakulam (46,078) and Vizianagaram (41,115).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-death-reported-in-state-in-24-hours/article33622657.ece
21 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Court order has exposed YSRCP’s false campaign’||The High Court quashing the CID FIR on insider trading in Amaravati lands is proof enough to show how the ruling YSRCP has carried out a false information campaign against the capital city, according to former TDP MLA Dhulipalla Narendra Kumar. In a statement on Wednesday, Mr. Narendra Kumar alleged that the government had given needless trouble to the buyers of lands and to the farmers who had parted with vast extent of land for the capital. “The latest court verdict has removed all doubts and suspicions about irregularities. The common people have always hailed Amaravati as a prestigious, well thought out project to create a great capital for the future generations,” he said. “It has now been finally established how transparently the TDP government had formulated and executed the Amaravati plan without giving scope for irregularities,” the TDP leader said, and added that the YSRCP leaders’ attempts to prove the insider trading charges fell flat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/court-order-has-exposed-ysrcps-false-campaign/article33622661.ece
21 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Take action against MLA for threatening Nellore SP: TDP||The TDP on Wednesday wrote a letter to the Director General of Police (DGP), seeking action against the YSRCP MLA who had allegedly threatened the Nellore Superintendent of Police. In the letter, TDP official spokesman Anam Venkata Ramana Reddy alleged that MLA Nallapareddy Prasanna Kumar Reddy had threatened Nellore SP Bhaskar Bhushan in a public meeting organised at Kodavaluru on January 18. “Mr. Bhaskar was threatened as he refused to be cowed by pressure from the YSRCP leaders to register false cases against the TDP leaders under SC/ST (PoA) Act,” Mr. Ramana Reddy alleged in the letter. “This threat stands testimony to the false cases being filed against the TDP leaders across the State and the manner in which the ruling YSRCP leaders are conniving with a section of the police,” he said. “It is necessary to initiate action against such blatant threats to restore the morale of the police force in the State,” the TDP leader added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/take-action-against-mla-for-threatening-nellore-sp-tdp/article33622662.ece
21 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Heavy traffic jam at Benz Circle||There was a traffic jam for some time at the busy Benz Circle here on Wednesday when the officials conducted rehearsals for the launch of vehicles for door delivery of ration. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will be flagging off 2,500 vehicles of the Civil Supplies Department meant for delivering ration to the beneficiaries at their doorstep on Thursday. Mr. Reddy will inaugurate the vehicles at Benz Circle. Officials of the Revenue, Police, and other departments conducted rehearsals for the Chief Minister’s programme, which caused traffic jam on the Hyderabad, Chennai, and Visakhapatnam National Highways. Police had a tough time to clear the traffic congestion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/heavy-traffic-jam-at-benz-circle/article33622743.ece
21 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan tells officials to evolve SOPs for land resurvey exercise||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has ordered that a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) be evolved for the comprehensive land resurvey for the surveyor level up to the Joint Collectors to ensure that the exercise is smooth and foolproof. He also wanted the mobile tribunals to have follow an SOP to handle the public grievances properly. In a review meeting on land resurvey on Wednesday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said the colonies being developed for the poor should be included in the project and each house be given a unique identity number. Call centre The Chief Minister instructed that registration of lands should be done at the village secretariats, once the resurvey exercise was completed and a call centre be set up to clarify the doubts that might be raised by the staff in the secretariats. The CM said that land title deeds under the ‘Pedalandariki Illu’ scheme could be distributed till January 30 as it was a time taking process and each beneficiary needed to be shown the plots allotted to them. He asked the officials to ensure that ordered that the documents be issued to the beneficiaries within 90 days. Deputy Chief Minister Dharmana Krishna Das, Chief Secretary Aditya Nath Das and Chief Commissioner of Land Administration Neerabh Kumar Prasad were among those present in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-tells-officials-to-evolve-sops-for-land-resurvey-exercise/article33622668.ece
21 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||25,734 persons get the jab on Day 5||The number of beneficiaries being administered vaccine against COVID-19 is gradually increasing in the State. On Wednesday, the fifth day since the drive began, 25,734 persons were given the vaccine shot. For the first time, the State used Covaxin developed by the Bharat Biotech in collaboration with ICMR. In Krishna district, 608 persons were administered the vaccine. In the remaining districts, 25,126 persons were given Covishield, the Health Department said. One case of Adverse Events Following Immunisation (AEFI) was reported in East Godavari district after the person was administered Covishield. No AEFI was reported from the 608 persons who received Covaxin. The vaccination drive was carried out in 585 session sites across the State. The State received 4.77 lakh Covishield doses in the first phase and 4.08 lakh doses in the second phase. Only 20,000 doses of Covaxin were received so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/25734-persons-get-the-jab-on-day-5/article33622658.ece
21 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Sankalpa Yatra’ marks 400 days of Amaravati JAC agitation||The Amaravati JAC on Wednesday organised a ‘Sankalpa Yatra’ at Thullur village in the capital region coinciding with the 400 days of agitation it is spearheading against the decision to shift the capital to Visakhapatnam. Several CPI(M) leaders, including its State Secretariat member Ch. Babu Rao, took part in the yatra. “Amaravati is not the problem of farmers alone. The capital should be retained in Amaravati for administrative convenience,” said Mr. Babu Rao. If the BJP and the YSRCP were sincere, they should take steps for conducting an inquiry into the irregularities that had allegedly taken place in the capital projects in the past, he said. “Both the BJP and the YSRCP are doing injustice to Amaravati. We need to fight against the policies of State and Central governments to save Amaravati,” he said. Alleging that the BJP was adopting double standards on the Amaravati issue, Mr. Babu Rao said the party, on the one hand, had filed an affidavit in the court that the Centre had no role in deciding the location of the capital, and, on the other, promised to stand by the Amaravati farmers. The BJP-led government at the Centre deceived the people by not making any allocation for Amaravati, the CPI(M) leader alleged. The Vijayawada Metro Rail, which was part of the AP Reorganisation Act, was put on the backburner, he added. “No budgetary allocations have been made for the Amaravati railway project in the Union Budget. Also, funds have not been released for the backward Rayalaseema and north coastal Andhra districts,” he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sankalpa-yatra-marks-400-days-of-amaravati-jac-agitation/article33622737.ece
21 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lecture on farm laws||The three agricultural laws seek to provide farmers with multiple marketing channels and a legal framework to enter into pre-arranged contracts among other things, explained Prof. A. Ranga Reddy from SV University. He was delivering Rev. Fr. Douglas Gordon S.J. Memorial lecture on ‘Farm laws- impact on agriculture’ at a programme organised by Andhra Loyola College (ALC). In view of the global changes, the new laws would help farmers meet the emerging challenges, he said. He also spoke about how important agriculture was for development of dalit, girijan and other backward sections. College principal Fr. G.M. Immanuel said the memorial lecture was started in 2012 to commemorate Fr. Gordon. The organisers paid rich tributes to Fr. Gordon on the occasion. Vice-principal Fr. Lourdu Raju, correspondent M. Sagaya Raj and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lecture-on-farm-laws/article33622738.ece
21 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CS assures help to implement RTI Act||Chief Secretary Aditya Nath Das on Wednesday assured all help from the government to the State Information Commission. State Chief Information Commissioner P. Ramesh Kumar, along with Commissioners M. Ravi Kumar, B.V. Ramana Kumar, K. Janardhan Rao, Ilapuram Raja and R. Srinivasa Rao met Mr. Das at his camp office. Mr. Das assured them that immediate steps would be taken to fill all the vacant posts in the Commission and technical help would also be extended to ensure effective implementation of the Right to Information (RTI) Act through the Commission. The State Chief Information Commissioner appealed to the Chief Secretary to ensure that the all government departments upload the Commission’s report to their respective websites and update it at regular intervals. He said guidelines are also being formulated by the Commission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cs-assures-help-to-implement-rti-act/article33622663.ece
21 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. nod for PFC loan repayment||The government has accorded administrative sanction for Rs. 1,010.31 crore for repaying a loan taken from the Power Finance Corporation Limited (PFC), under the Payment Security Mechanism notified by the Government of India for 2020 -21. As per G.O. RT No.7 issued by Energy Secretary N. Srikant, the PFC had sanctioned a Flexi Line of Credit of Rs. 500 crore each to AP-EPDCL with interest at 11.20% p.a. and APSPDCL at 12.20% p.a. for one year. These loans were drawn on January 10, 2020 and the monthly interest is being paid to PFC as per the demand notices received.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-nod-for-pfc-loan-repayment/article33622674.ece
21 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Need to increase bus operations: RTC MD||Stressing the need for gradual increase in operation of buses to cater to the transport needs of the public, APSRTC Vice-Chairman and Managing Director R. P. Thakur on Wednesday urged the staff not to lose sight of the COVID-19 guidelines. Pointing to the fact that more people had begun to travel in view of the decline in COVID-19 cases, he said the number of buses would have to be increased accordingly, but in strict adherence to the guidelines. He also urged the staff to stick to COVID-appropriate behaviour.and promote the same in the bus stations and in buses also||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/need-to-increase-bus-operations-rtc-md/article33622664.ece
21 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Selected candidates’ list on APPSC website||The APPSC has displayed on its websitehttps://psc.ap.gov.inthe list of provisionally selected candidates for recruitment to the post of Assistant Executive Engineers in civil, mechanical, electrical branches (Direct Recruitment-General) in various Engineering Services, for the vacancies of interchange of CF vacancies, under Physically Handicapped (Visually, Hearing or Orthographically Handicapped) category. The list is also available on the notice board of the Commission’s office. Meanwhile, the APPSC has also invited applications from Officers of All India Services and State Services working in the State for half-yearly exams, language tests and other tests scheduled to be held from March 16 to 19. The last date for receipt of applications is February 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/selected-candidates-list-on-appsc-website/article33622748.ece
21 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Oilpalm farmers thank CM||Members of the National Oilpalm Farmers’ Association (NOFA) and the A.P. Oilpalm Farmers’ Association (APOFA) thanked Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for declaring the Telangana OER of 18.68% to the oil palm farmers in the State. The State government issued an order to this effect on Tuesday. NOFA general secretary Kranthi Kumar Reddy and APOFA president Bobba Veera Raghava Rao thanked the Chief Minister for sanctioning Rs. 87 crore to the farmers||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/oilpalm-farmers-thank-cm/article33622739.ece
21 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Constable by day, teacher by night||After finishing his work for the day by evening, 30-year-old Goddu Swamy Naidu, a police constable at the Disha Police Station, drives to Anandapuram, about 17 km from Yendada, as several students wait for him at a coaching institution. The policeman turns into a teacher and clarifies their doubts and teaches current affairs, general studies and a few other subjects. Mr. Naidu helps many school and college drop-outs from Anandapuram mandal realise their dreams by giving free coaching for constable and teacher entrance examinations. The constable with the support of a few others has so far trained about 40 youth. They also provide fitness training to youth interested in joining the police force. “A few of the youth whom we had trained have succeeded in getting selected in constable entrance and Second Grade Teachers (SGT) examination,” he said. Mr. Naidu hails from a family of farmers from Kusulavada in Anandapuram. His father, G. Demudu, could not provide education to his three elder brothers owing to poor financial condition. But he strived hard and admitted his fourth son, Naidu, in the local government school. Since childhood, Mr. Naidu was good in academics and was the favourite of teachers. Inspired by his teachers, he always wanted to be a teacher, he said. “After finishing Intermediate, I appeared for teacher entrance examination and secured a good rank. I also got selected for a post in the postal department. Later, inspired by several men from my mandal, I wanted to join the police department and serve society. I appeared for the constable selections in 2008 and got selected. My preparation for SGT is helping me train the youth now,” he said. Attributing his success to his teachers, Mr. Naidu said there were number of occasions when he decided to discontinue or give up education, but that was when his teachers D. Ramesh Kumar, B. Venkat Rao and others motivated him not to give up. “During Intermediate, I used to deliver ice to shops in my village for which I used to get Rs. 70 a day. In the evening, I used to attend coaching classes. At one stage, my father suffered from health problems and it was again my teachers who supported me and asked me to run tuition classes in my school for Class VII to X to support my family financially,” Mr. Naidu says.  A little push “There are many youth in my village who are good at studies. But they are discontinuing due to various reasons and are working as labourers at sand stocks and garment shops. All they need is some support or little push, similar to what I got from my teachers. However, we charge outsiders who can afford the training,” Mr. Naidu said. Mr. Naidu said that the support which he receives from the department was immense. Police Commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha took to social media to applaud his services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/constable-by-day-teacher-by-night/article33622430.ece
21 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Wedding resort burglar finally held, say police||A notorious criminal who had walked out of a Kadapa jail on December 8 last year found himself arrested again, this time by the Visakhapatnam city police, on charges of committing a sensational burglary at a wedding resort in which he allegedly looted the bride’s jewellery the very night before her wedding. Police said the burglary at a well-known resort at Rushikonda came to light on December 24 just hours before the wedding. The accused, identified as Pokathota Gangadhar (29), a resident of Vijayawada, was arrested from Poorna Market on Wednesday. Police officials said that this case proved to be difficult to crack, as the accused had taken care not to leave behind clues. Police recovered stolen property worth Rs. 27 lakh from the accused. “In the early hours of December 24, Gangadhar scaled up a wall and entered the resort. He then managed to gain entry into a room in which the valuables were kept and decamped with a bag containing the bride’s gold ornaments through a window. The wedding party was fast asleep at the time of the incident,” Commissioner of Police Manish Kumar Sinha said at a press conference here on Wednesday. “The only clue we had was the CCTV footage. He came walking down the road and then boarded a cab. However, the registration number of the cab was not visible,” he said. “Following a complaint lodged by the victims, an FIR was registered and several teams were formed to arrest the culprit. Some teams were rushed to Tirupati, Nalgonda and a few other areas to track the accused. After herculean efforts, the police team managed to solve the case with the help of technical evidence,” he said. Police said that the accused is an orphan and a resident of Vijayawada. In 2012, he had worked at a restaurant in the city as a waiter, where he committed several offences for easy money. On December 8, 2020, Gangadhar was released from a prison in Kadapa district and he then came to Vizag, where he committed the crime. “During the course of investigation, there were many obstacles and at one point of time we lost hope of solving the case. But due to constant efforts by the police teams and support from senior officials, the accused was nabbed,” said Assistant Commissioner of Police (CCS) Sravan Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/wedding-resort-burglar-finally-nabbed/article33622698.ece
21 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Implement labour laws at Krishnapatnam port: CITU||The CITU Visakhapatnam city committee has demanded immediate implementation of labour laws at the Krishnapatnam port and reinstatement of 500 workers, whose services were allegedly terminated by the port management. A protest was organised by CITU at Gandhi Statue near the GVMC office on Wednesday seeking justice for the workers of Krishnapatnam port. Addressing the gathering, CITU city general secretary M. Jaggu Naidu said that the farmers of Nellore district had given away 4,553 acres of land for the establishment of the port in hopes of getting jobs at the port. The port management, however, dashed all their hopes by giving only contract jobs to the locals, he alleged. “They are not even being paid minimum wages, ESI and PF, and are not entitled to leave. They are being made to work for 12 hours but are paid for only eight hours,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/implement-labour-laws-at-krishnapatnam-port-says-citu/article33622696.ece
21 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Land acquisition issues delaying major road projects||The Roads and Buildings Department has decided to focus on land acquisition as several projects are dogged by delay in non-completion of the relevant formalities. Talking to The Hindu after a review meeting with the department officials here on Wednesday, M.T. Krishna Babu, Principal Secretary to the Government (R&B Department), said that the Union Government had sanctioned road projects worth Rs. 21,000 crore under various schemes, and work on projects worth Rs. 9,500 crore was held up due to non-completion of the land acquisition process in various stretches. After Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s discussion with Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari, additional funds of Rs. 12,500 crore had been sanctioned to the State, Mr. Krishna Babu said. “But again, land acquisition is the bottleneck,” he added. A number of major projects in Visakhapatnam district too are affected. Among them is the 52-km Anandapuram - Anakapalle six-lane road. This vital road work is delayed due to the land acquisition issues in a stretch of about 3-km. “The 12-km Sheelanagar - Sabbavaram Road has also been delayed due to the same reason,” Mr. Krishna Babu said. Similarly, work on the 200-km Vizianagaram - Rajamahendravaram Road, which passes through the Visakhapatnam Agency, is also delayed. “There are six packages in the project. We have gone for tenders in respect of only one as the remaining are awaiting land acquisition clearances,” he said, and added that the Visakhapatnam - Raipur Expressway was also affected. VPT - Bhogapuram connectivity Mr. Krishna Babu said that the State government had given its nod for the project connecting the Visakhapatnam port to the upcoming Bhogapuram International Airport. “The DPR has been prepared and sent for approval. The project may cost anywhere between Rs. 1,500 crore and Rs. 1,700 crore. The project includes a 2.6-km bridge across the Gosthani. This project has both industrial and tourism interests,” he said. Earlier, R&B Minister M. Sankaranarayana said that a budget of Rs. 1,003 crore had been allocated for maintenance of the State highways and major district roads for the year 2020-21. The government had also released Rs. 450 crore towards clearing the bills of contractors kept pending by the TDP government, the Minister said. Mr. Sankaranarayana further said that Rs. 552 crore was sanctioned for completing urgent road repair works in the next 45 days. “The government has also sanctioned Rs. 200 crore for taking up repairs of roads damaged due to cyclones,” he said. “The government will complete all the ongoing works, including ROBs, at a cost of Rs. 500 crore with the help of NABARD Infrastructure Development Assistance (NIDA),” the Minister said. Two new projects Mr. Sankaranarayana said that the R&B Department would be taking up two new projects – AP Mandal Connectivity and Rural Connectivity Improvement Project and AP Roads and Bridges Reconstruction Project – at a cost of Rs. 6,400 crore with the financial assistance from the New Development Bank. Under these project, about 3,100-km of roads would be widened and about 479 bridges would either be constructed or repaired, he said. “The phase one of the work will be launched in February at a cost of Rs. 2,978 crore, covering over 1,243-km of roads,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/land-acquisition-issues-delaying-major-road-projects/article33622670.ece
21 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizag-Jagdalpur train extended till Feb. 28||The special train between Visakhapatnam and Jagdalpur has been extended by the East Coast Railway (ECoR) in view of public demand. Train 08516 Visakhapatnam-Jagdalpur special express will leave Visakhapatnam daily at 6.45 a.m. from January 21 to February 28 to reach Jagdalpur on the same day at 4.25 p.m. In the return direction, 08515 Jagdalpur-Visakhapatnam special express will leave Jagdalpur daily at 9.55 a.m. from January 22 to March 1 to arrive in Visakhapatnam on the same day at 8.20 p.m. The train has one Vistadome coach (up to Araku), one sleeper class coach, eight second class reserved coaches and two second class (reserved)-cum-luggage-coaches, Senior Divisional Commercial Manager A.K. Tripathi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizag-jagdalpur-train-extended-till-feb-28/article33622749.ece
21 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu acting at BJP’s behest, says Vasupalli||Visakhapatnam (South) MLA Vasupalli Ganesh Kumar, who quit the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) in September last year and declared his support for the ruling YSR Congress Party, on Wednesday said the TDP, BJP and JSP were indulging in divisive politics in the State. Addressing a press conference here on Wednesday, Mr. Vasupalli said that TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu was levelling unsubstantiated allegations against the State government. “How can Mr. Naidu claim that the idol of Lord Rama at Ramateertham temple was vandalised by miscreants belonging to a different faith without any evidence? He is trying to create a divide between peace-loving citizens of the State,” Mr. Vasupalli alleged. “There is also no evidence that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, who is a staunch believer in secularism, is supporting conversion. It appears that Mr. Naidu is acting at the behest of the BJP,” Mr. Vasupalli alleged. “The TDP chief did not bother to visit Visakhapatnam either at the peak of COVID-19 or immediately after the styrene monomer vapour leak at LG Polymers, but has now embarked on a campaign on the Ramateertham issue. This is a move motivated by political vendetta,” Mr. Vasupalli said. He also criticised Mr. Naidu for giving a religious colour to the statement made by the Director-General of Police (DGP). “He has been in politics for 40 years, and he should know that the police department is a secular force,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-acting-at-bjps-behest-says-vasupalli/article33622699.ece
21 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Public hearing on meters in agricultural sector concludes||A public hearing on Aggregate Revenue Requirement and Tariff filing for the 2021-22 financial year concluded at the corporate office of AP EPDCL here on Wednesday. A total of 68 persons participated in the videoconference, and 20 of them objected on tariff issues. Most of the objectors opined that optimum utilisation of renewable source of energy was necessary, and opposed installation of meters in the agriculture sector. They wanted abolition of long-term Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) and sought agreements on a year-to-year basis. The other suggestions were payment of compensation to those who were killed in electrical accidents. AP EPDCL CMD Nagalakshmi Selvarajan said that she was responding to issues related to farmers. She said that policies would be implemented to provide financial benefit to the farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/public-hearing-on-meters-in-agricultural-sector-concludes/article33622753.ece
21 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Keep an eye on ex-offenders, SP tells officials at review meeting||Superintendent of Police B. Krishna Rao on Wednesday instructed his officials to monitor the activities of ex-convicts and history-sheeters. Mr. Krishna Rao was speaking to his team at a monthly crime review meeting organised at the district police office here on Wednesday. Mr. Krishna Rao said that awareness programmes need to be taken up in a large scale over the 32nd National Road Safety Month in the district. He also stressed the need to take up measures to bring down road accidents in Agency areas. The SP added that police stations should receive people well and treat them with respect. Police should ensure that people who approach police stations do not have to wait for a long time, he said, insisting that officials focus on morning and night beats to curb crime in the district limits. Additional SP (SEB) Rahul Dev Singh, Chintapalli ASP Vidhya Sagar Naidu, Paderu DSP B. Raj Kamal and Anakapalle DSP K. Sravani attended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/keep-an-eye-on-ex-offenders-sp-tells-officials-at-review-meeting/article33622754.ece
21 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||9 held for smoking ganja||The city police arrested nine persons, including a rowdy-sheeter, in two different cases for allegedly smoking ganja at isolated places, here on Wednesday. Among them, seven are said to be below 25 years of age. All the accused were produced in court and were sent to judicial remand for 14 days. In one case, III Town police conducted a raid at an isolated place under Three Town police station limits, where they found six persons namely D. Durga Prasad, a rowdy-sheeter (30), M. Karthik (18), T. Tirumala Rao (18), B. Siva (23), M. Vijay Kumar (18), and R. Mossayya Babu (28) smoking ganja. Noticing the police teams, they attempted to flee but were apprehended. In another case, N. Naveen (22), Chinna (25) and K. Ramakrishna (23) were arrested while smoking ganja at an isolated place near the railway quarters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/9-held-for-smoking-ganja/article33622750.ece
21 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||2-day webinar on water challenges||GITAM University Vice-Chancellor Prof. K. Sivaramakrishna inaugurated a two-day international webinar on ‘Water, Energy and Environment: Challenges and Solutions’, organised by the GITAM Institute of Science and Chemistry Department on Wednesday. Addressing the participants, the Vice-Chancellor said that sustainable development was the interdependence of society, economy and the natural environment and understanding the concept of interdependence would assist researchers in recognising our responsibilities for the future. Central Salt and Marine Chemicals Research Institute, Bhavanagar, Gujarat Scientist S. Subramanian said that global warming due to the accumulation of atmospheric carbon dioxide has received widespread attention but in recent years the conversion of carbon dioxide into useful chemicals and energy products was giving good results. IIT Jodhpur Bioengineering and Bioscience Assistant Professor V. Raviraj mentioned that the ranostic nanomedicines offer both diagnostic and therapeutic modalities in tackling various diseases at high spatial resolution. IIT Kanpur Chemistry department Professor Raja Angamuthu briefed about how SO2 chemicals were causing respiratory ailments to human beings and risks to monumental structures like Taj Mahal and revealed his research findings to solve this problem. GITAM School of Sciences Dean A. Subrahmanyam, Institute of Science Principal M.Sarathchandrababu, webinar convener Anima S. Dadhich and senior faculty members participated in the discussions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/2-day-webinar-on-water-challenges/article33622752.ece
21 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||MedTech zone gets ‘Skill Vignan Centre’||Minister for Industries Mekapati Goutham Reddy inaugurated the Skill Vignan Centre at MedTech Zone in Visakhapatnam here on Wednesday. “The biotechnology-based centre will prove to be highly beneficial for youth working on medical research. The State government is committed to developing industries and has given priority to latest inventions and research programmes,” Mr. Goutham Reddy said, recalling MedTech Zone’s journey in recent years in research, innovation and technology, new inventions and manufacturing medical equipment. The Minister appreciated the officials and employees of MedTech who worked through the lockdown to manufacture ventilators and other critical equipment. He also viewed equipment manufactured at the zone and enquired about their functioning with scientists. Jitendra Sharma, CEO of MedTech Zone, attended the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/medtech-zone-gets-skill-vignan-centre/article33622751.ece
21 January 2021||January 21 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mysterious illness cases in West Godavari rise to 29||“In all, 20 doctors, who include three physicians, and five medical teams have been camping in the village. The disease is confined only to Pulla,” Mr. Shukla said. “We have already collected the blood samples of the patients, as also the samples of food, water, vegetables, fish, chicken and mutton. All the samples have been sent to the Regional Forensic Science Laboratory (RFSL). The situation is fully under control,” he said. Beds kept ready Meanwhile, the district administration has kept 95 beds ready – 50 in Eluru district headquarters hospital, 30 in Bhimadole Community Health Centre and 15 in the Primary Health Centres. “A team of doctors from Vijayawada is attending to the patients round the clock,” Mr. Shukla said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mysterious-illness-cases-in-west-godavari-rise-to-29/article33622655.ece
21 January 2021||January 21 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Heavy task||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/heavy-task/article33622653.ece
21 January 2021||BARDIPUR,TELANGANA||Ryots protest at public hearing for NIMZ||The public hearing held here for environment clearance to the National Investment and Manufacturing Zone (NIMZ) witnessed uproar from land oustees who wished to bring their concerns to the notice of officers here. Heavy police force numbering more than a thousand with erecting barricades at six places prevented a large number of farmers from attending the public hearing. Some protesters were forcibly taken away from the venue. When police arrested two farmers, those outside moved as a group and stopped the police vehicle. About 100 protesters were taken into custody. It was reported that at several places farmers were not allowed even to come to the hearing place. Public hearing was held here at Bardipur village of Jarasangam mandal in Sangareddy district. NIMZ will be established on 12,635 acres. Land is being acquired from about 17 villages of two mandals- Jarasangam (3 villages) and Nyalkal (14 villages). ‘Farmers threatened’ Krishna, a farmer from Bardipur, urged the authorities not to take land in second phase from the village. Another farmer Sangareddy from Nyamatabad urged the authorities not to collect any more land from his village as only 300 acres out of 1,200 acres remained. Mohan Reddy from Husselli said that they were not ready to give their land. Elgoi sarpanch Omprakash Patel asked the officials not take land in the second phase. Ganapathi Deekhitulu alleged that many farmers were threatened by police and taken away while the programme was aimed to hear them. Another farmer demanded implementation of LA Act- 2013. "Please do not take our land to establish industries. We do not want any company. We wish our lands to be with us," said Sangeetabai of Mungitanda. Jamlibai from the same Tanda alleged that her land was forcibly taken by officials. Raju, representing an NGO, asked about the Rehabilitation and Resettlement for land oustees. Another farmer asked whether any of those welcoming industries lost any land at all. Srinivas Reddy from Nyamatabad urged authorities not to threaten farmers. Srikanth Reddy said his family was losing 40 acres to NIMZ. Rajender Reddy from Metalkunta urged officials to provide employment to children of families losing land. MLA Manick Rao and MLC Fareeduddin said farmers were seeking better compensation. Gyadari Balamallu, Chairman, TSIIC, promised to take the issue to the notice of the Chief Minister. The District Collector, Mr M. Hanumantha Rao, said that all would be given an opportunity to express their opinion on environmental impact. Narasimha Reddy, Vice-Chairman and Managing Director, TSIIC, said that about 12,635 acres was being acquired for NIMZ. "A total of 6,400 acres only will be used for industry development while 1,974 acres will be used for greenery. Only food processing, mechanical and electrical units will be established here and polluting industries like pharma or chemical will not be established here," he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ryots-protest-at-public-hearing-for-nimz/article33622706.ece
21 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Ambulance driver dies within a day of COVID-19 vaccination||A 42-year-old male healthcare worker in Telangana, who received COVID-19 vaccine at the Kuntala Primary Healthcare Centre (PHC) in Nirmal district on Tuesday, was ‘brought dead’ to a government hospital on early Wednesday morning. This is the first such case reported in the State. Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao said preliminary findings suggest that the death seems to be unrelated to vaccination. The man, G. Vital Rao, who worked as a driver of ‘108’ ambulance, received the vaccine at about 11.30 a.m. on Tuesday, along with 79 other healthcare workers at the Kuntala PHC. He did not have any co-morbidities. Dr Srinivasa Rao said none of the 80 vaccine recipients, including Vital Rao, developed even mild Adverse Effect Following Immunisation (AEFI). From January 16, when the vaccination drive was launched, only Covishield has been administered in the State. Worked the same day Vital Rao’s base of work was at the PHC and he performed duty till 5 p.m., after getting the jab. He is said to have developed chest pain at 2.30 a.m. on Wednesday and was brought dead to the District Hospital in Nirmal at around 5.30 a.m. “As per the guidelines, post-mortem will be conducted by a team of doctors. The District AEFI committee is examining the matter and will submit its report to the State AEFI committee. Report for Centre That committee will, in turn, furnish its report to the Central AEFI committee for a view,” Dr Srinivasa Rao stated.  The post-mortem was under way on Wednesday evening. The District AEFI Committee comprises 15 people, including District Medical and Health Officer and microbiologist.  Since the deceased person reportedly suffered from chest pain, a cardiologist too would be part of the team to examine the case. Samples of his viscera and a few organs might be collected for examination. The vaccine vial from which the dose was drawn would also be collected by the committee. From a 5ml vaccine vial, 10 doses of 0.5 ml each are drawn. Officials said if anything was wrong with the vaccine doses in the vial, others too could have developed adverse reactions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ambulance-driver-dies-within-a-day-of-covid-19-vaccination/article33622438.ece
21 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Poor sanitation in 13 ULBs||Plastic and other waste strewn on roads, lack of proper segregation of domestic waste into organic and inorganic matter, no tracking of garbage vehicles and lack of a comprehensive sanitation plan have been observed in 13 Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) across Telangana. An inspection by additional director of sanitation P. Mahender of the department of municipal administration and urban development of 13 municipalities — Nagaram, Dammaiguda, Ghatkesar, Pocharam, Medchal, Kompally, Gundla Pochampally, Dundigal, Nizampet, IDA Bollaram, Ameenpur, Tellapur and Shamshabad — had also revealed that sanitation work did not have proper supervision despite having an environmental engineer on board. In the report submitted to Commissioner and Director of Municipal Administration (CDMA) N. Satyanarayana on Tuesday, Mr. Mahender said that the municipal authorities concerned were “not even aware” of preparation of plans for effective sanitation management. Sanitation work is being done in a “routine manner without proper planning on men and machinery”. Door to door collection is being done on alternative days through private vehicles with no operational control from the municipal authorities. Littering of roads with papers, plastic waste, construction debris, open burning of waste, irregular road sweeping, waste scattered in the open plots and spaces have been observed in the municipalities. Segregation of waste at door step was not being done except in Shamshabad municipality with others not even separating the same in garbage vehicles. Only Medchal, Gundla Pochampally and Shamshabad have GPS tracking of garbage carrying vehicles. He noted that the door-to-door household garbage collection is not being done from commercial areas while in some towns, waste collection in commercial stretches is being done during evening hours but “it is not effective”. The report stated that the twin bin system to separate dry and wet waste has not been initiated in the commercial establishments in all towns. Dump yards in these towns are in ‘vulnerable’ conditions except in Medchal. Composting of waste is undertaken in vegetable markets only. Plastic flexis are ‘everywhere’ in Nizampet and Tellapur municipalities. In at least six towns, there was an urgent requirement of manpower and the district collector concerned approval is awaited. Biometric attendance is absent and salaries are being based on manual attendance. Positive aspects However, there were positive practices too like public toilets in all 13 ULBs, including ‘she’ toilets, are properly maintained. Medchal dumpyard is equipped with required facilities like composting / segregation was being done satisfactorily, Kompally has a bailing machine, compact incinerator and proper sheds while Shamshabad has been doing well on waste segregation. The official called for making city and ward level sanitation plans in a planned manner, segregation at source to be strictly implemented, involve ward committees in door to door collection, segregation, GPS tracking of vehicles, wages based on bio-metric attendance and two bins in commercial establishments. Composting of waste has to be increased and mass cleaning drive be taken up every fortnight. Bulk waste generators should be having a separate mechanism. Mr. Satyanarayana has shared the report with the municipal officials concerned and sought action taken reports on how they would go about improving sanitation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/poor-sanitation-in-13-ulbs/article33622462.ece
21 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Request for aid to project reiterated||The State government has reiterated its request to the Central government to extend liberal assistance to Mission Bhagiratha, the flagship programme aimed at providing safe drinking water to all households in the State. Though the NITI Ayog recommended grant of Rs. 15,000 crore to the prestigious project, the Centre remained unmoved and did not extend any support to the State. The Central government was, however, extending adequate financial assistance to States like Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh where the works on projects conceived on the lines of Mission Bhagiratha are still in the preliminary stages. Panchayat Raj Minister Errabelli Dayakar Rao lamented that several representations made by the State government to extend assistance to the project which received appreciation from the Centre as well as other States went in vain. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao personally requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to extend financial assistance to the project while he (Mr. Dayakar Rao) submitted several representations to the Ministries concerned. The Minister held a review meeting of Mission Bhagiratha project with senior officials on Wednesday. CMO Secretary Smitha Sabharwal and senior officials were present. The Minister launched Mission Bhagiratha brand water bottles which would forthwith be supplied to all government offices. Mission Bhagiratha was launched with an estimated cost of Rs. 26,123 crore, but the government was likely to save Rs. 8,000 crore going by the pace at which the works were progressing, As many as 71.61 lakh households in 23,968 villages and 120 municipalities/municipal corporations spread over 99 Assembly constituencies were targeted to be covered under the scheme. Of these, 55.59 lakh houses were in the rural areas and another 16.02 lakh in the urban areas. The government had so far spent Rs. 29,000 crore on the project and most parts of the State were covered through the supply of safe drinking water without imposing any additional burden on the end users. Each household used to spend an average Rs. 300 a month totaling to Rs. 1,800 crore a year for purchase of water from the RO plants. Several States deputed official delegations to study the implementation of Mission Bhagiratha and West Bengal had recently launched Jal Swapna, a project on the lines of Mission Bhagiratha, with an estimated Rs. 56,000 crore. The Central government drew inspiration from Mission Bhagiratha to launch the Jal Jivan Mission envisaging coverage of 84.83 crore households in rural areas under the safe drinking water supply. The Centre had targeted 45 lakh water connections in five districts of five States during 2020-21 in the first phase of Jal Jivan Mission while Telangana was giving water through Mission Bhagiratha to a major chunk of population. Works on connecting 126 habitations located in forest and interior areas had also commenced. Ms. Smitha Sabharwal said the Central government had certified that works on Mission Bhagiratha were completed and the State government had succeeded in providing safe drinking water to over 56 lakh households. She complimented the officials from the rank of engineer-in-chief to assistant engineers on the field for their contribution in making the project a success.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/request-for-aid-to-mission-bhagiratha-reiterated/article33622448.ece
21 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Family to get Rs. 10L insurance||The GVK-EMRI ‘108’ services management said the family of their employee, Vital Rao, who died within 24 hours after COVID-19 vaccination, is eligible to receive Rs. 10 lakh insurance. Chief Operating Officer of the ‘108’ ambulance services, P. Brahmananda Rao said every employee of the organisation is insured under two policies amounting to Rs. 10 lakh in case of death on duty. “We are finding details of his wife’s qualifications. If eligible, we will provide her employment,” Mr Brahmananda Rao said. Vital Rao’s colleague S. Sekhar said he worked in Hyderabad during the lockdown in 2020. “He did not go home for a month since he was performing duty. He used to take serious COVID-19 patients to Gandhi Hospital,” said Mr Sekhar. His colleagues have pooled Rs. 5,000 to give to the family for the funeral.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/family-to-get-rs-10l-insurance/article33622439.ece
21 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||New book on NTR dubs him as first proponent of Congress Mukth Bharat||No Indian politician has catapulted to power within nine months of entering politics is the oft-repeated praise on the legendary N.T. Rama Rao, but no Indian politician has the honour of leading a political front of national parties against the incumbent government within six years of his plunge into electoral politics. An enigma Such is the charisma of the man, who continues to remain a charmer and also an enigma even 26 years after his death. Perhaps, no politician remains relevant in politics and public life after so many years of dearg but NTR defies that logic as his name continues to raise passions. Irrespective of the number of books that authors have tried to portray this magical figure, there is always scope for one to delve into his mysterious personality. The ‘Maverick Messiah’, a political biography by journalist Ramesh Kandula, explores some unknown facets of his life from being a living god on the silver screen to a maverick and magnetic politician — a journey that has immortalised his life. Mr. Kandula argues in his book that NTR was the first proponent of the ‘Congress Mukth Bharat’, a slogan that Prime Minister Narendra Modi sold to the Indian voters in 2014. Famous speech This generation may not realise the power of that slogan that redefined the contours of Indian political map back in the 80s. Mr. Kandula recalls NTR’s famous speech at the National Front meeting at Marina Beach, Chennai, in 1989 where he said Congress got freedom for the country and it is time for the country to give freedom to Congress. The book interestingly encapsulates Rama Rao’s life riddled with struggles, successes, controversies and charisma that refuse to fade away. The book has been published by Penguin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ntr-first-proponent-of-congress-mukth-bharat/article33622451.ece
21 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||No coercive steps on LRS matters, HC tells govt.||The Telangana High Court on Wednesday directed the State government not to initiate any coercive steps against applicants with regard to Layout Regularisation Scheme (LRS) till further orders. A bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy passed the interim direction while hearing a batch of PIL petitions relating to LRS and Building Regularisation Scheme (BRS) issues. The High Court bench would not hear the matters as the Supreme Court was already seized of the mater following a writ petition filed by a citizen Juvvadi Sagar of Telangana on the latter’s government issuing LRS and BRS rules without undertaking their impact assessment study. When the PIL pleas came up for hearing on Wednesday in HC, Advocate General B.S. Prasad informed the bench about the writ petition in the apex court on the matter. The AG informed that SC had issued notices to Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu governments on the matter. The apex court also impleaded all the States and union territories in the plea, the AG told the bench. Mr. B.S. Prasad assured the bench that the copy of the petition and the notices issued by the apex court would be passed on to all the PIL petitioners. Mr. Sagar Rao, in his plea, stated that permitting illegal layouts and buildings was having an adverse impact on the environment and was resulting in inadequate infrastructure like roads, sanitation and drainage facilities. The petitioner said the floods that ravaged Chennai in the past and the floods that hit Hyderabad a few months ago were the consequences of the permissions given by the government to unapproved layouts and illegally constructed buildings. The CJ initially sought to know why there were a series of PIL pleas on the same issue of LRS and BRS rules. The counsels of the petitioners explained that while some of them challenged the State government’s GOs 131 and 152 connected to LRS and BRS in toto, others questioned legality of select provisions of the rules. As the bench decided to defer further hearing of the matters since the apex court was already seized of the issue, one of the petitioners’ lawyers informed it that the government fixed January 31 as the last date for payment of penal fee for LRS applicants. The bench then directed the government not to take any coercive steps on the matter till further orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-coercive-steps-on-lrs-matters-hc-tells-govt/article33622460.ece
21 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TSbPASS ‘cover’ for illegal construction||GHMC, through a press statement on Wednesday, alerted that the allotment of plots in survey numbers 37, 39 and 40 of Gachibowli village is illegal and a bogus activity carried out by one Sri Ramalingeswara Weaker Section Cooperative Housing Society. The land in the aforementioned survey numbers belongs to the government, and has not been plotted, the statement said. The illegal allotment came to the civic body’s notice only when applications for building permissions were made through the TSbPASS portal by way of self assessment. Ground verification has proved that the plots were on the government land. A court case has been pending between the Society and the Revenue department since 2010, and till the case is cleared, no building permissions will be accorded on the said land, the statement said. False declarations and misrepresentations while seeking building permissions will be viewed seriously and action will be taken as per the TSbPASS Act according to which the applicant and the technical person will be liable for three years’ imprisonment, levy of penalty and confiscation of property, GHMC has warned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tsbpass-cover-for-illegal-construction/article33622464.ece
21 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Day-old baby saved with ECMO support||Doctors at a corporate hospital saved the life of a newborn by treating him with Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation (ECMO) support. ECMO is a method in which blood is drawn out of the body and oxygen is mixed with it using a special by-pass pump-circuit. The blood is then pumped back into the body. The device works as artificial lungs, and is used to take over its function. That gives rest to the organ, helping in its recovery. A woman from Uppal here delivered the baby boy at a private hospital through emergency caesarean section because of meconium stained amniotic fluid in the foetus’ lungs. Meconium is the first stool of newborns. Usually, newborns do not pass stool in the womb. However, in rare cases, they do and it aspirates into their lungs around delivery time. If that happens, a newborn develops difficulty in breathing. At times, it could turn severe, necessitating high-level medical intervention. The baby boy was doing well right after birth, but soon developed difficulty in breathing. Though doctors there put him on a mechanical ventilator and offered other treatment, his medical condition continued to worsen. He was referred to KIMS Hospitals for ECMO support. Consultant Paediatric Intensivist Dr V. Nanda Kishore said the baby was put on ECMO immediately and his condition was stabilised. It was initiated by small operative procedure by a paediatric cardiac surgeon. The ECMO support was provided for five days, and the newborn spent another five days in intensive care. He has been discharged. Dr Nanda Kishore said that condition of the boy is good.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ecmo-saves-day-old-baby/article33622459.ece
21 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||One more solar plant launched in Singareni||One more solar power plant with 15 megawatt installed generation capacity of Singareni Collieries Company Ltd (SCCL) was synchronised with the grid on Wednesday, taking the total solar capacity of the company to be linked to the grid to 85 mw so far. According to officials of SCCL, the 15 mw plant in Ramagundam-3 area was inaugurated as the second plant of total 50 mw capacity. The first plant with similar installed capacity of 15 mw was synchronised with the grid on November 27 last year, taking the total capacity installed to 30 mw so far. The synchronisation of the 15 mw plant on Wednesday also takes the total installed capacity to 85 mw out of the 129 mw planned in the first phase. The officials stated that the remaining 20 mw plant in Ramagundam-3 area was also under completion and it is scheduled to be synchronised with the grid by February-end. Stating that the launch of the new solar plant would meet 30% of energy needs of SCCL in Ramagundam region, the officials exuded confidence that the entire 300 mw solar capacity, in two phases, would be installed and synchronised with the grid by December-end this year. T he officials explained that the solar plants completed and synchronised so far are 30 mw in Manuguru area, 30 mw in Ramagundam-3, 15 mw in Yellandu and 10 mw in Singareni Thermal Power Plant premises. Chairman and Managing Director of SCCL instructed the solar division officials of the company to complete the installation of the remaining 44 mw capacity of the first phase (129 mw) by May-end. The 50 mw solar plants in Ramagundam-3 area are expected to save about Rs. 1.78 crore a month and Rs. 21 crore annually to the company on energy bills. The installed solar capacity has already generated 21.77 million units of energy till January 19 saving Rs. 5.7 crore to the company.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/one-more-solar-plant-launched-in-singareni/article33622447.ece
21 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Awards for forest staff||The Forest department has decided to honour the best performing field employees in the areas of forest protection, rejuvenation and increasing green cover, by giving them awards in six categories. The staff will be felicitated during district level celebrations of Republic Day on January 26, with cash incentive and citation, PCCF R. Sobha announced during a video conference on Wednesday. Criteria Management of nurseries, growth of tall saplings, protection of saplings, methods adopted in forest protection, measures for rejuvenation, water conservation in forests, development of grasslands, and partnering with various sections in Haritha Haram will be the criteria for awarding. Employees from the level of Forest Beat Officer cadre, up to Forest Range Officer will be eligible for the being given the awards. The video conference, with presence of PCCFs, Additional PCCFs, Chief Conservators, and Range Officers, has also discussed measures for the next plantation season, besides prevention of fire, protection of wildlife, provision of water sources, and permissions for various government projects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/awards-for-forest-staff/article33622454.ece
21 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man held for stalking||A 30-year-old man was arrested by Rachakonda Cyber Crime police on Wednesday for allegedly sending abusive messages and obscene photographs to a woman. The accused, Chatri Shyam of Santosh Nagar in Yadadri Bhuvanagiri, who works at a fast food centre at Turkapally, is a native of West Bengal. Two months ago, he took the victim’s phone number from his sister’s mobile phone without her knowledge. “In December last, he called the victim. When she did not respond, he sent obscene pictures to the victim on WhatsApp, apart from vulgar voice messages,” police said. Shyam continued to harass the victim with sexual remarks against her character and reputation, they said. Based on the complaint lodged by the victim, a case was registered and Shyam was remanded to judicial custody. Two arrested for graft Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) officials on Wednesday arrested Telangana State Warehousing Corporation managing director V. Bhaskara Chary and general manager M. Sudhakar Reddy for accepting a bribe of Rs. 75,000 to release retirement benefits of a former employee. They demanded the money from Banoth Sundar Lal (61), retired warehouse manager of Grade-1 to release his GPF, GIS and gratuity. At around 11.50 a.m., Mr. Reddy was caught red-handed when he accepted the bribe in his office chamber as per the instructions of his superior Mr. Chary, an ACB official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-held-for-stalking/article33622463.ece
21 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Warehousing corporation MD, GM arrested for graft||Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) officials on Wednesday arrested Telangana State Warehousing Corporation managing director V. Bhaskara Chary and general manager M. Sudhakar Reddy for accepting a bribe of Rs. 75,000 to release retirement benefits of a former employee. They demanded the money from Banoth Sundar Lal (61), retired warehouse manager of Grade-1 to release his GPF, GIS and gratuity. At around 11.50 a.m., Mr. Reddy was caught red-handed when he accepted the bribe amount in his office chamber as per the instructions of his superior Mr. Chary, an ACB official said. Mr. Chary, who was also the additional registrar of the TSWC, held full additional charge of Hyderabad Cooperative Association and managing director of Telangana State Markfed, while Mr. Reddy was a superintending engineer. They were arrested and produced before the Special Judge of ACB cases, Hyderabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/warehousing-corporation-md-gm-arrested-for-graft/article33622708.ece
21 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||77 cases of mild AEFI in three days||From January 16, a total of 77 healthcare workers in Telangana who have taken the COVID-19 vaccine, have developed mild reactions. Four of them were hospitalised, but all of them are stable. So far, the vaccination drive has been held on Saturday, Monday and Tuesday. On the three days, a total of 69,625 out of the 94,719 targeted healthcare workers were administered the vaccine. While 11 mild Adverse Event Following Immunisation (AEFI) were reported on the first day, the number went up to 15 on Monday, and increased to 51 on Tuesday. Officials from the State Health department said usually, serious or severe reactions develop immediately after vaccination. Human errors were cited as the reason for severe reactions. The human errors include administering the vaccine at a site other than the one prescribed. For instance, some vaccines have to be administered intramuscularly. Another error was not storing vaccines at prescribed temperature. COVID-19 vaccines in India have to be stored at 2-8 degrees Celsius.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/77-cases-of-mild-aefi-in-three-days/article33622440.ece
21 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Back at work after the jab||Salma* is back at work at the Malakpet Area Hospital. “I feel good. There is no pain or anything else. Nothing has changed. All of my colleagues took the vaccine,” she says as she goes about her task. She is among the dozens of sanitary workers, staff nurses, ward boys, ANMs and ASHA workers who got vaccinated. Anganwadi teachers, ICDS staff, village level workers and support staff make for a majority of recipients of the vaccine in the State. While Aadhaar, PAN Card, bank passbook and Voter IDs have been used for identifying the beneficiaries, the consent by a large number of recipients is in the form of thumb impressions. Wait-and-watch strategy “I am afraid of taking the vaccine. There are 20 vaccines that will be ready soon. I will wait till March before deciding which one to take,” says a medical worker attached to one of the Primary Health Centres in the city. Part of the reluctance among healthcare workers is their access to information about the steps to be taken in the aftermath of Adverse Event Following Immunisation (AEFI). The document circulated among the medical staff lays out three states of AEFI — minor, severe, and serious. The protocol also includes the method of reporting AEFI through the Co-WIN app by the vaccinator on the vaccinator’s module. While the healthcare staff are worried, some said they are under pressure to get vaccinated. “There is pressure on us to get vaccinated. We have to share identity details which are uploaded on an app. We are being told that if we don’t take the vaccine, our postings will be affected in the long term,” said another healthcare worker. Incidentally, frontline workers who have recovered from COVID-19 are being kept out of the current vaccination drive.  (*Name changed to protect privacy)   We have to share identity details which are uploaded on an app. We are being told that if we don’t take the vaccine, our postings will be affected in the long term. A healthcare worker||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/after-the-jab-health-staff-back-at-work/article33622442.ece
21 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Jeevan Reddy asks BJP to stop 'illegal' projects in AP||Congress MLC T. Jeevan Reddy has asked the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to stop the 'illegal' projects in Andhra Pradesh and also put brakes on the proposed extension for lifting 3rd TMC in the Kaleshwaram project as it was nothing but an exercise of looting public money. At a press conference here, he said the BJP cannot escape responsibility by merely writing letters to Andhra Pradesh government to stop the ongoing projects in the Krishna basin. The Union Jal Shakthi Ministry has clearly said any project taken up against the norms in the AP Bifurcation Act would be treated as illegal. The Congress MLC alleged that AP Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy was brazenly going ahead with the 'illegal' projects with the active support of the Telangana CM, K. Chandrasekhar Rao, further adding that the BJP is conspicuously silent on it thus compromising the interests of Telangana. Alleging huge corruption in the Kaleshwaram project, he asked why the Chief Minister was so interested in pumping the 3rd TMC from Kaleshwaram when the water available with the present 2 TMC pumping was not being utilised totally. In the first phase of Kaleshwaram 450 TMC is available but with the present projects only 300 TMC was be utilised. When there is an additional 150 TMC going waste why is the CM bent upon building support for lifting the 3rd TMC, he asked. "This is nothing but an effort to indulge in corrupt practices," he alleged. Mr. Reddy reminded that Rs. 5,650 crores excess payments were noticed in just four packages of work as per the information secured through the RTI applications. While the supply cost of machinery and equipment from the BHEL was just Rs. 1,687 crores for some works agreement value with the contractors was Rs. 7,349 crores. Why is the government not answering? Pointing out the 3rd TMC lifting works in Kaleshwaram as an excuse, the AP Chief Minister is going ahead with its illegal projects and suprisingly Mr. KCR is silent on the AP government, he claimed. "KCR has colluded with Jaganmohan Reddy for making illegal money," he alleged. Mr. Reddy also took a jibe at the Telangana BJP leaders for not pressurising the Centre to take action on the 'illegal' projects. "Aren't they concerned about the damage to Telangana and its future in Krishna basin," he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/jeevan-reddy-asks-bjp-to-stop-illegal-projects-in-ap/article33622449.ece
21 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||NGT gives AP more time to file counter on RLIS||The Southern Zone Bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has given time to Andhra Pradesh government till February 2 to file its counter affidavit on Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Scheme, following an affidavit filed by petitioner Gavinolla Srinivas stating that execution of work on the project is going on against the directions given by the tribunal. In the virtual hearing held through video conference on January 18 by Justice K. Ramakrishnan, judicial member, and Saibal Dasgupta, expert member, the counsel appearing for the AP government stated that he could not verify and approve the counter affidavit due to his pre-occupation and sought some more time for submitting it. The counsel for AP also submitted that the AP government was not doing any work for the purpose of execution of the project, but only the soil investigation test was being conducted for which certain operations were being done for the purpose of preparing a proper detailed project report (DPR). Countering the version of the counsel for AP government, the counsel for the petitioner, who originally moved the NGT requesting it to restrain AP from taking up the Rayalaseema Lift Scheme and enhancement of water drawal capacity of an existing system to divert about 3 tmc ft of water from Srisailam reservoir every day, said that work like blasting was being done without obtaining the necessary permission. The counsel for the petitioner also stated that nature of such work would amount to execution of RLIS against the directions of the tribunal. However, the tribunal observed that it would not be proper on its part to grant any direction as being claimed by the counsel for the applicant without considering the counter statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ngt-gives-ap-more-time-to-file-counter-on-rlis/article33622458.ece
21 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||267 more test positive for coronavirus in TS||Telangana recorded 267 COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, pushing up the infection tally to 2,92,395. Of the 27,471 people who underwent testing, results of 1,006 are awaited. The death toll has reached 1,583 with two more fatalities on the day. Among the new cases, the maximum of 55 were detected in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region followed by 20 in Karimnagar, 18 in Medchal-Malkajgiri and 16 from Rangareddy. Districts like Nagarkurnool, Wanaparthy, Mulugu, and Jogulamba Gadwal did not see any fresh case while Kamareddy reported just a single COVID-positive case. From March 2 last year to January 19, the State has tested 75,42,537 persons. Of the total recorded cases, 3,919 are active while the recovery figure stands at 2,86,893.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/267-more-virus-positive/article33622441.ece
21 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Foundation stone for model graveyard||Ministers Ch. Malla Reddy and T. Srinivas Yadav, on Wednesday, laid the foundation stone for construction of model graveyard at Dhaniyal Gutta, in Begumpet. MP Revanth Reddy, MLC Naveen Kumar and MLA Madhavaram Krishna Rao too were present. The graveyard will have all basic amenities such as funeral platforms, store room for ashes, prayer room, waiting area, seating gallery, parking facility, pathway, office, wash area, and landscaping. Later, the ministers inaugurated nala widening works at Fatehnagar, and laid stone for construction of a sports complex at Balaji Nagar and a park near JNTU.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/foundation-stone-for-model-graveyard/article33622465.ece
21 January 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Dharna staged on livelihood issues||To draw attention of the district administration to the issues of homeless and landless poor people, activists of the Grameena Pedhala Sangham staged a demonstration on Wednesday. The protesters comprising poor people staged a rally seeking intervention of government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dharna-staged-on-livelihood-issues/article33622456.ece
21 January 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Farmers ‘lathi-charged’||In a move to arrest any untoward incidents at the public hearing for environmental clearance to National Investment and Manufacturing Zone (NIMZ), police took all precautions to see that a large number of farmers should not attend the programme. At the venue about 100 farmers were arrested and shifted to different police stations and they were released later. Some of the farmers asked for whose sake the public hearing was conducted when they were not being allowed. It was stated that farmers were lathicharged at Metalkunta and Gangwar. “We were forced to walk 4 km to the public meeting but still many of us were not allowed inside,” said Sangeetabai of Mungitanda.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/farmers-lathi-charged/article33622707.ece
21 January 2021||YADADRI-BHUVANAGIRI,TELANGANA||25 child workers rescued||The anti-human trafficking unit of Rachakonda police raided several work sheds and industries in Bhongir and rescued 25 minors, including eight girls, who were engaged as child labourers. The unit, along with officials from the district child protection office, rescued two children working at a samosa making unit, six from a beer bottle washing unit, 13 from a polymer company and four from a concrete labour work shop. The owners were booked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/25-child-workers-rescued/article33622445.ece
21 January 2021||New Delhi,||‘Farm owner held for killing pig thief’||A 24-year-old man was arrested for allegedly killing a person who, along with his accomplice, allegedly came to steal his pigs, the police said. The accused has been identified as Prince alias Aman, a resident of Bhalswa dairy. Around two months ago, the thieves had assaulted Prince and stolen some of his pigs. When they returned, he shot at them, allegedly killing one.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/farm-owner-held-for-killing-pig-thief/article33622309.ece
21 January 2021||Mumbai,||Varavara Rao’s detention cruel, inhuman: Indira Jaising to Bombay HC||Senior advocate Indira Jaising, arguing for 82-year-old poet Varavara Rao’s medical bail, told the Bombay High Court on Wednesday that the activist’s detention was cruel and inhuman, and amounted to violation of his right to life and dignity. Ms. Jaising commenced her submissions before a Division Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and Manish Pitale after Mr. Rao’s counsel, senior advocate Anand Grover, concluded his arguments. Mr. Grover said Mr. Rao, who is being treated at Nanavati Hospital since November 18, should be discharged and sent home. He said Mr. Rao should not be sent back to Taloja Central Jail as the prison administration is not capable of looking after him with the existing infrastructure. Mr. Grover said the National Investigation Agency (NIA) took six months to share copies of the evidence with Mr. Rao and there are hundreds of witnesses in the Bhima-Koregaon violence case. “He is already 82 years old, how old will he be when the trial ends?” Mr. Grover asked. He said Mr. Rao can be granted bail for three months and can report to any authority in the meantime. The Bench asked if there are any judgments in which bail has been granted on medical grounds in cases where the accused has been charged under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. Mr. Grover then read from a judgment of the Guwahati High Court. However, the Bench said that there are two judgments of the Bombay High Court where bail had been rejected. Mr. Rao was arrested on August 28, 2018, in the case and the NIA’s chargesheet stated, “All accused have conspired to further the ideology of terrorist organisation CPI (Maoist) and abetted violence, brought into hatred and incited disaffection towards the government established by law and promoted enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, caste and, community.” Ms. Jaising will continue her arguments in the court on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/varavara-raos-detention-cruel-inhuman-indira-jaising-to-bombay-hc/article33622331.ece
21 January 2021||Mumbai,||NCB arrests Dawood’s aide in drugs case||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Wednesday arrested gangster Parvez Khan alias Chinku Pathan, a henchman of fugitive gangster Dawood Ibrahim, in connection with a drugs case from Navi Mumbai, an official said, adding that drugs were also seized. Mr. Khan is also a relative of late Karim Lala, a gangster who was active from the 1960’s to the early ’80s, in Mumbai. A team of NCB sleuths led by Zonal Director Sameer Wankhede picked up Mr. Khan, a notorious drugs supplier, from his hideout.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/ncb-arrests-dawoods-aide-in-drugs-case/article33622325.ece
21 January 2021||Mumbai,||LIC Western Zone donates AC portacabin to city police||The Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC), Western Zone, has donated an air-conditioned portacabin to the Mumbai Police, located strategically opposite Churchgate station. C. Vikas Rao, Zonal Manager, Western Zone, LIC, inaugurated the portacabin in the presence of Shashikumar Meena, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Zone 1, Mumbai Police, and other senior officials. The cabin has two chambers — one for police personnel and the other for a senior officer. Mr. Meena also lauded the LIC’s contributions to society and the Mumbai Police, who have been working tirelessly to keep citizens safe amid the pandemic. The LIC had donated a portacabin to the Mumbai Police at Gateway of India, and raincoats in 2019 and 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/lic-western-zone-donates-ac-portacabin-to-city-police/article33622554.ece
21 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Fertility clinics see rush with start of COVID-19 vaccination||A year into the COVID-19 pandemic and with two vaccines now available, fertility clinics in the national capital claim that the rush is back with walk-in patients having more than doubled as compared to December 2019. Infertility expert and founder of Seeds of Innocence Gauri Agarwal said patients who had been waiting during the lockdown are now coming and looking to start the treatment. “There is, however, an additional pressure on IVF clinics to ensure screening of donors due to the threat of COVID-19. We are following a strict screening protocol, including RT-PCR test and on-day pick up,” said Dr. Gauri. She added that the priority is thorough screening as it is not only about financial and time implications but also emotional and physical trauma. “We ensure that the donors are safe and are taking all precautions against the virus,” she said. Doctors said they did not do donor egg cycles for a long time because of the risk of COVID-19 infection due to involvement of a third party, and sperm samples are used after six months of freezing. Renu Misra, head of department (HOD) at Miracles Fertility and IVF in Gurugram, said: “What we saw was that a lot of people waiting for infertility treatment got pregnant on their own during the pandemic.” “Remote working measures by many firms during the pandemic encouraged couples to start their family. As both partners are at home, they have been getting enough time together to take decisions that took a backseat due to their pre-COVID busy life. As a result, we have witnessed over 10,000 people coming for consultations across our 27 IVF centres in 19 cities during this period. This shows there is definitely an increase in couples planning to start families and coming for treatment,” said Aswati Nair, fertility consultant at Nova IVF. Speaking about the practical issues doctors faced during the pandemic, R.K. Sharma, IVF specialist, said the problem is more with the egg donors. Practical problems “Once you stimulate the donor and if she tests positive for COVID, then the cycle has to be cancelled, which has a lot of psychological and financial affect on the recipient and donor, and also becomes difficult for the clinicians to handle. As far as the donor is concerned, the person has to take an RT-PCR test before freezing semen. After one month, the donor has to take an antibody test. Only if the result is negative, then the sample is used. Hence, smart testing and tracing is the need of the hour,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/fertility-clinics-see-rush-with-start-of-covid-19-vaccination/article33622316.ece
21 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Concerned about home delivery of ration plan’||The Delhi Rozi Roti Adhikhar Abhiyaan (DRRAA) on Wednesday wrote to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal expressing concerns over the proposed policy of home delivery of ration. The DRRAA said that there was a lack of transparency regarding the policy and that an absence of a monitoring mechanism would increase the chances of corruption and extortion. Stating that the proposal of home delivery of ration was being pushed through without any public consultation, the DRRAA, in its letter to the CM, said that people were informed of the proposal through text messages. The letter also stated that when the DRRAA volunteers approached government officials, they were unable to respond to queries pertaining to the proposal. “Expecting people to take a decision in such a scenario where no relevant details of the proposed policy are available in the public domain is meaningless. It is pertinent to point out that given the fact that many people, especially those with meagre economic means often do not have a working mobile phone connection... it is likely that many of the nearly 18 lakh households, who have ration cards, may not have even received the SMS intimation,” the letter read. The DRRAA also stated that an absence of monitoring mechanisms would increase the scope of corruption. “In the current scenario, where there is poor oversight and monitoring of the existing 2,000 ration shops in Delhi, it is unclear how the administration will carry out oversight of a large number of delivery persons delivering to lakhs of homes... We call upon the Delhi government to immediately put on hold its proposal for home delivery of ration,” the DRRAA said in its letter to Mr. Kejriwal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/concerned-about-home-delivery-of-ration-plan/article33622321.ece
21 January 2021||New Delhi,||CM tells PWD to remove obstacles in way of road redesigning projects||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday chaired a review meeting with Public Works Department (PWD) officials on the status of the ongoing redesigning and streetscaping of seven road stretches and 540 km of identified roads in Delhi. “The process of designing the roads should be done in a swift manner and the project should be completed within the stipulated deadline. The PWD should ensure the removal of all obstacles, the project needs to be completed in two years. There should be no laxity in the completion,” Mr. Kejriwal was quoted. The Delhi government is working to redesign 100-foot wide roads spread across 540 km in the city. Mr. Kejriwal approved the project in November 2019. The development of these roads will be on the lines of the Built-Operate-Transfer model and the construction company will take care of the maintenance for 15 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/cm-tells-pwd-to-remove-obstacles-in-way-of-road-redesigning-projects/article33622552.ece
21 January 2021||New Delhi,||‘Over 1,200 bird deaths in Capital since Jan. 6’||Over 1,200 bird deaths have been reported in Delhi in the last 15 days amid the avian influenza situation here, officials said on Wednesday. Of the 201 samples collected from various places in the national capital, 24 have tested positive for bird flu so far, the director of the animal husbandry unit of the Delhi government’s Development Department, Rakesh Singh, said. “A total of 1,216 bird deaths have been reported in Delhi since January 6. However, all the deaths cannot be attributed to bird flu. Cold stress is another major reason,” he said. On Tuesday, authorities restricted the entry of public into the Red Fort till Friday after a sample of a dead crow tested positive for bird flu. Around 15 crows were found dead in the premises of the Red Fort on January 10. “Four cranes were found dead in Delhi zoo a few days ago. Twelve samples were collected on Monday and sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research for testing,” Mr. Singh said. Authorities have not received the test results from the Bhopal-based lab yet. On Saturday, samples from a dead owl in the Delhi zoo had tested positive for avian influenza. Around 400 ducks were culled at Sanjay Lake on January 11.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/over-1200-bird-deaths-in-capital-since-jan-6/article33622320.ece
21 January 2021||New Delhi,||Rs. 10,000 COVID relief for 407 workers: govt.||The Delhi Building and Other Construction workers Welfare Board, under the directions of Deputy Chief Minister and Labour Minister of Delhi, Manish Sisodia, granted COVID relief disbursement of Rs. 10,000 each to 407 construction workers, the Delhi government said on Wednesday. After taking charge of the Labour Department in November 2020, the government said, Mr. Sisodia carried out various inspections in labour offices on the basis of which a series of reforms have been carried out. These include the registration of construction workers through doorstep delivery programme, reforming process of claim disbursement and granting of claims to construction workers within 72 hours of application submission. More than 2,000 construction workers will also receive the relief amount in the coming weeks. These construction workers belong to poorest of poor section of the society and were one of the worst-hit during COVID-19 pandemic, the government said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/rs-10000-covid-relief-for-407-workers-govt/article33622322.ece
21 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Biomedical waste sites must get authorisation’||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed biomedical waste management facilities in the country to obtain authorisation from State pollution control boards while asking the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) to ensure strict compliance of biomedical waste management rules. A Bench headed by NGT Chairperson, Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel, said: “The CPCB needs to review the compliance status from time to time – at least once in every quarter – and issue directions based on the observations from the reports received.” Noting that an environmental compensation of Rs. 7.17 crore and Rs. 85 lakh imposed on various healthcare facilities and biomedical waste treatment facilities were recovered, the Bench said, “The CPCB may ensure that for strict compliance of rules, the compensation regime is duly applied against the defaulters, following due process. Standards of handling of BMW need to be duly complied.” “The authorities must ensure that waste is disposed of only through authorised agencies, common facilities are located as per sitting guidelines and there is environmental clearance. There should be no pilferage by unauthorised recyclers. Adequate number of common biomedical facilities should be set up.” the Bench added. The directions came when the green panel was hearing a plea filed by petitioner Shailesh Singh alleging non-compliance of the provisions mentioned under the biomedical waste management rules.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/biomedical-waste-sites-must-get-authorisation/article33622323.ece
21 January 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi HC restrains JNU from initiating recruitment process for vacancies||The Delhi High Court has restrained the Jawaharlal Nehru University from initiating any fresh recruitment process for the post of over 200 professors and associate professors until it publishes a newly prepared roster points for the vacancies. A Bench of Justice Rajiv Sahai Endaw and Justice Sanjeev Narula also ordered JNU to “revisit and reexamine and recast the point-based roster for all posts and in the light of the judgment of the Single Judge [Bench of the High Court] and in accordance with the post-based reservation system”. The court also clarified that the appointments already made will not be adversely affected. Advertisements quashed The Single Judge Bench had on November 17 last year quashed JNU’s August 2019 advertisements with respect to two posts — associate professor and a professor in the School of Social Sciences and the School of International Studies. The court had remarked: “The reservation rosters have to be post-based and there cannot be exchange of reservation points or de-reservation. The latter is permissible only in very exceptional cases and that too by following a very rigorous process.” Advocate Maanav Kumar, who represented the petitioners, said though the Single Judge Bench found “illegalities/errors” in the post-based roster followed by JNU in issuing the 2019 recruitment advertisements, the order was restricted with regard to only two posts and not all the 267 posts that were advertised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/delhi-hc-restrains-jnu-from-initiating-recruitment-process-for-vacancies/article33622332.ece
21 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Mahatma Gandhi statue at Parliament shifted||The statue of Mahatma Gandhi opposite the main entrance of Parliament House was shifted to a new location opposite the Lok Sabha Speaker’s entrance on Tuesday to make way for the construction of the new Parliament building, according to sources aware of the development. Lok Sabha sources said on Wednesday that the statue was placed in front of the Speaker’s entrance, in front of gate number 3, as a mark of respect. The statue would be shifted to a prominent place once the new building came up, the sources said. According to officials of the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs and the Central Public Works Department, the statues at the Parliament complex would be shifted to locations decided by the Speaker.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/mahatma-gandhi-statue-at-parliament-shifted/article33622333.ece
21 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi reports 228 new cases, 10 deaths||The national capital reported 228 new COVID-19 cases, 10 deaths and 405 recoveries in 24 hours, government health bulletin said on Wednesday. The bulletin stated that 63,161 tests were held with a positivity rate of 0.36%. Of the total tests, 32,957 were RT-PCR and 30,204 were rapid antigen tests. The total number of active cases in the city currently stands at 2,147. The city now has 2,168 containment zones. The total number of cases now stands at 6,33,049 and total deaths at 10,774 deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/over-200-new-infections-10-fatalities/article33622318.ece
21 January 2021||Pune,||Need not fear inoculation: Tope||Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday said while the 54% vaccination turnout across Maharashtra on Tuesday was not up to the mark, it was not particularly unsatisfactory. He clarified that there was a technical problem with the Co-WIN app, which was being rectified. While admitting that a number of beneficiaries were confused about taking the vaccine, Mr. Tope reiterated that the two vaccines — Covishield and Covaxin — were safe and had been approved by the Drug Control Authority, besides being cleared by scientists. Mr. Tope said, “These two vaccines are completely safe. It is wrong to make assumptions about their adverse effects. No adverse problems have been witnessed so far among beneficiaries who have taken the vaccine. Yet, many beneficiaries are not turning up to receive the vaccine and are instead waiting to see the reaction on others.” The minister said the government would be counselling beneficiaries with proper information to dispel fears about getting inoculated. Mr. Tope said he would be sending video messages about the vaccines to healthcare workers who had registered for the drive. On the low turnout on Tuesday, Mr. Tope further said, “Don’t go by percentages. The vaccination drive will be held four days a week now: Tuesday, Wednesday, Friday and Saturday. The numbers will gradually rise.” Maharashtra on Wednesday yet again recorded more recoveries than fresh COVID-19 cases, with 4,589 patients being discharged as opposed to 3,015 new cases. Active cases have further declined to 46,769, while the total case tally stands at 19,97,992. With 59 fatalities, the death toll has climbed to 50,582. Cumulative recoveries stand at 18,99,428. The State’s recovery rate has touched 95.02%, while the case fatality rate is 2.53%. 501 cases in Mumbai Pune reported nearly 600 new cases to take its total case tally to 3,83,428. Five deaths saw the total death toll rise to 7,878. As per district administration figures, the district’s active case tally has now dipped below the 5,000 mark, standing at 4,947. The district’s recovery rate is 96.30%. Pune city currently has a little over 2,000 cases. Mumbai reported 501 new cases to take its total case tally to 3,04,126, of which just 6,656 are active. Nine fatalities saw the city’s death toll reach 11,268. Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported nearly 300 new cases, taking the district’s total case tally to 1,32,801. of which 4,200 are active. A single death saw the death toll reach 3,313. In western Maharashtra, Satara reported a single death, while 85 fresh cases saw the total case tally rise to 55,756, of which just 755 are active. Its death toll stands at 1797. Neighbouring Sangli reported just 16 cases and no deaths as well as the district’s total cases reached 50,654, of which just 489 are active. Its death toll stands at 1,778. Kolhapur reported 18 cases and no deaths as its total case tally reached 49,007, of which 163 are active. The death toll stands at 1,670. In north Maharashtra, Nashik district reported 295 cases and a single fatality as its total case tally reached 119,524, of which 1,228 are active. Its death toll stands at 1,970. Jalgaon reported 42 new cases and a single death as its total case tally reached 57,088, of which only 523 are active, while its death toll stands at 1,469. 62,000 samples tested “Of 1,39,57,469 laboratory samples tested so far, 19,97,992 (with the case positivity rate down to 14.31%) have returned positive. Over 62,000 samples were tested in the last 24 hours,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said. A total of 2,18,325 people across the State are in home quarantine and 2,230 are in institutional quarantine.  No adverse problems have been witnessed so far among beneficiaries who have taken the vaccine. Yet, many beneficiaries are not turning up to receive the vaccine Rajesh Tope State Health Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/need-not-fear-inoculation-tope/article33622327.ece
21 January 2021||Pune,||PIFF to honour frontline workers||Owing to COVID-19, the Pune International Film Festival (PIFF) — Maharashtra’s official film festival — will be held from March 4 to 11 instead of commencing traditionally in January. While cineastes can head to theatres to catch a rich bonanza from across the globe, it will also be available in the online format, said festival director and eminent filmmaker Dr. Jabbar Patel. He said all safety guidelines will be strictly adhered to. “Given that 2020 was a year of uncertainty, fear and struggle, we are fortunately entering 2021 with great hope as the efforts of frontline warriors are finally paying off given the reduction in new cases. The pandemic appears to be coming under control, with the vaccination campaign in earnest and a semblance of normalcy. The PIFF 2021 is dedicated to the frontline warriors who have and still are heroically battling the pandemic,” he said. He said while Deputy Chief Minister and Finance Minister Ajit Pawar had announced a Rs. 4-crore grant in the last budget session, the organisers had requested the State government to allot at least Rs. 2.5 crore for the festival this year considering the economic slump. The postponement of the International Film Festival of India led to the PIFF being pushed back by a couple of months, said organisers. “To ensure security for viewers, films will be made available online. This year, we have received 1,611 entries from 93 countries, of which 180 films have been chosen by the selection committee,” said Dr. Patel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/piff-to-honour-frontline-workers/article33622555.ece
21 January 2021||January 21 2021 00:00 IST,||New addition||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/new-addition/article33622551.ece
21 January 2021||Washington,||Biden to reverse Trump policies on Day 1||U.S. President Joe Biden plans to kick off his new administration on Wednesday with orders to restore the U.S. to the Paris climate accord and the World Health Organization, aides said. Mr. Biden will sign 15 orders and actions just hours after being sworn in as the U.S. leader to break from the policies of departing President Donald Trump and set new paths on immigration, the environment, fighting COVID-19 and the economy, they said. In first-day moves, he will end Mr. Trump’s much-assailed ban on visitors from several Muslim-majority countries and halt construction of the wall that Mr. Trump ordered on the U.S.-Mexico border to stem illegal immigration, the aides said. He will also set a mask mandate on federal properties to stem the spread of COVID-19; restore protections of valuable nature reserves removed by Mr. Trump; and seek freezes on evictions and protection for millions behind on their mortgages due to the pandemic. He also plans to send a Bill to Congress to revamp immigration policies and give millions of undocumented migrants living inside the country a path to citizenship that the Trump administration denied. Mr. Biden’s staff said he wanted to hit the ground running given the deep health and economic challenges facing the country. Mr. Biden “will take action — not just to reverse the gravest damages of the Trump administration — but also to start moving our country forward,” the aides said in a statement. “These actions are bold, begin the work of following through on President-elect Biden's promises to the American people, and, importantly, fall within the constitutional role for the President.” New approach Many of the actions will take government policies back to where they were on January 19, 2017 — the final day of the Barack Obama-Joe Biden administration, before Mr. Trump entered office and took a wrecking ball to many of their initiatives. Jeff Zients, the new President's point-man for fighting the pandemic, said Mr. Biden would start by establishing an office of COVID-19 response inside the White House. A 100-day “masking challenge” will be led with a presidential order for wearing masks in all federal properties and activities, setting the standard for private companies, individual states and communities to follow suit, Mr. Zients said. Wednesday “starts a new day, a new, different approach to managing the country’s response to COVID-19 crisis”, he said. That includes reversing Mr. Trump’s decision to leave the World Health Organization. To underscore Mr. Biden's decision, Mr. Zients said, leading U.S. coronavirus expert Anthony Fauci will lead a delegation to take part in the WHO Executive Board meeting on Thursday. “America's withdrawal from the international arena has impeded progress on the global response and left us more vulnerable to future pandemics,” he said. Gina McCarthy, the new administration’s chief climate adviser, said returning to the 2016 Paris accord was essential to making fighting climate change a central tenet of Biden administration policy. Mr. Biden will reverse Trump decisions to ease emissions and efficiency standards, and rescind the permit for the Keystone XL pipeline, a large project that would bring relatively high-polluting Canadian oil into the U.S. “The day-one climate executive orders will begin to put the U.S. back on the right footing, a footing we need to restore American leadership, helping to position our nation to be the global leader in clean energy and jobs,” said Mr. McCarthy. Other actions by the new president will require a government-wide, proactive equality effort for minority groups, in hiring, contracting, and service. “The President has promised to root out systemic racism from our institutions,” said Susan Rice, his Domestic Policy Council director.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-to-reverse-trump-policies-on-day-1/article33622076.ece
21 January 2021||Washington,||Trump pardons former aide Bannon, 72 others||U.S. President Donald Trump on Wednesday pardoned 73 people, including his former aide Steve Bannon and rapper Lil Wayne, just hours before he was due to leave office. The list of those pardoned — as well as 70 people whose sentences were commuted — was likely to draw allegations of cronyism, at the end of a term during which the President promised to “drain the swamp” of Washington politics. However, neither Mr. Trump nor his relatives were listed, amid speculation he could use the legally dubious tactic of a preemptive pardon to fend off future charges. Mr. Bannon — who was Mr. Trump’s campaign manager during the 2016 election, before becoming a senior adviser to the President — left the White House acrimoniously in 2017, Mr. Trump later giving him the moniker “Sloppy Steve”. Last year he was charged with one count of conspiracy to commit wire fraud, over funds raised to build the Mexico border wall, a flagship Trump policy. ‘Important leader’ But Wednesday’s statement, announcing his pardon, read: “Mr. Bannon has been an important leader in the conservative movement and is known for his political acumen.” The U.S. media earlier reported that the President made his last-minute decision after speaking to Mr. Bannon by phone. Former Trump fundraiser Elliott Broidy was similarly pardoned, after pleading guilty last year to conspiring to violate foreign lobbying laws. Rapper Lil Wayne, who faced 10 years in jail after pleading guilty to possession of a firearm and ammunition by a convicted felon last month, also made the list. Another rapper, Kodak Black, was granted clemency after being jailed for making a false statement on a federal document, while disgraced Detroit Mayor Kwame Kilpatrick — sentenced in 2013 to 28 years in a federal prison on corruption and extortion charges — was also pardoned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-pardons-former-aide-bannon-72-others/article33622080.ece
21 January 2021||Washington,||U.S. to review Houthi terrorist label, says Blinken||U.S. President Joe Biden’s administration will quickly revisit the designation of Yemen’s Houthi rebels as terrorists and end support to the devastating Saudi offensive on the country, his pick for Secretary of State, Antony Blinken, said on Tuesday. At his confirmation hearing, Mr. Blinken said he would “immediately” review the outgoing Trump administration’s labelling of the Iran-linked insurgents, fearing the move was worsening a humanitarian crisis. “At least on its surface, (the designation) seems to achieve nothing particularly practical in advancing the efforts against the Houthis and to bring them back to the negotiating table while making it even more difficult than it already is to provide humanitarian assistance to people who desperately need it,” Mr. Blinken told the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. President Donald Trump’s administration announced the move on January 11. Mr. Trump has been a staunch ally of Saudi Arabia, offering U.S. logistical help and military sales for its six-year campaign to dislodge the rebels who have taken over much of the neighbouring country. Mr. Blinken said that the Saudis have “contributed to what is by most accounts the worst humanitarian situation anywhere in the world”. “The Houthis bear significant responsibility for what’s happened in Yemen, but the way the campaign has been conducted has also contributed significantly to that situation. And so our support should end,” Mr. Blinken said. The United Nations and aid groups have warned the terrorist designation risks worsening the plight of a country where millions depend on aid to survive. The designation took effect on Tuesday, with the Houthis warning that they would respond to any action against them. “We are ready to take all necessary measures against any hostile act,” they said in a statement. On Wednesday, hundreds of supporters of the Houthi rebels took to the streets of the capital Sanaa to protest against the terror designation. “We’ve come out to say the United States is the mother of terrorism and doesn’t have the right to classify anyone as terrorist,” a demonstrator said. Hizam al-Assad, a member of the Houthis’ political office, condemned “the continued aggression against the Yemeni people by U.S. administrations”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-to-review-houthi-terrorist-label-says-blinken/article33622082.ece
21 January 2021||January 21 2021 00:00 IST,||China sanctions 28 Trump administration officials||China on Wednesday announced sanctions on 28 officials connected to the outgoing Donald Trump administration, including Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, just as the new United States President, Joe Biden, was taking his oath of office. The Foreign Ministry in Beijing said in a statement it had “decided to sanction 28 persons who have seriously violated China’s sovereignty and who have been mainly responsible for such U.S. moves on China-related issues”. The list includes Mr. Trump’s trade adviser Peter K. Navarro, who was a key figure behind many of the China-related trade moves; outgoing National Security Adviser Robert C. O’Brien; Assistant Secretary of State for the Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs David Stilwell, who is the top diplomat for the region; and the recently resigned Deputy National Security Adviser Matthew Pottinger, another key figure in Mr. Trump’s China policy. Also on the list are former NSA John R. Bolton and former White House chief strategist Stephen K. Bannon, who both fell out with Mr. Trump while he was in office. The Ministry said “these individuals and their immediate family members are prohibited from entering the mainland, Hong Kong and Macao of China” and “they and the companies and institutions associated with them are also restricted from doing business with China”. It described them as “anti-China politicians in the United States” who “out of their selfish political interests and prejudice and hatred against China and showing no regard for the interests of the Chinese and American people, have planned, promoted and executed a series of crazy moves which have gravely interfered in China’s internal affairs, undermined China’s interests, offended the Chinese people, and seriously disrupted China-U.S. relations”. The announcement came as China and the U.S. clashed over the Trump administration, on its last day, accusing China of committing “genocide” and “crimes against humanity” against its minority Uighur Muslims in Xinjiang. This followed a number of recent measures that have brought relations with China to a low, with both sides clashing over Taiwan, Hong Kong as well as sanctions on Chinese firms. Mr. Biden, during the election campaign, had also described what China was doing in Xinjiang, where around a million people have been forced to “re-education” centres, as “genocide”. The declaration by the U.S. will likely mean a continuation of sanctions, including a ban on imports of cotton and tomatoes from Xinjiang as well as designations of Chinese officials seen to be involved in the Xinjiang policy. “After careful examination of the available facts,” Mr. Pompeo said in a statement, “I have determined that since at least March 2017, the People’s Republic of China, under the direction and control of the Chinese Communist Party, has committed crimes against humanity”, including “severe deprivation of physical liberty of more than one million civilians, forced sterilization, torture of a large number of those arbitrarily detained, forced labor, and the imposition of draconian restrictions on freedom of religion or belief, freedom of expression, and freedom of movement”. He added that China had “committed genocide against the predominantly Muslim Uighurs and other ethnic and religious minority groups in Xinjiang” and “this genocide is ongoing, and that we are witnessing the systematic attempt to destroy Uighurs by the Chinese party-state”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-china-clash-over-genocide-claims-in-xinjiang/article33622085.ece
21 January 2021||January 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Founder Ma appears in public providing a boost to Alibaba||Alibaba founder Jack Ma made his first public appearance since early November on Wednesday, quelling speculation about his fate and giving a boost to his embattled conglomerate. Alibaba’s shares surged 8% in Hong Kong after Mr. Ma’s first appearance in close to three months, as he appeared “during a rural teacher-themed social welfare event via video link”, Chinese media reported. China’s richest man, who started out as an English teacher before founding a company that would revolutionise how business is done in China, was attending the Jack Ma Rural Teachers Award ceremony via video “in which he met with 100 rural teachers from across the country and said ‘we’ll meet again when the [COVID-19] epidemic is over!’,” the Global Times quoted Tianmu News, a website in Zhejiang province where Mr. Ma and Alibaba are based, as saying. There has been speculation about Mr. Ma after he kept a low-profile in the wake of recent troubles surrounding his group. On December 24, the State Administration for Market Regulation said it had initiated a probe into Alibaba’s “suspected monopolistic acts” including “forcing merchants to choose one platform between two competitors”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/founder-ma-appears-in-public-providing-a-boost-to-alibaba/article33622041.ece
21 January 2021||Joint Base Andrews,||Trump says he ‘will be back in some form’||U.S. President Donald Trump left Washington on Wednesday just three hours ahead of the inauguration of his successor Joe Biden, saying it had been an “incredible four years” and promising to be “back in some form”. “I just want to say goodbye but hopefully it’s not a long-term goodbye,” Mr. Trump said in remarks to reporters at the White House before he and First Lady Melania Trump walked a short red carpet and boarded Marine One for the helicopter ride to Joint Base Andrews. Speaking to a small crowd of supporters, staff and family members at Andrews after a 21-gun salute and a serenade of Hail to the Chief , Mr. Trump said “this has been an incredible four years”. “We’ve accomplished so much together,” he said. “I will always fight for you. It is my greatest honour and privilege to have been your President," he said. “We will be back in some form.” Mr. Trump boarded Air Force One after his remarks and the presidential jet took off for the two-hour flight to Florida as Frank Sinatra’s My Way played on loudspeakers on the tarmac. He will be at his Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida during Mr. Biden’s inauguration. Mr. Trump did not address Mr. Biden by name in his remarks but said he wishes the new administration “great luck and great success”. A White House spokesman said Mr. Trump, in keeping with tradition, had left a letter for Mr.Biden in the Oval Office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-heads-for-florida-says-he-will-be-back-in-some-form/article33622081.ece
21 January 2021||Jerusalem,||Israel rights group breaks taboo with ‘apartheid’ tag||An Israeli non-governmental organisation has accused the Jewish state of “apartheid” in its treatment of Palestinians — a taboo-breaking move that has seen its representatives banned from speaking in schools. B’Tselem said it carefully weighed its decision to use the hugely emotive phrase but concluded that it was an accurate description of Israel’s attitude both to residents of the occupied Palestinian territories and to its own Arab citizens. “We cannot avoid the conclusion that it is a regime that is working to advance and cement the supremacy of one group of people — Jews — over Palestinians,” B’Tselem chief Hagai el-Ad said. “That is the textbook definition of an apartheid regime,” he added. “I agree that it is a strong word but we are not using it lightly.” Israel occupied the West Bank, including Arab east Jerusalem, and the Gaza Strip in the Six-Day War of 1967. Today it is home to at least five million Palestinians defined by the United Nations as living under Israeli occupation. Arab Israelis — Palestinians who stayed on their land following the Jewish state's creation in 1948 and their descendants — make up about 20% of Israel’s roughly nine million people. By law they have rights equal to those of Jewish citizens, but they say that in practice they suffer discrimination in employment, housing, policing and other essentials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/israel-rights-group-breaks-taboo-with-apartheid-tag/article33622084.ece
21 January 2021||Beijing,||Partial lockdown in Beijing as UK virus variant detected||Beijing on Wednesday banned its 1.6 million residents from leaving the city as two COVID-19 cases linked to a new U.K. virus variant were found in the Chinese capital.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/partial-lockdown-in-beijing-as-uk-virus-variant-detected/article33622078.ece
21 January 2021||Islamabad,||Pak test-fires nuclear-capable surface-to-surface ballistic missile||Pakistan on Wednesday said it has successfully test-fired a nuclear-capable surface-to-surface ballistic missile which can strike targets up to 2,750 km. The launch of Shaheen-III missile was “aimed at revalidating various design and technical parameters of weapon system”, said a statement issued by the media wing of the Pakistani Army.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pak-test-fires-nuclear-capable-surface-to-surface-ballistic-missile/article33622083.ece
21 January 2021||January 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Removing the creases in housework valuation||“The wife owes service and labor to her husband as much and as absolutely as the slave does to his master. This grates harshly upon the ears of Christendom; but it is made palpably and practically true all through our statute books, despite the poetic fancy which views woman as elevated in the social estate; but a little lower than the angels,” said Antoinette Brown Blackwell, the first woman protestant minister of the United States. We go a step ahead and glorify our women as goddesses but deny them equal rights, and under the latest Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh Ordinances, even the right to choose their spouses. Veteran actor Kamal Haasan and his Makkal Needhi Maiam party who recently promised salaries for housewives as a part of the party’s election manifesto, has revived the debate on the recognition of domestic work as work. What is the history of recognition of work by wives as work in the West? What have the legislative initiatives and judicial responses been in this regard? The burden on women As in the 2011 Census, while 159.85 million women stated household work as their main occupation, a mere 5.79 men referred to it as their main occupation. Justice N.V. Ramana in his crisp and authoritative concurring judgment of January 5, 2021 in Kirti and Another v. Oriental Insurance Company (https://bit.ly/35Yp3fD)  has referred to the ‘Time Use in India-2019 Report’ of the National Statistical Office, Government of India (published in September 2020) which says that on an average, while Indian women spend 299 minutes a day on unpaid domestic services for household members, men spend just 97 minutes. Women also spend 134 minutes in a day on unpaid caregiving services for household members. A French government’s Commission on the Measurement of Economic Performance and Social Progress in 2009 that studied the situation in Germany, Italy, the United Kingdom, France, Finland and the U.S. drew similar conclusions. A report entitled ‘Women’s Economic Contribution through their Unpaid Work: A Case Study of India’ (2009) had estimated the economic value of services by women to be to the tune of a whopping $612.8 billion annually. Justice Ramana not only listed the various activities women undertake but also referred to British economist Arthur Cecil Pigou who had lamented that the household work by wives is not taken into consideration in calculating national income. Other judicial observations In Arun Kumar Agrawal v. National Insurance Company (2010), the Supreme Court not only acknowledged the contribution of the housewives as invaluable but also observed that it cannot be computed in terms of money. Her gratuitous services rendered with true love and affection cannot be equated with services rendered by others. Similar observations were recently made in Rajendra Singh (2020). But then these cases dealt with a limited question of compensation under the Motor Vehicles Act to calculate the compensation for the death of homemakers, and not the recognition of a wife’s right in her husband’s income during the subsistence of marriage. Justice A.K. Ganguly in Arun Kumar Agrawal (2010) referred to Census 2001 that is carried out under an Act of Parliament and had categorised those who perform household duties — i.e. about 36 crore women in India — as non-workers and clubbed them together with beggars, prostitutes and prisoners (who are not engaged in economically unproductive work). A hierarchical structure For centuries, the English common law of marital status was starkly hierarchical. Forget the recognition of a homemaker’s work as work; she had no right even in respect of her work outside home. In fact till 1851, no country had recognised a wife’s right in earnings of any sort. If a housewife worked for pay in or out of the home, it was her husband’s prerogative to collect her wages. Strangely, seventh century Islamic law clearly mandates husbands to pay wives if they decide to suckle their children and entitle them to spend certain portions of husband’s money without his consent. By the middle of the 19th century, some American States started reforming the common law of marital status by enacting the “Married Women’s Property Acts”. Some of these statutes exempted the wives’ real property from their husband’s debts. By 1850, the era of “earning statutes” started which granted wives property rights in earnings from their “separate” or “personal” labour. But the Census measures of the economy that appeared in the aftermath of the American Civil War characterised household work as “unproductive”, and, consistent with this gendered valuation of family labour, excluded women engaged in income-producing work in the household from the count of those “gainfully employed”. It seems that the Indian Census referred above followed this regressive precedent. Separate spheres Home and market for centuries were considered as two distinct spheres. The market was a male sphere of selfish competitiveness, but the home was celebrated as a female sphere, a site of spiritual uplift that offered relief from the vicissitudes of market struggle. American feminist economist Nancy Folbre rightly remarked, “the moral elevation of the home was accompanied by the economic devaluation of the work performed there”. The tendency of a “separate spheres” reasoning was thus to reinforce the legal ordering of family life and justify a husband’s control of family assets. Subsequently, women demanded a right to own themselves, their earnings, their genius. Accordingly, in 1851, at the Worcester Convention, it was resolved: “that since the economy of the household is generally as much the source of family wealth as the labor and enterprise of man, therefore the wife should, during life, have the same control over the joint earnings as per husband, and the right to dispose at her death of the same proportion of it as he”. They finally achieved success when the equal rights of wives in the matrimonial property were recognised. The Third National Women’s Liberation conference, in England in 1972, for the first time, explicitly demanded payment of wages for the household work. In India, the debate on joint property rights of married women is not new though we still do not have joint matrimonial property law. Veena Verma did introduce a private member Bill in 1994 entitled The Married Women (Protection of Rights) Bill, 1994. Her Bill provided that a married woman shall be entitled to have an equal share in the property of her husband from the date of her marriage and shall also be entitled to dispose of her share in the property by way of sale, gift, mortgage, will or in any other manner whatsoever. But in 2010, even registration of the National Housewives Association as a trade union was denied as domestic work was treated as neither trade nor industry. A step and suggestion The United Progressive Alliance government, in 2012, had proposed to make it mandatory for husbands to pay a monthly ‘salary’ to their wives. One cartoon had depicted a husband saying to his wife, “here is your salary for the month. However, Rs. 3355 has been deducted as you were at your parent’s home for a week.” Mr. Haasan should understand that the term ‘salary’ as monthly payment is indeed problematic as it indicates an employer-employee relationship, i.e., a relationship of subordination with the employer having disciplinary control over the employee. Wives do not deserve a master-servant relationship. The United Nations’ Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination Against Women, in 1991, had recommended measurement and quantification of unremunerated domestic activities of women and their recognition in GDP so that the de facto economic contribution of women is highlighted. Matrimonial property laws do give women their share but only when the marital tie comes to an end. The time has come to insist that the work women perform for the family should be valued equally with men’s work during the continuance of marriage. If women become a little assertive, prenuptial marriage agreements can easily solve this problem with the insertion of the clause on wives’ right in husband’s earnings and properties being included in such agreements. Faizan Mustafa is the Vice-Chancellor of NALSAR University of Law, Hyderabad. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/removing-the-creases-in-housework-valuation/article33622062.ece
21 January 2021||January 21 2021 00:00 IST,||True empowerment of the electricity consumer||Did electricity consumers truly get “empowered” this December? This was the claim of the Union Power Ministry as the “Electricity (Rights of Consumers) Rules, 2020 was promulgated in December, almost two years since the declaration of universal electrification. Issue of supply quality Many States have not been able to provide quality supply, especially to rural and small electricity consumers. The enactment of consumer-centric rules does spark public debate that brings the rights of consumers to the fore. In this vein, the Rules lay an emphasis on national minimum standards for the performance parameters of electricity distribution companies (DISCOMs), without urban-rural distinction, especially for new connections, metering and billing. They also reiterate the need for automatically compensating consumers. But will these rules really lead to better supply quality? What are the limitations of the Rules? It needs to be recognised that providing quality supply is primarily the responsibility of States and DISCOMs. Similar (or better) provisions by various State Electricity Regulatory Commissions (SERCs) already exist in the Standards of Performance (SoP) regulations. Such regulations have been in place for two decades in most States. Lack of accountability It is not because of a lack of rules or regulations that quality supply is not provided; rather, it is on account of a lack of accountability systems to enforce them. Unfortunately, neither these rules nor past efforts, be it through the draft National Tariff Policy, the proposed Electricity Act amendments, or various committee processes, address these accountability concerns. Guarantee of round the clock supply is a provision that the Rules emphasise, which might be missing in State regulations. But there are doubts on the efficacy of automatic compensation payments towards such a guarantee. This is because the availability of power supply is inadequately monitored, even at 11 kV feeders, let alone at the consumer location. Hence, it is not clear how the failure of power supply is going to be recorded. Moreover, such compensation will require serious commitment. For example, according to government reports, rural areas received about 20 hours of supply, in August 2020. Following existing regulations, this would entail compensation of hundreds of crores, but the actual amount paid adds up to just a few lakhs in each State for the entire year; even here it involves the resourceful few who could escalate their complaints to higher levels. This highlights not only the need for implementation of existing provisions in letter and spirit but also amending them with strong accountability provisions. Weakening provisions Further, the Rules, in few cases, dilute progressive mechanisms that exist in State regulations. Consider the case of electricity meter-related complaints. The Rules say that faulty meters should be tested within 30 days of receipt of a complaint. Compared to this, regulations that were published as early as 2004, 2007 and 2012 in Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, and Madhya Pradesh, respectively, say that such testing needs to be conducted within seven days. A similar observation can be drawn from the suggested composition of the Consumer Grievance Redressal Forum. The Rules say that the forum — constituted to remedy complaints against DISCOMs as per existing laws and regulations — should be headed by a senior officer of the company. This is a regressive provision that would reduce the number of cases that are decided in favour of consumers, thereby eroding its credibility. State regulations in Delhi have different eligibility criteria, strictly mentioning that a DISCOM employee, who was in service in the last two years, cannot be appointed as a forum member. Maharashtra, Telangana and Bihar, among others, have the option of appointing a retired senior judicial officer or other independent members as the chairperson. It would be unfortunate if States now started amending their regulations to be in line with the Rules. The Rules are not forward looking either, given the government’s intent to promote rooftop solar systems. They guarantee net metering for a solar rooftop unit less than 10 kW, but there is no clarity if those above 10 kW can also avail net metering. This could lead to a change in regulations in many States based on their own interpretations. Instead of providing clarity, it is likely that this provision will lead to more confusion. The possible litigation that follows would be detrimental to investments in rooftop solar units, and would discourage medium and large consumers to opt for an environment-friendly, cost-effective option. Need for commitment What can the central government do to ensure accountability? A useful way to protect consumers would be to nudge SERCs to assess the SoP reports of DISCOMs and revise their regulations more frequently. Also, SERCs should organise public processes to help consumers raise their concerns. DISCOMs could be directed to ensure automatic metering at least at the 11 kV feeder level, making this data available online. The Forum of Regulators — a central collective of SERCs — could come up with updated model SoP regulations. The Central Electricity Authority of India could be directed to collect supply quality data from DISCOMs, publicly host them on online portals and prepare analysis reports. Such efforts need to go beyond the quality of information that is currently hosted on portals such as the National Power Portal. Central agencies have taken proactive efforts to ensure regular tariff revision. They could also support independent surveys and nudge State agencies to enforce existing SoP regulations. The central government could disburse funds for financial assistance programmes based on audited SoP reports. With a focused one-time effort, electrification drives could provide connections across the country. But ensuring round the clock supply will require continuous efforts. We noted that without accountability, consumer compensation is meagre. The official response to this is the many ‘ifs and buts’ in the implementation of regulations. The enactment of the new Rules will not change this status quo . Reducing the ‘ifs and buts’ that delay or deny justice is what governments, DISCOMs and regulators need to jointly work on. They should demonstrate the commitment and the will power to implement existing regulations. It is not yet late to recognise this and initiate concerted efforts to truly empower consumers. Manabika Mandal and Sreekumar Nhalur are from Prayas (Energy Group). They acknowledge the inputs of group members, especially from Ann Josey||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/true-empowerment-of-the-electricity-consumer/article33622065.ece
21 January 2021||January 21 2021 00:00 IST,||The long shadow of Trumpism||As America prepares for the transition from the tumultuous era of Donald Trump to what many hope would be a more sedate and serious Presidency of Joe Biden, there is as much nervousness about the challenges in future as there is a sense of anticipation about impending changes. But while politicians often have the luxury of campaigning in poetry, they have to govern in prose and respond to policy issues of the day in real time. Mr. Biden, as much as he would have liked, will neither have complete autonomy from his predecessor nor a clean slate from which his policy options might emerge. He will have to respond to an America which Donald Trump has transformed, for better or for worse, and he will have an international environment, which, too, has been changed in the last few years, partly by Mr. Trump’s policy choices and partly by the strategic realities evolving at an unprecedented speed. Domestically, Mr. Biden has his task cut out to reach out to Mr. Trump’s supporters, a majority of whom still believe that the new President has not been elected by fair means. Such a continuing support base for Mr. Trump will constrain the ability to usher in the transformational agenda that Mr. Biden may like to effectuate in his initial days. And politically, this would make it all the more difficult to govern from the middle ground of American politics. A different world This will have grave implications for Mr. Biden’s foreign policy approach as well. In a number of his foreign policy statements, Mr. Biden has, not surprisingly, harked back to Obama-era policies. But the world has moved on and it is not readily evident if the Obama-era template can actually work in a world fundamentally disrupted by forces that post-dated Mr. Obama — Mr. Trump is only one of them. Mr. Biden has an ambitious restorationist agenda wherein he wants the U.S. to rejoin multilateral institutions, work closely with allies and partners, as well as build America’s domestic capacities. Whether he will have enough space to manage this remains to be seen. In an interesting intervention recently, former Secretary of State Henry Kissinger warned that the Biden administration should not return to the old Iranian nuclear deal of 2015 as it can spark an arms race in West Asia. His argument is simple: with Iran’s nuclear capabilities grown and a new window of opportunity with the Abraham Accords, today’s West Asia is not what it was in 2015. The convergence between Israel and Sunni Arab states against the perceived Iranian threat has led to the creation of a new axis with far-reaching implications for the region’s future. So, while Mr. Biden may like to revive the old Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), other stakeholders are signalling that they are not interested. Also warning against the revival of the JCPOA, the UAE’s ambassador in Washington has argued that the U.S. ignored the concerns of its West Asian partners in the 2015 pact. A big votary of the Paris climate accord, one of the first priorities for Mr. Biden would be to bring the U.S. back to the agreement. But beyond that, his ability to bring about a significant shift in America’s environment policies will be restricted by the lack of a considerable majority in the U.S. Senate; there may also be a serious divide between progressive and moderate Democrats within his own party. Mr. Biden has also expressed his desire to reform the World Trade Organization and appoint members to its Appellate Body, but that would be difficult to accomplish given the new power equations and the growing clout of non-western states. Greater multilateralism, however attractive, will not be easy to achieve in the new political environs of the U.S. and the world. While there will be a lot of talk for a greater transatlantic partnership, to what extent the countries will be able to coordinate their actions on trade and technology vis-à-vis China remains an open question. Even as Mr. Biden’s team expressed its reservations about the EU’s investment pact with China, and his National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan called for “early consultations with our European partners on our common concerns about China’s economic practices”, the EU, in a seeming hurry, went ahead and concluded the agreement with China.   Mr. Trump’s tariff war against China would also be difficult to scale back, especially as China has made it clear that it is in no mood to initiate structural reforms demanded by Washington. Phase one of Mr. Trump’s trade deal with China has not really gotten off the ground, and the country’s lack of compliance with key aspects of the deal will confine the Biden administration to an arrangement where he may have to continue with most of the tariffs put in place by Mr. Trump. Recognising this challenge, Mr. Biden has already indicated that he does not intend to make any “immediate moves” regarding the Trump-era tariff structure. Even in his last few days, Mr. Trump did not shy away from ratcheting up the pressure on China by continuing to blacklist Chinese companies from U.S. markets and by new policy moves on key issues such as Tibet and Taiwan. He passed the Tibetan Policy and Support Act of 2020, which calls for establishing a U.S. consulate in Tibet and building an international coalition to ensure that the next Dalai Lama is appointed by the Tibetan Buddhist community without China’s interference. Days before departing, Mr. Trump also managed to challenge the decades-old U.S. policy on Taiwan, when Secretary of State Mike Pompeo declared that while U.S. relations with Taiwan would remain unofficial, they would no longer be shackled by “self-imposed restrictions”. With his moves, Mr. Trump has severely restricted Mr. Biden’s space for manoeuvre — he can either continue with Trump-era policies or face political backlash for being soft on China. The Trump legacy will continue to haunt Mr. Biden long after his predecessor has left the White House. It is possible that for all of Mr. Biden’s rhetoric, his next four years would be spent trying to get out of Mr. Trump’s shadow, both at home and abroad. The writer is director, Studies at the Observer Research Foundation, and Professor of International Relations at King’s College London||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-long-shadow-of-trumpism/article33622071.ece
21 January 2021||January 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Mobilisation and composite culture||After the long silence since 2014, India is now erupting with various collective mobilisations. Last winter, we saw a major movement against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) in Shaheen Bagh, and this winter, we witnessed a mobilisation at Delhi’s borders. But though both are against unjust legislation, they have been received differently. What can this difference tell us about political mobilisation and the place of ethics and public morality in collective mobilisations? Anti-CAA protests had begun over the question of citizenship for the dispossessed, but they got reduced to an issue of citizenship of Muslims. For the first time, we saw the movement being led and represented by Muslim women. They, too, suffered harsh winter nights in the open, just like the women and the elderly from Punjab and many other States during the ongoing farmer’s movement. While Yogi Adityanath took a jibe at Muslim men sitting at home while their women took to the streets, a judge this time offered unsolicited advice of taking women and elderly back to their homes. Muslim women as anti-CAA activists also raised a more universal concern that the protests were not just about citizenship for Muslims, but about saving democracy and the Constitution. Similarly, the farmers argue that their agitation is not just about Punjab or farmers, but also about food security and against the model of development and corporatisation of agriculture across India. Left-liberals and students had joined the anti-CAA protests to express solidarity with Shaheen Bagh agitators, and similarly, Left-affiliated farmer’s organisations, Khaps, women and farmers cutting across region and religion have joined the protests at Delhi’s borders this time. On the part of the government, too, both the movements were treated with similar disdain initially. An entire election was fought on Shaheen Bagh with no success for the BJP; the agitation was stereotyped as ‘anti-national’, portrayed as an obstacle for daily commuters, and ended with riots and violence. For the farmers’ stir, the government resorted to similar dirty tricks — it called the farmers ‘Khalistanis’ and the movement as one being led by rich farmers, and finally, it peddled the idea that the contentious laws were being resisted only in Punjab and Haryana. However, the government of the day has been more cautious in dealing with the agitating farmers and has at least produced the optics of being willing to hold a dialogue. Popular imagination The differential treatment of the two movements should account for how popular consciousness and imagination work. In the farmers’ movement, the agitators remained steadfast in their ‘universal’ approach right from the beginning. Though the movement was spearheaded by the Sikh community, a religious minority, it was about being a farmer, not a Sikh or a Jat. The ethical advantage of the ‘social’ identity of a farmer over ethnic or religious identities of being a Jat or a Sikh produces a more universal appeal. This is an advantage that was denied to the anti-CAA protests. It becomes easier for the government to stoke prejudices against the anti-CAA protests as long as they remain, even if just symbolically, an agitation by a religious community. One could ask how else should the Muslim community respond to a law that singles them out. Protests by Muslim women, and more importantly elderly women, made a perceptible difference in the way the movement was received. It carried a different moral weight. Acceptability and empathy are linked to the vulnerability of the minority and the anxiety of the majority. Absence of social conditions for ‘creating’ anxiety among dominant social groups makes it that much more difficult to create false narratives. The anti-CAA protests were limited by their religious stamp and enabled by the unfair vulnerability of elderly women and children. Something similar happened with the violence against students in Jamia Millia Islamia — they were students first and Muslims later. Singular identity It also vindicates what Amartya Sen argues in his book, The Idea of Justice,that any identity that is imagined in the singular will remain a source of violence. It is in multiplicity that dialogic conditions are created. The clear advantage that the farmers’ movement has is its multiplicity. It belongs to various regions, even if it is being spearheaded by the Jats or Sikhs of Punjab; it has women, Left-affiliated unions and even wage-workers and Dalits working for the rich peasantry extending their support. The future of the anti-CAA mobilisation will depend on what kind of multiplicity it can manage to find to counter the singularity imposed by the majoritarian imagination. The question of belonging and trust also emerges.  The popular image of Muslims as a community of rulers continues to be derived from the past, against the present reality of a group afflicted with great social disadvantage. And hence, empathy and compassion become difficult to achieve, because this translates into blatant prejudice and a source of anxiety. In addition, Muslims are also seen as a global community rather than a national one. With more than 40 Muslim nations across the globe and Islam being tipped as the fastest-growing religion, counter-mobilisations of the anti-CAA kind will have to find ways to penetrate the popular consciousness, stitch these disparate factors, and forge a more amicable imagination. The growing indifference towards violence against Muslims can only be countered through a renewed sense of belonging. Islam, as a religion that has originated ‘outside’, will have to contend with religions such as Sikhism that have their roots here, and those without a demand for separate nations. Sikhs as Khalistanis can be put down with force, but not Sikhs as farmers. Could a debate on an Indic-Islam version create this sense of belonging? Sufism and the culture of Dargahs (mosques) as common places of worship could offer us clues about what this composite culture might look like. The challenge of building counter-mobilisations for self-representation ought not to be shaped by the majoritarian gaze. Ajay Gudavarthy is Associate Professor, Centre for Political Studies, JNU||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/mobilisation-and-composite-culture/article33622074.ece
21 January 2021||January 21 2021 00:00 IST,||The many infirmities of China’s Western Theatre Command||In the first week of the new year, Chinese President Xi Jinping instructed his armed forces to be “combat-ready to act at any second” as they began their new training exercises. Mr. Xi also issued new rules for the selection, training and promotion of military personnel. There were several reasons for this aggressive rhetoric. Firstly, with Joe Biden assuming the U.S. Presidency on January 20, Mr. Xi wants to signal confidence and military preparedness in responding to new U.S. policies on the freedom of navigation operations in the South China Sea and Taiwan straits. Secondly, Mr. Xi’s aggressive pursuit of disputed territories in the South China Sea, Taiwan and across borders with India has increased the chances of military conflicts. Thirdly, the performance of China’s Western Theatre Command (WTC) in Ladakh last year was below par. It suffered a high number of casualties in the June 15 Galwan valley clash. The Indian Army also captured the strategic mountainous heights at Rezang La and other passes. The performance of the WTC in Ladakh last year was poor for a number of reasons. Chinese troops had seen combat after 41 years and were hence not prepared. They have also been suffering from low morale as the force’s senior officers have not got promotions in time due to doubts about their loyalty to Mr. Xi. Many of them were close to Guo Boxiong and Xu Caihou, both Vice-Chairmen of the Central Military Commission, who were ousted by Mr. Xi in his anti-corruption campaign, according to reports in the Chinese media. While Xu died in custody under investigation in 2015, Guo got a life sentence in 2016. The WTC has been facing problems in acclimatisation of its soldiers. Recently, 10,000 troops from the WTC were moved to lower locations for recuperation. The force has been struggling with managing the joint training of its army, strategic support and air force units, with the arrival of new fighter and stealth aircraft, rockets, artificial intelligence-based drones and other equipment. Recently, Mr. Xi replaced Gen. Zhao Zongqi, the retiring commander of the WTC, with Gen. Zhao Xidong, who had served at Doklam in 2017 and is close to him. Mr. Xi reportedly assured the new commander that his men would be given the same promotions and benefits as those in the other theatres, with special perks for combat troops stationed in “tough and remote bordering locations”. Ambitious vision In the past, promotions in the Chinese armed forces were based on the political loyalty of officers, their connections with the Chinese Communist Party leadership and personal background, with merit bagging low priority. Now, the forces are required to display their loyalty to Mr. Xi. The President has also changed the posture of the Chinese armed forces from defensive to offensive. Borrowing from American military doctrines, Mr. Xi has unveiled an ambitious vision for the restructuring of the Chinese armed forces, by introducing the Joint Theatre Command concept to align with various regional threats. The armed forces are also being infused with new technologies like artificial intelligence and new concepts of “intelligentised” warfare. However, the training of the Chinese armed forces to adapt to these American concepts would not be easy given the lack of cross-fertilisation with other forces, which have successfully incorporated these doctrines. The country’s armed forces also suffer from a number of other structural issues: they are a political and not a professional force, and the personnel are mostly conscripts with low levels of education and low motivation (mostly from one-child families). They lack a tough mindset and battlefield experience, and face a serious problem of ‘brain drain’. These limitations will certainly affect the performance of the Chinese armed forces in a war with any professional army, as was seen in Ladakh. Yogesh Gupta is a former Ambassador||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-many-infirmities-of-chinas-western-theatre-command/article33622068.ece
21 January 2021||January 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Managing the rollout||Nearly a fortnight after it won approval for Covaxin under ‘restricted emergency use’ conditions, Bharat Biotech has formally informed, via its website, that the vaccine is inadvisable in those with a history of allergies, fever and bleeding disorders. Those on medication or blood thinners and whose immunity has been compromised have also been told not to take the vaccine. This is along with a recommendation that the vaccine is not to be given to the pregnant or the lactating. A similar set of restrictions has been given to prospective recipients of Covishield too, the vaccine now available in greater numbers and developed by the Serum Institute of India. Ordinarily, a fact sheet as well as product insert — a note that accompanies every vial of a vaccine — is a mandatory formality. However, the context in which the two vaccines are being administered in India imbues them with magnified significance. Covaxin has been rolled out with insufficient evidence of its efficacy, or whether it is actually protective. The vaccines have been so far made available to health-care and sanitation workers and other frontline staff, who do not have a choice in the vaccine being administered, but can decide not to be inoculated. Nine States, according to data provided by the Health Ministry, have rates of over 70%, and three States, less than 40%. More than half the States fall somewhere in the middle. While India has given jabs to nearly 786,000 of those eligible, it is far short of the target of 1.4 million. It is certainly early days, and presumably there will be acceleration in the days ahead. However, the government is yet to explain, based on feedback from the States, why the vaccine — the single most awaited product of 2021 — has not seen more enthusiastic queues. This, in spite of Health Ministry officials underlining that adverse events following vaccination have been negligibly low, accentuating the safety of the product. Hospitals have begun internal campaigns exhorting senior doctors to get a shot to “build confidence” and officials in the highest government offices say that not opting for a vaccine, when one is available, amounts to dereliction “in duty”. The adoption trend is unsurprising. The medically literate, as many recipients are, realise the difference between a vaccine being ‘safe’ and ‘efficacious’. Moreover, the declining trend in new cases as well as the knowledge that an array of vaccines will be available in the months ahead further contribute to the temporary ‘hesitancy’ pervading hospitals now. A way forward for the government to inspire confidence is to monitor, report and be forthright with the challenges it is facing. There should also be greater coordination between the Centre and the States on sharing, investigating and publicising reasons for hesitancy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/managing-the-rollout/article33622057.ece
21 January 2021||January 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Polls apart||Yoweri Museveni, Uganda’s 76-year-old leader who has been in power since 1986, won another five-year term in the January 14 presidential election, but the contested result has pushed the country into its worst political crisis in decades. According to Uganda’s Electoral Commission, he won nearly 59% of the vote, while his main rival, Robert Kyagulanyi, a pop musician better known by his stage name Bobi Wine, secured 34%. Mr. Wine has alleged voter fraud, which the government was quick to dismiss, while putting him and several other leaders of his National Unity Platform under house arrest. The government cracking down on the opposition is not new, but this time, there were widespread reports of state repression of Mr. Wine’s movement in the run-up to the election. He was detained several times, his rallies broken up by security personnel, and the Internet shut down and social networks blocked before the election. Mr. Museveni’s government refused to accredit election monitors from the West, saying the U.S., after its election crisis, did not have the authority to monitor the elections. Observers from Africa have documented irregularities, including illegal opening of ballot boxes and arrests of members of civil society groups observing elections. According to Ugandan law, Mr. Wine has 15 days to prove election irregularities, which is unlikely to happen as he is under house arrest and party offices have been raided by security personnel. The Internet was restored almost a week after the shutdown, but social media platforms, which his campaign used to connect with the public, are still blocked. It appears that Mr. Museveni, whose National Resistance Movement came to power by waging a guerrilla war in the 1980s, seems determined to prevent Mr. Wine even coming close to power. Uganda has long been torn by coups and violence before Mr. Museveni’s rise. Even after Idi Amin, the infamous dictator, was overthrown in 1979, politics remained volatile and violent. Mr. Museveni, when he captured power, promised reforms and stability. Consolidating power rather quickly, he offered a stable government and made Uganda an ally of the West in the fight against radicalism in East Africa. But his grip on power tightened and he forcefully kept the opposition below the radar. In 2005, Mr. Museveni amended the Constitution to remove the presidential term limits and in 2017, signed a law scrapping the age limit of 75 for presidential candidates. He might continue in office, but his greed for power and disregard for a fair electoral process and rights, coupled with economic woes, have already left cracks in his support base. Mr. Wine, in a short span, has emerged as the President’s most potent political rival. Mr. Museveni must realise that short-circuiting the democratic process might force Uganda to repeat its history of violent transfer of power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/polls-apart/article33622058.ece
21 January 2021||January 21 2021 00:00 IST,||“Newspapers would be crushed”||The Tamil Nadu Congress Committee (R) President, Mr. R. V. Swaminathan, warned that the newspapers “blacking out” the Prime Minister’s speeches would be “crushed”(norukkuvom)after the elections. Speaking at Tuesday’s [January 19] public meeting (a report of which was published in THE HINDU yesterday [January 20] addressed by the Prime Minister here [MADRAS], the TNCC (R) President said “capitalist newspapers” in Tamil Nadu had “blacked out” Mrs. Gandhi’s speeches at Madurai and Coimbatore on Monday [January 18]. He named the newspapers as THE HINDU, the Indian Express and the Dinamani. He said THE HINDU which supported the freedom struggle undaunted by the threats from the then British Government, was now shutting out the Prime Minister’s speeches. He said the Indian Express and Dinamani were started by Mr. Sadanand, a great patriot, to help the Indian National Congress in its fight for freedom. These papers were also blacking out the Prime Minister’s speeches, defeating the very purpose for which they were started, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/newspapers-would-be-crushed/article33622067.ece
21 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Weak reform push, financial sector woes may damp growth’||Fitch Ratings on Wednesday said India’s medium-term growth potential is at about 6.5% but weak implementation of reforms, combined with continued financial sector problems, could lower its potential. It said the revival of the reform agenda is among the Indian government’s policy responses to the COVID-19 pandemic shock. ‘Partially offset’ “If implemented effectively, we believe these reforms may help to support India’s medium-term growth and partially offset downside pressures to investment from renewed asset-quality challenges in the financial sector and damaged corporate balance sheets,” the ratings agency said. “We expect India’s central government to remain generally reform-minded over the next few years, and potential areas for further reform seem plentiful, in our view. However, the process of reform in India remains complex, and implementation at times has proven difficult,” Fitch said. “Our projected annual medium-term GDP growth is relatively high, nevertheless, at around 6.5% reflecting above-trend growth rates needed to close the output gap.” Fitch estimates medium-term growth potential to be some 1.7 percentage point lower than otherwise as a result of the scarring effects of the health crisis and financial sector weaknesses. The ratings agency last week said India’s gross domestic product (GDP) would expand by 11% in the financial year 2021-22, after witnessing a 9.4% contraction in the current fiscal period ending in March 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/weak-reform-push-financial-sector-woes-may-damp-growth/article33622054.ece
21 January 2021||MUMBAI,||States’ FY21 fiscal deficit to hit peak of Rs. 8.7 lakh crore: Crisil||The States are headed for a fourfold expansion in their revenue deficit this fiscal over the last year due to far lesser tax collections, Crisil Ratings said in a report. Collections had been impacted on account of the lockdowns and the consequent slump in economic activity, it added. “This will not only expand States’ aggregate gross fiscal deficit (GFD) to an all-time high of Rs. 8.7 lakh crore, or 4.7% of GSDP, but also skew its composition towards revenue deficit which is relatively less value-accretive towards future tax potential,” it said. Collections may improve Tax collections may slowly recover with improving economic outlook. However, higher interest burden because of high debt funding of this year’s GFD, coupled with sticky revenue expenditures, may keep revenue deficits high for States and GFD composition skewed over the next 2-3 years, it added. This will, in turn, increase the credit risk for States, the agency said. Manish Gupta, senior director, added, “Composition of GFD, apart from its level, is one of the critical indicators of credit quality of States. Higher contribution of capital expenditure in a State’s GFD composition is viewed positively as it supports capital formation, which improves the State’s tax potential.” “In this fiscal, revenue deficit of States would contribute 70% of GFD, sharply higher than the average 15% seen over the past five fiscals,” he said. That is because of the 15% on-year decline in revenue this fiscal, the ratings agency added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/states-fy21-fiscal-deficit-to-hit-peak-of-rs-87-lakh-crore-crisil/article33622046.ece
21 January 2021||MUMBAI,||Emerging market NPAs to continue rising: S&P||The COVID-19 pandemic and its aftermath will continue to dominate the credit story for emerging markets (EMs), including India in 2021, S&P Global Ratings said in a report. It said bank systems in its sample EMs were exposed to major sources of risk including that of likely deterioration in asset quality. “We expect non-performing loans to continue increasing and cost of risk to stabilise at high levels as central banks start to remove regulatory forbearance measures in some of the markets where such measures were implemented and banks start recognising the full extent of asset quality deterioration.” It said profitability of banks in EMs was likely to remain below historical levels due to lower global interest rates and slower growth. “In India, SMEs [accounted] for around 20% of total exposures at mid-2020. Stress in SMEs is somewhat tempered by the government's guarantee of new loans taken by SMEs,” up to 20% of their total loans, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/emerging-market-npas-to-continue-rising-sp/article33622043.ece
21 January 2021||COIMBATORE,||CCI plans to export 10 lakh bales of cotton||The Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) plans to export at least 10 lakh bales of cotton during the current season. Pradeep Kumar Agarwal, CMD of CCI, told The Hindu it had procured almost 85 lakh bales of cotton at minimum support price (MSP) since the beginning of the current cotton season (October 2020-September 2021). With cotton prices rising, the CCI had reduced the purchases at MSP. Better prices “The farmers are getting better prices,” he said. “Hence, CCI’s daily purchase has dropped to 40,000 to 50,000 bales a day from about two lakh bales a day a few weeks ago,” he added. The CCI is active mainly in Telangana and Maharashtra. It will continue to be present in the market till the end of the season. Of the cotton procured so far, it had sold 12 lakh bales to the domestic textile sector. The CCI has till now exported about 25,000 bales. It is looking at a minimum of 10 lakh bales for export this season, a majority of which would be to Bangladesh. The governments of India and Bangladesh are expected to sign a memorandum of understanding in this regard. There could be exports to other countries through merchant exporters, Mr. Agarwal added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cci-plans-to-export-10-lakh-bales-of-cotton/article33622048.ece
21 January 2021||Chennai,||Sundaram Finance names Lochan as MD||Sundaram Finance Ltd. has named Rajiv Lochan as its next Managing Director, after the current incumbent T. T. Srinivasaraghavan retires on March 31. Mr. Lochan, who is director-strategy, will assume office on April 1. The firm’s board, which met on Wednesday, named deputy MD Harsha Viji as executive vice-chairman. Mr. Viji will oversee overall strategy and direction including at other group companies in financial services. Mr. Srinivasaraghavan, who will retire after 38 years, the last 18 as MD, will remain on the board and provide mentorship, the NBFC said in a statement. During his tenure, the NBFC’s balance sheet surpassed Rs. 30,000 crore, from less than Rs. 800 crore earlier. “Under his leadership the company has demonstrated its traditional focus on asset quality, and most importantly, adherence to ‘Sundaram values’ of prudence and customer focus,” said Chairman S. Viji. The board also declared an interim dividend of Rs. 12.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sundaram-finance-names-lochan-as-md/article33622052.ece
21 January 2021||New Delhi,||DPIIT unveils compliance portal||The Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade has unveiled a regulatory compliance portal that will act as a bridge for citizens, industries and the government to minimise burdensome compliances. It will also act as a first-of-its-kind central online repository of all central and State-level compliances, the department said on Wednesday. All central Ministries/departments and States/UTs would examine laws and regulations under their purview and implement an action plan to simplify all the processes and remove burdensome compliances, decriminalise laws and repeal redundant acts. These details would be captured and tracked on the portal. Industry stakeholders will also be able to submit compliances and recommendations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/dpiit-unveils-compliance-portal/article33622144.ece
21 January 2021||MUMBAI,||Focus on core economic variables: Birla||One needs to focus on core economic and business variables rather than getting unduly disturbed by fluctuations in commodity prices, said Kumar Mangalam Birla, chairman, Aditya Birla Group. “It is far more important to focus on core economic and business variables, the demographic drivers of market trends, and the technological drivers of supply chains. These fundamental variables don’t change as discontinuously as prices and indices suggest,” Mr. Birla said in a Linkedin post. He said though manufacturing had witnessed a strong recovery, the quantum of froth in the euphoric financial markets was still an open question. “Perhaps, we still need another quarter to confirm if this booming trajectory is here to last,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/focus-on-core-economic-variables-birla/article33622044.ece
21 January 2021||MUMBAI,||SBI does deals using SOFR as benchmark||State Bank of India (SBI) has executed two inter-bank short term money market deals with pricing linked to SOFR (Secured Overnight Financing Rate). SOFR is a replacement for USD LIBOR that may be phased out end-2021. This follows the U.K.’s Financial Conduct Authority deciding not to compel banks on LIBOR calculation after December. “The transaction shows SBI’s progress in aligning systems and processes to embrace alternate reference rates,” said C. Venkat Nageswar, DMD, (International Banking Group).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sbi-does-deals-using-sofr-as-benchmark/article33622045.ece
21 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||EPFO net new enrolments dip in Nov.||Net new enrolments with retirement fund body EPFO slipped to 10.11 lakh in November from 10.56 lakh in October, according to its latest payroll data, providing a perspective on formal sector employment amid the pandemic. Provisional payroll data released by the Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) last month had shown net new enrolments at 11.54 lakh in October. “The provisional payroll of EPFO reveals it has added around 10.11 lakh net subscribers in November. Despite COVID-19, EPFO has added around 45.29 lakh net subscribers base in the current financial year (April to November),” the Labour Ministry said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/epfo-net-new-enrolments-dip-in-nov/article33622049.ece
21 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||IRFC IPO subscribed 3.49 times||The initial public offering (IPO) of Indian Railway Finance Corporation Limited was subscribed 3.49 times on the final day of bidding on Wednesday. The offer received bids for 4,35,22,57,225 shares against 1,24,75,05,993 shares on offer. Qualified Institutional Buyers (QIBs) category was subscribed 3.78 times, non- institutional investors 2.67 times and retail individual investors (RIIs) 3.66 times. The IPO comprises a fresh issue of up to 118.8 crore shares and an offer for sale of up to 59.4 crore shares. Price range was fixed at Rs. 25-26 per share. IRFC had on Friday raised a little over Rs. 1,398 crore from anchor investors. It’s primary objective is to meet the predominant portion of ‘extra budgetary resources’ need of the Indian Railways through market borrowings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/irfc-ipo-subscribed-349-times/article33622050.ece
21 January 2021||LEICESTER,||Leicester City goes to the top||Leicester City beat Chelsea 2-0 on Tuesday to go top of the Premier League, for 24 hours at least, thanks to goals from Wilfred Ndidi and James Maddison. Leicester has 38 points from 19 games, while Chelsea’s third defeat in five matches dropped it to eighth place, nine points behind the leader. Leicester took a sixth-minute lead when a short-corner ended up half-cleared to Ndidi on the edge of the box and his shot flew in off the inside of the post. Penalty denied Chelsea was awarded a penalty in the 38th minute when Jonny Evans brought down Christian Pulisic, but after a VAR review, the challenge was ruled to have occurred just outside the area and Mason Mount blasted the freekick over the bar. Within three minutes Frank Lampard’s side went from the brink of an equaliser to being 2-0 down when Chelsea’s defence failed to deal with a high ball from Marc Albrighton, which fell to an unattended Maddison whose composed finish gave Edouard Mendy no chance. Chelsea substitute Timo Werner had an effort ruled out for a narrow offside in the final stages but the Foxes were good value for their win. Diaby shines In the Bundesliga, Moussa Diaby scored one goal and set up the winner for Florian Wirtz as Bayer Leverkusen beat Borussia Dortmund 2-1 to move into second place and snap a four-game winless run this year. Dortmund’s title hopes has suffered a serious blow and the Ruhr valley club has now won just three of its last nine games. Sevilla goalkeeper Bono rescued his side with a 91st-minute penalty save to earn a 2-1 win away to Alaves on Tuesday, taking his side up to fourth in LaLiga.  The results: Premier League: Leicester 2 (Ndidi 6, J. Maddison 41) bt Chelsea 0; West Ham 2 (Bowen 45+2, Antonio 66) bt West Brom 1 (Pereira 51).   LaLiga: Cadiz 2 (Perea 4, Cala 28) drew with Levante 2 (Roger 8, 11); Real Valladolid 2 (Herrero 71, Fernandez 89) drew with Elche 2 (Josan 9, 43); Alaves 1 (Mendez 12) lost to Sevilla 2 (En-Nesyri 3, Suso 30).   Bundesliga: Borussia Monchengladbach 1 (Elvedi 66) bt Werder Bremen 0; Mainz 05 0 lost to VfL Wolfsburg 2 (Bialek 65, Weghorst 79); Hertha Berlin 0 lost to Hoffenheim 3 (Rudy 33, Kramaric 68, 88); Bayer Leverkusen 2 (Diaby 14, Wirtz 80) bt Borussia Dortmund 1 (Brandt 67) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/leicester-goes-to-the-top/article33622173.ece
21 January 2021||Chennai,||Pujara: the iron man of India||Steve Waugh and Mohinder Amarnath typified bravery. They took blows on the body from the quicks, shed blood on the pitch, but never gave their wicket away. It was a matter of pride and honour. And both Waugh and Amarnath sported a red handkerchief in their pocket [for Amarnath it was the legacy of his father Lala] that was akin to showing the red rag to the bull. And they had the heart to withstand the barrage from the big, fast men. In fact, when Amarnath made 91 and 80 taking on the Fab Four West Indian quicks on a fast Bridgetown pitch in ‘83, he was struck a grievous blow near his mouth by a Malcolm Marshall lifter. He spit out blood, got the wound stitched in the dressing room and returned to astonishingly hook the first delivery he faced — from Marshall — for a six. Raw courage We are talking raw courage here and Cheteshwar Pujara belongs to this breed. A blood and guts batsman who can withstand immense pain on the cricket field. On the pulse pounding final day at the Gabba, Pujara took blow after blow on his body as the Australian quicks went after him with short-pitched deliveries; there was a distinct crack on the pitch too. There were occasions when Pujara appeared in considerable pain but he batted on. Mentally he had entered a zone where physical agony was conquered by the will to stay at the wicket. Pujara was the star the last time around when India defeated Australia for the first time in a Test series down under. This was a more demanding tour for Pujara. The Aussies bowled a lot closer to his off-stump, moved it both ways.  Pujara battled hard in Sydney staying at the crease for 286 minutes for a match-saving 77. And in the second innings at Gabba, he batted 314 minutes for a heroic 56. Inside his shirt, his body would have sported many red marks caused by the impact of the lifting deliveries. There were times when Pujara endured painful hits on his knuckles. Nothing, though, broke his spirit as he went past 6,000 Test runs. Pujara did not wilt and India, riding on young talent, ambushed Australia at fortress Gabba. And the seasoned Pujara was the unsung hero. He is the iron man of Indian cricket.  Puji you will be known as the ultimate warrior Shastri||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pujara-the-iron-man-of-india/article33622141.ece
21 January 2021||January 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Blasters steal a win over BFC||Kerala Blasters ran out 2-1 victors over Bengaluru FC (BFC) following a stunning smash-and-grab at the GMC Stadium in Bambolim on Wednesday. K.P. Rahul’s strike three minutes into injury time, via a low drive from just inside the penalty area, brought his side only its third win of the season and lifted it above East Bengal into ninth place on 13 points. The goal came from a swift counter-attack after BFC’s Cleiton Silva had hit the post with an overhead. Minutes before that, substitute Leon Augustin had burst through the Blasters defence but couldn’t finish a one-on-one. Naushad Moosa’s wards have now not tasted a win in six matches and are tied with the Blasters on points. Shaking things up Earlier, Moosa shook things up by playing Sunil Chhetri centrally and Udanta Singh just off him. The two looked lively all through the first half, though it would have served BFC better if their teammates had kept the ball well. The first two chances, both in the opening quarter, fell to the Blasters, with defender Costa Nhamoinesu failing to hit the target from six yards out and Gary Hooper sending a looping shot just wide. Acrobatic volley BFC made Blasters pay in the 24th minute through an acrobatic volley from Silva. Rahul Bheke’s long throw fell to the Brazilian and he hoodwinked goalie Albino Gomes by going for the near post rather than across the goal. Chhetri nearly doubled the lead just before half-time, but his freekick was saved well by Gomes. Blasters’ attacking patterns improved in the second half and the equaliser, through scrappy, came after sustained pressure. On 73 minutes, Hooper’s shot from point-blank range hit BFC custodian Gurpreet Sandhu in the face and floored him. But Juanan’s failure to clear the stray ball resulted in Lalthathanga Khawlhring smashing it in. With 10 minutes to go, Rahul fluffed a one-on-one with a weak connection. But he wouldn’t be denied his moment of glory.  The result:   Kerala Blasters 2 (Lalthathanga 73, Rahul 90) bt Bengaluru FC 1 (Silva 24).   Thursday’s match: ATK Mohun Bagan vs Chennaiyin, 7.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/blasters-edges-out-bfc/article33622181.ece
21 January 2021||BANGKOK,||Gritty Prannoy ousts Christie||H.S. Prannoy battled through pain in his ribcage and a shoulder injury to stun Asian Games champion Jonatan Christie in the opening round of Toyota Thailand Open Super 1000 tournament here on Wednesday. A former top 10 player, Prannoy showed great resilience to outwit the World No. 7 Christie 18-21, 21-16, 23-21 in a thrilling contest that clocked 75 minutes. It is Prannoy’s first win against the sixth-seeded Indonesian in last four attempts. The 28-year-old had spent two weeks stressing over his physical and mental health after contracting COVID-19 last November. The infection left him with pain in his ribcage even though everything looked normal in the tests. He could resume training only in the second week of December but had to go through the ordeal of a false COVID positive result ahead of the Yonex Thailand Open last week. Prannoy and Sameer Verma will carry India’s charge in men’s singles after the withdrawal of compatriots B. Sai Praneeth and K. Srikanth. Praneeth and his roommate Srikanth were forced to pull out after the former tested positive for COVID-19. Arjun-Dhruv advance Among other Indians in the fray, the men’s doubles pair of M.R. Arjun and Dhruv Kapila beat New Zealand’s combination of Oliver Leydon-Davis and Abhinav Manota 23-21, 21-17 to enter the second round. The women’s doubles pair of N. Sikki Reddy and Ashwini Ponnappa bowed out after losing 21-11, 21-19 to the German duo of Linda Efler and Isabel Herttrich. It was curtains also for the mixed doubles combination of B. Sumeeth Reddy and Sikki Reddy.  The results (first round):   Men: H.S. Prannoy bt Jonaton Christie (Ina) 18-21, 21-16, 23-21. Doubles: M.R. Arjun & Dhruv Kapila bt Oliver Leydon-Davis & Abhinav Manota (NZ) 23-21, 21-17.   Women: Doubles: Linda Efler & Isabel Herttrich (Ger) bt N. Sikki Reddy & Ashwini Ponnappa 21-11, 21-19.   Mixed doubles: Pang Ron Hoo & Yee See Cheah (Mas) bt B. Sumeeth Reddy & Sikki Reddy 21-14, 18-21, 21-13.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/prannoy-ousts-christie/article33622167.ece
21 January 2021||HYDERABAD,||Hanuma Vihari both ‘proud’ and ‘gutted’||Hanuma Vihari, who was involved in a magnificent match-saving partnership with R. Ashwin in the third Test at Sydney of the just-concluded Australian series, says he has mixed emotions. “I feel happy and proud to (have) been involved in a stand with Ashwin which saved the Test for India and kept its hopes alive in the series. But, at the same time, I feel gutted that I was not there for the final Test when the Indian team recorded a historic series win,” the 27-year-old Vihari told The Hindu on Wednesday. Speaking from Bengaluru where he will be reporting at the NCA for his hamstring injury, which ruled him out of the final Test, Vihari said when he looks at the bigger picture of the whole series, he is glad to have contributed in his own way for the team’s eventual success story. “It is a great feeling to play such an important innings with the hamstring injury causing acute pain. We had no option but to go for a draw because of injuries. It was one of those efforts from my side which has a greater value than a Test century for me. Our effort ensured that India went to Brisbane with hopes of winning the series. “We always knew it was one of those freak performances (bowled out for 36 in the first Test in Adelaide). “Essentially, after the first Test debacle, we looked at the series as a three-match series to be mentally fresh for the bigger challenges ahead,” Vihari said. He said it was one of the greatest series wins ever. “Full credit to the way the young bowlers performed. They know how to bowl with the red ball at this level because of the India-A exposure tours,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hanuma-vihari-returns-with-mixed-feelings/article33622143.ece
21 January 2021||Mysuru:,||KSCA annual awards given away||The Karnataka State Cricket Association (KSCA) Mysore Zone’s annual awards for the year 2019-20 were given away at a function at the Nrityotsava hall here on Wednesday evening. The prizes to the winners in the league, other tournaments, for state representations and special prizes for performances with the bat and ball were given away by Roger Binny, president KSCA, and Santosh Menon, hon. secretary KSCA. Also present were S. Sudhakar Rai, convenor KSCA Mysore zone, R.K. Harikrishnakumar, chairman KSCA Mysore zone, Shanti Swarup, MC member, and Irfan Sait, zonal in-charge.  The award winners: 1st Division league: Winner: RBNCC, Runner-up: Saraswathipuram SC. 2nd Division: Winner: The Mysore Gymkhana, Runner-up: Mysore City Gymkhana, 3rd Division: Sri Krishna Rajendra SC, Runner-up: Sunny Side CC, 4th Division: Kollegal CC, Runner-up: City Cricketers, Mandya.   KSCA inter-collegiate tourney: Winner: Maharaja’s, Mysore, Runner-up: SBRR Mahajana FGC.   KSCA inter-club: U-14: Winner: National CC, Runner-up: Sunny Side CC. U-16: Winner: RBNCC, Runner-up: New National CC. U-19: Winner: RBNCC, Runner-up: Jo Jo CC.   Sri M Gopalaswamy Memorial tournament: Winner: Saraswathipuram SC, Runner-up: RBNCC. KSCA T20 tournament:Winner: Saraswathipuram SC, Runner-up: RBNCC. TR club tournament: Winner: NMCC, Runner-up: Young Cricketers.   State players: U-23: M. Venkatesh, S.J. Nikin Jose, Kishan S. Bedare, Vishnu Priyan, B. Dheemanth, Thushar Harkrishna. U-19: Kruthik Krishna, K. Gourav, K.S. Lankesh, L.R. Kumar. U-16: A. Abhay Rangan. U:14: M. Kanishk. Senior Women: Rakshitha K. & Shubha Satish .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ksca-annual-awards-given-away/article33622581.ece
21 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Samaresh Jung wary of high scores||Samaresh Jung, the Champion of Champions in the 2006 Commonwealth Games in Melbourne, appreciates the struggle endured by the cream of Indian shooting, but he is wary of the high scores. “I don’t want them to be doing this great,” said the high performance pistol coach of the Indian team, as Samaresh looked at the intimidating scores of Saurabh Chaudhary and Manu Bhaker in some of the matches during the recent selection trials. Of course, the two top shooters also slipped in some matches, especially the finals, which would keep them focused on the work on hand till they reach Tokyo for the Olympics. Equally, Samaresh was able to understand the struggles of World No. 12 Anish Bhanwala, who failed to reach the finals of the rapid fire pistol event. Different shooters feel different pressure, but Samaresh was categorical that “this was required” to shake up the shooters from their slumber. Asian Games gold medallist Rahi Sarnobat has been shooting very well in the finals, but the qualification has not been to her high standards in sports pistol. “Rahi’s duelling is good, but she is working on her precision,” said Samaresh. Yashaswini Deswal, Chinki Yadav and Abhishek Verma are the other pistol shooters who had won the Olympic quota and are slowly getting into their rhythm. Week of training Before the second set of trials, the Olympic core group will undergo another week long training. “We assembled on January 20 and after a week of quarantine, the camp will start on January 27,” said Samaresh. The two foreign coaches Pavel Smirnov and Oleg Mikhailov have joined the team and thus the Indian shooters would continue to get better with adequate guidance. Samaresh felt that a bit of work on physical strength and conditioning could be an ideal blend to the technical tuning. With Germany and England experiencing lockdown, Samaresh said that arrangements have already been made to acquire the right ammunition for the shooters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/samaresh-jung-wary-of-high-scores/article33622269.ece
21 January 2021||Kolkata,||Aizawl downs Gokulam Kerala||Former champion Aizawl FC picked up its first win of the tournament as it beat Gokulam Kerala FC 2-0 in an I-League fixture at the Mohun Bagan ground on Wednesday. Aizawl took the lead late in the first half when MC Malsawmzuala scored a penalty. Lalrammawia doubled the lead for Aizawl in the final quarter of the action. Gokulam had a placid opening half, where Aizawl FC created most of the chances. The goal came in the 40th minute after Malsawmzuala was tripped inside the Gokulam box by its Ghanaian defender Awal Mohammed. Failing to equalise Gokulam Kerala had a chance to equalise in the 44th minute but the crosspiece prevented Sharif Mohammad’s free-kick from going in. Gokulam earned more chances after the break but failed to convert any. Lalrammawia settled the issue for Aizawl FC in the 76th minute when he volleyed home a nicely curled corner from Lalengmawia.  The result:   Aizawl FC 2 (MC Malsawmzuala 40-pen, Lalrammawia 76) bt Gokulam Kerala FC 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aizawl-wins/article33622177.ece
21 January 2021||CHENNAI:,||It’s Penang vs. Star Templar in feature event||Penang and Star Templar may fight out the finish of the Merchants Cup (1,800m), the main event of the races to be held here on Thursday (Jan. 21).  QUEEN ELIZABETH COMMEMERATION CUP (1,200m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms), 2-00 p.m.: 1. Eagle Prince (8) Nakhat Singh 56, 2. Whistle Podu (5) Umesh 56, 3. Annexed (1) Shahar Babu 54.5, 4. Emelda (4) Brisson 54.5, 5. Geisha Girl (2) Zervan 54.5, 6. Indian Coral (7) R.N. Darshan 54.5, 7. La Nora (3) B. Nikhil 54.5 and 8. Strong Breeze (6) Farhan 54.5.  1. INDIAN CORAL, 2. EMELDA,   3. ANNEXED   WANDERING ANGEL PLATE (1,200m), 6-y-o & over, rated 20 to 45, 2-30: 1. Rafaele (10) A.M. Alam 60, 2. Star Convey (8) Azfar Syeed 60, 3. Eyes Of Falcon (2) Zervan 59.5, 4. Fort St. George (13) P. Sai Kumar 57.5, 5. Hadar (4) C.P. Khanal 57, 6. Sprit Of Zion (5) Umesh 57, 7. Platini (14) Shahar Babu 55, 8. Silver Sea (9) B. Nikhil 54.5, 9. Steve Mcqueen (3) Irshad Alam 54, 10. Intox (7) Manikandan 53, 11. Fantastic Hit (6) Farhan 52.5, 12. Sifan (11) A. Ayaz Khan 52.5, 13. Lady Blazer (1) N. Murugan 52 and 14. Atacama (12) Hari Krishnan 51.5.  1. EYES OF FALCON, 2. RAFAELE, 3. FORT ST. GEORGE   MERCHANTS CUP (1,800m), rated 40 to 65, 3-00: 1. Cotton Hall (4) Umesh 61.5, 2. Demerara (3) Azfar Syeed 59.5, 3. Royal Commander (5) R.N. Darshan 58, 4. Star Templar (2) Nakhat Singh 57, 5. Comanche Brave (1) Rajendra Singh 56.5 and 6. Penang (6) P. Sai Kumar 55.  1. PENANG, 2. STAR TEMPLAR   BOTSWANA PLATE (Div. II) , (1,200m), 5-y-o & over, rated 40 to 65, 3-30: 1. Asian Warrior (8) H. Rahul 60, 2. Crown Of Stars (9) Zervan 58.5, 3. Olympicduel (7) Azfar Syeed 58.5, 4. Desert Hawk (5) M. Bhaskar 58, 5. Royal Protocal (10) Brisson 58, 6. Lady Elise (2) Stephen Raj 57.5, 7. Lord Of Kings (3) Nakhat Singh 57, 8. Shadow Of Love (11) B. Nikhil 57, 9. Branka (1) A.M. Alam 56.5. 10. Palsy Walsy (4) Farhan 56 and 11. Royal Rules (6) Iltaf Hussain 56.  1. SHADOW OF LOVE, 2. ROYAL PROTOCAL, 3. CROWN OF STARS   BOTSWANA PLATE (Div. I) , (1,200m), 5-y-o & over, rated 40 to 65, 4-00: 1. Glorious Land (9) A.M. Alam 60, 2. Thomas Hardy (6) Shahar Babu 60, 3. Breaking Bounds (4) Iltaf Hussain 59.5, 4. Copper Queen (10) Nakhat Singh 58.5, 5. Wakanda (5) Kamigallu 58, 6. Renegade (8) Zervan 56, 7. Admiral Nelson (11) Umesh 55.5, 8. Pinewood (1) A. Ayaz Khan 55.5, 9. Queens Hall (7) P. Sai Kumar 55, 10. Victoria’s Secret (3) Farhan 55, 11. Star Ranking (—) (—) 54.5 and 12. Henrietta (2) Azfar Syeed 53.  1. COPPER QUEEN, 2. RENEGADE, 3. THOMAS HARDY   BEAUTIFUL STRANGER PLATE (1,000m), 5-y-o & over, rated 20 to 45, 4-30: 1. Nagada (5) P. Sai Kumar 60, 2. Star Waves (1) C.P. Khanal 60, 3. Butterfly (2) H. Rahul 59.5, 4. Glorious Victory (8) Umesh 58, 5. Magical Wish (10) Farhan 58, 6. Daring Dancer (11) Zervan 56.5, 7. Star Proof (140 Azfar Syeed 56.5, 8. Wild Passion (13) Kiran Naidu 55.5, 9. Fun Lover (4) Brisson 54.5, 10. Parrys Glory (9) A. Ayaz Khan 54.5, 11. Wonderful Era (3) R.N. Darshan 53.5, 12. Exquisite Star (7) Shahar Babu 52, 13. Cape Cod (6) N. Murugan 51.5 and 14. Welcome Chakkaram (12) B. Nikhil 50.5.  1. BUTTERFLY, 2. STAR WAVES,   3. PARRYS GLORY   DRUIDS GLEN PLATE (1,400m), 6-y-o & over, rated 00 to 25, 5-00: 1. Glorious Wind (4) A.M. Alam 60, 2. Supreme Commander (3) Nakhat Singh 60, 3. Betty Boop (7) Kamigallu 59.5, Say My Name (11) C. Umesh 59, 5. Beautiful Princess (12) M. Bhaskar 58.5, 6. Fire Strike (13) Zervan 57.5, 7. Kasi Masi (10) A. Ayaz Khan 56.5, 8. Orange Pekoe (8) Azfar Syeed 56.5, 9. Poppy (14) B. Nikhil 56, 10. Merrywin (1) Shahar Babu 55.5, 11. Gardiner (5) Irshad Alam 53.5, 12. Mazikeen (2) Azad Alam 53, 13. Cleona (6) Muzaffar 52.5 and 14. Tencendur (9) Farhan 52.5.  1. BEAUTIFUL PRINCESS, 2. GLORIOUS WIND, 3. BETTY BOOP  Jkt: 3, 4, 5, 6 & 7; Mini Jkt: 4, 5, 6 & 7; Tr (i): 2, 3 & 4; (ii): 5, 6 & 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/its-penang-vs-star-templar-in-feature-event/article33622217.ece
21 January 2021||ISTANBUL,||Injured Prajnesh pulls out of his first round match||Prajnesh Gunneswaran, grappling with an injured wrist, retired while trailing 6-4, 3-2 against Arthur Rinderknech of France in the first round of the €132,280 Challenger tennis here. The Frenchman had knocked out Ramkumar Ramanathan 6-3, 6-3 in the final qualifying round. In the $25,000 ITF women’s event in Fujairah, Rutuja Bhosale made the doubles semifinals, but lost in the second and final qualifying round of singles.  The results:   €132,280 Challenger, Istanbul: Singles (first round): Arthur Rinderknech (Fra) bt Prajnesh Gunneswaran 6-4, 3-2 (retd).   Qualifying: Second and final round: Rinderknech bt Ramkumar Ramanathan 6-3, 6-3; First round: Ramkumar bt Koray Kirci (Tur) 6-3, 6-2.   $25,000 ITF women, Fujairah, UAE: Doubles (quarterfinals): Naiktha Bains (GBr) & Rutuja Bhosale w.o. Mariam Bolkvadze & Ekaterine Gorgodze (Geo). Qualifying: Singles (second and final round): En Shuo Liang (Tpe) bt Rutuja Bhosale 6-2, 6-3.   $15,000 ITF men, Antalya, Turkey: Singles (first round): Mikail Alimli (Fra) bt Dev Javia 6-2, 7-6(8).   $15,000 ITF, Cairo: Men: Singles (first round): Filip Cristian Jianu (Rou) bt Yash Chaurasia 6-2, 6-1; Roman Andres Burruchaga (Arg) bt Muthu Aadhitiya Senthilkumar 6-2, 6-3.   Women: Singles (first round): Riya Bhatia bt Smriti Bhasin 6-3, 6-0. Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Yuriko Lily Miyazaki (Jpn) & Riya Bhatia bt Alessandra Simone & Marion Viertler (Ita) 6-3, 6-2 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/injured-prajnesh-pulls-out/article33622182.ece
21 January 2021||CHENNAI,||CSK releases six players||Chennai Super Kings has released six players ahead of the mini-auction to be held next month for the 2021 edition of the IPL. The released players are M. Vijay, Piyush Chawla, Monu Kumar Singh, Kedar Jadhav, Harbhajan Singh and Shane Watson, who announced his retirement after last year’s edition. Despite some controversy surrounding Suresh Raina’s abrupt departure from UAE before the start of the tournament last year, which did not go well with the team management, the former India batsman has been retained. Speaking about the choice of releasing the players and what they are looking for, CSK CEO K.S. Viswanathan said, “we feel that we need to strengthen our batting line-up and look at infusing some young blood. Another slot we will look at is an off-spinner” With two leg-spinners in Karn Sharma and Imran Tahir, Chawla who was picked last year was released, freeing up Rs. 6.75 crore, while Kedar Jadhav has not delivered during his time with the team in the last two years. Viswanathan said they will look to fill three to four slots only to allow the team to be aggressive in getting its first-choice players.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/csk-releases-six-players/article33622249.ece
21 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Reshma survives to enter last eight||Second seed Reshma Maruri overcame a sluggish start and survived six match-points to beat Anjali Rathi 4-6, 6-4, 7-5 in the girls’ pre-quarterfinals of the ITF grade-4 junior tennis tournament at the DLTA Complex on Wednesday. Inspired by Reshma’s performance, her sister Suhitha pulled off a 2-6, 6-3, 7-6(7) victory over Sachi Sharma. Sanjana Devineni of the US sustained her good work, after beating the fourth seed in the first round, by getting past wild card Kavya Khirwar 2-6, 6-2, 6-4. In the boys’ event, Chirag Duhan overcame the National sub-junior champion Karan Singh in straight sets. The 13-year-old Manas Dhamne overcame the strong game of Yuvan Nandal in straight sets.  The results (pre-quarterfinals): Boys: Nishant Dabas bt Aayush Bhat 0-0 (retired); Manas Dhamne bt Yuvan Nandal 6-3, 7-5; Nikhil NIranjan bt Sarthak Gandhi 6-2, 6-2; Kirtan Patel (Can) bt Torus Rawat 6-2, 6-3; Ajay Malik bt Wyatt Obrien 6-1, 6-1; Aman Dahiya bt Aarav Samrat Hada (Nep) 6-4, 6-2; Chirag Duhan bt Karan Singh 6-2, 7-6(5); Sanjith Devineni (US) bt Krishang Raghuvanshi 6-0, 6-1.   Girls: Sanjana Sirimalla bt Adithi Are 6-4, 6-3; Suhitha Maruri bt Sachi Sharma 2-6, 6-3, 7-6(7); Renne Singla bt Mirthula Mahalakshmi 6-3, 6-0; Rutuja Chaphalkar bt Aarni Reddy Yellu 6-0, 6-1.   Sweta Samanta bt Priyanshi Chauhan 6-2, 6-2; Sanjana Devineni (USA) bt Kavya Khirwar 2-6, 6-2, 6-4; Shruti Ahlawat bt Bhakti Shah 7-5, 6-2; Reshma Maruri bt Anjali Rathi 4-6, 6-4, 7-5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/reshma-survives-to-enter-last-eight/article33622291.ece
21 January 2021||KOLKATA,||Morgan retained skipper||Kolkata Knight Riders CEO Venky Mysore expressed happiness over retaining almost the entire squad for the 2021 edition of the IPL. Mysore said Eoin Morgan would continue to lead the side and Dinesh Karthik would assist him. “We are really happy that we had the opportunity to retain our entire squad. Barring some fine-tuning, we have pretty much retained the squad we have under captain Eoin Morgan. Dinesh Karthik is there to support him,” said Mysore on KKR’s Twitter handle. “Sunil Narine, Varun Chakaravarthy and Kuldeep Yadav make us in the spin bowling department. We also have fast bowlers Pat Cummins, Lockie Ferguson, youngsters (Shivam) Mavi, (Kamlesh) Nagarkoti, Prasidh Krishna and Sandeep Warrier. Our batting is also quite strong and we have a balanced squad. “We were very happy with our team last year and were just a bit unfortunate. We will regroup and emerge stronger. We will have an opportunity for some fine-tuning at the mini-auction. We are ready for IPL 2021,” said Mysore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/morgan-retained-skipper/article33622553.ece
21 January 2021||TOKYO,||Organisers determined to host Olympics||Olympics organisers are “unwavering” on holding the coronavirus-delayed Games this year but can’t rule out staging it without spectators, according to Tokyo 2020 CEO Toshiro Muto. In an interview ahead of the Games’ six-month countdown, Muto conceded people are “anxious” as virus cases soar worldwide. But he insisted the Olympics were still possible, even without requiring athletes and fans to be vaccinated. “We are not discussing cancellation,” he said on Tuesday. “Holding the Games is our unwavering policy, and at this point in time we’re not discussing anything other than that.” Muto said it was “not desirable” to hold the Games without fans, but not out of the question. In November, International Olympic Committee president Thomas Bach, said he was “very, very confident” spectators would be allowed. “I don’t know how possible that is, but basically, having no fans is not desirable,” Muto said, adding that a decision will be made in the coming months. “What conclusions are reached in spring is something we’ll find out later. I can’t make any predictions.” Muto acknowledged that anti-virus measures will make the Tokyo Games unlike any past Olympics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/organisers-determined-to-host-olympics/article33622220.ece
21 January 2021||MUMBAI,||Malinga retires from franchise cricket||Lasith Malinga, one of the greatest Twenty20 bowlers, has decided to retire from franchise cricket. The Sri Lankan speedster had informed his decision to the Mumbai Indians management earlier this month, making himself unavailable for the five-time IPL champion’s retention wishlist. On his decision to quit, Malinga said, “after discussing with the family, I think now is the right time to retire from all franchise cricket. The pandemic situation and the restrictions on travel will make it difficult for me to participate fully next year and therefore it is best to make this decision now. I would like to thank everyone at the Mumbai Indians franchise and all our fans for the wonderful 12 years.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/malinga-retires-from-franchise-cricket/article33622138.ece
21 January 2021||January 21 2021 00:00 IST,||SRH looking for a foreign player: Laxman||Rajasthan Royals has an Indian captain once again. Sanju Samson is only the third homegrown skipper for the Jaipur-based franchise, after Rahul Dravid and Ajinkya Rahane. He takes over from Steve Smith, one of the three Australians to have led Royals; Shane Warne and Shane Watson are the others. Smith is one of the eight players released on Wednesday by the franchise ahead of the 14th edition of the IPL. Samson first played for Royals in 2013, and except for the two seasons that the team was banned for (when he moved to Delhi), he has been at Jaipur. In 2012, he was in the Kolkata Knight Riders squad, but didn’t play. Samson, who was also reinstalled as the Kerala skipper for the Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 tournament recently, said it was an absolute honour to have been made the Royals captain. “It’s a team that is so close to my heart, which I’ve been lucky enough to play for over the years,” he said. “I’m excited about the challenge that lies ahead of me as the leader of the team.” He added that he was looking forward to the new IPL season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/an-honour-samson/article33622139.ece
21 January 2021||Bengaluru,||RCB chuffed to retain Siraj, Washington and Saini||Royal Challengers Bangalore (RCB) will be pleased to retain Washington Sundar, Mohammed Siraj and Navdeep Saini — members of the Indian team which registered a famous Test series win in Australia. “We’ve retained a number of young players — Washington, Siraj, Shahbaz Nadeem, Devdutt Padikkal and Saini. It’s pleasing to see how they’ve progressed. And their (Siraj, Washington and Saini) performance with the Test side in Australia was phenomenal. We’re proud that they are associated with RCB,” Mike Hesson, director of cricket operations, stated in an RCB Twitter handle video. On releasing Australian opening batsman Aaron Finch and South African all-rounder Chris Morris, Hesson said, “As a Rs. 10 crore signing, Morris was a big part of our resource. But he had some injuries and missed quite a lot of cricket. Morris hasn’t played high-level cricket since then, so there is some risk there. “As for Finch, it did not quite work out for him as we’d have liked,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rcb-chuffed-to-retain-siraj-washington-and-saini/article33622207.ece
21 January 2021||January 21 2021 00:00 IST,||A devotee is enslaved||Sundaramurthy Nayanar is the central focus and lead in the Periyapuranam. Sekkizhar brings out through subtle strokes the ways in which Sundarar’s bhakti blends into close friendship with the Lord, pointed out K. Kalaivanan in a discourse. It is the Lord’s wish that Sundarar, who was engaged in His personal service in Kailasa, should be born on earth to make known the infinite value of the various kinds of devotion evinced by the Nayanmars through hymns. Sundarar is aware of the trappings of worldly life and pleads with the Lord to guide him into the path of devotional service and not let him go astray. Sundarar is born as the son of Sadayanar and Isaignaniyar and is not aware of his life in Kailasa. But the compassionate Lord chooses the time and manner for redeeming him and enters into his life in the guise of an old Brahmin when Sundarar’s wedding is to take place. His impressive demeanour makes a deep impact on all the people and He is received with due honours. Without mincing matters, the Lord claims Sundarar as His slave by showing a document signed by Sundarar’s grandfather Arooran, where he has pledged himself and his progeny to the Lord’s service. Sekkizhar reveals the law practices of those times that relied on traditional practice or precedent, written evidence, and oral attestation. Sundarar is unwilling to accept this claim and tears up the document. To settle this issue, the Lord leads them to Tiruvennainalloor. He produces the original document and the grandfather’s signature is verified. Sundarar then accedes to the Lord. Siva and Parvati then grant a vision to Sundarar, who becomes enlightened about his antecedents and is immersed in their boundless compassion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-devotee-is-enslaved/article33622134.ece
21 January 2021||MUMBAI:,||Riana, Pritha are champions||Riana Bhoota of Thane and Pritha Vartikar of Pune won the cadet and sub-junior girls’ titles of the Ramesh Prabhoo Memorial 82nd Maharashtra State Table Tennis Championship at Prabodhankar Thackeray Krida Sankul.  The results: Girls: Cadet: Final: Riana Bhoota (THN) bt Ishika Umate (NGP) 11-2, 12-10, 11-7, 8-11, 11-5; Semifinals: Ishika bt Ria Kothari (AKL) 6-11, 11-8, 9-11, 11-8, 11-5, 11-8; Riana bt Divyanshi Bhoumick (TSTTA) 11-2, 11-9 11-5, 11-6.   Sub-junior: Final: Pritha Vartikar (PNA) bt Ananya Chande (TSTTA) 8-11, 15-13, 10-12, 11-5, 15-13, 10-12, 11-6; Semifinals: Ananya bt Jennifer Verghese (NGP) 8-11, 11-8, 11-13, 11-5, 11-7, 9-11, 11-5; Pritha bt Mukta Dalvi (TSTTA) 5-11, 11-7, 9-11, 11-7, 11-9, 12-10 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/manav-in-last-eight/article33622183.ece
21 January 2021||MELBOURNE,||Three more test positive ahead of AO||Three more people linked to the Australian Open have tested positive for COVID-19 in Melbourne, increasing to 10 those associated with the Grand Slam tennis tournament which begins February 8. Victoria state Emergency Services Minister Lisa Neville confirmed the new cases had been detected on Wednesday, adding that authorities are “very confident” one of the cases is a tennis player who is shedding the virus and is not infectious. The player is already in hard lockdown as they were on board a flight into Melbourne with another positive case. The other two cases are a player and their support person. Those 10 positive cases mean a total of 72 players remain in hard lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/three-more-test-positive-ahead-of-ao/article33622219.ece
21 January 2021||SONIPAT:,||Kashish make last four||Kashish Bhatia beat Sanjami Arora 4-6, 6-2, 6-2 in the quarterfinals of the Rs. 1,00,000 AITA women’s ranking tennis tournament on Wednesday.  Other results (quarters): Jagmeet Kaur bt Ayushi Singh 7-5, 6-2; Prapti Soni bt Niyati Kukreti 2-6, 2-0 (retd.); Sara Yadav bt Mahi Panchal 6-0, 7-6(6).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kashish-make-last-four/article33622290.ece
21 January 2021||LOS ANGELES,||Mitchell on song for Jazz||Donovan Mitchell scored 28 points to lead the Utah Jazz to a sixth straight NBA victory on Tuesday, a 118-102 triumph over Zion Williamson and New Orleans Pelicans. Jordan Clarkson added 18 points off the bench and Joe Ingles, returning from a three-game absence due to an Achilles tendon injury, chipped in 15 for the Jazz who improved to 10-4 to match the LA Clippers for second place in the Western Conference behind the 11-4 LA Lakers. Williamson, the 20-year-old taken first overall in the 2019 draft, led the Pels with 32 points and five rebounds. Brandon Ingram added 17 points for New Orleans. It was similarly lopsided in the other contest, with Denver Nuggets guard Nikola Jokic scoring 27 points and pulling down 12 rebounds in a 119-101 victory over the Oklahoma City Thunder in Denver. Monte Morris added 15 points and Paul Millsap and Will Barton scored 13 points apiece for the Nuggets. Denver, which reached the Western Conference finals last season, improved to 7-7.  The results:   Nuggets 119 bt Thunder 101; Jazz 118 bt Pelicans 102.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mitchell-on-song-for-jazz/article33622170.ece
21 January 2021||MELBOURNE,||CA salutes India’s ‘resilience’||Cricket Australia on Wednesday saluted the Indian team’s “resilience, courage and skill” during its historic Test series win over the hosts, and expressed gratitude to the BCCI for the “sacrifices” it made to ensure a smooth conduct of the series. The note, written by CA interim CEO Nick Hockley and Chair Earl Eddings, was addressed to BCCI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ca-salutes-indias-resilience/article33622137.ece
21 January 2021||Kolkata,||Zonal representation for boxing talent hunt||The Boxing Federation of India has initiated a zonal representation system for talent identification. The initiative, started in association with SAI, aims at broad-basing the scouting process across the country through eight zonal committees. “The grassroots development and talent hunt, which was initially a committee consisting of two members, has been decentralised to ensure that every state secretary of member units will be part of this talent hunt scheme,” said a BFI release on Tuesday. The BFI is trying to reach out to every corner of the country through the 150 Khelo India Boxing Excellence Centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/zonal-representation-for-boxing-talent-hunt/article33622619.ece
21 January 2021||DHAKA,||Bangladesh rides on Shakib show||Shakib Al Hasan took four wickets for just eight runs in a stunning international comeback on Wednesday as Bangladesh defeated the West Indies by six wickets in the the first One-Day International here. Shakib, playing his first ODI after a one-year ban, helped Bangladesh bowl out a weakened West Indies for 122 in just 32.2 overs. In reply, the home side reached 125 for four in 33.5 overs, with skipper Tamim Iqbal making 44 off 69 balls. Kyle Mayers top-scored for the West Indies with 40, while debutant Hasan Mahmud claimed three for 28 for Bangladesh. Debutant left-arm spinner Akeal Hosein impressed with the ball for the visitor, taking three for 26.   The scores: West Indies 122 in 32.2 overs (Kyle Mayers 40, Shakib Al Hasan 4/8) lost to Bangladesh 125/4 in 33.5 overs (Tamim Iqbal 44) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bangladesh-rides-on-shakib-show/article33622169.ece
21 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram:,||Akhilan wins title||E.M. Akhilan (ISSER, Thiruvananthapuram) won the AKGCT all-Kerala online chess tournament for Prof. Mathew J. Memorial Trophy on Wednesday. M. Abel (GHSS, Meenangadi, Wayanad) came second while S. Nithyan (St. Mary’s HSS, Pattom) was third in the tournament in which 129 players took part.  Other awards: Best players: Women: Afeefa Sadik Muhammed (Karthika Thirunal GVHSS, Tvm).   Under-15: C.G.Vishnu (Assumption HSsS, Sulthan Bathery). Under-13: Aaditya (Hillwoods School, Gandhinagar). Under-9: Aadik Theophane Lenin (Bhavan’s Vidya Mandir, Eroor). Under-7: Ankith S.Vinu (Sreenarayana Public School, Kollam) .    Chess Kerala presented a laptop to seven-time State champion O.T. Anilkumar under its benevolent scheme at a function held on Tuesday. Earlier, Chess Kerala had given a computer to differently-abled chess player K.N. Rajan of Idukki, and financial assistance to former State champion K.V. Mohanan to help players and trainers who were in distress due to COVID-19. Chess Kerala had conducted a series of seven GP tournaments and a mega final in December 2020 to collect corpus funds for this scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/akhilan-wins-title/article33622466.ece
21 January 2021||ANANTAPUR:,||Meghana Moderns triumph||Meghana Moderns won the Ananta Women’s Premier League T20 cricket championship with a 39-run win over Anjali Angels in the final. Visha Ferrer, Women Sector Director, RDT, and P. Mallikarjuna, president of Anantapur DCA gave away the prizes.  The scores:   Meghana Moderns 145/2 in 20 overs (B. Neha 50, B. Anusha 71 n.o.) bt Anjali Angels 106/4 in 20 overs (N. Haritha 37 n.o.).   Special awards: MVP: B. Anusha (Meghana Moderns, 144 runs and five wickets); Best batswoman: P. Pallavi (Kalpana Queens).   Best bowler: K. Mamatha (Anjali Angels); Best wicketkeeper: Husna (Anjali Angels).   Best fielder: N. Haritha (Anjali Angels); Emerging player: Khyathi Kalyan (Sneha Challengers).   Woman of the Final: B. Neha .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/meghana-moderns-triumph/article33622632.ece
21 January 2021||January 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Abhirath, Satwik score double centuries||Abhirath Reddy’s 222 (211b, 25x4, 5x6) and Yash Gupta’s 152 (233b, 14x4, 4x6) for Gemini Friends and Satwik Reddy’s 280 (271b, 30x4, 3x6) for Charminar Cricket Club were some of the highlights of the second day in the A1-Division (three-day) league cricket championship on Wednesday. Chandrasekhar (162, 154b, 20x4, 5x6) for Sportive Cricket Club, Sarthak Bharadwaj (131 n.o., 212b,14x4) for Khalsa Cricket Club and Krithik Reddy (168, 224b, 23x4, 3x6) for Gouds XI also batted well.  The scores (second day):   Group A: Union Bank of India 253 in 71.4 overs & 168/6 in 33 overs (Naveen Reddy 40, Harsh Shankpal 33) vs SCRSA 183 in 46 overs (Kapil Dhaka 36, S.C. Mohanty 35, Chiranjeevi 43 n.o., Jagadeesh 36, M. Vasudeva 3/56, Neeraj Bist 6/19).   Jai Hanuman 404 in 89.2 overs & 152/2 in 30 overs (Sai Purnanand Rao 45 batting, Anurag Vittal 64 batting) vs Deccan Chronicle 144 in 42.1 overs (Shreya Vala 48, Pavan Reddy 45, Y. Shravan Kumar 4/38, Anurag Vittal 3/57).   Income Tax 168 in 43.5 overs & 142 in 27.4 overs lost to Central Excise 286 in 80 overs (P.S. Chaitanya Reddy 93, Saketh Sai Ram 47, D. Swaroop 3/17) & 26/1 in 2.3 overs.   First day: Sporting XI 189 in 51.1 overs (Himalay Agarwal 82, Faisal Alvi 60) vs EMCC 89/1 in 29 overs (Aman Rao 41 batting, Anirudh 31 batting).   BDL 253 in 69.1 overs (Mahendra Yadav 33, K. Hima Teja 99, B. Chandrasekhar 67, Abid Khan 5/37) vs Budding Star 55/7 in 13.3 overs (Akash Sana 3/23, B. Thejodhar 4/24).   Group-B: Zinda Tilismath 313 in 88 overs vs MP Colts 275 in 84.4 overs (Sai Sampath 64, Vaishnav Reddy 48, Ashesh Singh 42, C. Rahul 39, Sai Sragvi 5/32).   Hyderabad Bottling 217 in 51.5 overs & 237 in 36.1 overs (J. Vinay Goud 73, P. Gaurav Reddy 44, B. Buchi Babu 5/33) vs Combined District 321 in 70.3 overs (K. Sai Charan 44, Md. Khayum 73, Kevin Gupta 4/63).   Ensconse 427/4 in 90 overs vs Gemini Friends 456/8 in 90 overs (Yash Gupta 152, Abhirath Reddy 222, Junaid Ali 4/70).   Concorde 243 in 68.1 & 86/4 in 22 overs (Houzef Mirza 40 n.o., Saqlain Arafat 3/20) vs Continental 271 in 67.5 overs (N. Vigneshwar 52, T. Aaron Paul 42, Vijay Akash 3/40).   Evergreen 161 in 57.5 overs vs AOC 224 in 60.3 overs (Amit Pachera 86, Ilyaan Sathani 6/48).   Group C: Mahmood 49 in 20 overs & 130/9 in 40 overs (Abhishek Murugan 4/16) lost to Sportive 359/9 decl. in 88 overs (Chandrasekhar 162, Abhishek Murugan 87).   Apex 390/9 in 90 overs & 61 for no loss in 9 overs (M. Anirudh Yadav 30 batting) vs Khalsa 259 in 69.4 overs (Sarthak Bharadwaj 131 n.o., Prudhvi Reddy 61, Amir Bin Ali 3/44, B. Naresh Kumar   4/55).   Jai Bhagwathi 209 in 69.3 overs vs Charminar 521/9 in 90 overs (Aditya Mangat 64, Satwik Reddy 280, Ali Kachi Diamond 54, Md. Abrar Ahmed 4/114, S. Kush 3/55).   Rohit XI 292/9 in 90 overs & 65/5 in 19 overs vs Secunderabad Nawabs 185 in 60.2 overs (Thakshit Rao 76, Shashi Naidu 40 n.o., Nitin Sai Yadav 5/47, Prashant Raj 4/52).   Sri Chakra 179 in 51.3 overs vs Gouds XI 359 in 85 overs (Krithik Reddy 168, Venu 76, T.V.S. Narayana 42, Sai Kiran 3/64).      Ch. Padmashree of Hyderabad won the girls under-20 400m hurdles title clocking 1:06.90 in the seventh Telangana State junior athletics meet on Wednesday.  The results:   Boys: U-16, 80m hurdles: 1. G. Parashuram (Kamareddy) 12.06, 2. V. Sandeep (Mahabubabad), 3. M. Chandra Kumar (RR).   500m walk: 1. Dharamveer Singh (TAA) 27:21.80, 2. K. Niraj Reddy (Khammam), 3. M.A. Moinu (Khammam).   High jump: 1. K. Pranay (Mancherial) 1.86m, 2. T. Hardayal Singh (Kamareddy), 3. P. Mahesh (Narayanapeta).   U-18, 110m hurdles: 1. L. Lakshman Tej (Hyd) 16.26, 2. Syed Fareed Ali (Khammam), 3. S. Chandu (Vikarabad).   2,000m steeplechase: 1. K. Ramesh (Nagarkurnool) 6:51.50, 2. D. Shiva Kumar (RR), 3. L. Bala Beeraiah (Wanaparthy).   10km walk: 1. Raj Mishra (R.R. Dist.) 52:33.00, 2. D. Jagadish (Nalgonda), 3. B. Shivamani (Jagital).   U-20, 3,000m steeplechase: 1. G. Bhaskar Goud (Siddipet) 15:35.90, 2. M. Raju (Wanaparthy), 3. A.V. Sarad (Khammam).   Girls: U-20, 400m hurdles: 1. Ch. Padmashree (Hyd) 1:06.90. 1,000m walk: 1. Y. Shruthlaya (Jagital) 1:45.57, 2. K. Ganga (Jagital).   U-18, 100m hurdles: 1. A. Nandini (Medchal) 13.81.   400m hurdles: 1. N. Vijayalaxmi (RR) 1:16.80.   U-16, 80m hurdles: 1. G. Roopa Sri (Hyd) 13.50, 2. A.P. Lalitha (Medchal), 3. K. Nikhila (Suryapet) .    Showrya Syamala defeated Anish Jain 6-1, 6-3 to enter the boys under-14 semifinal of the AITA Championship Series tennis tournament at the Sania Mirza Tennis Academy.  The results (quarterfinals):   Boys, u-14: Showrya Syamala bt Anish Jain 6-1, 6-3; Pratyush Jayaram bt Manav Siyas 6-4, 7-5.   V. Dhiraj Reddy bt Shashank Sai Prasad 6-3, 6-1; V. Thirumurugan bt Murali Koushal 6-7(4), 6-4, 6-4.   Girls: D. Laxmi Siri bt Prisha Nikhil Shinde 6-0, 6-0; Prisha Nikhil Shinde bt Rithika Daggula 6-1, 6-4; Rishitha Basi Reddy bt Shanvitha Reddy 6-0, 6-3; M. Princy bt Rithika Kakarlamudi 7-6 (7-3), 6-2; Ika Raju bt Ch. Malvika Reddy 6-0, 6-1 .      Keystone Basketball Academy will conduct a 3x3 tournament at Keystone International School on Jan. 26 in remembrance of NBA star and FIBA World Cup Brand Ambassador Kobe Bryant and wife Gianna who passed away in a helicopter crash last year. Competitions will be held for boys (u-12, 14 and 16). Call 91210 81305. Meanwhile, City College Old Boys (CCOB) will also organise a one-day tournament at the City College ground on January 26. Call S. Hanumanth Rao on 93930 04825.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/abhirath-satwik-score-double-centuries/article33622413.ece
21 January 2021||January 21 2021 07:28 IST,||Sudoku - January 21, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-january-21-2021/article33622808.ece
21 January 2021||January 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Meet the St Thomas Mount OG||It is now a week since Master released. Those who watched the film in theatres have been taken in by the ringtone on John Durairaj’s (Vijay) phone — a reggae track called ‘Master the Blaster’. Composed by Anirudh Ravichander, the track has gone viral since being uploaded to YouTube, clocking six million views in five days. ‘Pucca’ local Already the default ringtone on die-hard Vijay fans’ mobile phones — if YouTube comments can be deemed proof — ‘Master the Blaster’ has piqued curiosity since people seem unable to place a finger on the identity of the singer behind it. “Bjorn Surrao... seems like Anirudh got a singer from North India for the track,” are the words of a YouTuber who attempts to ‘analyse’ the song in a video. Bjorn though (he pronounces his Portuguese descent surname as ‘Sur-ro’) is slightly amused; the Chennai-based indie musician is happy that his work has been noticed. “You don’t find English tracks in a Vijay film,” he says, over phone, and adds: “That it has been accepted so openly is rare. It shows that audiences are getting smarter.” He settles the ‘Bjorn from North India’ (pronounced Beon) debate as well. “I am a Chennai boy... from St Thomas Mount,” he laughs. The 28-year-old singer-songwriter is not a new face in the indie music circuit. The MBA graduate has been making music since he was 16, and for the longest time was associated with the alt rock band Franks got the Funk. So how does a rock musician end up doing reggae, as his Instagram handle suggests? Bjorn laughs. “I have always loved African and Jamaican sounds. I have loved reggae and dancehall (a Jamaican musical genre), but I never really released anything. In 2020, during lockdown, I decided to release a dancehall song on social media. I have released a few more now,” he says, hinting that he wishes to continue exploring reggae going forward. Having known composer Anirudh since his college days, Bjorn says he was in the studio as the former was doing the re-recording for Master . “There was a reggae track that Vijay is listening to in the film. Ani wanted to recreate it because the original track wasn’t working out, but he also wanted the recreated version to be an original. He gave me a tune and then I started writing the lyrics,” he adds. Bjorn is not new to composing film music. He was one of two composers for the Dinesh Selvaraj film Naalu Peruku Nalladhuna Edhuvum Thappilla (2017). At the moment, Bjorn and friends create music — taking up wedding and private events — under the aegis of ‘Jigarthanda Music’; Bjorn, flautist Finny David and electronic violinist Fenny Daniel are the key members of this group which was formed less than two years ago. Another transition The acceptance for ‘Master the Blaster’ could be an indication that the winds of change are blowing in Tamil cinema. Does Bjorn believe that the movie going audience will be equally accepting of different musical genres in the event it is placed in a big star film? “You can’t shove stuff down. It has to happen gradually because everybody seems to love ‘the usual stuff’. But at the same time audiences are getting smarter. That doesn’t mean a film can have an entirely indie soundtrack. There has to be commercial elements for the masses to enjoy it,” he says. The rock musician-turned-reggae artiste has already made another transition. He is making his acting début with Sivakarthikeyan’s upcoming film, Doctor . “I play a serious guy caught in a funny situation. It is a 10-minute portion. Nelson (the film’s director) is a friend of mine and he asked me if I would mind trying... basically telling me to give it a shot because I had nothing to lose. I auditioned, got selected and then he sent me to acting classes for a month before I did the part,” he says. So what’s next for the St Thomas Mount OG? He signs off with a teaser: “How about an acoustic version of ‘Master the Blaster’?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/meet-the-st-thomas-mount-og/article33621999.ece
21 January 2021||January 21 2021 00:00 IST,||On a mission||After months of being away from film sets during lockdown, actor Rana Daggubati found himself in the thick of gruelling real-time action when he spent a day with the Border Security Force (BSF) at Murar post in Jaisalmer, Rajasthan. The actor attempted the many demanding tasks they do in a day for the documentary Mission Frontline , which will premiere on Discovery+ today. Recalling the experience, Rana says, “We are brought up with the thought that family comes first. A jawan  from Pulivendula (in Andhra Pradesh) told me that he has a small family in his hometown and a larger family at the border that he is happy returning to. This deeply ingrained thought of putting the nation first was my biggest takeaway from the Mission Frontline experience.” He adds that he liked the idea of a civilian getting an opportunity to live like a jawan  for a day. Mission Frontline was not going to be a typical celebrity show where a star meets and regales the jawans; the documentary required him to get down and dirty. Simulated mission Detailing some of the drills, the actor says, “I did a 3.5-kilometre track race, eight-feet jump carrying weapons, the fireman drill while lifting a jawan  on my shoulders, patrolling on camelback and a lot more in a simulated mission. I witnessed the shifting dunes; the post and fence don’t look the same as the day progresses. The vast expanse of the desert was so beautiful and we got stunning visuals, on the lines of Lawrence of Arabia !” There were no retakes in the live action documentary. Rana was not new to filming in a tough terrain but there was no comfort of the vanity van to retire. “We learn about our soldiers when there is an incident at the border. But getting a taste of a day in their life made me realise it is so much more demanding than what we imagine.” The Discovery+ team reveals that the soldiers were impressed with Rana’s ability to handle the drills. The actor laughs it off saying, “You will see me get tired, falling… On a film set, I am usually the fittest guy around. Here I came last while running.” Bio bubble The filming happened when restrictions were beginning to be eased after lockdown. Rana shares that the jawans were in a ‘bio bubble’ and he and the small crew got themselves tested to prevent carrying COVID-19 to the borders. The soldiers were informed about Rana’s arrival and were eager to get a glimpse of Baahubali’s Bhallaladeva: “Once they saw me and realised I am not that bulky as I was back then, I guess they felt I am a normal guy,” says Rana, who also mentions that he loved the dal served at the BSF post. The actor says it was a humbling experience. “Two weeks later, I returned to the sets of Virata Parvam (his new Telugu film) to film an action sequence and I still was the fittest guy around, but the BSF experience was a different one altogether. I met jawans who had come from different states, and it reinforced the cultural context of what India is. Theirs is a mission of duty unto death; the words mean everything for them and define who they are.” Mission Frontline streams on Discovery+ app on January 21||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/on-a-mission/article33622012.ece
21 January 2021||January 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Bravehearts in the hot seat||Colonel Vembu Shankar (retired) brims with pride as he reminisces his days in the Armed Forces. A Shaurya Chakra awardee and an avid quizzer, Shankar is delighted to have been able to combine his service and his passion for knowledge to play a role in the finale of the 12th season of the television game show Kaun Banega Crorepati (KBC) that airs this Friday. In the run-up to Republic Day, the finale honours Kargil War heroes as two Param Vir Chakra (India’s highest military decoration for valour in war) awardees — Subedar Major Yogendra Singh Yadav and Subedar Sanjay Kumar — take the hot seat. “There is a lack of awareness about the armed forces and the gallant acts of Param Vir Chakra recipients, especially among the younger generation, as Operation Vijay Kargil happened two decades ago,” says Shankar. KBC has made Shankar the go-to person for the ‘Ask the Expert’ lifeline available to the two joint contestants as part of the special episode. The complete picture “The finale aims to highlight not only the valorous acts of medal winners over the years but also explore their human side: the harsh realities they face, the sacrifices they make, and how their families cope with their absence when they are away in the line of duty,” says the Army veteran. The episode incorporates real-life footages. Shankar says the role of an ‘expert’ in the show was tailor-made for him considering his twin experiences of warcraft and quizzing. Having been awarded the Shaurya Chakra for his role in a military operation in Kupwara district, Jammu and Kashmir, in 1998, he was also a part of Operation Vijay (Kargil War) the following year. At the same time, he is a quizmaster who often conducts competitions in Army schools and bases; in 2002, he reached the semi-finals of the BBC Mastermind India. The two contestants will be donating the winning prize money to the Army Battle Casualties Welfare Fund (ABCWF) that extends monetary assistance to the next of kin of battle casualties. Yogendra Singh Yadav was decorated in 1999 for his dauntless courage in capturing Tiger Hill in Kargil, while Sanjay Kumar was awarded PVC for his gallant exploits in Mushkoh Valley in Ladakh. Presently, Yogendra Singh Yadav is with the Junior Leaders Academy, Bareilly, while Sanjay Kumar serves as weapons instructor with the Indian Military Academy, Dehradun. Another PVC awardee, Honorary Captain Bana Singh who helped India win the Siachen standoff in 1987, makes an appearance as a special guest in the episode. Shankar says connecting with the PVC awardees has been an “eye-opener” for him. “Incidentally, I found that Sanjay Kumar fought the war with some officers I had trained with. So I got to know about the leadership qualities of my own batch mates through him. It was a blast from the past,” he explains. Chennai-based Shankar, who retired from the armed forces in 2017, says the finale steers clear of military jargon to help the television audience better understand the nitty-gritty of war operations. He adds, “Another highlight is a performance by an Army band of the elite 15th Punjab Regiment on the floor in military regalia.”  The finale of KBC 12 will be telecast on January 22 at 9 pm on Sony TV.       Special greetings Several army units have their own forms of regimental salutation. For instance, soldiers from the Assam Regiment utter ‘Tagro raho’ (stay strong) as a mark of greeting, while in the Bihar regiment, it is ‘Hamesha jeetenge’ (we will always win).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/bravehearts-in-the-hot-seat/article33622036.ece
21 January 2021||January 21 2021 00:00 IST,||What’s new at the gym?||“Even Sunday is a Monday here,” says Deepti Akki about Monday Monk, the city’s new wellness centre that she launched last month at KK Nagar. “We think of monks as people living in the mountains, away from the materialistic world. But my question is why can’t you practise that control on your health and be at peace in the city, on a busy Monday morning?” It is a sentiment that reveals Monday Monk’s goal to reinvent the idea of ‘gyms’, moving away from an exclusive focus on physical fitness and nutrition (mostly, protein) to now including mental and spiritual health. The centre is designed less for expert iron pumpers, and more for people who have just begun to sit up and take note of their health — a section the pandemic has birthed in plenty. These past nine months, people took a good long look at themselves and decided to give their health the headspace it deserves — starting with what is easiest, buying at-home fitness equipment. One of India’s biggest sports retail companies, Decathlon reported that almost one-third of its total turnover in 2020 came from the fitness segment. And as gyms opened up from September and October last year, they hoped to receive this market of newly fitness-conscious people with open arms (from six feet away, of course). One way of doing that, became going more holistic in their approach to health, like Monday Monk. “We have psychologists onboard for people who need one-on-one therapy sessions,” says Deepti, adding that on the nutrition front, the aim is to cater to Indian diets. “Common advice such as eating grilled chicken and steak may not be sustainable so we look for alternatives in Indian foods, such as pesarattu and ragi dosa . We want to make sure we have charts for cuisines from all states; we started with six,” she adds. A big black wall welcomes clients at Monday Monk. It is a gratitude board where they can write what they are thankful for, before beginning their 50-minute training session. “We don’t believe in using electronic fitness equipment, instead people can mimic traditional farming movements of pulling, pushing, jumping and so on,” she says. Futsal courts the new gyms? Given the high costs of sanitising and maintaining equipment, other centres too have recognised the need to make space for functional and bodyweight training. Score Gym, Alwarpet, celebrated its 10th year by completely redoing its interiors. Old equipment sold and replaced, and colours changed for a “less serious and a more youthful look”, a nod to the 18-35 age group, its most popular client base. But the biggest change was the introduction of a green turf for functional training. “The grass allows for a lot of jumping and lateral movements needed for functional workouts. It has a good cushioning factor which helps your knee and back,” says Ajit Shetty. He is hoping that this space will encourage small groups of people to work out together or even hold dance classes, creating more revenues. The community energy is the main thing Hichem Osman misses about gyms. The Kilpauk resident used to be a regular at the gym since the 90s, but during lockdown he salvaged and dusted off his home gym equipment that he bought directly from a fabrication facility in Teynampet for Rs. 18,000 back in 2001. The only thing that would now convince him to overcome the fear of the virus and go back to a gym would be better ventilation. “I have never liked the AC in gyms, and after COVID-19, I became even more sure of it. My ideal gym would be on a terrace with lots of sunlight and air,” he says. Outdoor fitness centre, The Quad, seems to have a finger on the pulse. It has recently booked long term slots at two futsal courts: Chaos, in Adyar, and Tiki Taka in Velachery. The centre was shut until January, choosing to not open in October when COVID-19 cases were still high. “It brought us the opportunity to completely reinvent ourselves, and make some drastic improvements to our infrastructure,” says Raj Ganpath, co-founder, The Quad. The centre needed to mitigate the risks of outdoor workouts — insects and unexpected rainfall, while still working out in open air. Futsal courts, it found, was the answer, and shifted from its earlier centres in a play school and a parking lot. “We have classes from 5 am to 8 am, so we have blocked those slots for six days a week, for the next three years,” says Raj. For the centre, it is like renting any other space, paying a monthly rent, and for the futsal courts, it is a guaranteed booking. “Now the flooring is better for rolling, crawling, callisthenics, there are rain shelters, lockers and restrooms. And at the same time, there’s still fresh air and no AC rooms where there’s a fear of infection,” he adds. Year of transition Across the world, the January to March period is active for gyms. “Except of course in Chennai, where we have two more weeks of holidays until Pongal to laze around,” laughs Ajit. The challenge for gym owners is to retain those who have signed up in the rush of New Year Resolutions. “I am zeroing in on a few exercise psychologists and movement coaches to integrate them into our team. Why is it that people pay for a year and then come only for 80 days… Exercise psychologists will help us understand this better, and that will be good for our clients as well as our business,” says Ajit. Through the process of shifting centres, retaining clients has been important for The Quad too, and a hybrid model — something like two-day in-person and three-day online classes — has helped. “This year will be more transitory in nature than last as people toggle between virtual and real,” says Raj. Fitness centres’ success depends on how well they leverage the lessons the pandemic taught them, for the long term. He adds, “If we go back to living like we used to before, then well, what’s the point?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/whats-new-at-the-gym/article33622023.ece
21 January 2021||January 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Lessons in activism||“We have a farm programme in our school, from the seventh grade onwards. They wanted us to go back to it after our board year, but since we can’t go visit the farm now, we had to find some other way to connect with and understand rural life,” says Vaibhav Ramkumar, a Class XII student at a private school in Chennai. The “other way” was by reading up on an issue that the residents of Pulicat, a precious biodiversity hotspot and a favourite weekend destination for much of Chennai’s holidayers, have been battling against — the expansion of Kattupalli port. Vaibhav and his classmates are lucky to have a livewire guide, naturalist M Yuvan, who has been involved with multiple environmental causes in the region for years, in addition to his teaching duties and birding. “He accompanied us on a farm visit earlier and still continues to work with us,” says Vaibhav. Yuvan introduced the students to Pulicat, encouraging them to go ahead using their own creative prowess to understand and communicate the issues that the region and its inhabitants face, and states that many educators, like him, are helping their students be more aware. The result is a large body of student-made art pieces and a petition signed by hundreds of students from various schools and colleges in Chennai, requesting the Chief Minister and the District Collector of Thiruvallur to “reject” the proposed mega port project. From the drafting of the petition to thought process behind the art, everything is entirely the students’ own. Vaibhav adds, “We had initially written an endorsement letter to the Chief Minister and Collector. We took a key paragraph from that, along with a student art piece, and added it to a Google form along with some questions. Those who had read up, could fill up the form and sign the petition.” “We, the students of schools across Chennai…” begins that endorsement letter, before going on to point out that around 50,000 families depend on Pulicat lake, and that three of the villages that the lake supports “host large cattle economies that are primarily run by women”. It also mentions the fishing economy, erosion of beaches, risk of flooding and more. Both the petition and art were revealed in a recent press conference in the city as well. Says Vaibhav, “We [he and his friends in class] began by putting out word through Instagram, and also asked our friends from other schools — the ones we knew would care — to spread the word as well. It went on from there.” Like any other positive idea taking flight.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/lessons-in-activism/article33622028.ece
21 January 2021||January 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Captain Ketch goes around the world||James Ketchell has been mistaken for James Bond. Just like the famous spy, Ketchell’s tagline is ‘never say never’. Caught in the midst of a thunderstorm over Canada in the course of circumnavigating the globe in a machine similar to Little Nellie from You Only Live Twice , he landed on a roadstrip and swung the gyrocopter into a truck bay. “The burly truckers, usually impassive, were taken aback,” says Ketchell, his voice ringing with laughter over the phone from Basingstoke, Hampshire, UK, where he was raised. Ketchell is the country’s Scouting ambassador and flew the Magni M16C gyrocopter — which resembles a motorbike in the sky with the cockpit exposed to the weather — over 24,000 nautical miles. The 39-year-old set off from Popham air field, UK, in March 2019 to fly over ice caps, through blinding rain, past world monuments and forgotten outposts of empires, with the wind thrumming through the rotors like a Gregorian chant. Six months later, he returned to base, achieving a feat that was probably the last great aviation record. Between working on his second book It’s All Mental and trying to keep the spirit of discovery alive in a pandemic world, Ketchell has his sights set on 2023 when he plans to take a group of young ex-offenders (18-20 year olds convicted or cautioned for a criminal offence) on a sailing expedition around the world. “The goal is to give them a second chance in life,” says Ketchell. “I was lucky to have good people around me; I want to encourage the use of mentors in one’s life. You are who you spend your time with and some people’s circumstances are harder than others, so I want to give the opportunity to people who are not hardened criminals and put them on the right course.” Ketchell’s life has been one of second chances — he admits that he was always fit but lacked confidence and determination. “I have always liked travelling — the adventures of Tintin were a favourite — and that passion grew as I got older. I would often build camps in the woods and joined the Scouts which helped bring out my passion for the outdoors. My parents were very supportive which I will always be grateful for. In my late teens I discovered the gym. This helped me overcome confidence issues.” New worlds to conquer The turning point came when Ketchell shattered his ankle in a bike accident in 2007. Doctors said he may never walk properly again but over the next few years, Ketchell surprised them and the world by being the only person on the planet to row, climb and cycle to complete the ‘ultimate marathon’. “It was a wake-up call. The accident was the best thing that happened to me as it made me try harder and pursue dreams that I’m not sure I would have otherwise embarked on.”  In 2010, Ketchell became part of a remarkable canon of stories of heroism at sea when he rowed solo across the Atlantic from La Gomera in the Canary Islands to Antigua in the Caribbean. Every day he would sign off his blog as Capt Ketch, which is how the name stuck. “I had a radar alarm system on the boat that would notify me when anything got close. The challenges I faced were mental, I had to keep reminding myself that it was my dream to be doing this. I would often get blown backwards a lot; it taught me patience and, most importantly, discipline of keeping to my daily schedule. This is the case with most things, they are never as hard or as bad as you think they are going to be,” says Ketchell, who, drifting under the stars, felt he was guided by the spirit of his grandfathers. The next year, he summitted Mount Everest and in 2013, cycled eastwards for six months across Europe to Turkey, flew to India and visited many cities speaking in schools to inspire youth, journeyed on to Sri Lanka, Thailand, Singapore, Australia, America and back to the UK where he completed his 18,000 miles on the saddle. But Ketchell was still looking for new worlds to conquer and had his gyroplane built by Magni Gyro in Milan, Italy. Once more he packed his bags with the five essentials he carries: wet wipes; a clean shirt to wear — “you never know who you might meet” — a phone that allows for connectivity, social media updates and audio books; a satellite phone for safety; and a medallion of Saint Christopher (the Christian patron saint of travellers) that has been with him since he crossed the Atlantic. Everywhere he had his share of incredible sights as he travelled across the northern hemisphere almost hugging the temperate zone. “The average height was usually only a thousand feet above the ground, the highest I flew was 12,000 feet in Utah, US, over mountains. Flying lower is a lot more interesting as you can see things in more detail, if I was flying at 10,000 feet above the ground it’s not much different than looking at Google Earth,” says Ketchell. He stopped for refuelling every day, and always had a destination that he was flying to each day. “I had a fantastic support team back in the UK but had to often take pictures using a selfie stick, carefully holding it,” says Ketchell. The stunning picture of him flying by the Statue of Liberty was taken by a pilot also flying across Ellis Island. It is not as if Ketchell has conquered every mountain he set out to climb. He has been rescued from the Indian Ocean and failed to complete his solo rowing expedition around Britain. But he believes that “we can achieve much more than we think”— a mantra he tells children wherever he goes. The man who has weathered avalanches, sunburn, storms and illnesses says, “Despite Covid, adventure travel will come back bigger; there will always be an appetite for adventure no matter what is going on in the world.”  The accident was the best thing that happened to me as it made me try harder and pursue dreams that I’m not sure I would have otherwise embarked on James Ketchell||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/captain-ketch-goes-around-the-world/article33622032.ece
21 January 2021||January 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Inheritance of words||Since last year, Odiyen Lakshmanan has visited 14 tribal settlements across Coimbatore, collecting and documenting stories of the community. “I have been working for tribal rights for the past 15 years. The kids from these villages go to Tamil medium schools and now speak a mix of Tamil and their native language. When I visited Rayaroothupathi village early in 2020 to distribute storybooks, I asked them to narrate a story in their mother tongue to me. I was shocked at the amount of Tamil influence in their language.” says Lakshmanan. The incident motivated him to start project Noolal Ezhuvom, to revive tribal languages. Lakshmanan now works with 150 children in 15 villages around Coimbatore, Erode and Salem. “These stories are also now broadcast in the US through the American Tamil Radio channel,” he says. So far, the team has collected around 100 stories across the Kurumba, Irula, Kota, Urali, Toda, Paniyar, Malayali and Kattunayakan tribes. The stories are about tribal beliefs, history and tradition. Eight volunteers from the community help him in the process. “They are parents or youngsters from the locality. We encourage kids to find stories from their elders and to write them down. Since none of these languages has scripts, they record it using Tamil alphabets.” Once the stories are written down, the team records the children narrating it, for the radio.“Though the story is in the tribal language, it has similarities to Tamil. So it not difficult for the audience to understand. In addition to this, a brief of the story and the community is also given, during the telecast,” he says. The volunteers make arrangements for the children to listen to their stories broadcast on the radio. “They come together every week for this. It boosts them to find more stories,” he explains. One of the parents, N Valli from the Irular tribe of Anaikatti says, “We don’t even have a name for our language. With each generation, its usage is coming down. It can even be forgotten in the coming years if not preserved,” she says. B Meghla, a student who has collected two stories says, “The last story I heard was about the friendship between ducks that lived in a pond in the forest. It is exciting as I get to learn new words in my language. I can’t wait to listen to my story on the radio,” she says. Lakshmanan now plans to bring out a book. “Each story will contain brief information of the respective tribe and of the child who collected it. I hope to launch it soon.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/inheritance-of-words/article33622039.ece
21 January 2021||January 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Where the mythical takes flight||Gandaberunda , the mythical two-headed bird, often seen as one of Lord Vishnu’s many incarnations in Hindu mythology, lies on a circular board of thick brown paper intricately etched out using a black pen. At first glance, a satisfying network of patterns is all one sees. But the motif also opens doors to history; especially that of the temple structures seen in Tamil Nadu. The gandaberunda is one of the many creatures that feature in artist and architect Mathew Samuel’s Divine Fauna, a 12-part series of sketches inspired from temple reliefs, manifested as motifs on circular boards. Hailing from Coimbatore and based out of Chennai, Matthew’s interest in temple architecture is the starting point of this personal project that came to fruition during the pandemic-led lockdowns. After completing his Civil Engineering diploma, Mathew moved on to work as an architect with Chennai-based heritage conservation firm, Conservation Mainstream for a year. “We happened to take up temple projects that lie close to the Cauvery flood planes. Since we were accompanied by historians and people who read structures to bring out layers of history, I got to know more about them,” says Mathew.  A lot of observation and consequent research went into this project, adds Matthew. “The entire architectural element of a temple became a large book for me to study,” he says. His first heritage conservation project was of a temple in Udayarpalayam, a small village in Jayankondam taluk, near Gangaikondacholapuram. “It dates back to the Cholas but a lot of the following dynasties did their additions to it. This is where it all started.” Another structure that inspired him lies in Mamallapuram. “We know there are a lot of caves in Mahabalipuram, but there is this one particular cave called Mahishasura Mardini cave. The representations inside this one are out of the world,” says Matthew.  “The first work was on a bird that is not visually represented much anywhere — andril paravai . It has been mentioned in a lot of Tamil literature; in fact even contemporary Tamil movie songs mention the bird. Andril paravai is spotted in pairs, and if one dies, the other dies too,” explains Matthew. These birds appear, albeit subtly, in many temple structures. “There are very few temple paintings, especially in the pre-Pallava era, that show the andril paravai . In the caves of Chittinavasal, in Pudukkottai, the motif can be seen on ceilings. In a few temples, it can be seen as an ornamentation around the deity or a sculptural element.” Matthew wanted to give this motif a form. After andril paravai , he moved on to parrots, peacocks and animals like the lion. Then, he started getting suggestions from others of mythical creatures that he did not know of, like thegandaberunda. “ Gandaberunda is actually the royal insignia of the Mysore royal family. After some research, I found out that the Maratha kings of Tanjore have represented gandaberunda in a different format. In Mysore royalty, it is more of a symmetrical one and in the Tanjore way of doing it, the form is not so much,” says Matthew, who is currently pursuing Heritage Management at Ahmedabad University. This facet of history, which offers multiple narratives (spanning time periods), of the same idea is what feeds Matthew’s interest. “Ultimately, I owe it all to the temples,” he concludes.  To see his work visit Matthew’s Instagram page: @itsallaboutcoffeeshops||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/where-the-mythical-takes-flight/article33622009.ece
21 January 2021||January 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Wearing a cactus||A cactus can do a lot more than prick; it can also be your handbag. Worried about the plastic pollution crisis, Mexico-based Adrián López Velarde and Marte Cázarez put on their thinking sombreros and created the first ever cactus-based leather, under their brand Desserto, in 2019. Closer home, Shivani Patel, founder of accessory brand Arture, is giving shape to this novel form of vegan leather for her new collection that comprises utility pouches, money clip wallets and women’s wallets. After working with cork, this is the first time Arture is experimenting with a different vegan fabric. “Cactus leather is more luxurious to touch. It has a leather-like hand feel and it is slimmer compared to cork,” she explains. This material is a fairly new development, says Shivani whose interest piqued after family and friends sent her a few WhatsApp forwards about this ingenious vegan leather. She started reading about it, and in March 2020 ordered a few samples from Mexico. The samples arrived by July, swatches in black, berry red and forest green, colours that are part of the final collection. “We were impressed with it. The green and red has a bit more shine to it; more gloss and sheen while the black has a grainy texture,” she says. Overall, compared to cork, cactus leather is more flexible and lends well to drapey silhouettes. As a result Shivani is now working on a range of belts. “This material has a huge connect with us as a brand. Just like you don’t cut down a tree for cork, it is the same with cactus where a portion of the plant is cut off, but it regenerates.” she adds.  Price range starts at Rs. 2,000. For details, visit myarture.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/wearing-a-cactus/article33622018.ece
21 January 2021||January 21 2021 00:00 IST,||On a mission||After months of being away from film sets during lockdown, actor Rana Daggubati found himself in the thick of gruelling real-time action when he spent a day with the Border Security Force (BSF) at Murar post in Jaisalmer, Rajasthan. The actor attempted the many demanding tasks they do in a day for the documentary Mission Frontline , which will premiere on Discovery+ today. Recalling the experience, Rana says, “We are brought up with the thought that family comes first. A jawan  from Pulivendula (in Andhra Pradesh) told me that he has a small family in his hometown and a larger family at the border that he is happy returning to. This deeply ingrained thought of putting the nation first was my biggest takeaway from the Mission Frontline experience.” He adds that he liked the idea of a civilian getting an opportunity to live like a jawan  for a day and agreed to be part of the show. Mission Frontline was not going to be a typical celebrity show where a star meets and regales the jawans; the documentary required him to get down and dirty just like they do. Simulated mission Detailing some of the drills, the actor says, “I did a 3.5-kilometre track race, eight-feet jump carrying weapons, the fireman drill while lifting a jawan  on my shoulders, patrolling on camelback and a lot more in a simulated mission. I witnessed the shifting dunes; the post and fence don’t look the same as the day progresses. The vast expanse of the desert was so beautiful and we got stunning visuals, on the lines of Lawrence of Arabia !” There were no retakes in the live action documentary. Rana was not new to filming in a tough terrain but there was no comfort of the vanity van to retire. “We learn about our soldiers when there is an incident at the border. But getting a taste of a day in their life made me realise it is so much more demanding than what we imagine.” The Discovery+ team reveals that the soldiers were impressed with Rana’s ability to handle the intense drills. The actor laughs it off saying, “You will see me get tired, falling… On a film set, I am usually the fittest guy around. Here I came last while running.” Bio bubble The filming happened when restrictions were beginning to be eased after lockdown. Rana shares that the jawans were in a ‘bio bubble’ and he and the small crew got themselves tested to prevent carrying COVID-19 to the borders. The soldiers were informed about Rana’s arrival and were eager to get a glimpse of Baahubali’s Bhallaladeva: “Once they saw me and realised I am not that bulky as I was back then, I guess they felt I am a normal guy,” says Rana, who loved the dal served at the BSF post. The actor says it was a humbling experience. “Two weeks later, I returned to the sets of Virata Parvam (his new Telugu film) to film an action sequence and I still was the fittest guy around, but the BSF experience was a different one altogether. I met jawans who had come from different states, and it reinforced the cultural context of what India is. Theirs is a mission of duty unto death; the words mean everything for them and define who they are.” Mission Frontline streams on Discovery+ app on January 21||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/on-a-mission/article33622628.ece
21 January 2021||January 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Bravehearts in the hot seat||Colonel Vembu Shankar (retired) brims with pride as he reminisces his days in the Armed Forces. A Shaurya Chakra awardee and an avid quizzer, Shankar is delighted to have been able to combine his service and his passion for knowledge to play a role in the finale of the 12th season of the television game show Kaun Banega Crorepati (KBC) that airs this Friday. In the run-up to Republic Day, the finale honours Kargil War heroes as two Param Vir Chakra (India’s highest military decoration for valour in war) awardees — Subedar Major Yogendra Singh Yadav and Subedar Sanjay Kumar — take the hot seat. “There is a lack of awareness about the armed forces and the gallant acts of Param Vir Chakra recipients, especially among the younger generation, as Operation Vijay Kargil happened two decades ago,” says Shankar. KBC has made Shankar the go-to person for the ‘Ask the Expert’ lifeline available to the two joint contestants as part of the special episode. The complete picture “The finale aims to highlight not only the valorous acts of medal winners over the years but also explore their human side: the harsh realities they face, the sacrifices they make, and how their families cope with their absence when they are away in the line of duty,” says the Army veteran. The episode incorporates real-life footages. Shankar says the role of an ‘expert’ in the show was tailor-made for him considering his twin experiences of warcraft and quizzing. Having been awarded the Shaurya Chakra for his role in a military operation in Kupwara district, Jammu and Kashmir, in 1998, he was also a part of Operation Vijay (Kargil War) the following year. At the same time, he is a quizmaster who often conducts competitions in Army schools and bases; in 2002, he reached the semi-finals of the BBC Mastermind India. The two contestants will be donating the winning prize money to the Army Battle Casualties Welfare Fund (ABCWF) that extends monetary assistance to the next of kin of battle casualties. Yogendra Singh Yadav was decorated in 1999 for his dauntless courage in capturing Tiger Hill in Kargil, while Sanjay Kumar was awarded PVC for his gallant exploits in Mushkoh Valley in Ladakh. Presently, Yogendra Singh Yadav is with the Junior Leaders Academy, Bareilly, while Sanjay Kumar serves as weapons instructor with the Indian Military Academy, Dehradun. Another PVC awardee, Honorary Captain Bana Singh who helped India win the Siachen standoff in 1987, makes an appearance as a special guest in the episode. Shankar says connecting with the PVC awardees has been an “eye-opener” for him. “Incidentally, I found that Sanjay Kumar fought the war with some officers I had trained with. So I got to know about the leadership qualities of my own batch mates through him. It was a blast from the past,” he explains. Chennai-based Shankar, who retired from the armed forces in 2017, says the finale steers clear of military jargon to help the television audience better understand the nitty-gritty of war operations. He adds, “Another highlight is a performance by an Army band of the elite 15th Punjab Regiment on the floor in military regalia.”  The finale of KBC 12 will be telecast on January 22 at 9 pm on Sony TV.       Special greetings Several army units have their own forms of regimental salutation. For instance, soldiers from the Assam Regiment utter ‘Tagro raho’ (stay strong) as a mark of greeting, while in the Bihar regiment, it is ‘Hamesha jeetenge’ (we will always win).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/bravehearts-in-the-hot-seat/article33622545.ece
21 January 2021||January 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Captain Ketch goes around the world||James Ketchell has been mistaken for James Bond. Just like the famous spy, Ketchell’s tagline is ‘never say never’. Caught in the midst of a thunderstorm over Canada in the course of circumnavigating the globe in a machine similar to Little Nellie from You Only Live Twice , he landed on a roadstrip and swung the gyrocopter into a truck bay. “The burly truckers, usually impassive, were taken aback,” says Ketchell, his voice ringing with laughter over the phone from Basingstoke, Hampshire, UK, where he was raised. Ketchell is the country’s Scouting ambassador and flew the Magni M16C gyrocopter — which resembles a motorbike in the sky with the cockpit exposed to the weather — over 24,000 nautical miles. The 39-year-old set off from Popham air field, UK, in March 2019 to fly over ice caps, through blinding rain, past world monuments and forgotten outposts of empires, with the wind thrumming through the rotors like a Gregorian chant. Six months later, he returned to base, achieving a feat that was probably the last great aviation record. Between working on his second book It’s All Mental and trying to keep the spirit of discovery alive in a pandemic world, Ketchell has his sights set on 2023 when he plans to take a group of young ex-offenders (18-20 year olds convicted or cautioned for a criminal offence) on a sailing expedition around the world. “The goal is to give them a second chance in life,” says Ketchell. “I was lucky to have good people around me; I want to encourage the use of mentors in one’s life. You are who you spend your time with and some people’s circumstances are harder than others, so I want to give the opportunity to people who are not hardened criminals and put them on the right course.” Ketchell’s life has been one of second chances — he admits that he was always fit but lacked confidence and determination. “I have always liked travelling — the adventures of Tintin were a favourite — and that passion grew as I got older. I would often build camps in the woods and joined the Scouts which helped bring out my passion for the outdoors. My parents were very supportive which I will always be grateful for. In my late teens I discovered the gym. This helped me overcome confidence issues.” New worlds to conquer The turning point came when Ketchell shattered his ankle in a bike accident in 2007. Doctors said he may never walk properly again but over the next few years, Ketchell surprised them and the world by being the only person on the planet to row, climb and cycle to complete the ‘ultimate marathon’. “It was a wake-up call. The accident was the best thing that happened to me as it made me try harder and pursue dreams that I’m not sure I would have otherwise embarked on.”  In 2010, Ketchell became part of a remarkable canon of stories of heroism at sea when he rowed solo across the Atlantic from La Gomera in the Canary Islands to Antigua in the Caribbean. Every day he would sign off his blog as Capt Ketch, which is how the name stuck. “I had a radar alarm system on the boat that would notify me when anything got close. The challenges I faced were mental, I had to keep reminding myself that it was my dream to be doing this. I would often get blown backwards a lot; it taught me patience and, most importantly, discipline of keeping to my daily schedule. This is the case with most things, they are never as hard or as bad as you think they are going to be,” says Ketchell, who, drifting under the stars, felt he was guided by the spirit of his grandfathers. The next year, he summitted Mount Everest and in 2013, cycled eastwards for six months across Europe to Turkey, flew to India and visited many cities speaking in schools to inspire youth, journeyed on to Sri Lanka, Thailand, Singapore, Australia, America and back to the UK where he completed his 18,000 miles on the saddle. But Ketchell was still looking for new worlds to conquer and had his gyroplane built by Magni Gyro in Milan, Italy. Once more he packed his bags with the five essentials he carries: wet wipes; a clean shirt to wear — “you never know who you might meet” — a phone that allows for connectivity, social media updates and audio books; a satellite phone for safety; and a medallion of Saint Christopher (the Christian patron saint of travellers) that has been with him since he crossed the Atlantic. Everywhere he had his share of incredible sights as he travelled across the northern hemisphere almost hugging the temperate zone. “The average height was usually only a thousand feet above the ground, the highest I flew was 12,000 feet in Utah, US, over mountains. Flying lower is a lot more interesting as you can see things in more detail, if I was flying at 10,000 feet above the ground it’s not much different than looking at Google Earth,” says Ketchell. He stopped for refuelling every day, and always had a destination that he was flying to each day. “I had a fantastic support team back in the UK but had to often take pictures using a selfie stick, carefully holding it,” says Ketchell. The stunning picture of him flying by the Statue of Liberty was taken by a pilot also flying across Ellis Island. It is not as if Ketchell has conquered every mountain he set out to climb. He has been rescued from the Indian Ocean and failed to complete his solo rowing expedition around Britain. But he believes that “we can achieve much more than we think”— a mantra he tells children wherever he goes. The man who has weathered avalanches, sunburn, storms and illnesses says, “Despite Covid, adventure travel will come back bigger; there will always be an appetite for adventure no matter what is going on in the world.”  The accident was the best thing that happened to me as it made me try harder and pursue dreams that I’m not sure I would have otherwise embarked on James Ketchell||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/captain-ketch-goes-around-the-world/article33622544.ece
21 January 2021||January 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Inheritance of words||Since last year, Odiyen Lakshmanan has visited 14 tribal settlements across Coimbatore, collecting and documenting stories of the community. “I have been working for tribal rights for the past 15 years. The kids from these villages go to Tamil medium schools and now speak a mix of Tamil and their native language. When I visited Rayaroothupathi village early in 2020 to distribute storybooks, I asked them to narrate a story in their mother tongue to me. I was shocked at the amount of Tamil influence in their language.” says Lakshmanan. The incident motivated him to start project Noolal Ezhuvom, to revive tribal languages. Lakshmanan now works with 150 children in 15 villages around Coimbatore, Erode and Salem. “These stories are also now broadcast in the US through the American Tamil Radio channel,” he says. So far, the team has collected around 100 stories across the Kurumba, Irula, Kota, Urali, Toda, Paniyar, Malayali and Kattunayakan tribes. The stories are about tribal beliefs, history and tradition. Eight volunteers from the community help him in the process. “They are parents or youngsters from the locality. We encourage kids to find stories from their elders and to write them down. Since none of these languages has scripts, they record it using Tamil alphabets.” Once the stories are written down, the team records the children narrating it, for the radio.“Though the story is in the tribal language, it has similarities to Tamil. So it not difficult for the audience to understand. In addition to this, a brief of the story and the community is also given, during the telecast,” he says. The volunteers make arrangements for the children to listen to their stories broadcast on the radio. “They come together every week for this. It boosts them to find more stories,” he explains. One of the parents, N Valli from the Irular tribe of Anaikatti says, “We don’t even have a name for our language. With each generation, its usage is coming down. It can even be forgotten in the coming years if not preserved,” she says. B Meghla, a student who has collected two stories says, “The last story I heard was about the friendship between ducks that lived in a pond in the forest. It is exciting as I get to learn new words in my language. I can’t wait to listen to my story on the radio,” she says. Lakshmanan now plans to bring out a book. “Each story will contain brief information of the respective tribe and of the child who collected it. I hope to launch it soon.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/inheritance-of-words/article33622620.ece
21 January 2021||January 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Where the mythical takes flight||Gandaberunda , the mythical two-headed bird, often seen as one of Lord Vishnu’s many incarnations in Hindu mythology, lies on a circular board of thick brown paper intricately etched out using a black pen. At first glance, a satisfying network of patterns is all one sees. But the motif also opens doors to history; especially that of the temple structures seen in Tamil Nadu. The gandaberunda is one of the many creatures that feature in artist and architect Matthew Samuel’s Divine Fauna, a 12-part series of sketches inspired from temple relief, manifested as motifs on circular boards. Hailing from Coimbatore and based out of Chennai, Matthew’s interest in temple architecture is the starting point of this personal project that came to fruition during the pandemic-led lockdowns. After completing his Civil Engineering diploma, Matthew moved on to work as an architect with Chennai-based heritage conservation firm, Conservation Mainstream for a year. “We happened to take up temple projects that lie close to the Cauvery flood planes. Since we were accompanied by historians and people who read structures to bring out layers of history, I got to know more about them,” says Matthew. A lot of observation and consequent research went into this project, adds Matthew. “The entire architectural element of a temple became a large book for me to study,” he says. His first heritage conservation project was of a temple in Udayarpalayam, a small village in Jayankondam taluk, near Gangaikondacholapuram. “It dates back to the Cholas but a lot of the following dynasties did their additions to it. This is where it all started.” Another structure that inspired him lies in Mamallapuram. “We know there are a lot of caves in Mahabalipuram, but there is this one particular cave called Mahishasura Mardini cave. The representations inside this one are out of the world,” says Matthew. “The first work was on a bird that is not visually represented much anywhere — andril paravai . It has been mentioned in a lot of Tamil literature; in fact even contemporary Tamil movie songs mention the bird. Andril paravai is spotted in pairs, and if one dies, the other dies too,” explains Matthew. These birds appear, albeit subtly, in many temple structures. “There are very few temple paintings, especially in the pre-Pallava era, that show the andril paravai . In the caves of Chittinavasal, in Pudukkottai, the motif can be seen on ceilings. In a few temples, it can be seen as an ornamentation around the deity or a sculptural element.” Matthew wanted to give this motif a form. After andril paravai , he moved on to parrots, peacocks and animals like the lion. Then, he started getting suggestions from others of mythical creatures that he did not know of, like thegandaberunda. “ Gandaberunda is actually the royal insignia of the Mysore royal family. After some research, I found out that the Maratha kings of Tanjore have represented gandaberunda in a different format. In Mysore royalty, it is more of a symmetrical one and in the Tanjore way of doing it, the form is not so much,” says Matthew, who is currently pursuing Heritage Management at Ahmedabad University. This facet of history, which offers multiple narratives (spanning time periods), of the same idea is what feeds Matthew’s interest. “Ultimately, I owe it all to the temples,” he concludes.  To see his work visit Matthew’s Instagram page: @itsallaboutcoffeeshops||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/where-the-mythical-takes-flight/article33622626.ece
21 January 2021||January 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Wearing a cactus||A cactus can do a lot more than prick; it can also be your handbag. Worried about the plastic pollution crisis, Mexico-based Adrián López Velarde and Marte Cázarez put on their thinking sombreros and created the first ever cactus-based leather, under their brand Desserto, in 2019. Closer home, Shivani Patel, founder of accessory brand Arture, is giving shape to this novel form of vegan leather for her new collection that comprises utility pouches, money clip wallets and women’s wallets. After working with cork, this is the first time Arture is experimenting with a different vegan fabric. “Cactus leather is more luxurious to touch. It has a leather-like hand feel and it is slimmer compared to cork,” she explains. This material is a fairly new development, says Shivani whose interest piqued after family and friends sent her a few WhatsApp forwards about this ingenious vegan leather. She started reading about it, and in March 2020 ordered a few samples from Mexico. The samples arrived by July, swatches in black, berry red and forest green, colours that are part of the final collection. “We were impressed with it. The green and red has a bit more shine to it; more gloss and sheen while the black has a grainy texture,” she says. Overall, compared to cork, cactus leather is more flexible and lends well to drapey silhouettes. As a result Shivani is now working on a range of belts. “This material has a huge connect with us as a brand. Just like you don’t cut down a tree for cork, it is the same with cactus where a portion of the plant is cut off, but it regenerates.” she adds.  Price range starts at Rs. 2,000. For details, visit myarture.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/wearing-a-cactus/article33622624.ece
21 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Mass mobilisation in Punjab for Republic Day tractor parade||As the farmers’ protest is escalating, Punjab is witnessing mass mobilisation for the Republic Day’s tractor-trolley parade in Delhi. “In all villages, bike and tractor rallies are being organised every day by our ground-level volunteers. They are going to every nook and corner to exhort those who are still at home to come out in support of the farmers and reach Delhi on January 26,” said Amreek Singh, District Pradhan, Bharat Kisan Union- Jalandhar (Kadian). Mr. Singh said women in villages are also carrying out jaago -- groups knocking on the doors of each house and asking them to participate. He also said that multiple tractors are being loaded on top of trolleys. “Two tractors are loaded on top of a trolley. It serves two purposes – more vehicles being brought in and saving fuel,” he said. Saving money, fuel Explaining further, Mr. Singh said the fuel cost to travel from Punjab to Delhi is around Rs. 12,000, and by packing two tractors in a trolley they end up saving nearly Rs. 25,000. “We’ve also hired trailer to bring 10 tractors in one go. We give them Rs. 50,000 and still end up saving Rs. 70,000,” he said. Santok Singh Sandhu, Kirti Kisan union member, said that 120 tractors filled with labour groups will be coming for Republic Day parade. From the Singhu border, only tractors will be part of the parade, they said. Anticipated move After the talks between government and farmer leaders, protesting farmers said that they had anticipated this move by the government and weren’t expecting the deadlock to end. “If the government hasn’t nudged till now, what difference would have happened today [Wednesday]? The situation will remain the same and we will not move,” said Manpreet Singh from Ludhiana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/mass-mobilisation-in-punjab-for-republic-day-tractor-parade/article33622312.ece
21 January 2021||GURUGRAM,||Haryana government mulling to reopen schools from February 1||The Haryana government is mulling to reopen schools for Class VI-VIII from February 1 and hold annual exams in April-end. However, the parents will have the choice to not send their wards to the schools. State Education Minister Kanwar Pal on Wednesday said the government was considering to open schools for junior classes since the fear for COVID-19 had begun to dissipate and the overall atmosphere had improved. He said that exams for government schools might be conducted in April-end. The Haryana Board of School Education exams are usually conducted in early March. “The overall atmosphere has improved and the fear of coronavirus is gradually going. The recovery rate is around 98% and the number of patients has also gone down. The vaccine has also been launched,” said Mr. Pal. He, however, added that the order to reopen schools would not be binding on the parents and they would have the choice to not send their wards to schools. Regular physical classes are being held for Grade IX-XII for almost a month now. However, the district education officers maintained that the attendance was only around 50 % on an average. Those attending the classes need to furnish a medical certificate confirming that they don’t have any COVID-like symptoms and also need a consent from the parents in writing. Most of the private schools in Gurugram remain shut and continue to hold online classes. The Haryana government had allowed government and private schools to hold guidance classes for Class IX to XII students in the last week of September. The students were allowed to attend school only with the written consent of the parents. Cases among students In October last week, the State education department directed holding of regular classes for three hours daily. But, the schools were shut for almost a month from November-end after students in various government schools were found infected with the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/haryana-govt-mulls-reopening-classes-6-to-8/article33622299.ece
21 January 2021||HYDERABAD,||SCR Hyd. division removes 11 level crossings in 8 months||The South Central Railway's Hyderabad division has successfully completed 11 Road under Bridges (RuBs) - Limited Height Subway (LHS) during eight months between May - December 2020 with an approximate expenditure of Rs. 30.8 crore. The RuB’s/LHS construction involve adopting innovative methods and state of the art technology like keeping precast reinforced concrete cement boxes for building the LHS vents in advance, taking short blocks of regulation to train services in the section of the work, undertaking fast excavation of earth using heavy duty machinery, placing of temporary pre-fabricated iron girders on either sides of the track for insertion of RCC boxes to act as permanent LHS at the spot, filling up the earth, besides newly readied LHS, besides restoring normalcy of train operations within a short time. Less impact "This method has led to bare minimal impact on train operations,” said General Manager Gajanan Mallya. “The policy to eliminate the level crossings has been taken to avoid mishaps which not only endanger railway assets but also cause unsafe situations to road users. This is being done through LHS, RUBs and Road Over Bridges (ROBs) with co-operation of governments,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/scr-hyd-division-removes-11-level-crossings-in-8-months/article33622419.ece
21 January 2021||HYDERABAD,||IAF chief joins AFA Dundigal Golden Jubilee fete||Indian Air Force Chief of Air Staff, Air Chief Marshal R.K.S. Bhadauria flew a sortie in a PC-7 Mk-II trainer with one of the qualified flying instructors to mark the Golden Jubilee celebrations of the Air Force Academy located at Dundigal on the outskirts here on Tuesday. The IAF Chief unveiled a statue of the “Eternal Pilot” presented by pioneers of 107 Pilots’ Course — the first course to undergo flying training at AFA. An Indian Postal service special cover and Golden Jubilee medallion was also released on the occasion in the presence of serving and retired officers. Addressing the trainees and instructors during a workshop, he complimented the academy for rendering yeoman service in imparting high quality training that provides the bedrock on which young flight cadets go on to become thorough professionals and military leaders. Mr. Bhadauria urged trainees to imbibe IAF’s ethos, train hard to prepare for challenges that lie ahead and develop tri-service domain knowledge to fight future wars. The faculty at AFA and HQ training command should explore avenues for evolving new training methodologies, reshaping curriculum and incorporating new-gen aids to make officers future ready. Since its inception in 1971, the AFA has added many feathers to its cap like then President of India Fakhruddin Ali Ahmed presenting ‘Colours’ on September 10, 1975 and on December 19, 2020 when it had achieved a milestone with 100th course passed in a combined graduation parade reviewed by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. AFA conducts training for all flying and ground duty branches of IAF and also to officers of Indian Navy, Indian Coast Guard and friendly foreign countries in various streams. Basic and advanced training for Air Traffic Control Officers of IAF and other two sister services are also conducted, informed a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/iaf-chief-graces-afa-golden-jubilee-fete/article33622421.ece
21 January 2021||Hyderabad,||Bhuvanesh sworn in as new president for ATA||Bhuvanesh Bujala was sworn in the new president of the American Telugu Association (ATA) at a working group meeting in Nashville, Tennesse. He was handed over the responsibilities by the outgoing president Parmesh Bheemreddy. Along with him a new team has also take over the responsibilities of one of the oldest Telugu organisations in North America that works to preserve Telugu cultural traditions and also acts as a bridge between the huge Telugu population in the United States of America. Under his leadership, the 17th ATA Conference is scheduled to be held in Washington DC from July 1 to 3, 2022. Other members in the team include Hariprasad Reddy Lingala (secretary), Sainath Reddy Boyapalli (treasurer), Ramakrishna Reddy Ala (joint secretary) and Vijay Kundur (joint treasurer). Madhu Bommineni is the president-elect, who will succeed the present head. The ATA Board of Trustees was also elected and the members include Jayant Challa, Kashi Vishwanath Kotta, Parashuram Pinnapureddy, Sharada Singireddy, Somasekhar Nalla, Tirupati Reddy Erramreddy, Hanu Thirumala Reddy, Prashil Gookanti, Raghuveer Reddy, Ram Annadi, Ravinder Gudur, Rinda Sama, Sarath Vemula, Sudhir Bandaru and Vijaya Bhaskar Reddy Thupally. Mr. Bhuvanesh, who hails from Gummadam village in Wanaparthy district said ATA has decided to expand its emergency services to every State in the USA with the service number ‘1-844-ATA-SEVA’. The new president, who holds a B.Tech in Civil Engineering from JNTU, went to the USA in 1992 for his Masters in Computer Science from NYIT. He runs an IT firm and has been an active member of ATA since 2006 and served in many capacities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bhuvanesh-sworn-in-new-ata-president/article33622425.ece
21 January 2021||TIRUPATI,||Your identity card is now a click away||Here’s a self-operating kiosk that enables one access the server and take the printout of any of the identity cards recognised by the government. The kiosk was on display at ‘Prerana’, the two-day district-level Youth Festival 2021 organised at Sri Venkateswara College of Engineering campus that ended on Wednesday. Touted as the first-ever event, it aims at all-round development of youth in Chittoor district. Developed by Sai Ram’s Innomations India Private Limited, having Tirupati as its headquarters, the kiosk received laurels from MLC Y. Srinivasulu Reddy and District Collector Bharat Narayana Gupta during its inauguration. The team, led by its Managing Director V. Sudhakar Reddy, which developed the kiosk, is involved in the smart card business for the last 25 years. The kiosk is linked to the official website from which the Electoral Photo Identity Card (EPIC) can be downloaded and printed in no time. All that one has to do is to key in one’s voter identity card number and enter the OTP received on the mobile phone. Once the card is displayed on the screen, it can be downloaded and a printout taken on the PVC card within minutes. The company is also the official distributor of the plastic card for entire South India. “Our cards will be officially used for the first time in the ensuing general elections to the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly,” says M. Padmanabhan, manager (business development) of Sai Ram’s Innomations.  The kiosk facilitates futuristic integration with the UIDAI and Transport Department, so that one can download Aadhaar card and also the driving licence. Though the net savvy urban residents have the wherewithal to get the same in their vicinity, the target of these kiosks is the rural areas, where the dwellers are deprived of such a facility. “We plan to set up such kiosks in panchayat or mandal-level offices, from where the citizens can easily print their identity cards,” says Mr. Padmanabhan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/your-identity-card-is-now-a-click-away/article33622428.ece
21 January 2021||Jaipur,||BJP starts campaigning for Rajasthan Assembly bypolls||Facing internal feuds and tussle over the leadership issues, the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party in Rajasthan has kicked off the campaign for the Assembly by-elections in four constituencies, the dates for which are yet to be announced. A series of party workers’ meetings have been planned in the run-up to the bypolls. The State unit has been confronted with factionalism since the formation of an outfit supporting former Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje and a section of the party leaders demanding that she be declared the chief ministerial candidate for the 2023 Assembly election. The BJP has officially deprecated the attempts to project any individual as the CM. While the BJP has given importance to Ms. Raje’s detractors for the last several months and even appointed some of them to important organisational posts, the party has sought to put up a united front ahead of the by-elections, expected to be held in March. The first meeting of the workers of the front organisations was held at Sujangarh in Churu district on Tuesday.  ‘Indomitable force’ State president Satish Poonia, who addressed the meeting after offering prayers at the nearby Salasar Balaji temple, said the party was working hard to finish the trend of Congress and BJP being elected alternately every five years. “We are committed to making the BJP an indomitable force. We will strengthen the ideology of nationalism to ensure our party’s victory.” A large number of workers of the Other Backward Classes (OBC) Morcha, Mahila Morcha, Minority Morcha and Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha attended the meeting. The Sujangarh Assembly seat fell vacant after the death of Congress MLA and Social Justice and Empowerment Minister Bhanwarlal Meghwal on November 16, 2020. The three other constituencies going to the bypolls are Rajsamand, Sahara (Bhilwara) and Vallabhnagar (Udaipur), due to the death of MLAs. While BJP MLA from Rajsamand Kiran Maheshwari died in November 2020, Sahara and Vallabhnagar were represented by Congress MLAs Kailash Trivedi and Gajendra Singh Shaktawat, respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-starts-campaigning-for-rajasthan-assembly-bypolls/article33622300.ece
21 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Intel officials keeping eye on Khalsa Aid’||Khalsa Aid’s director in India Amarpreet Singh, who has been summoned by the National Investigation Agency to appear for questioning, said that he knows that intelligence officials keep a check on them and also speaks to him regularly. Speaking to The Hindu at the Singhu border, he said that whenever Khalsa Aid undertakes projects in different parts of the country and other counties also, people perceive Khalsa in a negative way, especially after 1984 riots. “They associate the term with anti-national activities. It takes us time to convince them that we are not in any way associated with any anti-national organisation. I think the NIA is probably thinking on the same lines,” he laughed. Mr. Singh said that he knows intelligence officials are always standing around the Khalsa Aid Kisan Mall here. “They talk to me also and if those officers are reporting back to their bosses, then I don’t understand why we are being questioned,” he wondered. Talking about the questioning of one of the trustees last week, he said that the NIA focused on Khalsa Aid’s funding for farmers’ protest. “They questioned him for seven-eight hours and were fairly polite. They asked him about the funding, how did we buy geysers and massage machines and if we are getting foreign funding,” he said, adding that he was scheduled to be questioned on Monday but received a call on Sunday night to reschedule. Mr. Singh’s first reaction to NIA notice was “shock- cum-disappointment” and he wondered, “what kind of problems does the government have?” However, reaction of certain media was expected, he said, because they have purportedly faced this before when they helped the Rohingya Muslims in Bangladesh and provided aid in Syria. “We are questioned as to why are we helping members of another community if we are Sikhs and when we have a problem of poverty in our own country. Also, we were being covered a lot because of the new ideas we were implementing, so the hate campaign was expected. But we keep telling everyone that we don’t help based on religion or community but where help is required,” he said. Volunteers’ reaction Talking about volunteers’ reaction to the notices, he said they are slightly scared but they tell him to take it easy. “Volunteers are also disappointed because they leave their work to help people here and when they go back to their workplace and are asked questions, it’s not the best feeling to feel,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/intel-officials-keeping-eye-on-khalsa-aid/article33622307.ece
21 January 2021||Guwahati,||‘Assam Assembly polls before board exams’||Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora on Wednesday said the Assam Assembly polls will be held keeping in mind the Rongali Bihu festival and the process will be finished before the CBSE Board exams beginning on May four. The Commission is sensitive towards festivals held in the various States “and we have already taken into consideration this before coming here for the review meetings”, the CEC told reporters here. The political parties during interaction with the full bench of the poll panel had made a plea to keep in view the Bihu festival while deciding the poll schedule to encourage more voter turnout and also to ensure that the monsoon, which usually arrives early in the State, is avoided. Rongali Bihu, also known as Bohag Bihu, is celebrated by the people of Assam to mark the Assamese New Year. It is usually observed in the second week of April with the onset of spring. “The Bihu festival dates will be taken into cognisance and factored in while drawing up the schedule of election dates accordingly”, Mr. Arora added. The commission had meetings with Central Board of Secondary Education officials to decide on the poll schedule framework and “we have decided that the election process will be finished before the Board exams begin on May four”, he said.  The term of 126-member Assam house is ending on May 31, 2021. The political parties had also impressed upon the commission to hold the elections with strict COVID-19 protocols and this will be adhered to strictly with the number of auxilliary polling booths increased in the State, Mr. Arora said. The maximum number of electors at a polling station has been reduced from 1500 to 1000, he said. Accordingly for Assam, the number of polling stations would go up by about 5,000 and likely to be more than 33,000 for the forthcoming elections, the CEC added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/assam-assembly-polls-before-cbse-board-exams-says-cec/article33622296.ece
21 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Farmers-police talks on rally route inconclusive||The meeting between farmers’ unions and police on Wednesday remained inconclusive as the protesting farmers refused to accept the alternative route for their proposed January 26 tractor rally on Delhi’s busy Outer Ring Road. Union leaders and officers of the Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana police forces met at Vigyan Bhawan here to discuss the route and arrangements of the proposed rally on Republic Day. A senior police officer said that the farmer leaders were suggested by the officers to take out their rally on the Kundli–Manesar–Palwal (KMP) Expressway, but they did not agree. The Outer Ring Road passes through several areas of Delhi such as Vikaspuri, Janakpuri, Uttam Nagar, Burari, Peeragarhi and Pitampura. There might be another round of talks with the police on Thursday, a farmer leader, who attended the meeting, said. We discussed several points with police officers on our tractor rally on January 26, a senior farmer leader said. Joint Commissioner of Police, (Northern Range), S.S. Yadav coordinated the meeting from the Delhi police side.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/farmers-police-talks-on-rally-route-inconclusive/article33622305.ece
21 January 2021||ANANTAPUR,||Kisan Rail chugs off from Anantapur||The fourth Kisan Rail chugged off from Anantapur for New Delhi on Wednesday night with 10 bogies carrying 236 metric tonnes of fruits. APMIP Deputy Director B. Subba Rayudu, who has been coordinating the sending of the special train with horticulture produce, said 220 tonnes of bananas were loaded by various traders and farmers. The remaining space was filled with six tonnes of musk melons and six tonnes of tomatoes. The price per kg of banana or total expenditure for taking the load to Delhi for farmer or trader was approximately Rs. 10 per kg, and now they have to pray for a good price in the Azadpur Mandi. The efforts of the district administration had recently won SKOCH Award, as this was the second such train to be run exclusively for agricultural produce in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/kisan-rail-chugs-off-from-anantapur/article33622422.ece
21 January 2021||HYDERABAD,||UoH hosts online ‘Cog Talk’ lecture||The Centre for Neural and Cognitive Sciences at the University of Hyderabad recently hosted an online lecture by Michael Spivey, professor of cognitive science at the University of California, on the topic ‘Who you are: embodied and extended cognition’ as part of an online distinguished speaker series initiated by the centre under the banner ‘Cog Talk’. A release said it is an interdisciplinary platform for lectures/interactive sessions by distinguished speakers related to mind and brain sciences. The objective was to engage students, researchers, faculty in cognitive science and spread awareness of research areas which are asking innovative questions and using truly interdisciplinary ideas/methods to answer these questions. The main focus of the lecture was on the interactivity of the mind — how our actions and responses are a result of not just our own minds but the environment and other external factors around people. Drawing evidence from a wide variety of research areas — from linguistics, action-perception links, moral decision making among others — Prof Spivey showed how there is overwhelming evidence for an embodied view of cognition. He also touched upon his earlier work on interactivity in language where seemingly irrelevant factors were shown to influence different levels of language processing. The talk was followed by a lively discussion first with the moderator Prof Ramesh Mishra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/uoh-hosts-online-cog-talk/article33622423.ece
21 January 2021||New Delhi,||Remove all obstacles for road redesigning projects: Delhi CM||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday chaired a review meeting with Public Works Department (PWD) officials on the status of the ongoing redesigning and streetscaping of seven road stretches and 540 km of identified roads in the Capital along the lines of European cities. “The process of designing the roads should be done in a swift manner and the project should be completed within the stipulated deadline. The PWD should ensure the removal of all obstacles, the project needs to be completed in two years. There should be no laxity in the completion,” Mr. Kejriwal was quoted. The Delhi government is working to redesign 100-foot wide roads spread across 540 km in the city. Mr. Kejriwal approved the project in November 2019. The development of these roads will be on the lines of the Built-Operate-Transfer model and the construction company will take care of the maintenance for 15 years. The main aim of the project will be removing bottlenecks from roads for a smooth flow of traffic and decongestion, constructing disabled-friendly infrastructure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/remove-all-obstacles-in-way-of-road-redesigning-projects-cm-tells-pwd/article33622308.ece
21 January 2021||Chandigarh,||BJP ignoring interests of farmers, labourers: Haryana Cong. chief||Haryana Congress chief Kumari Selja on Wednesday hit out at the BJP, accusing it of ignoring interests of farmers and labourers, who she said were backbone of the country. “This earth is our mother and forgetting mother is the biggest crime. The BJP is committing the same crime today and the motherland will never forgive this government. Farmers and labourers are the backbone of the country, and if farmers and labourers will suffer, the country cannot progress,” she said.  Toll plaza protests Ms. Selja was speaking among the farmers, who had been agitating against Centre’s new farm laws at the Badopatti toll plaza in Hisar and Narwana toll plaza in Jind. “Farmers and labourers are forced to sit on the streets in this bitter cold due to the black farm laws of this government. This is not a political movement as being politicised by the BJP. It is the people’s mass movement and being a political party, the Congress is performing its duty and fighting a political battle. Under the leadership of Mr. Rahul Gandhi, the Congress party is continuously fighting against these anti-agriculture black laws,” she said. Ms. Selja said that farmers and labourers are very well aware of their loss and profit. “Farmers and labourers used to keep their demands during the tenure of Congress government as well, which were listened to and fulfilled. But the BJP government is arrogant. If the farmers and labourers are unhappy, the days of BJP government will be over soon,” Ms. Selja said. Delhi dharna Two Punjab Cabinet Ministers Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa and Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria joined the dharna at Jantar Mantar in Delhi with the Congress MPs of Punjab in support of farmers. In a joint statement issued here today, both the Punjab Ministers demanded that the Union government should immediately withdraw the three black laws imposed on farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-ignoring-interests-of-farmers-labourers-haryana-cong-chief/article33622298.ece
21 January 2021||January 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Loud and clear||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/loud-and-clear/article33622432.ece
21 January 2021||New Delhi,||HC issues notices on police land encroachment||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday issued notices to Delhi government’s Public Works Department, the city police, North Delhi Municipal Corporation on a petition alleging encroachment of a police colony land located at Shalimar Bagh in northwest Delhi. Justice Pratibha M. Singh while hearing the petition said, “I actually find it quite amusing that police land has been encroached upon”. The HC also issued notice to the people who allegedly have done the encroachment. The court has posted the case for hearing on April 12. It also asked the authorities to inform what action has been taken against the encroachment. The petitioner, Anil Kumar, a resident of the police colony whose land has been encroached upon, contended that in a criminal case before the court involving the alleged encroachers, a categorical finding was arrived at that they have encroached upon the police land and built a house there despite they being neither employees of Delhi Police nor any land being allotted to them in the colony.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/plea-alleges-police-land-encroachment/article33622301.ece
21 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Protesting farmer from Haryana dies||A farmer who allegedly consumed a poisonous substance at the Tikri border died during treatment here on Wednesday, the police said. The deceased was identified as a resident of Pakasma village in Rohtak district of Haryana. In a purported note, the deceased wrote, “The government says it is a matter of only two to three States, but farmers from all over the country are protesting against the laws. Sadly, it is not a movement now, but a fight of issues.”  Suicide prevention helpline: Sanjivini, Society for Mental Health, 011-4076 9002, Monday-Saturday (10 a.m.-7.30 p.m.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/protesting-farmer-from-haryana-dies/article33622304.ece
21 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Ration from anganwadis reached 85% beneficiaries’||A survey conducted by the Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) on distribution of dry ration from Anganwadis shows that nearly 85% of the beneficiaries have received their nutritional supplements this month. This is an increase from 44% distribution status in May 2020. The rapid response survey conducted in 12 areas of Delhi involved a random sample of 1,267 beneficiaries that include pregnant women, lactating mothers and children below six years of age. Beneficiaries receive 260 gm of bhuna chana for mother and child, 1,690 gm for mother and 1,300 gm of dalia for child, 130 gm of gudd for mother and child and 1,300 gms of kala chana for mother and child. The survey was conducted between January 4 and January 9 and was conducted to ensure that beneficiaries registered in Anganwadis are receiving the Take Home Ration (THR) and other benefits. Anurag Kundu, Chairperson of the DCPCR, said that monitoring and tracking are the pillars of ensuring that the beneficiaries of a scheme get equitable access to their entitled aids.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ration-from-anganwadis-reached-85-beneficiaries/article33622310.ece
21 January 2021||January 21 2021 00:00 IST,||New addition||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/new-addition/article33622314.ece
