22 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Decision on Rajiv case convict soon, SC told||Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit will take a decision “as per the Constitution” in the next three or four days on a plea for release by A.G. Perarivalan, who is undergoing life imprisonment for the assassination of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi in 1991, Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta orally informed the Supreme Court on Thursday. Mr. Mehta, appearing for the Governor, made the submission before a three-judge Bench, led by Justice L. Nageswara Rao. The court, however, noted in its short order that the “Solicitor-General submitted that the application filed by the petitioner [Perarivalan] under Article 161 of the Constitution of India shall be considered within four weeks from today. List this matter after four weeks”. Reacting to the variation, senior advocate Gopal Sankaranarayanan said Perarivalan’s side was planning to mention the case in court for a clarification. Mr. Mehta’s submission came on the second day of hearing of a petition filed by Perarivalan, senior advocate Gopal Sankaranarayanan and advocate Prabu Ramasubramanian, highlighting the long delay by the Governor to decide on the Tamil Nadu Cabinet recommendation. Though the submission was made during the hearing of Perarivalan’s case, the Cabinet had made the recommendation to remit the life sentences of seven convicts, including Perarivalan, on September 9, 2018, Additional Advocate-General of Tamil Nadu, Balaji Srinivasan, said. The recommendation to remit their life sentences was advised by the Cabinet under Article 161. The other convicts are Nalini, Murugan, Santhan, Jayakumar, Ravichandran and Robert Payas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/decision-on-rajiv-case-convict-soon-sc-told/article33631074.ece
22 January 2021||Kolkata,||Trinamool, BJP leaders meet EC officials||Leaders of the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Thursday met the full bench of the Election Commission of India (EC) in Kolkata and sparred over the role of the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) ahead of the Assembly polls in the State. The Trinamool delegation, led by party secretary general Partha Chatterjee, said that the Border Security Force (BSF) deployed at the State border was pressuring and threatening the locals in the villages to support a particular political party. “This is a serious allegation and we want to the Election Commission to look into it,” Mr. Chatterjee said. The TMC leadership also said that the BJP was trying to pressurise the EC by alleging that there were discrepancies in the voters’ list in bordering areas, and a number of Rohingya people had been included in the voters’ lists. Mr. Chatterjee said that such remarks made by BJP were completely baseless. The State BJP delegation led by party State president Dilip Ghosh demanded that Central forces should be deployed in the State at the earliest to boost the confidence of the voters. “The people of West Bengal are in fear whenever elections approach on whether they can cast their votes freely,” Mr. Ghosh said. He said that CAPF officers should be deployed at polling booths and the State police should be kept away. In the letter to the Chief Election Commissioner, the BJP sought that CAPF be deployed at least 15 days before polling day, and the deployment must be made and supervised by police observers. “A state level Police observer of the rank of DG (Director General) assisted by four IG level observers to ensure law and order management and deployment of CAPF,” the BJP’s communication to the ECI said. Representatives of Left parties and Congress also met ECI officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/trinamool-bjp-leaders-meet-ec-officials/article33631457.ece
22 January 2021||HYDERABAD,||Bus fares need to be hiked, officials tell CM||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao was informed by officials at a meeting on Thursday that there was no way that the State road transport corporation could be bailed out of its financial crisis unless bus charges were hiked and the State government infused assistance to the corporation in a big way. Lockdown effect The officials brought to the notice of Mr. Rao that the RTC continued to reel under losses due to a steep increase in diesel prices, buses going off roads due to COVID-19 induced lockdown and accumulated losses of the corporation. The financial burden would increase further if the salaries of crew were increased. When the bus charges were increased the last time, the diesel price was Rs. 67 a litre. Within a short time, the price went up by Rs. 15 a litre. This had a severe impact on the financial position of the corporation. In addition, the lockdown related losses and accumulated losses deepened the circumstances. In these circumstance, a salary revision for staff was expected. If the salaries were hiked, it would result in an assailable situation for the corporation, which it was in no position to face. Therefore, liberal assistance of the government and hike in bus charges were the only way out. The officials explained to Mr. Rao that the situation was far better than in the past. The government assistance and some hard decisions taken by the corporation resulted in some improvement. The decision to run services to Andhra Pradesh increased occupancy rate to 58 per cent. The rate was gradually on the increase. The corporation was earning a revenue of Rs. 9 crore a day. The position was bound to improve further. But, the increase in diesel prices was a concern. Mr. Rao praised the officials for the cargo services introduced by the corporation. He noted that the corporation earned a revenue of Rs. 22.61 crore from delivery of 17.72 lakh parcels. The public was also happy with the services as they were convinced that the parcels would reach the destinations safely in time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bus-charges-need-to-be-increased-officials-tell-kcr/article33631370.ece
22 January 2021||Madurai,||Recruit healthcare staff for mini clinics through District Health Society: HC||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday directed the State government to recruit healthcare staff for mini clinics through the District Health Society alone and under no circumstance involve external agencies in the recruitment process. Any appointments via the outsourcing mode would stand cancelled, the court said. A Division Bench of Justices M.M. Sundresh and S. Ananthi took cognisance of the State’s submission that made it clear that the recruitment would be made only through the District Health Society. It had proposed to recruit the healthcare staff from the same locality, taluk and district for the services where such clinics would be established, the State said. The court was hearing the public interest litigation petition filed by advocate G.V. Vairam Santhosh of Madurai. The petitioner said that he did not dispute the policy decision taken by the government but had an issue with the mode of selection of the healthcare staff. He said that an external agency was involved which was contrary to the existing norms. The petitioner apprehended that reservation policy would not be followed in staff recruitment. The State informed the court that the staff nurses would be recruited in accordance with the National Health Mission norms. The recruitment of healthcare staff would be temporary in nature keeping in mind the present scenario, the government said. The judges observed that the State should make all endeavours not to extend the initial period of the recruitment and if at all the State government wanted to make the recruitment beyond the temporary period of one year, then the regular procedure must be followed. With regard to the implementation of reservation policy, the court directed the State government to follow the policy as far as possible depending on the availability of qualified candidates. See to it that people hailing from different categories were looked into for recruitment, the court said and disposed of the petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/recruit-staff-for-mini-clinics-via-health-society-hc/article33631171.ece
22 January 2021||Special Correspondent Kolkata,||Violence erupts as BJP factions clash in Purba Bardhaman||Violence erupted as two factions of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) clashed in Purba Bardhaman district on Thursday when a group of supporters attacked the party office and also set vehicles on fire. Such clashes have in the recent past been happening between the BJP and Trinamool Congress (TMC) workers, but as the BJP is trying to accommodate people from different political parties ahead of upcoming Assembly polls, hostilities within the party are coming out in the open. In the clash on Thursday, not only did the rival factions throw stones at each other but they also torched vehicles and attacked the party office. The party office was recently inaugurated by BJP national president J.P. Nadda. Over a dozen people were injured in Thursday’s violence and the police had to intervene to control the situation. BJP’s State unit president Dilip Ghosh said there might be differences within the party but violence is not the way to express this. Party spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said there would be an inquire into the incident and the party would not tolerate any indiscipline. “Those joining the party should understand that no act of indiscipline will be tolerated,” he said. Similar protests in the BJP had earlier erupted at Asansol in Paschim Bardhhaman in the presence of Union Minister and BJP MP from Asansol Babul Supriyo.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/violence-erupts-as-bjp-factions-clash-in-purba-bardhaman/article33631459.ece
22 January 2021||New Delhi,||Priyanka on U.P. Cong. calendar fuels speculation||At a time when the Congress is going through a phase of uncertainty with regard to its central leadership, a 2021 calendar prepared by the Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee has become a talking point. Photographs of party general secretary in-charge of U.P. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra have been put on every page of the calendar. The move has prompted the question whether the Congress is going to project Ms. Vadra as its chief ministerial face to take on the Yogi Adityanath-led BJP government ahead of next year’s Assembly elections. Over 10 lakh copies of the calendar are going to be sent across the State. An All India Congress Committee functionary, who did not wish to be named, played it down by pointing out that a similar calendar with Rahul Gandhi’s photos was prepared for Wayanad, the Congress leader’s Lok Sabha constituency in Kerala. Though the UPCC has not formally released the calendar, each of the 12 pages showcases Ms. Vadra’s work: from hugging the mother of the Hathras rape and murder victim to reaching out to victims of violence in a land dispute in Sonbhadra to attending the birth anniversary celebrations of Sant Ravidas in Varanasi. In a State where Mr. Adityanath has become the strident face of Hindutva, the Congress too has put up an image of Ms. Vadra praying at the Mahakal temple of Lord Shiva. Though there has been no official announcement, speculation about Ms. Vadra shifting her political base to Lucknow has intensified. “You will hear about it soon,” said a functionary on Thursday. Ms. Vadra, who used to manage her mother Sonia Gandhi’s constituency of Rae Bareli, joined full-time politics in January 2019, months before the Lok Sabha poll. Often talked about as the ‘trump card’ that the Congress had not used, Ms. Vadra’s entry was expected to give a much needed booster shot to the Congress in the Hindi heartland. However, the results of the 2019 polls proved otherwise as the Congress that had won Rae Bareli and Amethi in 2014 was left with one seat after Mr. Gandhi lost from Amethi. Despite the humiliating loss, Ms. Vadra has been taking on the Adityanath government over a range of issues, from allegedly not providing transport to migrant workers during the COVID-19 lockdown to law and order and crime against women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/priyanka-on-up-cong-calendar-fuels-speculation/article33631220.ece
22 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||FB official says he has right to remain silent||Senior Facebook official Ajit Mohan told the Supreme Court on Thursday that he is well within his rights to remain silent and not be compelled by the Peace and Harmony Committee of the Delhi Legislative Assembly to be part of a “politically polarised debate” on the Delhi riots last year. Appearing before a three-judge Bench led by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul, senior advocate Harish Salve, for Mr. Mohan, submitted his client heads the commercial office of an American company in India. “I don’t want to get in the middle of a politically polarised debate,” he submitted for Mr. Mohan. Mr. Salve clarified to the court that he cannot be compelled to appear before the committee even if he is exempted from taking oath. ‘Conscientious decision’ “It is a conscientious decision. You may criticise me for it. You give oath when you are testifying on facts... I do not wish to appear before the committee. It is a highly polarised political debate. I do not wish to be part of it. I am well within my right to remain silent,” Mr. Salve emphasised. Mr. Salve flagged his concerns about the mandate of the Committee, which includes recommending action against persons against whom incriminating evidence for incitement of violence was prima facie found. Mr. Salve said the Information Technology Act already deals with hate content on the Internet. Mr. Mohan has accused the Assembly of threatening him with “breach of privilege” if he did not appear before the Committee to testify. Mr. Salve said the case highlighted several pertinent questions of law, which includes whether the privileges of the Legislative Assembly of the NCT of Delhi would comprise the power to compel the appearance of non-members. He said there was no such privilege to summon third parties. “If they have the power to compel appeara-nce, how will it be reconciled with the right to privacy, free speech and expression, which include the right to silence,” Mr. Salve submitted. He said cooperative federalism did not include the power to do anything.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fb-official-says-he-has-right-to-remain-silent/article33631221.ece
22 January 2021||P SridharKHAMMAM,||Woman gets timely aid from RPF personnel||In a swift response, the Khammam Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel helped a pregnant Nepali woman passenger, who developed labour pains on board a festival special train, reach hospital quickly and deliver her baby under medical supervision here, in the wee hours of Thursday. The pregnant woman, identified as Anita Devi, 30, experienced labour pains while travelling by the Yeshwantpur-Lucknow special train along with her mother-in-law and two children at around 3 a.m., sources said. The train made an unscheduled halt at the railway station in Khammam at 4.07 a.m. The RPF head constable Pitambar along with woman constable Shivani on night duty immediately received the pregnant woman and her three family members soon after the train arrived at the platform number two. They swiftly shifted Anita into a waiting ‘108 ambulance’ on a stretcher. A woman RPF constable escorted the pregnant woman in the ambulance to the district headquarters hospital where the latter delivered a baby boy under the supervision of medical staff. The RPF Inspector, Khammam, K Madhusudhan visited the Nepali woman and her newborn baby at the hospital. He handed over a kit containing clothes, napkins, diapers, baby soaps and powder to her. He discussed with the authorities concerned about the arrangements for their stay and sending them to Lucknow by a direct train on January 25, sources added. In a similar timely gesture, the Khammam RPF personnel helped a pregnant woman passenger from Bihar, who delivered a baby in the toilet of a moving train, get timely medical assistance at the government hospital in Khammam in November, 2019. The RPF team also has won wide appreciation for their child-rescue initiatives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/woman-in-labour-gets-timely-help-from-rpf-personnel/article33631378.ece
22 January 2021||CHENNAI,||CM defends OPS, warns DMK chief||AIADMK co-coordinator and Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Thursday accused DMK president M.K. Stalin of levelling a “false allegation” against Deputy Chief Minister and the party coordinator, O. Panneerselvam. Addressing a gathering in Thiruporur, Chengalpattu district, the Chief Minister referred to Mr. Stalin’s observations in Theni against the Deputy Chief Minister and said that during lockdown, Mr. Panneerselvam had foot the bill, at his personal cost, for the return of 400 Muslims, who were stranded in New Delhi, to Tamil Nadu and got proper treatment for them. Likewise, he had arranged food for affected people. Criticising Mr. Stalin for seeking to make political gains by getting “false information” spread through a woman [at the DMK Makkal Gram Sabha meeting in Bodi] Mr. Palaniswami wanted the DMK leader to take on him and his party colleagues directly. “Please do not use innocent people to attack us. The AIADMK is like a fort made of steel. Those who collide with us will only have their heads broken.” Contending that the AIADMK workers, only through hard work, wanted to come up in their lives, the Chief Minister warned members of the DMK that they would not be able “to go around freely by making baseless allegations” against leaders and cadres of his party. ‘Derogatory remarks’ He also came down on DMK youth wing leader Udhayanidhi Stalin for making “derogatory remarks” against women. He asked the DMK chief whether he had questioned his son in this regard. “They [Mr. Stalin and Mr. Udhayanidhi Stalin] have no concern for the people of the State. Their relentless campaign by making baseless allegations against AIADMK Ministers shows how desperate they are to capture power. The people should teach them a fitting lesson in the Assembly election.” As for his recent meetings with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah, the Chief Minister clarified that he had sought the Centre’s approval and funds for a number of schemes and projects. He had also impressed upon them the need for providing compensation to affected farmers of the State. Listing the government’s work for the Thiruporur assembly constituency, Mr. Palaniswami said seven middle schools had been upgraded as high schools and four high schools as higher secondary schools. Apart from providing 10 Amma mini clinics, the government had implemented a Rs. 42-crore underground sewerage project and carried out the work of removing silt from 22 tanks at a cost of Rs. 13.5 crore.  During his visit to Kalpakkam and Cheyyur of the Chengalpattu district, the Chief Minister assured the people that houses would be built for the poor, farmers and agricultural workers. Pointing out that he took pride in calling himself a farmer, Mr. Palaniswami said that even his ancestors were engaged in agricultural activity. “While filing income tax returns, I remit the tax out of revenue that I get out of farming,” he observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-defends-panneerselvam-hits-out-at-stalin-udhayanidhi/article33631175.ece
22 January 2021||Pune,||5 die in Serum Institute fire, vaccine facility safe||Five persons were killed in a fire that broke out on the fifth floor of an under-construction building of vaccine manufacturing major Serum Institute of India (SII) in Pune’s Manjari area on Thursday. The deceased were contractual labourers — two hailing from Uttar Pradesh, two from Pune district and one from Bihar. According to sources, four others were evacuated from the building when the first blaze, said to be caused by an electrical fault, erupted around 2 p.m. A second blaze, a relatively minor one, occurred at 7 p.m. on the third floor of the building. Both fires have been brought under control, fire officials said. Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope said the fire had not caused any harm to the Covishield vaccine storage facility located at a distance from the spot. He said the fire broke out when the labourers were engaged in insulation work in the building, located on the SII premises at Gopalpatti in the Manjari area. The campus also houses the company’s biggest COVID-19 vaccine manufacturing facility. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, who spoke with SII CEO Adar Poonawalla, is to visit the campus on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/5-die-in-serum-institute-fire-vaccine-facility-safe/article33631069.ece
22 January 2021||Meerut,||Palatial mansion of U.P.’s fugitive don demolished||A palatial mansion of Uttar Pradesh’s most wanted fugitive don Badan Singh Baddo was razed by the Meerut Development Authority on Thursday. Baddo carries a bounty of Rs. 2.5 lakh on his head and is wanted in more than 30 cases of murder, extortion and illegal supply of weapons. Police teams from four police stations, a battalion of Provincial Armed Constabulary and three dozen officials of the MDA were pressed into service as three bulldozers brought the mansion down. Senior police officers remained at the site to ensure law and order as Baddo had got a temple built just behind his house in the narrow lane that connects his mansion to the plot where the house that his father built stood. The demolition came after a commissioner court set aside the petition of his sister-in-law, Kuldeep Kaur. While Ms. Kaur contended that she bought the bungalow in 2003, the court said she could not provide any map or documentary evidence to prove her claim. Additional SP Krishna Kumar Bishnoi said he came to the conclusion within 15 days that Baddo had an illegal house in Punjabipura but the Nagar Nigam and the MDA took time in paperwork. “We figured out that the house tax that Baddo was claiming to pay for the building was actually for the adjacent plot, 8/9 Beripura, where the house built by his father existed. The mansion was built on 1096 Punjabipura. There’s no record of it with the MDA, Nagar Nigam, and electricity department,” said Mr. Bishnoi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/palatial-mansion-of-ups-fugitive-don-demolished/article33631223.ece
22 January 2021||CUDDALORE,||Indefinite closure of medical, dental college ordered amid protests||Annamalai University on Thursday announced the suspension of classes for undergraduate and postgraduate students, except freshers, and the indefinite closure of the medical and dental colleges at the Rajah Muthiah Institute of Heath Sciences in Chidambaram until further orders. All the undergraduate and postgraduate students, except the MBBS and BDS freshers (2020-21) batch, were asked to vacate their respective hostels by 4 p.m. The move came after protests by postgraduate medical and dental students entered its 42nd day. Students have been fighting with the University administration in protest against the exorbitant fees charged by the institution. A student said while the institution was run by the State government since 2013, the fees charged were much higher than at State medical colleges. “For MBBS, the fees in government-run medical colleges come up to Rs. 13,800 per year. However, the college has been collecting Rs. 6.5 lakh as fees per year,” he said. In a circular, the University Registrar (in charge) R. Gnanadevan said in view of the adverse and unfavourable circumstances on the premises of the Rajah Muthiah Institute of Health Sciences, the medical and dental colleges would be closed indefinitely. “The classes for MBBS and BDS freshers will be conducted as usual and they will be permitted to stay in the hostel. Postings for the CRRIs of medical and dental colleges will continue and they will also be permitted to stay in the hostel. The attendance of CRRIs will be mandatory,” he said. All other students were instructed to vacate the hostels immediately, he said, adding that unauthorised stay in the hostels and gatherings beyond 4 p.m. would be viewed with serious concern. Meanwhile, PMK founder S. Ramadoss condemned the University’s order to indefinitely close the medical and dental colleges at the institute.  ‘Demand not new’ In a statement, he said the demand for reducing the fees was not new. The students and their parents had been making the demand ever since Annamalai University was a private university. Mr. Ramadoss said the management should have held talks with the students. Ordering an indefinite closure and asking the students to vacate was not correct, he added. “When the Tamil Nadu government took control of Annamalai University, the Rajah Muthiah Institute of Heath Sciences became a government college. The State government need not be firm in its stance on collecting higher fees in case of the institute, especially when it has been offering various concessions in terms of education and fees in general,” he added. Pointing out that the State government was not going to suffer a huge loss by reducing the fees, Dr. Ramadoss said it should be brought on par with other government medical colleges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/annamalai-university-orders-indefinite-closure-of-medical-dental-college/article33631247.ece
22 January 2021||MADURAI,||‘Proposal for CDs hospital at AIIMS hiked budget to Rs. 2,000 cr.’||The government had proposed to construct a communicable diseases hospital at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) at Thoppur here, which had led to an increase in the estimated budget of the project from around Rs. 1,200 crore to around Rs. 2,000 crore, said Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan and Joint Secretary (AIIMS) Nilambuj Sharan to Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan. Mr. Venkatesan met both the officials to submit a petition and discuss expeditious construction of AIIMS in Madurai. The officials said that the proposed communicable diseases hospital was yet to get Cabinet approval and administrative sanction. “The officials said that the proposal for constructing a communicable diseases hospital came up after the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic. I have urged them to provide the administrative sanction for this proposal at the earliest,” Mr. Venkatesan said. The officials also said that the loan agreement between the Government of India and the Government of Japan for sanctioning funds from the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) for the construction of AIIMS would be signed by the end of March. The MP also requested the officials to appoint an an Executive Director, a Medical Superintendent, a Deputy Director (Admin) and an Administrative Officer for AIIMS, Madurai, so that administrative works could be undertaken by them. “The officials have guaranteed that these administrative officials will be appointed immediately after the loan agreement with the JICA is signed,” he said, and stressed the need to commence admissions at AIIMS, Madurai, in 2021.  The officials have guaranteed that administrative officials will be appointed immediately. Su. Venkatesan Member of Parliament||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/proposal-for-cds-hospital-at-aiims-hiked-budget-to-rs-2000-cr/article33631283.ece
22 January 2021||Mumbai,||State announces Class X, XII board exams in April||Maharashtra School  Education Minister Varsha Gaikwad on Thursday announced that the State board examinations for Class XII and Class X would commence on April 23 and 29, respectively. “The practical exam for Class XII will be conducted between April 1 and 22 while the written exam will begin on April 23. The results will be announced approximately by the end of July,” she said. Ms. Gaikwad said that the practical examination for Class X would be held from April 9 to 28 and the written exam would begin on April 29. “The results of Class X will be announced in the last week of August,” the minister said. She said that the attendance in schools from Class IX to Class XII was increasing every passing day. “As on January 18, around 21,66,056 students attended the school and the total number of schools which began physical classes was 21,287. Around 76.8% students are attending the schools,” Ms. Gaikwad said. The State government is also mulling restarting colleges and university classes. “We have taken stock of the situation from district collectors and soon a date will be announced,” an official from the Higher and Technical Education Department said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-announces-class-x-xii-board-exams-in-april/article33631526.ece
22 January 2021||January 22 2021 00:00 IST,||A rare honour||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/a-rare-honour/article33631297.ece
22 January 2021||Hassan,||Five killed in explosion||At least five persons were killed in an explosion at a stone quarry near Abbalagere on the outskirts of Shivamogga city on Thursday night. It is said that gelatin sticks exploded, killing the quarry workers from Bihar at the spot. Ashok Naik, Shivamogga Rural MLA, said gelatin sticks in a truck exploded. “The cause of the explosion is not known. Senior officers have reached the spot. We have to wait for some more time to get more information,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/five-killed-in-explosion/article33631116.ece
22 January 2021||Mumbai,||5 Team India members advised home quarantine||Five members of the Indian cricket team arrived here from their Australia tour on Thursday morning and they had been advised to remain in seven-day home quarantine, officials said. The cricket team members will have to undergo a RT-PCR test on arrival at the airport, BMC Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal told PTI . “The players are also advised to remain in home quarantine for the next seven days,” Mr. Chahal said. The five are the Indian cricket team’s stand-in captain Ajinkya Rahane, players Rohit Sharma, Shardul Thakur and Prithvi Shaw, and head coach Ravi Shastri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/5-team-india-members-advised-home-quarantine/article33631525.ece
22 January 2021||January 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Protective measure||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/protective-measure/article33631620.ece
22 January 2021||January 22 2021 00:00 IST,||A rare honour||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/a-rare-honour/article33631282.ece
22 January 2021||COLOMBO,||‘Strong protest’ over deaths of T.N. fishermen||India conveyed its “strong protest” to Sri Lanka on Thursday over the death of four Tamil Nadu fishermen in the Palk Strait after their fishing boat reportedly collided with a Sri Lankan Navy patrol boat. “Our strong protest was conveyed by our High Commissioner to the Sri Lankan Foreign Minister today. A strong démarche was also made to the Sri Lankan Acting High Commissioner in New Delhi,” the Ministry of External Affairs said in New Delhi. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “I have written to the Prime Minister insisting that an appropriate inquiry be initiated into the incident through the High Commission of India,” he said. He sanctioned Rs. 10 lakh each in solatium to the bereaved families. One member of each family would be given a government or government-related job.  “Our strong protest in regard to this incident was conveyed by our High Commissioner to the Sri Lankan Foreign Minister today [Thursday], ” the Ministry of External Affairs said in New Delhi. Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking an inquiry. “I have written to the Prime Minister insisting that an appropriate inquiry be initiated into the incident through the High Commission of India,” he said. He sanctioned Rs. 10 lakh each in solatium to the families of the fishermen. One member each of the families would be given a government or government-related job. DMK president M.K. Stalin demanded that Mr. Modi condemn the Sri Lankan government for the incident and sought a compensation of Rs. 5 crore for each of the families. Mr. Stalin alleged that while India’s External Affairs Minister recently said he had raised the issue of freeing Indian fishermen held in Sri Lanka, the Sri Lankan government was not respecting India or its government. Fishermen staged protests in parts of the State condemning the incident. The development comes days after four fishermen from Tamil Nadu, who ventured into the Palk Strait on Monday, were reported missing. The Sri Lankan Navy said their boat “sank” while “resisting arrest” by the Sri Lankan patrol units that tried to seize the Indian fishing trawler for allegedly fishing in Sri Lankan waters. The Sri Lankan Navy’s divers recovered two bodies on Wednesday and two more on Thursday, reportedly of the missing fishermen. Once officials at the Indian Consulate-General in Jaffna identify the bodies, further action will be taken, based on the directives of the magistrate court and judicial medical officers, Sri Lankan Navy officials said. “There are also COVID-19 protocols to be followed. We will take necessary steps accordingly,” Navy spokesman Indika de Silva told The Hindu . “We are shocked at the unfortunate loss of lives of three Indian fishermen and one Sri Lankan national following a collision between their vessel and a Sri Lankan naval craft,” the Ministry of External Affairs said in a strongly worded statement. “Expressing our deep anguish at the loss of lives, we emphasised the need to deal with issues pertaining to fishermen in a humanitarian manner. Existing understandings between the two governments in that regard must be strictly observed. Utmost efforts should be made to ensure that there is no recurrence,” it said. Though fishermen’s arrests are regularly discussed at bilateral meetings, the last time the matter escalated was in 2017, when Rameswaram fisherman K. Britjo died of a bullet injury in the Palk Strait. While Tamil Nadu fishermen said he was shot dead by the Sri Lankan Navy, the Sri Lankan Navy denied the charge. The Government of India had sought a full investigation then. ( With inputs from Tamil Nadu Bureau )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/strong-protest-over-death-of-tn-fishermen/article33631152.ece
22 January 2021||January 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Biden begins dismantling Trump legacy||The Biden presidency began with a flurry of activity, with the new President signing 17 executive orders, memos and directives on his first day in office, including on climate change, the pandemic, immigration and equality. Shortly after being sworn in as the President on Wednesday, Joe Biden began dismantling significant parts of the legacy of his predecessor, Donald Trump, including by officially bringing America back into the Paris Climate Accord. He conveyed his intent to UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres via a letter. Consequently, the U.S. would be back in the agreement on February 19, according to Mr. Guterres’s spokesperson. Mr. Biden stopped the U.S.’s withdrawal from the WHO. In a letter to Mr. Guterres, he highlighted the “crucial” role it plays in combating COVID-19 and other challenges. “The U.S. will continue to be a full participant and a global leader in confronting such threats,” the letter read.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/biden-begins-dismantling-trump-legacy/article33631070.ece
22 January 2021||MANGALURU,||Customs seizes gold from passenger||Customs officials at Mangaluru International Airport on Thursday seized 0.8 kg of gold valued at Rs. 44.2 lakh from a passenger hailing from Madikeri. Joint Commissioner, Customs, Mangaluru, Joannes George said in a statement that based on intelligence inputs, officials intercepted the passenger, Ubaid Baliyath Azeez, after he arrived from Dubai by an Air India flight IX 1814. Upon a search, the passenger was found to have concealed the gold in paste form in his rectum. It was recovered and seized.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/customs-seizes-gold-from-passenger/article33631501.ece
22 January 2021||ALAPPUZHA,||Alappuzha bypass to open on Jan. 28||After a wait of almost five decades, the Alappuzha bypass road will be opened to traffic on January 28, Public Works Minister G. Sudhakaran has said. It will be inaugurated jointly by Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari and Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan at 1 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/alappuzha-bypass-to-open-on-jan-28/article33631382.ece
22 January 2021||NEW DELHI/CHANDIGARH,||Farmers reject proposal to put laws on hold||Protesting farm unions on Thursday rejected the Centre’s proposal to suspend the three farm reform laws for one-and-a-half years. They intend to continue their agitation until the laws are repealed, and a law guaranteeing minimum support price for crops is enacted. The decision was taken after a five-hour meeting of the full general body of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a joint front representing about 500 protesting groups, at the Singhu protest site on the Delhi-Haryana border in the evening. The unions will inform the government of their decision at the 11th round of talks with Central Ministers on Friday. Later in the evening, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar met Home Minister Amit Shah at his residence. Keeping up the pressure, the unions reiterated their plan to conduct a tractor parade inside the capital on Republic Day, despite the police opposing it. “In the meeting held with the police officials [on Thursday morning], the police requested not to conduct the parade in Delhi, while the farmers restated their plan about doing the parade on the Outer Ring Road,” the Morcha said in a statement. Noting that 147 farmers have died during the protest so far, the Morcha said “their sacrifice will not go in vain and we will not go back without the repealing of these farm laws”. In a parallel process, the Supreme Court-appointed committee started its hearings on Thursday, reaching out to 10 farmer groups in eight States via videoconference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/farmers-reject-proposal-to-put-laws-on-hold/article33631075.ece
22 January 2021||KALABURAGI,||Abducted Bidar student found in Kyrgyzstan||A 21-year-old medical student from Hulyala village of Aurad taluk in Bidar district, who was abducted from Ukraine on January 16, was found in Kyrgyzstan. The victim was identified as Ajay Kumar Rathod. He got admission for a medical course and left for Ukraine on December 14, 2020. Sources in the police said that Ajay Rathod could return home in the next three or four days. The incident came to light when the abductors called up the family members of Ajay Rathod back in India. The family members said that the kidnappers demanded Rs. 1 crore as ransom. The family members of the victim contacted Minister for Animal Husbandry and Bidar district in-charge Prabhu Chavan. The incident was brought to the notice of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai and a connection was established with Ukraine Embassy through the Ministry for External Affairs. The Ukraine Embassy informed that the student was found in Kyrgyzstan. The Indian Embassy contacted the concerned who were then requested to send Ajay Rathod back to India. A joint effort by Mr. Chavan, Bidar MP Bhagwant Khuba and the Bidar Police has helped in finding the missing student. In September 2020, a 19-year-old Amar Biradar of Bhalki taluk in Bidar studying MBBS at Kharkiv National Medical University in Ukraine, died under mysterious circumstances. Mr. Chavan has suggested to students to stop going to foreign countries for higher studies as high quality education is now being imparted in India itself.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/abducted-bidar-student-found-in-kyrgyzstan/article33631318.ece
22 January 2021||BENGALURU,||Shakeup leaves Ministers miffed||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa effected a major reshuffle of ministerial portfolios on Thursday while distributing responsibilities to the seven new entrants into his Cabinet. The ministerial reshuffle exercise has triggered dissatisfaction with some of them losing plum portfolios. Among the new Ministers, Umesh Katti gets Food and Civil Supplies.Page 4||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ministers-miffed/article33631317.ece
22 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||High Court gives nod for holding gram panchayat elections||A Division Bench of the High Court, comprising Chief Justice Arup Kumar Goswami and Justice C. Praveen Kumar, on Thursday directed the government to conduct elections for gram panchayats as per the schedule announced by the State Election Commission (SEC). In a swift move, the State government challenged the High Court order in the Supreme Court through a special leave petition. The High Court observed that the suspension of the elections would result in postponement of the process which has already been set in motion and insisted that both elections and vaccination drive were of vital importance for the people and a collective endeavour was required for their smooth conduct. With this, the interim stay order passed by Justice M. Ganga Rao on January 11 was set aside.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hold-panchayat-polls-court-tells-ap-govt/article33631004.ece
22 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Drug case: SC grants bail to Ragini Dwivedi||The Supreme Court has granted bail to Kannada actor Ragini Dwivedi in a drug racket case. It pointed out that drugs were not found with Ms. Dwivedi, arrested on September 4 last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/drug-case-sc-grants-bail-to-ragini-dwivedi/article33631115.ece
22 January 2021||New Delhi,||5,942 health workers vaccinated in Delhi||On the fourth day of the vaccination drive in Delhi on Thursday, 5,942 healthcare workers were vaccinated, which is the highest so far. However, there were 24 adverse events following immunisation, a government spokesperson said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/5942-health-workers-vaccinated-in-delhi/article33631218.ece
22 January 2021||Kolkata,||Fire breaks out at Hastings Jute Mill||A fire broke out at the over 140-year-old Hastings Jute Mill in West Bengal's Hooghly district on Thursday morning. The blaze is likely to have caused severe damage to stock of raw jute in the godown, though the exact extent is yet to be ascertained, officials said. Three fire tenders were pressed into service and the situation is now under control, they said.No one was injured in the mishap and mill operations are normal, a mill official said.The mill started operations in 1875.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fire-breaks-out-at-hastings-jute-mill/article33631460.ece
22 January 2021||new delhi,||Nandigram to again set the tone of Bengal polls||Elections in West Bengal is tipped to be the most fiercely contested among the Assembly polls to be held early this year. The State is going to the polls along with Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Assam and the Union Territory of Puducherry later this year. Nandigram is emerging as the set piece that will define that contest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nandigram-to-again-set-the-tone-of-bengal-polls/article33631462.ece
22 January 2021||BELAGAVI,||Shiv Sena leaders stopped at border||Belagavi Police stopped Shiv Sena leaders who were trying to enter the city to participate in an anti-Kannada flag protest planned for Thursday. They were responding to MES call for a protest in Belagavi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/shiv-sena-leaders-stopped-at-border/article33631320.ece
22 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Respond to plea on Mirzapur , says SC||The Supreme Court has asked the Centre, Amazon Prime Video and Excel Entertain-ment Private Limited to respond to a plea against web series Mirzapur that says it has “completely tarnished” the image of the place by showing it as a “city of goons”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/respond-to-plea-on-mirzapur-says-sc/article33631224.ece
22 January 2021||Jammu,||Soldier killed in Poonch in Pak. ceasefire violation||A soldier was killed on the Line of Control in a ceasefire violation of Pakistan in the Poonch district on Thursday. The soldier, Hawaldar Nirmal Singh from the Army’s 10 JAK Rifles, sustained bullet injuries in the chest after Paksitan resorted to sniper fire on forward posts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/soldier-killed-in-poonch-in-pak-ceasefire-violation/article33631551.ece
22 January 2021||MYSURU,||Lalitha Mahal to get new management?||The State government intends to hand over the management of the Lalitha Mahal hotel in the city to reposition it as a world-class luxury hotel and shore up its value among niche tourists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lalitha-mahal-to-get-new-management/article33631536.ece
22 January 2021||MYSURU,||KEA moots summer expo in Mysuru||The Karnataka Exhibition Authority (KEA), headquartered in Mysuru, has proposed to conduct a summer expo at the Dasara exhibition grounds in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kea-moots-summer-expo-in-mysuru/article33631537.ece
22 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Drug case: SC grants bail to Ragini Dwivedi||The Supreme Court on Thursday granted bail to Kannada actor Ragini Dwivedi in a drug racket case. A three-judge Bench pointed out that drugs were not found with Ms. Dwivedi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/drug-case-sc-grants-bail-to-ragini-dwivedi/article33631538.ece
22 January 2021||chennai,||Railways starts vaccination||Southern Railway has opened a ward for administering COVID-19 vaccine to railway officials and employees at the Perambur railway hospital. The vaccination of front-line health workers was inaugurated on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chief-minister-hits-out-at-dmk-president/article33631149.ece
22 January 2021||CHENNAI,||Initial level assessment for Class 10, 12 students||The initial learning level assessments of students of Classes 10 and 12, who returned to schools earlier this week, will be conducted from Friday, the School Education Department has said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/initial-level-assessment-for-class-10-12-students/article33631150.ece
22 January 2021||CHENNAI,||T.N. registers 596 fresh COVID-19 cases||Tamil Nadu recorded 596 new cases of COVID-19 on Thursday,. With this, the State’s tally stood at 8,33,011. Chennai recorded 166 new cases. A total of 4,080 deaths have been recorded so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-registers-596-fresh-covid-19-infections/article33631151.ece
22 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Sasikala tests COVID-19 positive||V.K. Sasikala, aide to late Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, who was hospitalised on Wednesday evening with fever, breathlessness and cough, tested positive for COVID-19 late on Thursday night. Doctors said her condition is stable as of now. The 63-year-old, who is serving a jail term at the Parappana Agrahara Prison here, is scheduled to be released on January 27.  She was earlier diagnosed with severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) and had been shifted to the ICU in Victoria Hospital. However, her CT Thorax showed features suggestive of severe respiratory infection. Although she had initially tested negative for COVID-19, doctors did further tests. Victoria Hospital Medical Superintendent Ramesh Krishna K. told The Hindu that her general condition is stable. She has Type 2 diabetes, hypertension and hypothyroidism, apart from SARI symptoms. She was referred to Victoria Hospital from the Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospital on Thursday morning, he said. C.R. Jayanthi, Dean and Director, Bengaluru Medical College and Research Institute, to which Victoria Hospital is affiliated, said Sasikala’s first COVID-19 test at Bowring Hospital was negative. “However, since her CT scores were high, we again did a rapid antigen test at Victoria, which was also negative. Following that, we collected samples for TRUNAT and RT-PCR tests and they have returned positive.” “We are shifting her to the COVID Block ICU at the Trauma and Emergency Care Centre, the dedicated COVID facility on Victoria Hospital campus. She is being continuously monitored and treated with antibiotics, antiviral drugs, insulin, heparin, steroids, and other supportive measures,” the doctor said. Sasikala was sentenced to four years’ imprisonment in February 2017 in a Rs. 66 crore disproportionate assets case. She was later expelled from the AIADMK.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sasikala-tests-covid-19-positive/article33631009.ece
22 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Centre in a bind over continuing protest||Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar announced on Wednesday, after more than 10 rounds of talks with farmers’ unions, that the government was ready to suspend the implementation of the three contentious farm laws. With that, the government hoped that the unions, determined to take out a tractor rally on Republic Day, would rethink their months-long agitation and vacate their blockade of the national capital. The reasons for the government’s compromise formula are not hard to find. The continued strike by the farmers’ unions, especially those from Punjab and Haryana, the Republic Day celebrations and the Supreme Court’s refusal to ban a proposed tractor rally were just the immediate reasons for the compromise formula. However, within the government there is a realisation that it had lost the communications game early in the day. “During the COVID-19 policy rejig, the aapada main avasar [opportunities in crisis] set of changes in laws governing labour, small industry, and agriculture were announced and while a lot of consultation on these had taken place over the years, the announcements were sudden,” said a government official. The size and heterogeneity of the protests meant that government interlocutors had to do hectic backchannel and overt negotiations with groups which may or may not have the freedom to act as representatives of all groups. Security implications More importantly, security implications of a border State like Punjab seeing a long-term, even peaceful, political protests of this sort were always going to be problematic. In fact, within days of the protests starting, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, whose party, the Congress, is supporting the cause of farmers, met Union Home Minister Amit Shah on the security implications with regard to the protests. While the accusations from certain sections that the movement was infiltrated by Sikh separatist elements was dismissed by the Ministers in charge of the negotiations with farmers’ unions after a backlash, the statements made by MPs and even the government of Canada and some lawmakers in Britain added a new dimension to the way the government viewed the protests. The indefinite continuation of a well-funded protest was making the government and the ruling party’s ideological mothership, the Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh, also nervous. In an interview to the Indian Express , the second in command of the RSS, Suresh “Bhaiyyaji” Joshi, said it in as many words, that indefinite agitations by farmers was not desirable for any stable government. The extent to which the government has been willing to go, however, has also been determined by what happened when the Modi government in its first avatar tried to pass the Land Acquisition ordinance and faced a backlash. The ordinance was scrapped after an adverse response and accusations that the government was favouring crony capitalists over farmers and rural land owners. A similar narrative was building up over agriculture reforms too. With the Supreme Court having suspended the implementation of the three farm Bills for a couple of months, the government went a step further and offered the suspension for a year-and-a-half, if required.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-in-a-bind-over-continuing-protest/article33631029.ece
22 January 2021||New Delhi,||Co-WIN platform gets upgrade||The cumulative number of healthcare workers vaccinated against COVID-19 has touched 9,99,065 (till 6 p.m. on Thursday) through a total of 18,159 sessions, according to a provisional report. A total of 4,041 sessions were held till 6 p.m. on Thursday, and 1,92,581 beneficiaries were vaccinated on the sixth day of the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination, said the Health Ministry on Thursday, adding that there are no cases of serious/severe AEFI (adverse event following immunisation) attributable to vaccination till date. The Ministry said that 187 minor AEFIs have been reported till 6 p.m. on the sixth day of the vaccination drive. It added that enhancement in Co-WIN software has been introduced to cater to the creation of more session sites, more sessions per site, and change in site location, which is now allowed. “The enhanced version also allows planning and scheduling the sessions for entire week and works for the enhanced safety of the beneficiaries, tagging of contraindications. These new features are being enabled in vaccinator module,” noted the Ministry. Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, on Thursday, unveiled an IEC (information, education, communication) campaign with a series of posters to address the issue of COVID-19 vaccine hesitancy, stating that India is one of the few countries to halt the march of COVID-19 and simultaneously develop a vaccine for COVID-19. Explaining the role of the vaccination in eradicating diseases, he noted, “Vaccination against COVID-19 will similarly create persons incapable of transmitting the disease and eradicate the disease altogether in some time.” He added, “A handful of vested political interests who are interested in spreading rumours and encouraging vaccine hesitancy among those vulnerable to such propaganda in the population. The paradox is that countries across the globe are asking us for access to the vaccines, while a section of our own is misinformed.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/co-win-software-gets-upgrade/article33631038.ece
22 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Cabinet reshuffle triggers dissatisfaction||Dissatisfaction came to the fore again in the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, as Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Thursday effected a major reshuffle of ministerial portfolios while also allocating berths to the seven newly inducted Ministers. Among the new Ministers, who were inducted on January 13, Umesh Katti has been given Food and Civil Supplies which was hitherto held by K. Gopalaiah, who migrated to the BJP from the JD(S). Murugesh Nirani has been given Mines and Geology portfolio which was held by C.C. Patil, while Arvind Limbavali has been given the Forest Department which was earlier held by B.S. Anand Singh. R. Shankar has been given Municipal Administration and Sericulture while S. Angara has got Fisheries and Ports. C.P. Yogeshwar has got Minor Irrigation and N. Nagaraju (MTB), who was expecting a plum portfolio such as Housing, has instead been given Excise. The surprise in the Thursday’s ministerial reshuffle was J.C. Madhuswamy, who had become the voice of the government in the legislature sessions, being stripped off Law and Parliamentary Affairs as well as Minor Irrigation departments. He has now been given Medical Education and Kannada and Culture portfolios. Mr. Madhuswamy admitted that he had requested the Chief Minister that he be allowed to retain Minor Irrigation. Law and Parliamentary Affairs charge has now been given to Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai. Similarly, K.C. Narayana Gowda, who had earlier held Horticulture and Sericulture departments, has to be now satisfied with Youth Empowerment and Sports and Haj and Wakfs departments. Interestingly, the Chief Minister continues to hold prominent portfolios, including Energy. In all, he has effected changes in the portfolios of 11 Ministers, including himself, besides assigning portfolios to seven new Ministers. It did not take much time for dissatisfaction to come out as Mr. Nagaraju publicly stated that the Excise Department was not a portfolio of his choice and that he wanted some portfolio which would help him in serving poor people. Several Ministers, who have lost major portfolios, met at the residence of Health Minister K. Sudhakar for sometime. Even efforts by senior Minister R. Ashok and the Chief Minister himself did not appear to have yielded results as four Ministers, — Dr. Sudhakar, Mr. Madhuswamy, Mr. Nagaraju, and Mr. Gopalaiah — did not attend the Cabinet meeting held later in the day. On his part, the Chief Minister said the issue of dissatisfaction over portfolio allocation had been resolved by him after holding consultations with them. Maintaining that it was a tough task to allocate portfolios without giving room for dissatisfaction, he said, “Let the Ministers begin work in the portfolios allocated to them. If there is a need, we can change their portfolios in the days to come.” Speaking after the Cabinet meeting, Mr. Bommai claimed that those who abstained themselves had sought permission earlier since they had other engagements.  Let the Ministers begin work in the portfolios allocated to them. If there is a need, we can change their portfolios in the days to come. B.S. Yediyurappa, Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cabinet-reshuffle-triggers-dissatisfaction/article33631011.ece
22 January 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra orders probe into SII fire||Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Thursday directed an immediate investigation into the fire that broke out in an under-construction building at the Serum Institute of India’s Manjari premises in Pune. Five people were killed in the fire. “I have taken information regarding the blaze from the Pune Police Commissioner and have directed a thorough inquiry into the accident. Concerns are being expressed in the country and abroad regarding the safety of this project. However, I would like to clarify that as per information received, the Corona Preventive Vaccine Project is safe. At present, putting out the fire and controlling the damage caused by the blaze is top priority,” Mr. Pawar said. State Health Minister Rajesh Tope said the fire was caused when a spark during welding fell on inflammable material. “Work pertaining to rotavirus plant installation was under way in the building. At least five fire tenders and three water tankers were rushed to the spot. It took around two-three hours to douse the fire. After the fire was finally extinguished, five bodies were found inside the building by the authorities,” he said. Offering condolences, Cyrus S. Poonawalla, chairman and managing director of the company, said the vaccine major would offer a compensation of Rs. 25 lakh in addition to the mandated amount to the kin of the dead.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-orders-probe-into-sii-fire/article33631048.ece
22 January 2021||KOCHI,||Vishnu seeks to become approver in actor rape case||After Vipinlal, the first approver in the sensational actor rape case, Vishnu, another accused, has approached the court seeking permission for becoming an approver. Vishnu, tenth accused, approached the special court considering the case on Thursday, offering to admit his role in the crime booked against him and reveal all facts that he knew about the case. He was accused of smuggling a mobile phone to the jail, which he handed over to Sunilkumar, aka ‘Pulser’ Suni, first accused. Extortion The prosecution case is that Vishnu, while in jail, conspired with other accused in the case to extort money from actor Dileep, the eighth accused, and his friends. According to the prosecution case, Pulser Suni contacted Nadirshah, friend of Dileep, and Appunni, his driver, using the phone provided by Vishnu. Conspiracy details In his application, Vishnu offered to reveal all details regarding the conspiracy hatched within the jail regarding the extortion. Honey M. Varghese, special judge, will consider the application of Vishnu on Friday. Meanwhile, Vipinlal did not turn up at the special court for examination as the police could not serve him the summons and execute the warrant for his production. Whereabouts not known On Thursday, the investigation officer informed the court that the whereabouts of Vipinlal, the approver who was supposed to be under round-the-clock police surveillance, were not known. It was a board headed by the Principal Sessions Judge; Secretary, District Legal Services Authority; and Superintendent of Police, Kasaragod; that had ordered surveillance on Vipinlal under the witness protection scheme. The court is likely to pronounce its order on a batch of petitions and examine some witnesses in the case on Friday.  The prosecution case is that Vishnu, while in jail, conspired with other accused in the case to extort money from actor Dileep, the eighth accused, and his friends.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vishnu-seeks-to-become-approver-in-actor-rape-case/article33631409.ece
22 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Kerala Assembly rejects motion to remove Speaker||The Assembly on Thursday rejected a motion, after nearly four hours of heated debate, moved by the Opposition seeking the removal of Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan alleging his role in the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case and reckless expenditure in various activities by the Legislature Secretariat. Moving the motion, Indian Union Muslim League (IUML)legislator M. Ummer said the Speaker had denigrated his office and that the resolution was not for personal or political reasons or for casting aspersions against him but to protect the dignity of the House. “Serious allegations are cropping up against the Speaker every day. Already, his assistant private secretary was questioned by the Customs for nine hours. It is said that the Speaker will be questioned by Central investigating agencies after the ongoing Assembly session. Will dignity of the House and Chair go up if he is summoned,” Mr. Ummer asked. He alleged that various works such as the renovation of the lounge carried out in the Assembly complex recently and initiatives such as e-Niyamasabha, Sabha TV and Festival on Democracy were not transparent. Earlier, S. Sarma of the CPI(M) questioned the admissibility of the resolution citing precedence, rules and procedures as the allegations were solely based on media reports. After heated arguments between the Opposition and treasury benches, Deputy Speaker V. Sasi granted permission. The resolution was supported by United Democratic Front legislators and lone BJP legislator O. Rajagopal. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said the Speaker was never impartial and had indulged in extravagance in the initiatives launched under him. Listing out the money spent for various projects, he said it would be ideal for the Speaker to quit till he got a clean chit. Intervening, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the motion was politically motivated and it will set a bad precedent in legislature history. In his reply, the Speaker said his hands were clean and that he will not bow even an inch as he has done nothing wrong. “Other than media reports I have not got any calls or summons from anyone. I cannot run after media churning choicest stories”, he told the House.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-assembly-rejects-motion-to-remove-speaker/article33631014.ece
22 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Nandigram to set the tone of West Bengal polls again||The election in West Bengal is tipped to be the most fiercely contested among the Assembly polls to be held early this year. The State is going to the polls along with Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Assam and the Union Territory of Puducherry. Nandigram is emerging as the set piece that will define that contest. The site of the agitation by local people against land acquisition by the then Left Front government in 2008-09 which propelled the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress to power in 2011 and 2026, is poised to play a central role again. This is the seat Ms. Banerjee has decided to contest, directly challenging her once protégé, now detractor Suvendu Adhikari, who currently holds the seat. Mr. Adhikari, his father and brother gained prominence in the area and indeed entire Midnapore during the Nandigram agitation and opposition to land acquisition, a movement politically helmed by Ms. Banerjee. They are local worthies and have influence in Midnapore, an area (east and west included) that has approximately 20 Assembly seats. Mr. Adhikari switching to the BJP has created a problem for the Trinamool, which the party hopes, will be resolved by Ms. Banerjee throwing her hat in the ring from that seat. ‘Master stroke’ “It’s a master stroke, in not just making sure Suvendu and his family are restricted to the seat in terms of campaigning but also to incontrovertibly assert ownership on the Nandigram and Singur movement. Whatever Suvendu did as a part of the movement was due to the leadership of Mamata di , the party and its symbol,” said a senior leader. Former Union Minister and Trinamool MP Dinesh Trivedi termed the move “a demonstration of the fact” that “Ms. Banerjee has the pulse of the people”. While the optimism in the Trinamool on her move to Nandigram is understandable, the BJP is having none of it. “If you see Mamata Banerjee’s margin of victory from Bhabhanipur in 2016 [25,000] and the Trinamool margin in the seat during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls [3168], there is a genuine fear in the Trinamool that the seat is dicey. Her decision to fight from Nandigram, therefore, is a desperate move,” said BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijaywargiya, who is in charge of the party’s affairs in the State. “If the party fields Suvendu [Adhikari] from Nandigram, he will win,” he added. The seat is, according to local leaders, going to see a communally polarised campaign in the coming days. According to the latest electoral rolls finalised for the seat, it has 62,000 minority voters out of a total of 2.75 lakh. “Already speeches in meetings are veering towards that rhetoric,” said a local leader of the TMC. After playing kingmaker in the 2011 Assembly polls tooling a nearly four-decade-old rule of the Left Front, Nandigram is poised to influence history again.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nandigram-to-set-the-tone-of-west-bengal-polls-again/article33631024.ece
22 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Some defence imports inevitable: Army chief||The Chief of the Army Staff, General Manoj Naravane, on Thursday said that considering the quick pace of defence modernisation being undertaken by India’s adversaries, the country was lagging behind slightly. Continued heavy dependence of the armed forces on imports needed to be addressed through indigenous capability development, but one cannot afford to have “operational voids when the enemy is at the gates”, he noted. “An important issue one needs to keep in mind is that indigenous development alone cannot fill the existing... and operational voids due to lack of niche technology and manufacturing capability. Hence, there may be some inescapable need on certain percentage of imports. One cannot afford to have operational voids when the enemy is at the gates,” he said at an event to commemorate 25 years of Army-industry partnership, organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII). He said 2020 was a unique year with twin challenges — the COVID-19 pandemic and the “belligerence on our northern borders”. The events of the past year have brought to the fore the vulnerability of global supply chains, he said. He said external dependence on weapons and ammunition created vulnerabilities in times of crisis. In the past few years, there had been an effort to reverse this trend by boosting indigenisation and focusing on dual-use high-end technology. “We are committed to procuring indigenous equipment and weapon systems, as nothing is more motivating for any Army than to fight and win its wars with indigenous technologies and weapons,” he said. Gen. Naravane called for greater flexibility in the interpretation of the procurement process to speed up the process. “The need of the hour today is not just a Revolution in Military Affairs (RMA), to fight the modern day war. A Revolution in Bureaucratic Affairs (RBA) is also required to fast track relevant and future capability development,” he pointed out. Seventy-five percent of the Army’s Priority-1 projects in the 13th Army Plan, costing over Rs. 1.5 lakh crore were marked for Make in India programmes, he noted. Dr. G. Satheesh Reddy, Secretary, Department of Defence R&D, and Chairman, DRDO, said the capability of the private industry had gone up over the years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/some-defence-imports-inevitable-army-chief/article33631034.ece
22 January 2021||New Delhi,||India to clear vaccine exports to Brazil today||Brazil is set to receive the go-ahead from the Indian government on Friday to collect two million doses of the Covishield vaccine made by the Serum Institute, two weeks after Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi for their “urgent” clearance, sources confirmed to The Hindu . The consignment, which was due to be collected by a special Brazilian plane last week, was delayed as the government had not yet finalised its plans for exports of Indian-made vaccines. The delay had led to a flurry of messages from Brazil, and External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar had spoken to his Brazilian counterpart Ernesto Araujo to reassure him on January 16. “The Minister assured [Mr. Araujo] of our support and confirmation that the [consignment] will be going as planned,” a source said. After the clearance of grant assistance of the vaccines to neighbouring countries, officials confirmed that Brazil is among the “key partners” who would receive export permissions for their orders next. Brazil had first turned to India for the Covishield vaccine earlier this month to tide over the gap in production of its own units amid an emerging health crisis. In a letter to Mr. Modi on January 8, Mr. Bolsonaro asked him to “expedite the shipping” of the consignment contracted earlier, and his government had announced that it was sending a special plane to collect the vaccines on January 14. However, after India refused to give the “technical clearances” in time for the plane, Mr. Bolsonaro decided to go ahead with its vaccination programme using Chinese-developed Sinovac that had been manufactured at a local institute. In an operation concluded on Tuesday, Brazilian Health Minister Eduardo Pazuello announced that the country had distributed six million doses of Sinovac, manufactured by the Butantan Institute to all of Brazil’s 27 States in order to complete the first phase of vaccinating frontline workers. The decision was a major U-turn for Mr. Bolsonaro, who earlier rejected the Chinese vaccine over concerns about its efficacy and vowed to cancel all contracts of Sinovac “on his watch”, and signals the pressure he is under about his government’s handling of the pandemic. Brazilian officials said they now await confirmation from India so that they could resend their special plane. “We still do need the Indian-made vaccines that have been contracted for,” one official said. Brazil’s first phase of vaccination will target 49 million people out of its total population of 212 million. Health regulator ANVISA has cleared both Sinovac and the U.K.’s AstraZeneca vaccine, both of which will be manufactured in Brazil. However, officials said the speed was of the essence, given more than 2,13,000 Brazilians have died of COVID-19, and the country has faced shortages of medical supplies, oxygen tanks and, now vaccines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-to-clear-vaccine-exports-to-brazil-today/article33631052.ece
22 January 2021||January 22 2021 00:00 IST,||HC notice against reducing size of university’s biopark||The Karnataka High Court has ordered issue of notice to the State government, Bangalore University (BU), and others on a PIL petition questioning allotment of 25 acres within the boundary of the biopark for the Inter-University Centre for Yogic Sciences (IUCYS) and Kalaburagi-based Central University of Karnataka (CUK). A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum passed the order on the petition filed by K.B. Vijayakumar, a city-based advocate. The allotment of 15 acres to IUCYS and 10 acres to CUK would result in destruction of the biopark, the petitioner has alleged. The condition imposed in the orders of allotment that transfer of land should not affect the botanical garden of the BU is meaningless as several trees would be felled for construction of buildings for the two beneficiary institutions, the petitioner claimed while seeking cancellation of the allotment of land. The petitioner has sought a direction to the government and the BU to explore the possibility of allotting some other land to these institution after assessing the impact on the environment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-notice-against-reducing-size-of-universitys-biopark/article33631119.ece
22 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC grants bail to Kannada actor||The Supreme Court on Thursday granted bail to Kannada actor Ragini Dwivedi in a drug racket case. A three-judge Bench led by Justice Rohinton F. Nariman pointed out that drugs were not found with Ms. Dwivedi, who was arrested on September 4 under the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act by the Bengaluru police Crime Branch. The court’s decision was based on the finding that allegations against Ms. Dwivedi only pertained to her consuming drugs at parties and that the Karnataka High Court itself had found the conspiracy charge levelled against her to be tenuous without further delving into it. Ms. Dwivedi had approached the top court after her plea for bail was dismissed by the Karnataka High Court in November. The court said accusations under Section 37 of the Act, that is, possessing commercial quantity of drugs, were prima facie wrongly invoked. Only an offence under Section 27(b) of the Act, for consumption of drugs, could be prima facie made out. “It can be said Section 37 was wrongly invoked by the Sessions Court and High Court. With this out of the way, this is a case in which bail must follow. We set aside the judgment of the High Court and enlarge the petitioner on bail,” the top court said. The court, on a submission by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, however, said the observations made in the bail order would not prejudice the trial in the case. Ms. Dwivedi’s lawyer, senior advocate Siddharth Luthra, earlier in the hearing, argued that no contraband was found on the person of his client. There was no material to prove financing. He said the entire case against his client was built upon a statement made by a man, Ravi Shankar. He said she has been in custody for 140 days. “The only thing is consumption of less than .5 gm of contraband,” said Mr. Luthra. He referred to the case of another actor, Rhea Chakraborty, which was also related to consumption. Opposing the bail, Mr. Mehta said there were messages between Ms. Dwivedi and various peddlers about the police on the alert. He said urine samples collected were tampered. He advised the court against enlarging the petitioner on bail. In November, the High Court had rejected bail and anticipatory bail to Ms. Dwivedi and another actor, Archana alias Sanjjanaa Manohar Galrani, and four others. The Special Court had, on September 28, rejected their Dail pleas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-grants-bail-to-kannada-actor/article33631002.ece
22 January 2021||HYDERABAD,||A Hyderabadi guest at Biden-Kamala oath-taking'||An Indian-American community leader Lutfi Hassan from Hyderabad has made to the elite list of guests who were invited to attend the Biden-Harris oath taking ceremony in person at Washington D.C. on January 20, while more than 20 Indian Americans have either been appointed or nominated to serve in key positions in the administration of President Joseph R. Biden. According to his friend Najaf Ali Khan, a grandson of the VII Nizam, here, the Hyderabadi-Texan American was a senior leader of the Democratic Party there. He was among members of Congress, Cabinet members and their spouses and a few select diplomats from NATO countries invited for the inauguration of the new administration. Mr. Najaf Ali Khan stated that Mr. Lutfi Hassan has served as a board member of South Asians for Mr. Biden during the Biden-Harris campaign. He stated that Mr. Hassa is son of Abul Hassan Asif, who was a Jagirdaar in Hyderabad, and his grandfather Colonel Zain-ul-Abideen had served in the Nizam's Army. Mr. Hassan stayed in ancestral house at Malakpet before moving to the US about 40 years ago. He had has school education in Little Flower High School in the city. The appointment of several Indian Americans and South Asian in key positions shows their dedication to their chosen profession and the country they own up, Mr. Najaf Ali Khan said. According the Mr. Khan, Mr. Hassan, founder of the Apex Group of Companies, has served as an advisor on Presidential, Gubernatorial, Senatorial, Congressional, Mayoral and Judicial campaigns in the United States over the past two decades and has also served as a national finance co-chair for the Obama for America campaign in both 2008 and 2012. Over the years, Mr. Hassan has also served on the National Advisory Board (NAB) as a member of Democratic National Committee. Mr. Hassan has been representing the South Asian community and was selected to serve on the South Asian American Leadership Council (SAALC). On January 9, 2003, a US flag was hoisted over the U.S. Capitol in by the order of House of Representatives (Congress) to honour Mr. Hassan for decades of his community service. It was later presented to him in a ceremony with the certificate of archives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-hyderabadi-guest-at-biden-kamala-oath-taking/article33631364.ece
22 January 2021||K.S. Sudhi,||Kerala HC allows 7 minors to terminate their pregnancy||Seven minor girls in Kerala, who became pregnant after being raped, were allowed to terminate their pregnancies during the past six months. The girls, the youngest one aged 13, are victims of separate instances of sexual assault that took place during the lockdown period. The Kerala High Court cleared the petitions moved by the mothers of the victims as judicial permission was required for initiating Medical Termination of Pregnancy (MTP) in cases of advanced stages of pregnancy. Two victims, aged 14 and 16, were into their 23rd week of pregnancy, while the 13-year-old was 21 weeks pregnant, when their cases came up before the courts. The judges issued the orders for MTP on the same day the petitions came up before them, considering the trauma faced by the minor girls. It was after obtaining the views of medical boards on possible risks involved in the continuation of the pregnancy that the courts issued the orders. Questions on the possible risks to the girls during the termination of pregnancy and the best methods for ending the pregnancy were raised. The psychiatric assessment of the victims was also carried out. All the victims were shocked to learn about their pregnancy and expressed anguish over their future. Some broke down. All of them wanted to terminate the pregnancy and resume their studies, revealed the court documents accessed by The Hindu . The lawyers engaged by the Kerala State Legal Services Authority extended free legal support to the victims and stood by them, said Nizar Ahamed, secretary of the Authority. The court had also given a directive to conserve the tissue of the foetuses for DNA analysis as criminal cases were pending.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-hc-allows-7-minors-to-terminate-pregnancy/article33631005.ece
22 January 2021||KOLKATA,||Furfura Sharif cleric floats political party||After weeks of speculation, Abbas Siddique, the cleric of Furfura Sharif, announced his political outfit, Indian Secular Front, on Thursday. Furfura Sharif is a prominent medieval shrine and wields great influence over Muslims in south Bengal. Keenly awaited The development was keenly awaited in poll-bound West Bengal after All-India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief Asaduddin Owaisi visited Furfura, located in Jangipara subdivision of Hooghly district, earlier this month and declared his intention to back Abbas Siddique in the 2021 Assembly election. “I will not contest from any seat. I want to play the kingmaker,” said the young religious leader. “We have launched this party for the welfare of the poor and the downtrodden and help them access the rights our Constitution has provided,” Mr. Siddique said, while launching the flag of the party at a press conference at the Kolkata Press Club on Thursday. His brother Naushad Siddique has been appointed chairman of the party and the outfit is likley to announce its political activities on January 26. Mr. Siddique responded to allegations that his front was a ploy to split the Muslim vote and help the BJP. “There was no BJP before the 2011... Who is to be blamed for the rise of the BJP?” he said in an oblique reference to the Trinamool Congress. He accused the party of not fulfilling the promises made to the minorities in the State. Muslims constitute 27.01% of the population in West Bengal and they have since 2011 been voting overwhelmingly in favour of Trinamool Congress. A split in Muslim votes is likely to impact the prospect of the ruling party in the upcoming Assembly polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/furfura-sharif-cleric-floats-political-party/article33631030.ece
22 January 2021||New Delhi,||We have not ‘functionally changed’ privacy policy: FB||At a meeting of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information and Technology headed by senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor, Facebook, which owns communication platform WhatsApp, clarified that it has not “functionally changed” the privacy policy. Officials of Facebook and Twitter deposed before the committee on the subject of “safeguarding citizens’ rights and prevention of misuse of social/online news media platforms”. The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MEITY) had recently written to Will Cathcart, Global CEO of WhatsApp, to withdraw the proposed changes to the privacy policy of the Facebook-owned messaging application for Indian users. The Ministry demanded that WhatsApp explain if the metadata of users’ chat will be shared with other Facebook companies. The Facebook officials clarified that the privacy policy is “functionally” the same as what has been in existence since 2016. “They said that while it is functionally the same as the 2016 policy, the platform has improved transparency standards,” a member said. The committee also questioned Facebook on data security and its monetisation. The Facebook officials conceded that the revenue model of the platform is advertising-driven, though the officials insisted that it does not share the user data with any of its advertisers. Members also asked Facebook to explain whether it is a publisher or merely an intermediary. Concerns were raised in the meeting that Facebook is governed solely by the U.S. community laws since it is a U.S.-based registered company. BJP MPs flagged the recent ban of former U.S. President Donald Trump on Twitter. A section of BJP MPs criticised Twitter calling it a violation of freedom of expression. Another section flagged Twitter for not showing a similar responsiveness in India. The BJP MPs pointed out ‘temporary suspension’ of Home Minister Amit Shah’s account. The Twitter officials said Mr. Shah’s account was not suspended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/we-have-not-functionally-changed-privacy-policy-fb/article33631044.ece
22 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Flight lands at KIA despite poor visibility||For the first time after the south runway was made CAT III B compliant in December last year, a flight made a successful touchdown at Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) despite poor visibility. In a press release, BIAL said that radiation fog had set in during the early part of Thursday resulting in a rapid drop in visibility to 200 metres. “During this time, IndiGo flight 6E-6389 from Lucknow made a successful touchdown at 7.41 a.m.,” stated the release. According to airport officials, the south runway can facilitate aircraft landing with an RVR [runway visual range] as low as 50 metres and take-off at 125 metres. “Before the upgrade, the permissible visual range was 550 metres for landing and 300 metres for take-off. This upgrade by BIAL isexpected to reduce disruption in operations, and would immensely benefit passengers during inclement weather conditions,” said BIAL.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/flight-lands-at-kia-despite-poor-visibility/article33631121.ece
22 January 2021||HYDERABAD,||‘Ambulance driver died of heart attack’||The 42-year-old ambulance driver, G. Vital Rao, who died within 24 hours of getting the COVID-19 vaccine, suffered a Myocardial Infarction (MI), also known as heart attack, according to the preliminary Post-Mortem Examination (PME) report, said Health officials. However, it would take at least two weeks to know what triggered the heart attack and if vaccine was the cause of death. He did not suffer from any co-morbidities like diabetes or hypertension. Vital Rao received the vaccine at Kuntala Primary Health Centre (KHC), Nirmal, on Tuesday morning and was on duty till 5 p.m. He is said to have developed chest pain at around 2.30 a.m. on Wednesday, and was declared brought dead to District Hospital, Nirmal, at 5.30 a.m. The PME was conducted on Wednesday evening, and the State AEFI committee had sent a report to the Central AEFI committee. Director of Public Health Dr. G. Srinivasa Rao said that samples of viscera, body fluids, and parts from a few organs, have been sent to the Central Forensic Science Laboratory (CFSL), and National Institute of Virology (NIV)-Pune for further examination. “This will help us know the actual cause of his death,” he said. “What triggered Myocardial Infarction will be known after analysis by the central labs. It will take two to three weeks to get the report,” Dr. Rao said, adding that it would take a few weeks to receive the final PME report. Meanwhile, officials had ruled out human error during vaccination. Human errors during vaccination include not storing vaccine vials at prescribed temperatures, or administering vaccine dose at a site on body other than what is prescribed. On Tuesday, 80 healthcare workers were given the COVID-19 vaccine at the PHC in Kuntala. Neither the ambulance driver nor any of the remaining 79 people, who got vaccinated at the PHC, developed even mild AEFI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ambulance-driver-died-of-heart-attack/article33631003.ece
22 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||CBI to probe Yes Bank V-P murder||The Central Bureau of Investigation has taken over the probe into the mysterious disappearance of a Yes Bank vice-president from Gurugram and his murder in August last year. His body was later found dumped in a canal at Delhi’s Rohini. The family of 38-year-old Dheeraj Ahlawat had initially filed a complaint with the Gurugram police station in Haryana on August 6, 2020, hours after he went missing. A day earlier, he had stepped out for a stroll, but he never returned. As it turned out, Dheeraj and his friend Gaurav were taking a walk close to the former’s house. Gaurav then left the place. Dheeraj’s domestic help, Mahendra, last saw him around 7.45 p.m. His family tried to contact him on his mobile phones, but they were switched off. Two days later, Dheeraj’s body was found in a canal. Police enquiries revealed that Dheeraj was in the corporate loan division of the bank. They set up a SIT to pursue all the leads, but to no avail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-to-probe-yes-bank-v-p-murder/article33631025.ece
22 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Respond to plea on Mirzapur, says SC||The Supreme Court on Thursday asked the Centre, Amazon Prime Video and Excel Entertainment Private Limited to respond to a plea that the web series Mirzapur had “completely tarnished” the historical and cultural image of the place by showing it as a “city of goons”. A Bench headed by Chief Justice Sharad A. Bobde issued notices on the plea, which alleged that showing “shameless things” in the name of Mirzapur was an insult to the rich culture of the city. The petitioner, Mirzapur-resident Sujeet Kumar Singh, said he has filed the plea to protect the “historical and cultural value” of Mirzapur in Uttar Pradesh. “Mirzapur had rich cultural value but in 2018, Excel Entertainment has launched a web series named Mirzapur of nine episodes in which they have shown Mirzapur a city of goons and adulteress,” the plea said. “By showing such ridiculous and shameless things on the name of a city/district is the insult of approximately 30 lakh population and rich culture of Mirzapur,” it said. During the hearing conducted through video-conferencing, the counsel appearing for the petitioner told the Bench that the plea has become infructuous as the web series had already been telecast. However, the Bench said it was issuing notices on the plea. The second season of the web series was released last year. “Such movies and web series are clear violation of the dictum of the Supreme Court to block the publication or transmission of obscene material in any electronic form,” it said. The petition said the web series was full of “nudity, vulgarity and abusive language”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/respond-to-plea-on-mirzapur-says-sc/article33631027.ece
22 January 2021||Mumbai,||Relocate Metro car shed to Aarey: Fadnavis to Uddhav||Leader of the Opposition in the Maharashtra Assembly Devendra Fadnavis on Thursday appealed to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to relocate the Colaba-SEEPZ Metro 3 car shed to Aarey colony from Kanjurmarg. In a letter addressed to Mr. Thackeray, Mr. Fadnavis said some officials were “misguiding” the government. He said going ahead with the Kanjurmarg plot would invite allegations that the Chief Minister is working in favour of builders. “If the car shed is shifted to Kanjurmarg, it will end up cutting more number of trees. The project will be delayed and crores of rupees will be wasted,” he claimed. The BJP leader said it is also a “lie” that the Aarey car shed land is available only till 2031. While planning for the car shed, planners have estimated the population growth till 2053, he said. “The technical committee set up for studying the car shed at Aarey land had recommended use of 25 hectares of land at the beginning. The remaining 1.4 hectares could be used later. There are 160 trees on that land which can be replanted in a phase-wise manner,” he said. Mr. Fadnavis said the depot would have enough space to accommodate the number of Metro cars that would be required in 2053. “On inauguration day, it would have space for 42 trains with eight coaches, which will be sufficient for the eight to 10 years from 2031. According to Peak Hour Peak Direction Traffic, in case of a rise in population, 12 cars with eight coaches will have to be added,” he said. Mr. Fadnavis said it is impractical to merge Metro 2 and 3 lines. He said the committee has planned to relocate the car shed and the ongoing work is a farce.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/relocate-metro-car-shed-to-aarey-fadnavis-to-uddhav/article33631463.ece
22 January 2021||Guwahati,||Cong., AIUDF welcome EC move on Assam poll||A day after the Election Commission announced that those excluded from the National Register of Citizens (NRC) will be eligible to vote in the upcoming Assembly poll if their names are there on the voter list, the ruling BJP on Thursday said status quo about their voting rights has to be maintained while the Congress and the AIUDF welcomed the decision. The final NRC, a database of Indian citizens living in Assam which was updated under the supervision of the Supreme Court and published on August 31, 2019, excluded names of over 19 lakh of the 3.29 crore applicants. However, it has not been notified by the Registrar General of India yet. This leaves the document without any official validity. “Lakhs of Indian citizens were excluded in the NRC but names of many illegal immigrants are there in it. The NRC document in its present form has not been accepted by the party and we have asked for a reverification. Till it is done, status quo has to be maintained as the notification is yet to be issued,” BJP Assam unit president Ranjeet Dass said. State Congress spokesperson Bobbeeta Sharma said names of many genuine Indian citizens were left out of the final NRC. “The EC has taken the right step in allowing them to vote. Otherwise, their democratic rights would have been infringed upon,” she said. The All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF), an alliance partner of the Congress for the Assembly poll due in March-April, also welcomed the EC decision describing it as “a positive move”. AIUDF general secretary Aminul Islam said: “We also want a permanent solution to the problems of doubtful or D-voters which exists only in Assam.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-aiudf-welcome-ec-move-on-assam-poll/article33631225.ece
22 January 2021||Hyderabad,||KCR running State with retired officials: Bhatti||Telangana is being run by retired officials with no accountability and this is to escape from future enquiries on corrupt practices of this government, charged Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Bhatti Vikramarka. At a press conference here, he said the Chief Secretary, who has to set right the administration, is from Andhra Pradesh cadre, and he is assisted by a retired IAS officer with no accountability. Similarly, the Engineering-in-Chief of Irrigation projects where thousands of crores are being spent is a retired person. Even the Transco, where thousands of crores are being spent, is headed by a retired officer. “All these officials will escape future enquiries as they are not competent authorities and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has deliberately designed this system for his corrupt practices,” the CLP leader alleged. “Why is Mr. Somesh Kumar of Andhra Pradesh cadre made the Chief Secretary if not for blindly following the Chief Minister’s orders,” he asked. Entire machinery has collapsed without the Secretariat and no one knows where the officers function from. Such is the situation that the last proposals for loan sanctions in BC Welfare and Minority Welfare were sent in 2016-17, he claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kcr-running-state-with-retired-officials-bhatti/article33631621.ece
22 January 2021||January 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Biden begins dismantling Trump legacy||“The United States will continue to be a full participant and a global leader in confronting such threats and advancing global health and health security,” the letter read. Mr. Biden’s first executive order, however, was about COVID-19, and mandated the wearing of face-masks on federal government property and encouraged people to wear masks for 100 days. More than 4,00,000 Americans have died due to the virus. He also re-established an Obama-era National Security Council unit that deals with world health security and biodefence. “With the state of the nation today there’s no time to waste. We’re going to get to work immediately,” he told reporters in the Oval Office. As part of Wednesday’s half-day of work, Mr. Biden repealed Mr. Trump’s near-ban on travel to the U.S. from 13 Muslim-majority countries (colloquially known as the “Muslim ban”). The policy has been in place since January 2017 and had survived challenges in the U.S. Supreme Court. He also signed a memo asking the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to “preserve and fortify” the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA), a programme allowing individuals brought illegally to the U.S. as children, reprieve from deportation. The DHS announced a 100-day pause on all deportations on Wednesday. Mr. Biden also stopped the construction of the wall with Mexico — a pet project of Mr. Trump which had included the redirection of some $10 billion from Defence accounts. Mr. Biden ordered a review of funds diverted to building the wall. With regard to domestic climate policy, Mr. Biden cancelled the permit for Keystone XL, an almost 1,931-km pipeline that brings crude into the U.S. from Canada. The permit was first denied in 2015 by former President Barack Obama and granted in 2017 by Mr. Trump. He also issued a moratorium on oil and natural gas leases in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge and reversed a Trump administration rollback of Obama-era vehicle emission rules. Mr. Biden also dismantled Mr. Trump’s “1776 Commission” that was set up to promote “patriotic education” to children but has been criticised for whitewashing the country’s history of racism. He also signed an order enforcing prohibitions on the federal government from discriminating on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity, reversing some Trump-era actions. At the virtual swearing in of his staff, he stressed the need for humility as a core value in his White House. He told members of his new team that if he ever heard them treating their colleagues with disrespect, he would fire them “on the spot… no ifs and or buts”. “Everybody…everybody is entitled to be treated with decency and dignity. That’s been missing in a big way the last four years.” Mr. Biden, who did not have his predecessor at the inauguration, did receive a letter from him, as is the custom. “The President [Mr. Trump] wrote a very generous letter,” Mr. Biden said. He told reporters that he did not want to discuss the contents until he had spoken with Mr. Trump. Mr. Biden will release a national strategy for tacking COVID-19 on Thursday, the White House said. This will include another 10 executive orders and directives, to expand testing, give out vaccines, address safety issues with re-opening schools and businesses and to set up a task force to address the disproportionate coronavirus disease-burden faced by minority communities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/biden-begins-dismantling-trump-legacy/article33631000.ece
22 January 2021||KOCHI,||Sivasankar arrested||After booking him in the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case, the Customs on Thursday arrested M. Sivasankar, the former Principal Secretary to the Kerala Chief Minister, in the dollar smuggling case. The suspended IAS officer has been arraigned as the fourth accused in the case related to alleged smuggling of dollars worth nearly Rs. 1.30 crore by a former finance head of the UAE Consulate, Thiruvananthapuram, to the UAE. He is currently housed at the district jail, Kakkanad. Swapna Suresh and P.S. Sarith, the key accused in the gold smuggling case, have also been arraigned as the accused in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sivasankar-arrested/article33631006.ece
22 January 2021||January 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Decision on Rajiv case convict soon, SC told||The recommendation to remit their life sentences was advised by the Cabinet under Article 161. The other convicts are Nalini, Murugan, Santhan, Jayakumar, Ravichandran and Robert Payas. On Wednesday, Justice Rao termed the Governor’s delay “extraordinary”. The Bench too noted how a decision was not forthcoming despite the State government’s recommendation. A surprise The new turn of events came as a surprise, as Additional Solicitor-General K.M. Nataraj, for the Centre, argued on Wednesday that the pleas for pardon and release should go to the President instead of the Governor. The Centre had, for the first time, raised the point about the Governor’s power to grant remission to Perarivalan under Article 161 in November last. But Mr. Sankaranarayanan had consistently argued that a convict was free to choose between the President and the Governor for pardon. In earlier hearings, the senior advocate had referred to the Constitution Bench’s judgment in the Union of India versus Sriharan of December 2015, which said the “exercise of executive clemency” was “vested in the President or the Governor”. Mr. Sankaranarayanan said the Centre’s rejection in 2018 of the Tamil Nadu government proposal to remit the sentence of the convicts under Section 432 of the Code of Criminal Procedure did not stop the convicts from separately moving the Governor for pardon under Article 161. The constitutional power of pardon of the President or the Governor was “untouchable and unapproachable and cannot suffer the vicissitudes of simple legislative processes”, he had explained from the Sriharan judgment. The Constitution Bench, in a majority decision, had held that the States cannot unilaterally remit the sentences of life convicts in cases investigated by a Central agency under a Central law. The assassination case was probed by the CBI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/decision-on-rajiv-case-convict-soon-sc-told/article33631018.ece
22 January 2021||NEW DELHI/CHANDIGARH,||Farmers reject proposal to suspend laws||In the meeting held with the police officials [on Thursday morning], the police requested not to conduct the parade in Delhi, while the farmers restated their plan about doing the parade on the Outer Ring Road,” the Morcha said in a statement. Noting that 147 farmers have died during the protest so far, the Morcha said “their sacrifice will not go in vain and we will not go back without the repealing of these farm laws”. In a parallel process, the Supreme Court-appointed committee started its hearings on Thursday, reaching out to 10 farmer groups in eight States via videoconference. The farmers “gave their frank opinion, including suggestions to improve the implementation of the Acts”, an official statement said. The Morcha has refused to appear before the committee. After nine rounds of talks ended in stalemate, the Centre offered a partial concession during the 10th round on Thursday, saying that the laws could be kept in abeyance for 18 months while dialogue continued in a joint committee. The unions said they would consider the proposal. Although the Morcha ultimately reached a unanimous decision to reject the Centre’s proposal, there were some initial dissenters. According to some union leaders who did not wish to be named, a suggestion was made to submit a counter offer asking for the suspension of the laws for a longer period of four to five years, rather than an outright rejection of the Centre’s offer. However, this was not acceptable to the whole group, they said. “Suspension is not the same as repeal,” said Rakesh Tikait, who heads a faction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU). Even a longer suspension would not be acceptable, he said. “Suspending the laws for a year or for a year and a half would cost the farmers dearly and the sword will keep hanging over their heads in the same way,” said BKU-Ekta Ugrahan secretary Shingara Singh Mann.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farmers-to-press-ahead-with-tractor-rally/article33631019.ece
22 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||SAD leader Sirsa says he was arrested in U.P.||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) national spokesperson Manjinder Singh Sirsa said he was arrested by the Uttar Pradesh police on Thursday. “Uttar Pradesh Police has arrested me at Bilaspur, Pilibhit. My offence – I have been raising voice for Farmers rights and even Supreme Court also recognises the farmers’ right to protest. Is that a criminal offence; I want to ask UP Police,” Mr. Sirsa tweeted, along with some pictures. Mr. Sirsa is also president of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee, which has been providing food to the farm union delegations during their negotiations with Central Ministers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sad-leader-sirsa-says-he-was-arrested-in-up/article33631068.ece
22 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||CPWD seeks comments on Rajpath project||With work on the proposed redevelopment of Rajpath or the Central Vista Avenue expected to begin after the Republic Day celebrations, the Central Public Works Department has invited objections and suggestions to the project. The CPWD awarded the contract to Shapoorji Pallonji and Co. recently after its bid of Rs. 477 crore was found to be the lowest. Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry Secretary Durga Shanker Mishra said at a press conference on January 11 that the work would start on February 1, after the Republic Day and Beating Retreat ceremonies. Mandatory clearance The CPWD has called for objections and suggestions from the public as the area is among “Grade-I Heritage Precincts”, requiring clearance from the Heritage Conservation Committee, apart from the Delhi Urban Art Commission. The CPWD has invited comments via e-mail till 5 p.m. on January 29. The project is scheduled to be completed in time for the Republic Day parade in 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cpwd-seeks-comments-on-rajpath-project/article33631032.ece
22 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||FB official says he has right to remain silent||Senior Facebook official Ajit Mohan told the Supreme Court on Thursday that he was well within his rights to remain silent and not be compelled by the Peace and Harmony Committee of the Delhi Legislative Assembly to be part of a “politically polarised debate” on the Delhi riots last year. Appearing before a three-judge Bench led by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul, senior advocate Harish Salve, for Mr. Mohan, submitted that his client headed the commercial office of an American company in India. He clarified to the court that he could not be compelled to appear before the committee even if he was exempted from taking oath. “It is a conscientious decision. You may criticise me for it. You give oath when you are testifying on facts... I do not wish to appear before the committee. It is a highly polarised political debate. I do not wish to be part of it. I am well within my right to remain silent,” Mr. Salve emphasised. Mr. Salve flagged his concerns about the mandate of the committee, which included recommending action against persons against whom incriminating evidence for incitement of violence was prima facie found. Mr. Salve said the Information Technology Act already dealt with hate content on the Internet. Mr. Mohan has accused the Assembly of threatening him with “breach of privilege” if he did not appear before the Committee to testify. Mr. Salve said the case highlighted several pertinent questions of law, one of which was whether the privileges of the Legislative Assembly of the NCT of Delhi would include the power to compel the appearance of non-members. He said there was no such privilege to summon third parties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fb-official-says-he-has-right-to-remain-silent/article33631040.ece
22 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Nepal, Bangladesh thank India||The Prime Ministers of Nepal and Bangladesh thanked the Indian leadership and the people of India after Kathmandu and Dhaka received on Thursday two large consignments of the Covishield vaccine made by the Serum Institute of India. The two South Asian leaders spoke as India prepared 1.5 million Covishield doses that will be flown to Myanmar in a special flight on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nepal-bangladesh-thank-india/article33631039.ece
22 January 2021||NALGONDA,||7 killed in accident||At least seven persons, including six women farm workers, were killed after their seven-seater autorickshaw and a container truck had a head-on collision near Angadipeta X roads of Pedda Adiserlapally in the district on Thursday. Four others, of the dozen occupants of the autorickshaw, who suffered severe injuries were rushed to Hyderabad for emergency care. According to Gudipally police, the accident occurred around 6.30 p.m., outside the Essar filing station on the Nagarjunsagar-Hyderabad highway near Angadipeta X roads. Footage retrieved from the CCTVs of the filling station at the accident site, shows the rickshaw and the truck colliding head-on, when another mini transport vehicle was overtaking the truck from the left on the two-lane highway. Police identified the victims who breathed their last at the accident site as Kottam Mallesham, 40, the transporter; Nomula Peddamma, 40; Nomula Anjamma, 50; Godugu Iddamma, 48; Kottam Peddamma, 50; Kottam Chandramma, 35 and Nomula Saidamma. All the women were agricultural workers from Chinthabavi village of the neighbouring Devarakonda mandal, and were returning home after work. The women had left the village early morning for paddy transplantation work at Pothnur village of Peddavoora mandal, 30 kms away.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/seven-killed-in-auto-truck-collision/article33631377.ece
22 January 2021||Srinagar,||Kashmir stakeholders meet House panel||Kashmir Valley-based stakeholders met a visiting 31-member parliamentary delegation on Thursday and pressed for improving the Valley’s road connectivity and demanded an economic package for the tourism sector. T.G. Venkatesh, Rajya Sabha member and Chairman of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Transport, Tourism and Culture, met trade and travel bodies in Srinagar. The meeting was also attended by National Conference president and MP Farooq Abdullah. He, however, refused to talk to the media. It’s the first such outreach after the COVID-19 pandemic broke out last year. The parliamentary delegation held a meeting with stakeholders to review and examine the status of highways/State highways, potential and promotion of tourism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kashmir-stakeholders-meet-house-panel/article33631020.ece
22 January 2021||LUCKNOW,||Smart cameras to help women in distress||The police in the Uttar Pradesh capital are set to install smart cameras in public places that will automatically click the pictures of women in distress situations by reading their facial expressions and alert the nearest police vehicle. Five such Artificial Intelligence-based cameras will be installed at each of the 200 “hotspots’ identified by the police in the city, City Police Commissioner D.K. Thakur said. The hotspots would include areas frequented by girls or localities from where most complaints have been received. The cameras would react to 40-45 different eventualities and possibilities, said Mr. Thakur at a safe city workshop event at the Lucknow University on Wednesday. “For example, a woman is being stalked on the street, someone is chasing her. The camera would capture her change in expression,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/smart-cameras-to-help-women-in-distress/article33631031.ece
22 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Modi likely to get the jab in Phase 2||As the COVID-19 vaccination campaign continues with varying degrees of enthusiasm in the country, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and many Chief Ministers are likely to get the jab in the second phase of the drive for those over 50 years of age. Mr. Modi, in a videoconference with the Chief Ministers just before the launch of the nationwide drive, said politicians should not jump the queue for vaccination, as the first round was for frontline workers in the health and law enforcement sectors, government sources noted. “In the same vein, he said politicians would get their turn in the second phase when senior citizens will be vaccinated,” a government official said. “There is nothing new in the plan that was originally thought up,” the official added. As the campaign progresses, optics of Mr. Modi getting the jab could go a long way in addressing concerns of vaccine sceptics. In the campaign since January 16, the target could not be achieved. Slow offtake Several reasons are being attributed to the slow offtake with software glitches, adverse events, and uncertainty over the efficacy of the vaccine being among the many reasons. It is unclear whether the Prime Minister will take Covishield or Covaxin. Meanwhile, under “vaccine diplomacy”, assistance has been promised for Bhutan, Maldives, Bangladesh, Nepal, Mauritius and Seychelles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/modi-likely-to-get-the-jab-in-phase-2/article33631041.ece
22 January 2021||Jammu,||Soldier killed on LoC in Poonch||A soldier was killed on the Line of Control (LoC) in a ceasefire violation of Pakistan in the Pir Panjal valley’s Poonch district on Thursday. Meanwhile, J&K Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha chaired a meeting of the Unified High Command, comprising top security officials, on measures to curb militancy. An official said a soldier, identified as Hawaldar Nirmal Singh from the Army’s 10 JAK Rifle, sustained bullet injuries in the chest after Paksitan resorted to sniper fire on forward posts in Poonch’s Mankote area. “Singh was immediately shifted in a chopper to the Udhampur hospital. However, the soldier died on the way,” he said. An Army spokesman said the Pakistan army resorted to “unprovoked ceasefire violation in Krishna Ghati Sector”. “The Indian Army responded strongly,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/soldier-killed-on-loc-in-poonch/article33631042.ece
22 January 2021||Mumbai,||HC grants protection to NCP leader Eknath Khadse||Granting relief to Nationalist Congress Party leader Eknath Khadse, the Bombay High Court on Thursday asked, “what heavens are going to fall” if he was granted protection. The Bench said, “Judiciary and agencies like the Reserve Bank of India, the Central Bureau of Investigation and the Enforcement Directorate should act independently.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-grants-protection-to-ncp-leader-eknath-khadse/article33631531.ece
22 January 2021||Malappuram,||Arya Vaidya Sala studies win global attention||Kottakkal Arya Vaidya Sala said here on Thursday that its studies on certain Ayurvedic medicines, widely prescribed as an immune-booster in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, have won international attention. The United States National Health Institute’s Public Health Emergency collections have included the findings of a series of research conducted by Kottakkal Arya Vaidya Sala. Renowned publisher Springer Nature has published the results of the studies jointly conducted by the Arya Vaidya Sala’s Department of Clinical Research, the Centre for Medicinal Plants Research and the Product Development Department, it has been informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/arya-vaidya-sala-studies-win-global-attention/article33631017.ece
22 January 2021||Palakkad,||Bishop’s letter to CPI triggers row||Bishop of Palakkad Mar Jacob Manathodath has courted a controversy by writing to the Communist Party of India (CPI) demanding that a Christian industrialist be made the Left Democratic Front (LDF) candidate in the Mannarkkad Assembly constituency. Bishop Manathodath has demanded the candidature of Isaac Varghese, an industrialist from Kanjikode, near here. The bishop reportedly pointed out that the Church would support Mr. Varghese and that his candidature would increase the winning chances of the LDF in Mannarkkad. The bishop has written the letter to CPI State secretary Kanam Rajendran. The Viswa Karma Sabha too said that it would support Mr. Varghese in Mannarkkad. An active Congress worker until 1992, Mr. Varghese is now a district committee member of the CPI(M)’s Pravasi organisation. District panel choice However, the CPI district committee is not in favour of the bishop’s choice. CPI leaders said here on Thursday that they would prefer one of their active party workers or leaders to fight the Assembly election from Mannarkkad. Mr. Varghese said that the bishop wrote in support of him apparently because he was a Christian. However, the CPI district leadership said here on Thursday that discussions on deciding candidates were yet to begin. They said they were not aware of the bishop’s letter to the State leadership. Indian’s Union Muslim League’s N. Shamsuddeen is representing Mannarkkad in the Assembly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bishops-letter-to-cpi-triggers-row/article33631007.ece
22 January 2021||Belagavi,||Shiv Sena leaders stopped at border||Belagavi Police stopped Shiv Sena leaders who were trying to enter the city to participate in an anti-Kannada flag protest planned for Thursday. They were responding to a call of Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti that is protesting against the Kannada flag post erected by Kannada organisations without due process in front of the city corporation in Belagvai. The police had to physically push back the activists who were trying to cross the border. A team of activists, including Vijay Dhavane, Shiv Sena leader from Kolhapur, tried to walk into the border, holding saffron flags, shouting Jai Shivaji-Amba Bhavani and Jai Maharashtra. They argued that the Belagavi police had no business stopping them as they did not recognise that as the inter-State border. Deputy Commissioner of Police Vikram Amte said that the police was here to maintain law and order and to ensure that peace prevailed. “We will do all that it takes to do it,” he told them. The protestors went returned, vowing to come back. The team of police officers led by Mr. Amte waited for hours at the Shinoli border since Wednesday. Police teams were deputed at other points on the Maharashtra border too. Special security was given to the Kannada flag in the city corporation. An additional force of two Assistant Commissioners of Police and 100 personnel were on duty. Earlier, Police Commissioner K Thiyagarajan had cancelled the permission for a MES rally planned on Thursday. MES leaders, including the former MLA Deepak Dalvi and Maloji Ashtekar, visited the Deputy Commissioner’s office to submit a memorandum. They met Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath and asked him to take down the flag as it was unauthorised. The High Court of Karnataka has not recognised the Red and Yellow flag as the official State flag. Kannada activists have neither sought nor obtained permission to fly it in front of the corporation, they said. Mr Hiremath said that he would convene a meeting on January 28 or 29 to discuss the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/shiv-sena-leaders-stopped-at-border/article33631066.ece
22 January 2021||Hyderabad,||KCR announces 10% quota for EWS||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on Thursday announced the State government’s decision to implement 10% reservation for Economically Weaker Sections in education and employment. The quota will be implemented for EWS while continuing without any change reservation already enjoyed by other sections, a release of the Chief Minister’s Office said. Mr. Rao said an official meeting, presided by him, will discuss the issue in a couple of days and issue orders. He stressed the necessity for ten per cent reservation to EWS in education and employment. The quota for EWS will take the reservations for various downtrodden sections in the State up to 60 per cent. The State government was already implementing 50 per cent reservations for Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Backward Classes, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kcr-announces-10-quota-for-ews/article33631067.ece
22 January 2021||New Delhi,||Why SC’s ‘Bail is the Rule, Jail is the exception’ not followed: Chidambaram||Former Union Minister P. Chidambaram on Thursday questioned the continued incarceration of stand-up comedian Munawar Faruqui and Kerala journalist Siddique Kappan. In a series of tweets, the senior Congress leader, who is also a senior advocate, asked why the Supreme Court’s principle of “Bail is the Rule, Jail is the exception” was not followed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/why-scs-bail-is-the-rule-jail-is-the-exception-not-followed-chidambaram/article33631035.ece
22 January 2021||Mumbai,||Will shift Varavara Rao to JJ Hospital, Maharashtra tells HC||The Maharashtra government on Thursday told the Bombay High Court that 82-year-old undertrial Varavara Rao would be shifted to the prison ward in the State-run JJ Hospital and provided all the care needed. Government counsel Deepak Thakare informed a Division Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and Manish Pitale that Mr. Rao would be allowed to meet his family at the hospital as per protocols and provided all the medical treatment and attention given at Nanavati Hospital where he is currently admitted. The State was ready to admit him right away in ward number 44 of JJ Hospital, Mr. Thakare said. Senior advocate Indira Jaising, representing Mr. Rao, urged the court to grant him medical  bail for three months so that he could remain fit to stand for trial. “There were 200 witnesses in the case. He would be detained till death. What does life imprisonment mean for an 80-year-old? Everyone has a right to life till his last few days with dignity,” she said. Ms. Jaising argued that bail could be granted under Section 437 (when bail may be taken in case of non-bailable offence) of the Code of Criminal Procedure for cases under the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act. She mentioned that one of the reasons Mr. Rao’s health got better was because he was allowed to meet his family. The court interrupted, saying the present medical report from the hospital said he was fit to be discharged. Ms. Jaising said his age had to be considered. “The process has become the punishment.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/will-shift-varavara-rao-to-jj-hospital-maharashtra-tells-hc/article33631046.ece
22 January 2021||New Delhi,||Editors Guild slams Gujarat court for arrest warrant against journalist||The Editors Guild of India has condemned the non-bailable arrest warrant against senior journalist Paranjoy Guha Thakurta by a Gujarat court for an article he co-authored against the Adani group in 2017. The Guild called it an “attempt to use intimidatory tactics by powerful corporate houses against journalists to prevent media scrutiny” and urged the Adani group to withdraw the complaint.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/editors-guild-slams-gujarat-court-for-arrest-warrant-against-journalist/article33631049.ece
22 January 2021||Mumbai,||Illegal construction: Bombay High Court dismisses Sonu Sood’s plea||The Bombay High Court on Thursday refused to grant relief to actor Sonu Sood who sought protection from action by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation against the alleged illegal construction at his residence without the permission from the civic body.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/illegal-construction-bombay-high-court-dismisses-sonu-soods-plea/article33631050.ece
22 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Sewage treatment plants in city set to be revamped||In two years, Chennai will have a more efficient system of sewage treatment and thus mitigate the problem of pollution of its rivers and canals. Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (CMWSSB) is setting up sewage treatment plants (STPs) across the city. Equipped with the latest treatment technology, the new plants are expected to ensure better quality of treated sewage flowing into the waterbodies. At present, the city generates about 581 million litres of sewage daily which is treated at STPs in four locations. The water board is setting up STPs at Kodungaiyur, Sholinganallur, Perungudi and Nesapakkam. Officials said the pace of work had slowed down because of the pandemic. About 25% of the work on new plants had been completed. The projects, with an outlay of Rs. 636 crore, are being implemented under the AMRUT (Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation). On completion of these projects next year, the city’s combined capacity to treat sewage would be enhanced to 986 million litres daily (mld) from 745 mld at present. The new plants would treat sewage from the newly merged areas, the officials said. Trials are on at the 31-mld facility at Tiruvottiyur. The water board had switched over to advanced sequential batch reactor (SBR) technology that requires less space in the new plants. The quality of treated sewage was found to be better compared to the conventional technology such as the activated sludge process adopted in the existing facilities, they added. For instance, the biological oxygen demand and total suspended solid levels, which determine the quality of treated sewage, would be reduced to less than 10 mg/litre adhering to new norms of the Central Pollution Control Board. At present, the treated sewage discharged into waterbodies contains 30 mg/l and less than 100 mg/l. Better technology The old STPs are being refurbished and the ones at Kodungaiyur and Koyambedu are being dismantled to make way for the new ones. The capacity of two STPs at Kodungaiyur would be upgraded to 120 mld each. However, the existing STPs would adopt another biological process — moving bed biofilm reactor to efficiently remove pollutants. Officials said this was the best-suited technology to modify existing facilities which faced space constraints. The 54-mld Nesapakkam plant would be the first of the seven plants to be covered under the Rs. 170-crore project. “This process will provide the same quality of treated sewage as that of SBR. We will extend it to other existing plants after studying the results,” the official added. The entire project would be completed by 2023. Meanwhile, residents wanted sewage pumping stations’ capacity to be improved to prevent sewage overflow and release of untreated sewage into rivers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sewage-treatment-plants-in-city-set-to-be-revamped/article33631165.ece
22 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State logs 596 new cases, nine fatalities||The State added 596 fresh cases of COVID-19, including among three returnees from West Bengal and one from Uttar Pradesh, on Thursday, taking the tally to 8,33,011. As on date, 5,196 persons are undergoing treatment in the State. As many as 705 persons were discharged, taking the total figure to 8,15,516. At the same time, the State recorded nine more deaths, pushing the toll to 12,299. Chennai recorded 166 infections, even as 189 more persons were discharged after treatment. The district has 1,842 active cases. It recorded four deaths. Chennai’s tally touched 2,29,705, and so far, 2,23,783 persons have been discharged. A total of 4,080 deaths have been recorded so far. Among the neighbouring districts, Chengalpattu recorded the highest number of cases, with 72 new infections and two deaths. Kancheepuram saw 24 cases and Tiruvallur 18. While Tirupattur and Perambalur recorded no new case, Ariyalur, Kallakurichi and Tirunelveli recorded one each. Thanjavur, Coimbatore and Villupuram recorded one death each, according to a daily bulletin from the Directorate of Public Health. All the deceased had co-morbidities. Six persons died in private hospitals and three in government facilities. An 81-year-old man from Chennai was the oldest among the deceased. He was admitted on January 11 to a private hospital with complaints of fever for five days and cough and difficulty in breathing for two days, and later tested positive for the infection. He died on January 18 due to acute resipratory distress syndrome caused by COVID-19 pneumonia. On Thursday, 61,023 samples were tested.  While Tirupattur and Perambalur recorded no new case, Ariyalur, Kallakurichi and Tirunelveli recorded one each||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-logs-596-new-cases-nine-fatalities/article33631181.ece
22 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Railways starts vaccination for front-line health workers||Southern Railway has opened a ward for administering COVID-19 vaccine to railway officials and employees at the Perambur railway hospital. The vaccination of Southern Railway’s front-line health workers was inaugurated by General Manager John Thomas on Thursday. The drive will cover 100 beneficiaries a day. Mr. Thomas thanked the Chennai Corporation for allotting 500 doses of the vaccine on a priority basis to Southern Railway. Vaccination facilities The vaccination centre is manned by an anaesthetist and a physician. It has been provided with beds, oxygen supply and ventilators for emergency care. Southern Railway Additional General Manager B.G. Mallya, Principal Chief Medical Director V. Nirmala Devi and M.S. Hemalatha, City Medical officer, Greater Chennai Corporation, took part at the inauguration. A total of 1,240 health workers, including doctors and nurses, of the hospitals under the Southern Railway headquarters will be vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/railways-starts-vaccination-drive/article33631191.ece
22 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N.’s spending exceeds States’ average in housing, health||Tamil Nadu’s spending during 2015-20 has exceeded the overall average of the States in two of 13 key sectors. The two sectors are health and family welfare and housing. Against the States’ average of 5.3% in health and family welfare, Tamil Nadu’s spending was 5.4% of its budget, including capital outlay and revenue expenditure. This covered schemes such as Ayushman Bharat, the National Health Mission, and construction and maintenance of hospitals, according to a study carried out by PRS Legislative Research, a New Delhi-based independent and not-for-profit group. In the area of housing, Tamil Nadu’s tally was 1.6% against the States’ average of 1.3%, which consisted of 0.3 percentage point of the budget on capital outlay, and 1 percentage point of the budget on revenue expenditure. In social security, Tamil Nadu’s spending equalled the States’ average, which was 4.1%. As for the remaining 10 sectors where Tamil Nadu lagged others, the State missed the all-India average narrowly in agriculture, education and roads and bridges. The State’s rate of spending in agriculture was 6.2% against the national average of 6.4%; in education, 15.4% against 15.9%; and in roads and bridges, 4.2% against 4.7% It was rural development wherein the State’s spending (3.3%) was way behind the others (5.9%). This was followed by irrigation and flood control, wherein Tamil Nadu’s score was 1.8% against 4%; in energy, 4.6% against 5.7%; and in police, 3.1% against 4.2%. The other three sectors with the figures of Tamil Nadu and the States’ average were: water supply and sanitation-1.2% against 2.3%; welfare of the Scheduled Castes, the Scheduled Tribes and the Other Backward Classes-2% against 2.9%; and urban development-2.3% against 3.1%. ‘Unique position’ However, a senior official of the Tamil Nadu government hints that the State’s “unique position,” in respect of certain subsidy schemes, has not been brought out adequately in the study. “No other State is making the payout to the extent Tamil Nadu does. This year alone, food subsidy accounts for around Rs. 11,500 crore and power subsidy Rs. 9,000 crore. As for old age pension, beneficiaries in Tamil Nadu are getting a higher amount than their counterparts in other States,” the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tns-spending-exceeds-states-average-in-housing-health/article33631193.ece
22 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Business delegation from south India to tour Africa||A 30-member delegation from South India will visit Comesa region of Ethiopia, Djibouti, Zimbabwe, Botswana and Namibia in April and sign MoUs in heath, skill development, and agriculture sectors. The Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa (Comesa) consists of 19 countries. “In the last three months, despite having very few flights, there was a huge interest and over 30 enquiries came up for setting up businesses in our region,” said Ethiopian Ambassador Tizita Mulugeta Yimam who was here to formally inaugurate the India Africa Trade Council. The council will open 13 offices in India to facilitate businessmen interested in trade opportunities available in African countries. These offices will work directly with embassies in Delhi and bring opportunities to places like Hyderabad, Chennai, and Bengaluru. There was tremendous potential to exchange ideas in the field of agriculture and MSMEs, B. Ramakrishnan, Director of the India Africa Trade Council, said. To start with, the trade council will establish the India Africa film commission to facilitate shootings. SEZ planned An Africa Special Economic Zone will come up on a 100-acre plot in Kolar for collaboration with African companies. Around 40 companies can be accommodated in this SEZ. The trade council is in talks with a few companies in Chennai and is guiding them. “We will bring the South Indian market closer and make it easier and more attractive to trade with Africa,” said Asif Iqbal, president of the Indian Economic Trade Organisation (IETO).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/business-delegation-from-south-india-to-tour-africa/article33631168.ece
22 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC rejects plea for directive to State on internal reservation||The Madras High Court on Thursday dismissed a public interest litigation (PIL) petition which sought to restrain the State government from granting internal reservations to any particular caste within the quota reserved for the Most Backward Class (MBC). Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy rejected the plea as premature after Advocate-General (A-G) Vijay Narayan told the court that the Supreme Court was already seized of the issue of internal reservations within a quota. The A-G said the Supreme Court had passed an order on August 27, 2020 and now a seven-judge Bench of the court would decide the constitutional validity of granting internal reservations to individual castes within a broader quota. C. Raja of Chennai had filed the PIL petition fearing that the government might end up granting internal reservations for Vanniyars within the MBC quota due to the pressure put by the Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) with the upcoming Assembly election in mind. He also apprehended that such internal reservation would be granted even before a Commission constituted by the government, under former High Court judge A. Kulasekaran, could conduct a thorough survey and collect quantifiable data on caste, communities and tribes in the State. Wondering how the Commission could conduct such an elaborate exercise within the stipulated period of six months, the petitioner said the Ambasankar Commission had taken about two years to complete a similar exercise in 1983 when the population of the State was only 4.8 crore. Stating that the population had grown to nearly 8 crore since then, the petitioner said it would be highly impossible for the Justice Kulasekaran Commission to conduct a microanalysis of all caste groups across the length and breadth of the State within six months. Therefore, he urged the court to quash the government order (G.O.) issued on December 21 for the constitution of the Commission, in so far as it prescribes an outer limit of six months and consequently restrain the government from granting internal caste-based reservation. After recording his submissions, the judges said they could not interfere in the issue even before the Commission submitted its report. They, however, observed that it would be open to the petitioner to file a case afresh after the submission of the report.  A SC Bench will decide the constitutional validity of granting internal reservations to individual castes within a broader quota   Vijay Narayan  Advocate-General||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-rejects-plea-for-directive-to-state-on-internal-reservation/article33631598.ece
22 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Horizontal quota for medical seats will undo reform: Centre||The Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has questioned the legislative competence of State governments to enact laws which provide horizontal reservation to government school students in medical admissions every year. The Ministry has also said that any such horizontal reservation would “undo the reform of merit-based admission” implemented across the country through the introduction of the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) for admission in medical courses. Puducherry’s decision The submissions were made in a counter affidavit filed before the Madras High Court in response to a plea to implement the Puducherry Cabinet’s decision to provide 10% horizontal reservation to government school students in medical admissions. Subulakshmi, a Class 12 student, had filed the writ petition through senior counsel P. Wilson. She sought a direction to the Centre to approve the Cabinet’s decision since Lieutenant Governor (L-G) Kiran Bedi had referred the issue to the Union Home Ministry. In the affidavit filed before Justice B. Pugalendhi, the Union Home Ministry said the L-G’s reference was taken up for inter-ministerial consultation and the views of the Union Health Ministry as well as the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) were solicited. On December 10, 2020, the Health Ministry replied that though the subject ‘medical education’ falls under the concurrent list under the Constitution, ‘determination of minimum standards in institutions for higher education’ fell under the Union list. Therefore, any legislation passed by a State government with regard to medical admissions would be subject to Centre’s power to determine minimum standards, the Ministry said. It also pointed out that NEET was implemented since 2016 to “introduce merit in medical education”. “NEET provides uniform national standards imbibing the principle of one nation, one merit. The proposed legislation by the Union Territory Cabinet dilutes the merit of NEET by providing a separate quota to students of government schools,” the Health Ministry said. “Any horizontal reservation is likely to create abnormal incentives/disincentives affecting pre-medical education which will not be desirable. Also, this may lead to similar/other demands from other States,” the Ministry added. After apprising the court of the remarks received from the Health Ministry, the Home Ministry urged the High Court to grant it a few more weeks’ time to report further progress on the issue after receiving the comments from the DoPT too. The judge accepted the request and adjourned the case for further hearing to February 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/states-lack-legislative-ability-to-reserve-medical-seats-centre/article33631196.ece
22 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two women robbed of gold chain, injured||Two women were injured in Mandaveli when robbers pushed their two-wheeler and fled after snatching a gold chain from one of them on Wednesday night. Dhanalakshmi, 55, of Mylapore and Vatsala, 60, of Semmenchery, were returning from a wedding reception at Abhiramapuram on their two-wheeler. They were followed by two men on another two-wheeler. Near the Mandaveli bus terminus, the suspects pushed their vehicle down. Before they could get up, the duo quickly snatched a five-sovereign gold chain from Dhanalakshmi’s neck and fled the scene. Passers-by came to the rescue of the two women who were injured. They were taken to the Government Kilpauk Hospital. They lodged a complaint at the Pattinambakkam police station. A senior police officer said: “Following the complaint, a special team has been constituted to trace the suspects. CCTV footage was scrutinised from the scene of the crime. Further investigations are on.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-women-robbed-of-gold-chain-injured/article33631153.ece
22 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Prince of Arcot greets Biden||The Prince of Arcot, Nawab Mohammed Abdul Ali, has congratulated Joe Biden who has assumed charge as the 46th President of the U.S.. In a statement, he said: “Yours has been a long and exceptional journey to the American Presidency.” He congratulated Kamala Harris on her being sworn in as U.S. Vice-President. He said that he was delighted to see Ms. Harris, whose mother hailed from India and that too a Tamil, will serve as Vice-President during President Biden's administration.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/prince-of-arcot-greets-biden/article33631158.ece
22 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Gambling can’t be protected under the Constitution : HC||Gambling cannot be considered a trade or business. Therefore, private companies involved in offering online rummy with stakes cannot seek protection under Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution which guarantees the right to carry on any occupation, trade or business, the State government contended before the Madras High Court. In a counter affidavit filed before first Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy through Advocate General Vijay Narayan, the government said that rummy might be a game of skill and not of chance. Yet, it could be banned if betting or wagering was involved while playing such a game. The counter affidavit was filed in response to a batch of writ petitions filed by online game portals based in Haryana and other parts of the country. The petitioner companies had challenged the Constitutional validity of an Ordinance promulgated by the Tamil Nadu government in November 2020 for banning all online games played with stakes on the cyberspace.  When senior counsel P.S. Raman, representing one of the game portals, sought time to file a rejoinder to the government’s counter affidavit, the Bench accepted his request and adjourned the hearing to February 10. However, it turned down a request made by senior counsel Abhishek Manu Singhvi, representing another firm, to grant interim relief. The counter affidavit, filed on behalf of the Chief Secretary as well as the Home Secretary, stated that seven individuals had committed suicide in the State in the last five years after losing money in online gambling. Further, four more deaths and 10 other criminal offences had been reported in connection with online gambling, it added. It was to prevent such incidents, the government had promulgated the Tamil Nadu Gaming and Police Laws (Amendment) Ordinance of 2020 for banning online games played with stakes by amending the relevant provisions of Tamil Nadu Gaming Act of 1930, Chennai City Police Act of 1888 and Tamil Nadu District Police Act of 1859, the government said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gambling-cant-be-protected-under-the-constitution-hc/article33631663.ece
22 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Initial assessments for Classes 10, 12 from today||The initial learning level assessments of students of Classes 10 and 12, who returned to schools earlier this week, will be conducted from Friday, the School Education Department has said. The State Council of Educational Research and Training will conduct the assessments online for students of government schools. The students can take this assessment through the hi-tech laboratories on their campus. In a circular, School Education Director S. Kannappan said the assessments were being conducted to find out the areas requiring attention. “The Department has provided students with video-lessons that they can access on their laptops and the lessons broadcast on Kalvi TV. The assessments will be held to find out how these measures have helped students and what areas teachers should focus on.” In batches The assessments will have 120 multiple choice questions across all subjects and Class 12 students will undergo the assessment from Friday in batches. Class 10 students will be put through the test thereafter. Schools have been asked to conduct the tests in compliance with physical distancing and other COVID-19 safety norms.  The State Council of Educational Research and Training will conduct the assessments online for students of government schools||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/initial-assessments-for-classes-10-12-from-today/article33631185.ece
22 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two-year-old undergoes spine surgery||A two-year-old girl was treated for a rare condition of her spine at a city hospital. She was diagnosed with spondylolisthesis, a condition where one vertebrae slips over another causing spinal cord and nerve root compression. The condition could be congenital or due to trauma or degeneration. The girl developed sudden pain in the back and leg and was unable to move or walk. When a lump developed on her lower back, the girl was taken to a nearby hospital. An MRI scan revealed that she needed surgery, said G. Balamurali, head of spine surgery at Kauvery Hospital. Since the child’s bones were undeveloped and soft, it was a challenge to conduct surgeries, he said. ‘Excellent results’ “The treatment had excellent results with the child’s deformity corrected precisely. “There were no complaints of back or leg pain. Two months after surgery the child was able to walk straight and resume her normal activities,” he said. The girl belonged to the fishermen community and could not afford the surgery. Funds were raised through Thalirgal project — an initiative of Rotary Club of Madras North, the State government and the Kauvery Hospital — apart from crowd sourcing, he added. Hospital founder M. Selvaraj said: “So far the youngest case with similar diagnosis reported worldwide was of a three-year-old child. I congratulate Dr. Balamurali and team for successfully treating the child and relieving her from the agony of immobility.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-year-old-undergoes-spine-surgery/article33631157.ece
22 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai NGO reunites boy from Odisha with his family||Lochan Nayak had left his family in Odisha and was stranded thousands of kilometres away in Padappai, Chengalpattu district. Not knowing the way or the means to go back to his village, the boy was roaming on the streets of Padappai when police personnel of the Manimangalam station, engaged in beat patrol, rescued and handed him over to the Chengalpattu Child Welfare Committee (CWC). The CWC in turn handed over the boy to Sri Arunodayam, an NGO functioning from Kolathur in Chennai. Housing more than 115 abandoned children, the NGO helped the boy get reunited with the family. Lochn Nayak could converse only in Odia. Iyappan Subramaniyam, founder of Sri Arunodayam, said some volunteers helped him get the details of the boy. Then they got in touch with Ramesh Kumar, Inspector of the Surada Police station of Ganjam district and shared all the details of the stranded boy, including his photograph. Police officials, within two days, located the boy’s family in Badagoccha village and made arrangements for his return. Nayak, whose father had died, was living with his ailing mother and brother and had fled home. His elder brother Ranjan came to Chennai to take him back home. The boy, along with his brother, boarded a train to their native place on Tuesday, making this a happy 94th reunion for Sri Arunodayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennai-ngo-reunites-boy-from-odisha-with-his-family/article33631161.ece
22 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Jharkhand Minister recovers from illness||Jharkhand Education Minister Jagarnath Mahto, who was admitted to MGM Healthcare with COVID-19-induced severe complications three months ago, has recovered. He underwent a lung transplant and is doing well, hospital authorities said. Mr. Mahto, 54, developed fibrosis in the lungs due to the infection, which severely damaged the organ. He had several complications, including hypertension, diabetes and coronary artery disease. As his condition deteriorated, a clinical team from the hospital put him on ECMO on October 19, and airlifted him to Chennai for advanced care. Ten days later, he was tracheostomised. When a CT scan showed no improvement in his lungs, he was listed for a transplant. After 23 days on ECMO, he underwent a bilateral lung transplant on November 10. K.R. Balakrishnan, chairman and director of Cardiac Sciences and director of the lung transplant programme at the hospital, who led the team of surgeons that did the transplant, said: “We weighed in all the options available, and decided to go ahead with the transplant. The patient responded well and his lungs are now working well. The Minister was taken off ECMO, following gradual improvement in his oxygenation levels.” He was weaned from mechanical ventilation on December 8. The tracheostomy was removed on January 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jharkhand-minister-recovers/article33631192.ece
22 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK seeks immediate release of Perarivalan, six other convicts||Governor Banwarilal Purohit should not waste any more time and immediately order the release of Perarivalan and six other life convicts in the former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi assassination case after the Supreme Court observed that the delay in deciding the petition was ‘extraordinary’, the DMK said in a resolution passed at the meeting of its district secretaries at Anna Arivalayam in Chennai on Thursday. The party also passed a resolution accusing the AIADMK government of being the “most corrupt government in India”, demanding that the Ministers in the State Cabinet, including Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, be investigated and “brought to book for corruption”. In another resolution, the party condemned the Central government for not repealing the three farm laws and not bringing the farmers’ protest to an end. “The meeting also condemns Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, who is supporting the farm laws, despite the unprecedented protests. We demand that the BJP repeal these laws,” a resolution said. The DMK also sought immediate financial relief for farmers whose crops were affected due to the two recent cyclones and continuous rain. The government must increase the compensation from Rs. 8,000 per acre to Rs. 30,000 per acre, it demanded. It wanted the CBI to arrest the accused in the Pollachi sexual assault case immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-seeks-immediate-release-of-perarivalan/article33631178.ece
22 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Woman undergoes complex surgery||Doctors at Fortis Malar hospital here have performed a challenging surgery for the fractured elbow of a 70-year-old woman who was COVID-19 positive and had other co-morbidities. Nandkumar Sundaram, chief trauma and orthopaedic surgeon, said the woman was rushed to the hospital with a fractured elbow, high fever and extreme breathlessness. Apart from COVID-19, she had chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, diabetes and hypertension, he added. He said she was treated in the intensive care unit for about three weeks before she was fit enough to undergo a multiple fragment surgery. The surgery was complex as the patient had osteoporosis that made her bones weak and also because of the location of the fracture, Dr. Sundaram said. “The team, involving highly-experienced critical care doctors and anaesthetists, managed it successfully. The patient has recovered well,” he added. The case was yet another example of how the hospital had not shied away from treating patients for all their ailments even if they were COVID-19 positive, Dr. Sundaram said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-undergoes-complex-surgery/article33631664.ece
22 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Temporary healthcare workers stage protest||Scores of health workers staged a protest in front of the Directorate of Medical Services demanding that they be made permanent employees. The State government had appointed 3,000 health workers eight years ago for a consolidated pay. The workers since formed an association and have been demanding that they be absorbed. Minister’s assurance K. Mariappan, president of the Tamil Nadu Multi-Speciality Hospital Employees Association, said Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar told the Assembly in 2019 that the workers who had completed five years of service would be absorbed. “It has been over a year since he made the announcement but nothing has happened since then,” he said. “We were appointed as temporary staff. The Minister made the statement in a reply to a question in the Assembly. We have been given the position of multipurpose hospital workers. The government combined five posts such as nursing assistants, sanitary workers, hospital workers, and cleaners. We were appointed instead. We get a consolidated pay but do not enjoy benefits such as leave with pay. Till date it has been no work no pay.” The employees observed a day’s fast on the DMS premises to draw the attention of the government, Mr. Mariappan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/temporary-health-workers-go-on-protest-seeking-job-regularisation/article33631156.ece
22 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tangedco expects higher demand in 2021 summer||The Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation Ltd. (Tangedco) has received approval from the State power regulator to procure 1,000 MW using short-term measures for this summer. In its petition before Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission (TNERC), the power utility said it expected minimum demand to increase during this summer to 15,100 MW, up 4% from about 14,500 MW during the summer of 2019. The summer demand in 2020 could not be taken as the yardstick because of the COVID-19-induced lockdown, it added. Assembly poll Tangedco said as the Assembly election and the annual examinations were scheduled during the 2021 summer, it estimated the power deficit to be up to 1,000 MW between February and May this year. About 14,200 MW would be available during summer of 2021 as against the expected demand of 15,100 MW. Thus, the deficit would be around 900 MW and considering the unforeseen outage of thermal units, 600 MW was added, which took the figure to 1,500 MW. Tangedco said the morning and evening peak demand could be met through hydro sources to an extent of 900 MW. About 500 MW of wind energy would be available. Based on the day ahead forecast of demand and wind generation, additional peak requirement could be managed through power procurement from exchanges. The TNERC has allowed Tangedco to procure the required power through short-term measures, along with certain deviations from guidelines issued by Union Ministry of Power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tangedco-expects-higher-demand-in-summer/article33631169.ece
22 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Water recycling to begin by year end||Chennai will be able to recycle 25% of its wastewater for industrial and indirect use by this year end. Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (CMWSSB) will begin trial operations of its pilot projects using tertiary treatment ultra filtration in March. Work is in full swing to build wastewater reclamation plants at Nesapakkam and Perungudi with a capacity to handle 10 million litres a day (mld). The recycled water from these plants would be blended into Porur and Perungudi lakes and again pumped and treated at water treatment plants on the site and distributed to the city through the drinking water supply network. Water board officials said while the plant at Nesapakkam would be ready in March, work on the Perungudi facility would be completed by June. Pipeline network to convey recycled water and draw from lakes has been completed in both the localities. “This project will help in making the city water-resilient as demand for freshwater will reduce. As lakes will be fed throughout the year, groundwater will be recharged,” said an official. The water board recently submitted a draft detailed project report to expand its infrastructure to reuse 110 mld of wastewater for World Bank funding under the Chennai City Partnership programme. Officials said of the proposal to reuse 260 mld of wastewater, the draft project report had been sent for 110 mld seeking Rs. 1,000 crore. The capacity of plants at Nesapakkam and Perungudi would be upgraded to 50 mld and 60 mld respectively and treated water from here would be blended into Porur and Perumbakkam lakes. The infrastructure would be upgraded in a phased manner and 13 waterbodies had been identified for the project. “We have received proposals from SIPCOT and One Hub Chennai industrial park seeking 20 mld of reclaimed water,” the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-recycling-to-begin-by-year-end/article33631162.ece
22 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rahul to visit State||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will visit Tamil Nadu for three days and interact with farmers, weavers and MSME representatives. He will also address a public meeting. Mr. Gandhi will visit Coimbatore, Tiruppur, Erode, Karur and Dindigul districts from January 23 to 25. On Saturday, the Congress MP will reach Coimbatore from Delhi by a special aircraft and will interact with MSME representatives at Kalapatti. In the evening, he will interact with industrial labourers at Tiruppur. On January 24, Mr. Gandhi will interact with weavers at Erode. In the evening, he will address a public meeting at Dharapuram in Tiruppur. On January 25, he will attend a farmers’ convention at Karur. He will also visit Dindigul.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rahul-to-visit-state-interact-with-farmers/article33631194.ece
22 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man murders wife in front of stepdaughter||A 42-year-old man allegedly murdered his second wife following an argument between them in front of his seven-year-old stepdaughter in Avadi. The police said the victim, Saritha, 36, who separated from her first husband two years ago. married Madhan, a butcher by profession. Madhan was a divorcee and has a daughter through his estranged first wife. The couple stayed on Bajanai Koil Street at Melpakkam near Avadi along with Saritha’s seven-year-old daughter from her previous marriage. Eight months ago, Saritha was delivered of a baby girl. The couple allegedly quarrelled about their past. On Thursday, the two had an argument when Madhan hit Saritha on her head with an iron rod in front of her seven-year-old daughter, said the police. Madhan fled the spot with the eight-month-old infant. Personnel from the Avadi police station nabbed him within hours and rescued the infant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-murders-wife-in-front-of-stepdaughter/article33631166.ece
22 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Can’t order reopening of schools for all classes: HC||The Madras High Court on Thursday refrained from issuing a direction to the State government to permit schools across the State to commence physical classes for all students. It said such a direction could not be issued, since the threat of COVID-19 had not died down completely and the vaccination drive had just begun. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy, however, permitted the Chengalpattu District Private Schools’ Association to file a fresh case, if necessary, after eight to 10 weeks. Representing the association, senior counsel S. Silambanan said all schools could be allowed to function now, in adherence to necessary health protocols. However, reiterating their stand that it would be better to err on the side of caution than be complacent, just because the number of COVID-19 cases were on the decline, the judges said the court would also have to take into consideration the worry about a new strain of SARS-CoV-2, which was more virulent. Considering all the aspects, the judges said the State government should be let free to decide the right time when the schools could be permitted to conduct regular physical classes for all students, rather than be put under pressure by the court.  Such a direction could not be issued, since the threat of COVID-19 had not died down completely and the vaccination drive had just begun||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cant-order-reopening-of-schools-for-all-classes-hc/article33631189.ece
22 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Gang robs three students in Chennai||A six-member gang kidnapped three catering college students and robbed them at knifepoint at Kodambakkam in Chennai. The police gave the name of the victims as Alageswaran, 18, of Theni district, and his two friends from other districts. The three students, who had completed a catering course at a Chengalpattu college, were completing their training at a hotel in T. Nagar here. They were staying at Mahalingapuram. On Tuesday night, they went to a shop near their residence. A gang of six took them forcibly to Kodambakkam railway station. The gang then brandished knives and robbed them of Rs. 21,000 in cash, two cellphones and their debit cards. The assailants forced the students to share the PIN of their debit cards. The gang released the students at 4 a.m. on Wednesday. The students lodged a complaint with the Nungambakkam police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gang-robs-three-students-in-kodambakkam/article33631154.ece
22 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rahul tweets against port expansion||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday lent his support to the voices being raised against the expansion of the port at Kattupalli, located north of Chennai. In a tweet, he said: “The Port on Kattupalli Barrier island is illegal but Modi Govt is ensuring its construction. The handover of our country to his crony capitalist friends continues.” The MP also shared a screenshot of an article in an online publication on the port expansion. The port is 2 km from the Pulicat lake and can damage the lake and the marsh ecosystem around it. The expansion will lead to fishermen losing their livelihoods and Chennai getting flooded as the area of the vast lake would have depleted, say activists. Recently, the members of the Save Pulicat Campaign had started an art campaign against the proposal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rahul-tweets-against-port-expansion/article33631298.ece
22 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Villupuram road work to be expedited||Work to widen the Villupuram-Nagapattinam highway (NH 45A) will be expedited after the Supreme Court held that environment clearance was not necessary for the project, which aims to widen the coastal road. The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), which is executing the project, has been directed to ensure that the land acquisition did not exceed 40 metres for the existing alignments, and 60 metres for the realignments, of the 180 km-long highway. “Though tenders had been called for the Rs. 6,000 crore project, we had to slow down the process due to legal issues. Meanwhile, we have also ensured availability of land for the widening. Now, we will speed up the work and definitely adhere to the directions of the Supreme Court,” a NHAI official said. Tenders for two stretches — Villupuram to Puducherry and Puducherry to Poondiyankulam — have been opened and are under scrutiny. The bids for the third stretch between Poondiyankulam and Sattanathapuram would be opened on January 27. The contractor is set to begin work next month for the stretch between Sattanathapuram and Nagapattinam. The widening would take around 24 to 30 months to complete.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/villupuram-nagai-highway-work-to-be-expedited/article33631278.ece
22 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MedIndia Oration by American gastroenterologist||David Greenwald, president of the American College of Gastroenterology, and Professor of Albert Einstein College of Medicine, New York, U.S., will deliver the Annual MedIndia Oration on ‘Shifting Paradigm in G.I. Care’ at 7 p.m. on January 23. MedIndia Academy has been organising webinars on 10 most impactful publications in gastroenterology since July 2020, comprising four national and four international webinars. The seventh webinar, scheduled for January 23, will also see Todd Baron, University of North Carolina, U.S., speak on ‘Biliary Diseases-Stone & Stricture’ and T.S. Chandrasekar, International Committee Member, American Society for Gastrointestinal Endoscopy, and Chairman and Chief Gastroenterologist, MedIndia Hospitals, Chennai, will talk on biliary endotherapy. Doctors can call 9840993131 to get the Zoom web link and for free registration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/medindia-oration-by-american-gastroenterologist/article33631167.ece
22 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Assembly session to begin from February 2||The first session of the Legislative Assembly for this year would commence with the customary Governor's address on February 2. In view of the COVID-19 situation, the session would be held in the Kalaivanar Arangam just like the session held in September last year. Third floor According to the notification issued by Assembly Secretary K. Srinivasan, the session would commence at 11 a.m. on the third floor of the Kalaivanar Arangam on Wallajah Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/assembly-session-to-begin-from-february-2/article33631176.ece
22 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Increase share in global market, Vice-President tells apparel exporters||Indian apparel exporters should aspire to achieve double digit share in the global market, Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu said on Thursday, while inaugurating the Apparel Export Promotion Council’s (AEPC) virtual fair platform. “The Indian textile industry is the second largest employer in the country, providing jobs to 45 million people. The apparel segment alone employs 12.9 million people and majority of them are women. The apparel sector is the most labour intensive and employs skilled man power. It can be a vehicle for social changes in rural areas as it will empower women and children,” he said. While India is the largest producer of cotton and jute and is a major yarn producer, it lacks the competitive edge in fabrics and garments. Hence, there is a need to improve the competitiveness of these segments. Bangladesh and Vietnam are major competitors for India because of the availability fo labour in these countries. “Skilled manpower should be our core strength,” Mr. Naidu said. New markets The Vice-President also urged the industry to look at a diverse portfolio of products to tap new markets. The private sector should partner with the government and improve competitiveness even in new areas such as MMF and technical textiles. The textile and clothing sector should focus on technology upgrade and upskilling workers to improve its competitiveness. “The global market for technical textiles is $220 billion and India has huge potential to tap in this sector. The government has come out with production linked incentive scheme for technical textiles. The apparel manufacturers should aim for double digit share in the global market,” he said. The Vice-President pointed out that the the ongoing pandemic has necessitated export events to take place on the virtual medium. Union Minister for Textiles Smriti Zubin Irani said the Indian apparel industry created history by developing into a Rs. 7,000 crore ($1 billion) Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) and N95 mask industry in the midst of pandemic in just two months. “Reflecting the same enterprise, the AEPC has now created a virtual platform. It will give rise to opportunities for over 300 top exporters in the country. But knowing that AEPC is a 8,600-member family, I am hopeful that the platform specially gives space to those who innovate, who belong to the SME segment, who are start-ups as young innovators need a supporting hand,” she said. Trade agreements AEPC chairman A. Sakthivel sought expediting trade agreements with the U.S., EU, U.K., Canada and Australia. He also urged the international buyers to request their respective governments to fast track the trade agreements with India. “These deals can double Indian apparel exports in three years,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/increase-share-in-global-market-vice-president-tells-apparel-exporters/article33631304.ece
22 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Cotton Corporation introduces lock-in period for prices||The Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) has permitted those who buy cotton from it through e-auctions, to lock in the cotton prices. Chairman and Managing Director of the CCI, Pradeep Kumar Agarwal, said the facility has been introduced to ensure price security for textile mills. Textile mills can buy cotton in multiples of 100 bales through e-auctions, and lock-in the cotton price for 30 days without any charge. The units can lock-in the prices for 60 days from the date of contract by paying Rs. 250 more for each bale; for 90 days by paying Rs. 500 for each bale. The mills will have to inform the CCI corporate office by mail on the day of the auction and, the payment should be made within the lock-in period. The National Committee on Textiles and Clothing had pointed out that cotton prices shot up from Rs. 35,000 a candy to Rs. 43,000 a candy in three to four months. In order to bring stability in prices, the CCI should offer lock-in periods for mills based on the volume of cotton procured. The CCI should revise the prices only once a month, it had said. According to T. Rajkumar, convenor of the committee, though it had asked for a lock-in period based on the quantity of cotton purchased, the system introduced by the CCI would also bring stability to cotton prices and was a welcome move. The South India Hosiery Manufacturers Association said the CCI should fix prices once in three months for the cotton it sells to the mills and should set up godowns in Tamil Nadu. Currently, the textile units in the State pay huge amounts to transport the cotton from the northern States, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cotton-corporation-introduces-lock-in-period-for-prices/article33631302.ece
22 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Central prison plans rehabilitation programme for first-time offenders||Coimbatore Central Prison will soon launch a rehabilitation programme for remand prisoners, who are first-time offenders, which aims to keep them away from crimes after their release. The programme named ‘PATTAM’ (Personality Attitude Transformation Therapeutic Assistance Management) will target remand prisoners aged between 18 and 24 who serve judicial remand for their first-time offence. According to prison authorities, PATTAM was introduced in Central Prison –II, Puzhal, through Chennai-based trust PRISM (Prisoners Reform Intervention Support Mission) in 2019. G.B. Senthamaraikannan, former Superintendent of Central Prison-II, Puzhal, who took charge as the Superintendent of Coimbatore Central Prison last week, mooted the idea of replicating the programme here. Under the initiative, remand prisoners who are first-time offenders will be segregated and accommodated in a separate block. Experts will offer such inmates training in life skills, de-addiction sessions, counselling and specific psychological intervention apart from teaching them yoga and meditation. Sports will also be a part of the rehabilitation programme. People, who are part of the programme, will continue to be in touch with the inmates after their release. Apart from involving a trust or non-Governmental organisation like PRISM, the prison authorities will also seek the support of the District Legal Services Authority and the police to give assistance to the first-time offenders after their release. Mr. Senthamaraikannan said that various other initiatives have also been planned for the welfare of prisoners, prison staff and for the convenience of visitors at the central prison.  Various other initiatives have also been planned for the welfare of prisoners G.B. SenthamaraikannanSuperintendent of Coimbatore Central Prison||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-prison-plans-rehabilitation-programme-for-first-time-offenders/article33631198.ece
22 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Online trading fraud: police receive more complaints||The District Crime Branch (DCB) of Coimbatore rural police has received more complaints against Palani native J. Jegadeesh (37), who was arrested on Wednesday for duping eight persons of Rs. 2.60 crore. DCB received complaints from two persons on Thursday which the accused cheated them of over Rs. 1 crore on pretext of doing online trading. Officials also received calls from people in Chennai, Madurai and other places in Tamil Nadu who were allegedly cheated by Jegadeesh. “One of the complainant who came to meet us on Thursday said that several employees of a company in Coimbatore where Jegadeesh worked earlier had also invested around Rs. 4.5 core for online trading. We expect to get more complaints in the coming days,” said a DCB official. Jegadeesh, originally hailing from Anna Nagar on Railway Feeder Road at Palani, was arrested based on a complaint given by R. Sivakumar, a resident of Nanjundapuram near Kallipalayam at Sarcarsamakulam, to Coimbatore Rural Superintendent of Police Ara. Arularasu. DCB Deputy Superintendent of Police Sekar and inspector Yamuna Devi formed a special team to arrest Jegadeesh. As per the First Information Report registered by the DCB on Mr. Sivakumar’s complaint, Jegadeesh duped him of Rs. 35 lakh which he gave him in October 2018. The accused had allegedly promised Mr. Ravikumar of doubling the amount in seven months and returning it. Mr. Ravikumar also introduced seven of his friends to Jegadeesh. They invested a total amount of Rs. 2.25 crore with Jegadeesh, said the FIR. As the money was not returned as promised, Mr. Ravikumar personally checked the whereabouts of Jegadeesh. He found a person from Palani and another person from Madurai who accused Jegadeesh of cheating them. According to the police, Jegadeesh was at large for about a year and a case was registered by the Thiruthani police in Thiruvallur district based on a complaint lodged by his father which said that his son was missing with his family. The special team of the DCB headed by sub-inspector Lenin Appadurai arrested Jegadeesh from Nagercoil on Wednesday. He was produced before the sixth judicial magistrate court and remanded in judicial custody. DCB officials said that the total amount defrauded by the accused might run into several crores as he had investors from several districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/online-trading-fraud-police-receive-more-complaints/article33631208.ece
22 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Demand for release of Rajiv case convicts perverse, says Alagiri||The politics surrounding the release of seven life convicts in the former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi assassination case was perverse, Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K.S. Alagiri said in Coimbatore on Thursday. “If the courts were to order the convicts’ release or if due process of law were followed in their release, the Congress has no objection to it. But it has [objections] to the demand of political parties that are portraying the convicts as Tamils. If that be the case, the political parties should demand the release of life convicts, who had served a certain number of years and the Congress will welcome it. But to specifically demand the release of the seven saying they are Tamils is perverse,” he told journalists. Mr. Alagiri wanted to know if the police personnel and members of the public who died in the bomb blast that killed Rajiv Gandhi were not as Tamil enough as the seven convicts and quipped that the political parties demanding the convicts’ release could even force a signature out of the Governor. ‘No impact’ The impending release of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s aide V.K. Sasikala would not have any impact on the State’s politics, he replied in response to a question. “At a time when she [Sasikala] is going to walk out of the prison after serving her sentence, it will do no good to either oppose or garland her. But her release will have no bearing on State politics.” The DMK-led coalition was one forged on the common goal of dislodging the “corrupt AIADMK from power,” he contended. Though there were political parties in the alliance that disagreed on several issues, they were together on unseating the AIADMK, which had pledged the State’s interest to the ruling BJP government. The parties were also bonded on the issue of secularism. Reiterating that the DMK-led alliance was not an opportunistic one but one based on principle, Mr. Alagiri replied that though several leaders were commenting on seat sharing of the contesting constituencies, the time has not yet arrived to discuss the nitty-gritties. Extending invitation to Makkal Needhi Maiam to join the DMK alliance, the TNCC president said if MNM leader Kamal Haasan, whose political outlook was similar to leaders in the alliance, where to join hands with them, it would prevent votes [anti-AIADMK] from getting split. And, there was political space for a third front in the State, he added. Earlier, he shared details of party leader Rahul Gandhi’s tour of the western districts on January 23, 24 and 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/portraying-rajiv-case-convicts-as-tamils-perverse/article33631179.ece
22 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||All-women rally held to create awareness on wearing helmet||As part of the Road Safety Month, the Transport Department organised an all-women helmet rally to create awareness on wearing helmet here on Thursday. District Collector K. Rajamani, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic) R. Mutharasu and Joint Transport Commissioner (Coimbatore Zone) K. Umasakthi flagged off the rally on the premises of Regional Transport Office – Central on Dr. Balasundaram Road. A release said that around 375 women, including women police constables, college students and driving school instructors, participated in the rally. The rally reached the V.O.C. Park via Gandhipuram covering Children’s Traffic Park and Gandhipuram Town Bus Terminus, according to the release. In Tiruppur, District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan flagged off the rally at the Collectorate’s entrance. The women motorists completed the rally on the premises of the Regional Transport Office – Tiruppur South, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/all-women-rally-held-to-create-awareness-on-wearing-helmet/article33631201.ece
22 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Trade unions call for reopening of all NTC mills||Trade unions in Coimbatore have appealed to the Central government to operate all the 23 National Textile Corporation (NTC) mills in the country. In a memorandum submitted to the Standing Committee on Labour in Coimbatore on Wednesday, the unions said the NTC mills stopped production last year when the nation-wide lockdown was announced to control the spread of COVID-19. Recently, two of the seven NTC mills in Tamil Nadu resumed production. The NTC mills in the State provide employment to about 13,000 workers and they get just 50 % of the monthly wages now. The unions said the NTC has adequate funds with it and it should start operating all the mills so that workers get full wages. In another memorandum submitted to the Committee, former MLA M. Arumugam demanded an increase in daily wages for plantation workers in Valparai. He said while workers in Kerala got Rs. 403 a day, those in Valparai got only Rs. 335. Further, the management deducted the local tax. He said the daily wage should be increased to Rs. 600 and there should be no deductions from it. The workers should have access to medical facilities and the government should construct houses for the plantation workers on its lands, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/trade-unions-call-for-reopening-of-all-ntc-mills/article33631313.ece
22 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Venkaiah Naidu’s appeal to apparel exporters||Indian apparel exporters should aspire to achieve a double-digit share in the global market, Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu said on Thursday while inaugurating the Apparel Export Promotion Council’s (AEPC) virtual fair platform. “The Indian textile industry is the second largest employer in the country, providing jobs to 45 million people. The apparel segment alone employs 12.9 million people and majority of them are women. The apparel sector is the most labour-intensive and employs skilled manpower. It can be a vehicle for social change in rural areas as it will empower women and children,” he said. While India is the largest producer of cotton and jute and is a major yarn producer, it lacked the competitive edge in fabrics and garments. Hence, there was a need to improve the competitiveness of these segments. The Vice-President also urged the industry to look at a diverse portfolio of products to tap new markets. The private sector should partner with the government and improve competitiveness even in new areas such as MMF and technical textiles. ‘Huge potential’ “The global market for technical textiles is $220 billion and India has huge potential to tap in this sector. The government has come out with production linked incentive scheme for technical textiles. The apparel manufacturers should aim for double-digit share in the global market,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/venkaiah-naidus-appeal-to-apparel-exporters/article33631279.ece
22 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Special teams sent to Kerala to solve carjacking||Coimbatore Rural Police have sent special teams to Kerala to nab the persons involved in a carjacking near Madukkarai on Coimbatore – Palakkad Road on January 11. The police have also sought the assistance of Kerala police to nab the four men who took away the car travelled by K. Mohammad Musthafa (34) of Mannarkad in Palakkad district and his friend Sharjah Hussain. The police suspect that the men could have targeted money possibly carried by the two men as the car was found abandoned in Kanyakumari district on Wednesday. As per the statement given by the two men, they collected a carton containing cash from a person Kumar from Oppanakara Street on the instructions of Nassar, a native of Mannarkad, on January 11. While heading to Kerala, four men waylaid the car at Marappalam near Madukkarai and took away the car along with the carton after forcibly ousting them, they told the police. The men claimed ignorance of the amount of money in the carton, said the police. “We are yet to ascertain whether the money contained in the carton was for hawala transactions. The real motive of the carjacking will be known after the arrest of the accused,” said Madukkarai inspector D. Murugesan. Musthafa and Hussain had told the police that the car headed to Kerala after the four men ousted them. Special teams formed by Coimbatore Rural Superintendent of Police Ara. Arularasu and Deputy Superintendent of Police (Perur) Srinivasulu will also examine visuals from several surveillance cameras in some districts in Kerala to trace the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-teams-sent-to-kerala-to-solve-carjacking/article33631315.ece
22 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Garment exporters reiterate need for stability in yarn prices||High cost of raw materials is a major issue faced by the textile sector, as in the case of engineering industry, and apparel exporters have appealed to the textile industry to ensure stability of prices. In a communication to textile mills, A. Sakthivel, chairman of Apparel Export Promotion Council, said the price of yarn was increased by Rs. 10 a kg in January too. However, the price of warp yarn had come down by Rs. 15 a kg. While cotton prices had not gone up, yarn prices had risen. International buyers were not agreeing to a price increase for cotton garments as other countries were not asking for it. There was an improvement in orders from the U.S. and Europe and this was the right time for garment manufacturers to tap it. Regular supply sought Hence, yarn suppliers should maintain the December price of yarn and should ensure regular supply of the raw material to garment units, he said. T. Rajkumar, chairman of National Committee on Textiles and Clothing, said cotton prices had just stabilised and warp yarn prices had also come down. The prices of other varieties of yarn would also stabilise shortly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/garment-exporters-reiterate-need-for-stability-in-yarn-prices/article33631314.ece
22 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Furniture warehouse gutted near Vadavalli||A warehouse of a furniture company near Vadavalli was gutted on Thursday. Fire and Rescue Services said the blaze at the warehouse at Lakshmi Nagar on Thondamuthur Road occurred around 12.45 p.m. Raw materials According to Assistant District Fire Officer D. Alagarsamy, the warehouse belonging to R. Mohan was stocked with raw materials used for manufacturing furniture. District Fire Officer R. Jegadheesh coordinated the efforts to put out the fire. A fire tender each from Coimbatore south, north, Thondamuthur and Ganapathy fire stations were used. The flames were completely extinguished by 3 p.m. No injuries According to officials, no one was injured in the fire. Efforts were on to ascertain the cause of the fire and the value of raw materials damaged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/furniture-warehouse-gutted-near-vadavalli/article33631205.ece
22 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Workshop on satellites technology held||About 150 school students attended a workshop on satellite technology held at a private college in Arasur on Thursday. A release said that the ‘Satellite Hands-on Experience’ workshop was organised by Dr. A.P.J. Abdul Kalam International Foundation, House of Kalam at Rameswaram, Space Zone India and the Martin Group at KPR Institute of Engineering and Technology (KPRIET), Arasur. The workshop taught the students on how to design and launch femto-satellites that weigh less than 100 gram, which could provide live data for studies on agriculture, cosmic radiation, ultraviolet radiation and ozone depletion. This is part of the workshops held prior to the world record attempt to be held at Rameswaram on February 7, where 1,000 school students from across the country will launch 100 femto-satellites using a single high-altitude scientific balloon, according to the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/workshop-on-satellites-technology-held/article33631207.ece
22 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||DMK man held for circulating morphed photos of Minister||The Pollachi west police on Thursday arrested a DMK functionary for circulating through social media morphed photos of Minister for Municipal Administration and Rural Development S.P. Velumani. R. Navaneethakrishnan (40), Coimbatore south district deputy organiser of the DMK's youth wing, was arrested based on a complaint lodged by R. Selvaraj (52), an AIADMK worker, the police said. Mr. Selvaraj said in the complaint that he, on Wednesday, found the morphed photos posted by Navaneethakrishnan on Facebook. He went to the house of Navaneethakrishnan around 7 p.m. and asked him why he posted such photos. Mr. Selvaraj alleged that Navaneethakrishnan abused, assaulted and threatened him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-man-held-for-circulating-morphed-photos-of-minister/article33631299.ece
22 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Thai Poosam festival: entry into Marudhamalai Temple restricted||As part of the restrictions to prevent the spread of COVID-19, District Collector K. Rajamani said that devotees will be allowed to enter the Subramaniyaswami Temple at Marudhamalai only after 7 a.m. on January 28 for the Thai Poosam festival. Chairing a meeting on Wednesday with officials from Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department, Coimbatore City Police and the Revenue Department, Mr. Rajamani said the devotees will not be allowed to enter the temple from 4.30 a.m. to 7 a.m. on January 28, during which Thirukalyana Utsavam and Thiru Veedhi Ula rituals will take place. The devotees will be allowed to enter the temple as per the existing standard operating procedures and mask is mandatory for all, he said. Those above the age of 65 and those below the age of 10 were requested to refrain from visiting the temple. Those accompanying the devotees bearing kavadis and paal kudams will not be allowed to enter the temple from January 27 to January 30. Devotees will not be allowed to stay overnight on the temple premises. No private vehicles will be allowed en route to the Marudhamalai temple as devotees are requested to use the transport facilities arranged by the temple authorities or government buses. Annadhanams will not be allowed on the temple premises and could be held only in the foothills upon receiving permission from the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India, he said in the release. These restrictions will be applicable to eight other temples in Coimbatore, including Kottai Sangameswarar Temple and Chenni Andavar Temple at Karumathampatti, Mr. Rajamani said. Temple car festivals will not take place in any temples during Thai Poosam , according to the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thai-poosam-festival-entry-into-marudhamalai-temple-restricted/article33631203.ece
22 January 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Collector inspects schools||Collector S.P. Karthika inspected schools here on commencement of classes for SSLC and Plus Two students in the district. Schools reopened, after a 10-month-long hiatus in view of the pandemic, for select classes facing board exams. The schools were directed to follow safety protocols, including maintaining the strength of each classroom to not more than 25 students among others. Earlier, the Collector vetted the safety protocols being followed in private and government schools to ensure guidelines were followed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-inspects-schools/article33631305.ece
22 January 2021||KALLAKURICHI,TAMIL NADU||Proposal for Outer Ring Road gains momentum||A proposal to develop an Outer Ring Road (ORR) to decongest traffic in Kallakurichi town is gaining momentum. The Detailed Project Report (DPR) for one of the major initiatives pursued by the district administration is nearing completion. “The DPR, being prepared by the State Highways Department, is in its final stages. The project envisages widening and road correction of the existing routes. The Department has proposed three routes, and the one that is feasible will be selected for the ORR project,” District Collector Kiran Gurrala told The Hindu . “The plan is still in the initial stage and a feasibility study is being done. The final cost of the project is yet to be ascertained. Once ready, it will be forwarded to the State government for the sanction of funds, including the land acquisition process,” Mr. Gurrala said. The need for an ORR has been a long-felt demand of the town. The existing roads leading to Kallakurichi town have become congested due to traffic jams during peak hours. On most days, traffic was chock-a-block on the Kachirapalayam Road and the Sankarapuram Main Road. With Kallakurichi hived off as a new district from the combined Villupuram district, infrastructure development has also been on the rise. The proposed ORR was expected to clear out the traffic congestion in the town. An official of the Highways Department said three alignments had been prepared. One of the alignment had been proposed through the Kallakurichi Government Medical College and Hospital at Siruvangur. The Alignment Committee had called for some changes, and a revised alignment was being prepared. It would be submitted in the next 10 days, the official added. The project, once completed, would address the traffic congestion on the Kachirapalayam Road as it would act as a link road, connecting Veeracholapuram on the Ulundurpet-Salem highway with Siruvangur, the official said.  The project envisages widening and road correction of the existing routes and the Department has proposed three routes||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/proposal-for-outer-ring-road-gains-momentum/article33631601.ece
22 January 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||VCK extends support to farmers||Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi cadres staged protest demonstration in solidarity with the protesting farmers against the farm laws near Anna statue here on Thursday. The protesters called for an immediate repeal of the three contentious farm laws that have seen farmers of Punjab and Haryana staying put on the State borders to Delhi. The three newly-enacted farm laws - Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 have been panned by farmers’ association across the board purportedly on the grounds that they pave for corporatisation of farming and undercutting State support for farm produce. Protests had erupted across the country even at the time of the introduction of bills and the hasty passage of the Acts, they said. The VCK cadres gathered here in support of the farmers’ calling for a repeal of the farm laws that is viewed as a threat to farmers and enabling corporatisation of agriculture. The party condemned Narendra Modi-led NDA government at the Centre alleging that the Centre was deliberately siding with the corporates over the farm laws. According to the protesters, farmers were refused the attention of the government and were pushed to knock at the doors of the Supreme Court. State government flayed The protesters also slammed the Edappadi Palaniswami-led State government, dubbing it as a pliant and a proxy power for the Central govermnet in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vck-extends-support-to-farmers/article33631307.ece
22 January 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Station Masters demand filling up of vacancies, promotional chances||Scores of Railway Station Masters, affiliated to the All India Station Masters’ Association, staged a protest in front of the Divisional Railway Manager’s office here on Thursday, pressing for a charter of demands, which included promotional opportunities. The protest was led by its divisional president of the association P. Mohandass, in the presence of divisional secretary Pon. Mariappan. The association members said that night duty allowance that was being given to all Station Masters had been stopped for the last few months. Seniors were now losing around Rs. 200 to Rs. 250 night duty allowance. Since Station Masters had very limited promotional opportunities, they were given modified acquired career promotions on completion of 10 years service with an increment. However, this practice had not been implemented for the last two years, the protesters said. The protesters also said that out of the 536 sanctioned strength of Station Masters, Madurai division had got 110 vacancies. They demanded that the seniority list of Station Masters seeking transfer to other divisions and railways be immediately released so that they would get the opportunity to return closer home. Senior association leaders S. Kalyanram and R. Vijayarajan were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/station-masters-demand-filling-up-of-vacancies-promotional-chances/article33631494.ece
22 January 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Inspect smart city works’||Complaining that works under the Smart Cities Mission were not being properly implemented in Madurai, an advocate filed a public interest litigation petition before the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday seeking a direction to authorities to conduct quality control inspections before bills were cleared. A Division Bench of Justices M.M. Sundresh and S. Ananthi ordered notice to the Centre and the State on the PIL petition filed by advocate B. Ashok of Madurai. The petitioner said 14 smart city projects were sanctioned for Madurai on an outlay of Rs. 977.5 crore. The works included laying of smart roads on the four Masi streets. He said on the pretext of implementation of the works several trees were cut and public water taps removed without proper inspection. The smart water and sewerage management system was the main component of the Smart Cities activity. But, this was not being implemented properly. Low quality materials were used for construction. Instead of cement a huge quantity of fly ash was used. As per government norms, river sand or m-sand must be used, but white metal dust and low quality iron rods were used. Manholes were also constructed using low quality materials, the petitioner alleged. The platform for storm water discharge was not levelled properly and it resulted in rainwater stagnation. This could become a breeding ground for mosquitoes. With so many irregularities in the implementation, there must be an inspections of the works carried out so far, the petitioner said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inspect-smart-city-works/article33631491.ece
22 January 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘It is for legislature to prescribe punishment for offences’||Disposing of a petition that had sought a direction to the Centre to make amendments to the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, to enable provisions for imposing life sentence and death sentence for corruption, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court observed that it was for the appropriate legislature to look into such matters. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice M.M. Sundresh observed that the petitioner sought to espouse a public cause by suggesting that Prevention of Corruption Act ought to be suitably amended by incorporating maximum punishment of life imprisonment and even death sentence. “We do not know if the petitioner’s sentiment reflects the public perception to corruption in public office in general. We hope it does not. At any rate, it is for the appropriate legislature to look into matters of policy, including prescribing punishment for offences,” the judges said. The court observed that no writ of mandamus could be issued by a court to command any legislature to enact a particular statute or to prescribe a particular form of punishment or the like. The court observed that the writ petition was not entertained and it was left open to the petitioner to move the political field for appropriate action in accordance with law. The court was hearing the petition filed by R. Parthiben of Tiruchi who sought a direction to the Centre to consider his representation to make amendments to the Prevention of Corruption Act to enable provisions to impose life sentence and death sentence. The petitioner also sought the seizure of immovable properties, jewels, bank accounts of those against whom cases were registered under the Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/it-is-for-legislature-to-prescribe-punishment-for-offences/article33631276.ece
22 January 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Now, focus on mental well-being of students||With the reopening of schools for students of Classes 10 and 12 after a gap of over 10 months, the focus of Madurai Corporation schools has been to provide mental support for students. Financial distress caused by COVID-19 and long closure of schools have caused mental stress and anxiety to students, say teachers. Through ‘Happy Schooling’ programme, a joint initiative of M.S. Chellamuthu Trust and Research Foundation, HCL Foundation and Madurai Corporation to promote mental well-being of students, counselling was provided on online platforms for those students who had access to digital infrastructure when the schools were shut, said S. Selvamani, project head. After reopening of schools, teacher-counsellors of the Corporation schools conducted counselling sessions for the students to provide them psycho-social support. R. Murugeswari, Headmistress of Kasturbai Gandhi Corporation Girls Higher Secondary School, said counsellors from ‘Happy Schooling’ programme gave questionnaires to the students to assess their mental well-being. “The students are happy to attend the schools and meet their friends after a long time,” she said. S. Swetha Kutty, a counsellor, said many students felt lonely during the lockdown. “Financial distress caused to the families because of COVID-19 has psychologically affected the students too,” she said. Although revised syllabus has been announced for board examinations, some students were anxious regarding the examinations, said Ms. Swetha Kutty. “We explained to them the importance of time management and the need to have a positive mental attitude in attending the examinations,” she added. Mr. Selva said online classes were out of reach for many students, which was also a reason to cause anxiety. “We gave them psychological reassurance through the counselling sessions,” he added. R. Krishnakumari, Headmistress of E.V.R. Nagamayar Corporation Girls High School, said students were instructed not to worry about board examinations, but focus on their well-being.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/now-focus-on-mental-well-being-of-students/article33631497.ece
22 January 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Fresher’s Day organised at MMC||Usually, there were chances of first year medical college students experiencing mental stress for a few months after the commencement of classes. But, the students of Madurai Medical College (MMC) did not have to cope with mental stress as they had professors who were very supportive, said Inspector General of Police (South Zone) S. Murugan here on Wednesday. Addressing the first year students of MMC on Fresher’s Day, Mr. Murugan said it was a boon for students to study in the famed college. The students, doctors and professors of MMC performed exceedingly well to contain the spread of COVID-19 pandemic in Madurai, which was at its peak during July. B.T. Bangera, Managing Director of Hi-tech Arai Private Limited, stressed the need for doctors to keep themselves updated with the latest technological developments. He said the doctors had to be innovative and creative in applying treatment protocols to patients. Government Rajaji Hospital Dean J. Sangumani congratulated all the first year students. A total of 250 students have been admitted to MMC this year. The classes for the first year students will commence after a six-month delay owing to COVID-19 pandemic. V. Dhanalakshmi, Vice-Principal, MMC and M. Balasubramaniam, Medical Superintendent, GRH, attended the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/freshers-day-organised-at-mmc/article33631489.ece
22 January 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Hybrid’ surgery performed on 78-year-old man||Doctors of Meenakshi Mission Hospital and Research Centre successfully performed a high-risk ‘hybrid’ surgery involving blood arteries on a 78-year-old man who had developed thoracic aortic dissection, a life-threatening internal bleeding caused by a tear in the aorta. The surgery, known as Thoracic Endovascular Aortic Repair (TEVAR), combines a vascular bypass surgery and placing of a stent graft to strengthen the weakened part of the aorta. R. Sivakumar, senior consultant, Interventional Cardiologist, and a team of cardiologists, cardiothoracic surgeons, and interventional radiologists performed this surgery. Dr. Sivakumar said both the interventions were performed one after the other within a few hours. A tear in the wall of the aorta could cause life-threatening bleeding or sudden death. “As a result, the patient was suffering from headache and breathlessness on and off for more than three months. He had every chance of producing complications like stroke, heart valve dysfunction, intestinal ischemia and renal failure,” he said. So, vascular bypass surgery, a surgical procedure to redirect blood flow from one area to another by reconnecting blood vessels, was performed for the patient. Immediately after the procedure, an endovascular aortic repair was performed by placing an aortic stent graft into the diseased aorta to seal the tear and stop the internal bleeding. The patient regained consciousness on the same day, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hybrid-surgery-performed-on-78-year-old-man/article33631481.ece
22 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Open uzhavar sandhai’||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday ordered notice to the State in a public interest litigation petition that sought a direction to the government to open an uzhavar sandhai in Singampunari, Sivaganga district. A Division Bench of Justices M.M. Sundresh and S. Ananthi ordered the notice in the petition filed by M. Nithya Sowmya of Tiruchi. She complained that even 10 years after completion of the market it was yet to be inaugurated. Steps must be taken to open the market taking into account the welfare of the farmers in the area, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pil-plea-open-uzhavar-sandhai/article33631286.ece
22 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Orientation programme held in college||The American College Community College conducted an orientation programme for B.Voc and M.Voc courses of aquaculture, medical laboratory technology, food processing and preservation, media technology, and B.Voc courses of health and sanitation, horticulture, data science and industrial biotechnology on Monday. Principal M. Davamani Christober said the college received approval from the Centre in 2015 to start a community college. Currently, there were eight UG and four PG courses in the college approved by the UGC and the MHRD. The aim of these programmes was to give students the choice of an alternative system of education. The duration for B. Voc. and BMS programmes was three years and they could serve as an alternative to B.Sc., B.A., B. Com. and BBA courses. The duration of M.Voc courses was two years and they served as an alternative to M.A, M.Sc., M.Com, and MBA. Community college nodal officers C. Dorothy Sheela and A. Joseph Thatheyus participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/orientation-programme-held-in-college/article33631485.ece
22 January 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||PIL plea wants voting via EVMs for those on poll duty||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday ordered notice to the Election Commission of India on a public interest litigation petition that sought to do away with voting via postal ballot for those on election duty. The electronic voting machines (EVMs) must be used instead, the petitioner said. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice M.M. Sundresh ordered the notice on the PIL petition filed by S. Pandidurai, a schoolteacher from Theni district. The petitioner said it must be ensured that there was cent per cent voting via the EVMs even for those on election duty. The petitioner, district secretary of Tamil Nadu Graduate Teachers Association – Theni district, said teachers, clerical staff, government officials and ex-servicemen acted as polling personnel during general elections. They faced a lot of problems in exercising their Right to Vote, guaranteed under the Constitution, through the postal ballot. He said the Rules 17 - 20 of the Conduct of Election Rules, 1961, provided that voters on election duty were entitled to vote by post. The Report on General Elections to Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly, 2011, stated that the total persons for polling duty were 3,07,174, but only 1,06,094 of the votes were valid. In the case of votes cast through the EVMs, out of 3,67,56,813 votes valid votes numbered 3,67,39,276 (99.5%). Similarly in the 2016 elections, out of the 4,29,04,285 votes, 4,29,00,661 were valid (99.99%), he said. He pointed out that voting via the postal ballot involved various difficulties. The person on election duty had to apply for the postal ballot paper, then submit it to the returning officer. After it was ensured that the details were filled up, the person would again obtain the ballot paper and cast the vote. After the vote was cast by ticking the symbol of his or her choice the ballot paper would be put in a separate cover accompanied by a declaration and attestation. The cover had to be sent through post to the returning officer. Therefore, instead of using the postal ballot method, the EVMs could be used for those on poll duty, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pil-plea-wants-voting-via-evms-for-those-on-poll-duty/article33631487.ece
22 January 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Establish Advocates Training Academy in TN’||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday ordered notice to the State on a public interest litigation petition that sought a direction to the State government to set up an Advocates Training Academy in Madurai or any other part of Tamil Nadu to train advocates in drafting, interacting with clients, carrying out court procedures, etc. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice M.M. Sundresh observed that it was necessary to impart general training to young lawyers and introduce courses on ethics to remind lawyers that this was a profession and not a trade. An overall strategy was necessary to ensure that knowledge inputs were made available at the entry stage of the career to hone skills. The judges said, “This is an area we must invest in”, and added the High Court Registry as a party in the case. The court was hearing the PIL petition filed by advocate R. Manibharathi of Madurai who also sought a direction to the Bar Council of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry to conduct seminars and organise talks on legal topics by eminent jurists. The petitioner said many students were preferring law courses, but not all ended up successful in the profession. The government law colleges in the State were not providing additional courses on ‘Training in the courts’ as it was considered to be outside the scope of the legal education, he said. He pointed out that Kerala had set up an Advocates Training Academy in 2015. Karnataka had also decided to establish a similar academy. Tamil Nadu should set up one such institute for the welfare of the advocates who came from a non-legal background and had to struggle to establish themselves in the profession, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/establish-advocates-training-academy-in-tamil-nadu-pil-plea/article33631486.ece
22 January 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||HC: Display liquor prices at Tasmac shops||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday directed Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation (Tasmac) to display the maximum retail prices (MRP) of liquor brands sold at its retail outlets. Tasmac should issue a circular to all district-level officers to comply with the order and ensure that liquor was sold strictly at the MRP, the court said. A Division Bench of Justices M.M. Sundresh and S. Ananthi directed that Rule 14 of the Tamil Nadu Liquor Retail Vending (In Shops and Bars) Rules, 2003, on fixation of retail sale price should be strictly followed and bills should be issued for every sale. Also, a counterfoil had to be maintained at Tasmac shops, the judges said. The judges also directed the authorities to conduct periodical inspections to ensure that the diections were followed. If any employee was found to be selling liquor above the MRP, the Corporation should initiate departmental proceedings against the person, the court said. The judges posted the case to March 16 for reporting compliance by Tasmac. The court was hearing the public interest litigation petition filed by activist M. Rajeswari Priya of Anaithu Makkal Arasiyal Katchi who had sought a direction to the State to curb the corrupt practices in Tasmac shops, including sale of liquor above the MRP and the sale of spurious liquor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-display-liquor-prices-at-tasmac-shops/article33631484.ece
22 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Plea to take up road widening project||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday ordered notice to the State in a public interest litigation petition that sought a direction to the State for widening the four lane road between Tirunelveli and Tenkasi. A Division Bench of Justices M.M. Sundresh and S. Ananthi ordered the notice in the petition filed by S. Rajasekarapandian of Tenkasi district who sought the widening of the road so that accidents could be avoided on the stretch. He said that despite several representations sent in this regard by activists and political parties, no steps had been taken so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pil-plea-take-up-road-widening-project/article33631289.ece
22 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||CM leads delegation to Delhi||Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy, who led a Ministerial delegation to Delhi, met Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar in Delhi on Thursday to convey the government’s demand for repeal of the farm laws. Mr. Narayanasamy, who was accompanied by Welfare Minister M. Kandasamy and Agriculture Minister R. Kamalakannan, submitted a copy of the resolution adopted by the Puducherry Assembly on January 18 urging the Centre to repeal the farm laws. The delegation also met Union Minister of State for Power (Independent charge) R. K. Singh in Delhi to register the government’s opposition to the Centre’s move to privatise distribution of power in the Union Territory. Representatives of the joint action committee of electricity workers also accompanied the Chief Minister to Delhi. The JAC had recently called off their indefinite strike against privatisation on the Chief Minister’s assurance of a meeting with the Ministry to discuss their grievances. According to sources, the Chief Minister is hoping to meet President Ram Nath Kovind in Delhi on Friday and submit a petition reiterating the demand for recall of Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi. Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao and V. Vaithilingam, are also in Delhi with the Chief Minister. Meanwhile, Mr. Kandasamy and Mr. Kamalakannan also briefly joined the farmers’ protest on the borders of Delhi and expressed their solidarity with their demand for repeal of the farm laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-leads-delegation-to-delhi/article33631603.ece
22 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Pondicherry Heritage Festival to celebrate Franco-Tamil confluence||The seventh edition of the Pondicherry Heritage Festival (PHF) kicks off on Friday with a series of offline and online events to celebrate the signature Franco-Tamil confluence unique to the city. Though the fete, that is on till February 21, is being hosted under the shadow of the COVID-19 pandemic, the larger reach of live-streamed events to an audience beyond the bounds of the city presents the brighter side to the whittling down of programmes with physical attendance. The PHF theme for the year is “Talking Streets of Pondicherry”, with several events designed to tap into the rich vernacular architecture of the Tamil Quarter, Satish Nallam, president of Alliance Francaise, told presspersons on Thursday. This built heritage is fading as more Tamil houses get razed down to make way for modern structures. One of the principal aims of the festival would be to highlight the dire need to safeguard and preserve the Tamil precinct. Apart from online events, the theme will also feature walks and bicycle rides to imbibe the idea of “talking streets” outside the Boulevard precincts. The celebration of the town’s architectural legacy forms only one part of the festival, with various events designed to showcase the cultural heritage as well, said Kakoli Banerjee of People for Pondicherry’s Heritage (PPH). The month-long festival is an occasion as much to celebrate the confluence of French and Tamil cultures as the friendship between France and India, said Lila Kernoua, director of Alliance Francaise, which is one of several organisations supporting the PHF. Online conversations One of the high points of the festival would be online conversations featuring urban planning experts on the path for Puducherry to attain the UNESCO World Heritage City status, said Arul, architect and co-convenor of the Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH). Among the experts hosted by the PHF are Saswat Bandyopadhyay, a key architect of Ahmedabad’s UNESCO application and Shikha Jain, INTACH convenor in Haryana. A hands-on workshop about structural elements in the heritage buildings would sensitise the city’s builders and architects. The French Institute of Pondicherry (IFP), another partnering institution, is hosting an exhibition of the work of historian Jean Deloche, a Wetlands Photography contest and local food system workshop, said Cecile Hoorelbeke and Helene Guetat-Bernard of IFP. Bitasta Samantaray of PPH said the creativity and entrepreneurship of craftsmen in the city and Auroville would be showcased as part of the “Made in Pondy” segment. This year, participants would be taken in small groups to the shops of the entrepreneurs.Since its inception in 2015, the PHF, as a collective, has only grown as a volunteer-driven, people’s movement and the flock of partner institutions pitching in to keep the festival going has kept increasing down the years, said Sunaina Mandeen from PPH. Apart from the Tourism Department, the French Consulate, Alliance Francaise and IFP, the INTACH, PondyCan and local businesses are also supporting the festival. PHF 2021 has packed in 35 heritage-themed events for schoolchildren and another 30 for college students, she added. All events will be live streamed on the website of PHF and its social media accounts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pondicherry-heritage-festival-to-celebrate-franco-tamil-confluence/article33631597.ece
22 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Union Territory logs 35 new cases, no deaths||Puducherry added 35 new COVID-19 cases while 32 patients were discharged on recovery on Thursday. No deaths were reported in the Union Territory in the last 24 hours. Mahe accounted for 17 of the new cases, which were confirmed from 3,710 tests, followed by Puducherry (10) and Karaikal (8). Yanam has not reported new cases for over a week. The active cases stood at 299 — 119 in hospitals and 180 in home isolation. The test positivity rate was 0.94%, case fatality rate 1.66% and recovery rate 97.57%. The tally is 643 deaths, a total of 38,772 cases and 37,830 recovered patients. The tests carried out by the Health Department was an estimated 5.46 lakh of which 5.02 lakh were negative.  Cuddalore records 2 cases Cuddalore district reported two fresh cases of COVID-19 on Thursday, taking the district’s tally to 24,868. While 24,539 persons have been discharged, the active cases in the district stands at 45. In Villupuram district, 11 persons tested positive, taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 15,137. Kallakurichi district reported one positive case, taking the overall tally to 10,862.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/union-territory-logs-35-new-cases-no-deaths/article33631604.ece
22 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||DMK seeks Centre’s intervention in removing police barricades||The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam has sought immediate intervention of the Centre in removing the barricades constructed in the White Town area in connection with a stir led by the Congress and allies against Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi. In a statement, convenor of DMK North wing S. P Sivakumar said the deployment of Central forces and barricading of streets around Raj Nivas due to the stand-off between the Lt. Governor and the ruling Congress have caused inconvenience to people, especially to those in Raj Bhavan constituency. “Either the Central government should intervene immediately or summon the Lt. Governor to New Delhi and allow her to stay in the national capital till the issues are solved. Those who are supposed to protect and serve the people are harassing the public,” he said. The iron fences should be removed immediately so that people could live in peace, the former Minister said in a statement.  The iron fences should be removed immediately so that people could live in peace Former Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-seeks-centres-intervention-in-removing-police-barricades/article33631606.ece
22 January 2021||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||RGMH reopens focusing on maternity and child healthcare||The Ranee’s Government Memorial Hospital (RGMH) reopened with new equipment and facilities specially focussed towards maternal and infant health. The facility, set up at a cost of Rs. 25 crore was inaugurated by Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar on Wednesday. The RGMH which was initially being used to quarantine asymptomatic patients of COVID-19 underwent a renovation and will now provide maternity and child health facilities. The 400-bedded hospital would provide services including ultrasounds, scanning and X-ray, paediatric intensive care unit, and a dedicated blood bank. Special '108' ambulances have also been allotted. A total of 102 vans to transport women and their babies to their homes after treatment that would be available round-the-clock has also been readied. Speaking at the event, Mr. Vijayabaskar said that in Tamil Nadu, 62% of childbirths happen at government hospitals, while in other States, it is only around 30%. In the last five years, 53.23 lakh deliveries took place at various government hospitals in the State. Since the COVID-19 pandemic in March, 6,460 pregnant mothers who tested positive, and over 7,000 babies who tested positive after birth were treated and discharged after they recovered. Tamil Nadu has the lowest maternal mortality ratio and infant mortality rate, the Health Minister said. While the national average of the maternal mortality ratio was around 113 deaths per 1,00,000 births, Tamil Nadu reported around 60 to 64. In India, the infant mortality rate is 32 per 1,000 births, but in Tamil Nadu it is 15. The RGMH would be functional from Wednesday, providing 24-hour treatment to pregnant and new mothers and their infants.  Tamil Nadu has the lowest maternal mortality ratio and infant mortality rate in the country C. Vijayabaskar Health Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rgmh-reopens-focusing-on-maternity-and-child-healthcare/article33631265.ece
22 January 2021||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||VAO placed under suspension||A woman Village Administrative Officer (VAO) of Kodivayal village in Aranthangi taluk in the district was placed under suspension following allegations that she was demanding and receiving bribe from farmers when they submitted petitions to her seeking relief for crops damaged due to recent rains. While ordering an inquiry into the matter after it came to his notice, Aranthangi Sub Collector Anand Mohan placed VAO Venbayee under suspension on Thursday, official sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vao-placed-under-suspension/article33631267.ece
22 January 2021||PUDUKOTTAI/TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Protests erupt amid allegations of torture of fishermen||Scores of fishermen blocked the road in the coastal town of Kottaipattinam in Pudukottai district on Thursday in the wake of bodies of fishermen, suspected to be of those reported missing from Tamil Nadu, being found in Sri Lanka. The Alliance for the Release of Innocent Fishermen (ARIF) alleged that the Sri Lankan Navy had beaten up the four fishermen to death. “The pictures of the bodies of fishermen bear many injuries and deep cuts. Blood clots and stains could be seen. There would not be blood clots if they had drowned,” said U. Arulanandam, Tamil Nadu representative of ARIF. The fishermen, who held the Sri Lankan Navy responsible for the deaths, squatted on the East Coast Road, led by Chinna Adaikalam, president of the Kottaipattinam Mechanised Boat Fishermen’s Association, for over one-and-half hours. The fishermen demanded that the bodies be immediately handed over to India. They wanted the autopsy to be conducted in India and demanded government jobs for a family member of the deceased; Rs. 15 lakh as compensation for the families; and registration of a murder case against the Sri Lankan Navy. Compensation for the loss of the boat was among their demands. Four fishermen A. Mesiya, 30, V. Nagaraj, 52, N. Samson Darwin, 28, and S. Senthil Kumar, 32, all hailing from Ramanathapuram district, had set sail for on a mechanised boat from Kottaipattinam jetty on January 18 along with over 200 mechanised trawlers. The four had been staying at Kottaipattinam for nearly 10 years, said official sources. The fishermen, who were supposed to return on January 19, were reported missing. Aranthangi sub-collector Anand Mohan held talks with the protesters and persuaded them to end the stir. A strong posse of police has been deployed at Kottaipattinam. Next course of action “We will chalk out our next course of action based on the reaction of officials to our demands,” said Mr. Adaikalam. Meanwhile, Mr. Arulanandam told The Hindu that injuries on the bodies showed that the unarmed and innocent fishermen were tortured and brutally killed for trespassing. He claimed that the Sri Lankan Navy had distorted facts saying the boat had sunk. “If the fishermen were found crossing the international maritime boundary, they should have been arrested,” he said. He said that the post-mortem should be videographed and bodies handed over to India and the family members of the bereaved fishermen. Upon arrival of the bodies, a post-mortem should be conducted here again. Sri Lanka’s Tamil National Alliance (TNA) — a prominent Tamil political grouping representing Tamils of the north and east — condemned the incident. “Do not resort to taking innocent lives,” TNA spokesman M.A. Sumanthiran told the local media.  (With inputs from Meera Srinivasan in Colombo)   The pictures of the bodies of fishermen bear many injuries and deep cuts. Blood clots and stains could be seen. There would not be blood clots if they had drowned||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/protests-amid-alleged-torture-of-fishers/article33631184.ece
22 January 2021||RAMESWARAM,TAMIL NADU||‘Slap criminal cases against Navy personnel’||Fishermen associations have demanded that the Union and State governments register criminal cases against the Sri Lankan Navy personnel for allegedly killing four Tamil Nadu fishermen. They urged the Indian government to bring the bodies back and demanded that the post-mortem done under the supervision of Tamil Nadu government doctors.  Speaking to The Hindu , S.R. Sesu Raja, a fishermen association leader, said the fishermen had lost everything over the last 10 months because of the COVID-19 pandemic and the lockdown. As they were returning to sea just now, the Sri Lankan Navy started targeting them. Only last month had the Sri Lankan Navy arrested 36 fishermen from Tamil Nadu and detained them in quarantine camps. They were freed after agitations. Even before their return home, the Sri Lankan Navy attacked the fishermen again. “This is nothing but murder,” Mr. Sesu Raja said. “If the Sri Lankan Navy continue to attack us, we may have to examine the alternatives. Unless there is an assurance, the fishermen will abstain from work,” he said. At a demonstration held at Thangachimadam, the fishermen said they might even stop the bus services to their hamlets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/slap-criminal-cases-on-sri-lankan-personnel/article33631188.ece
22 January 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Two-wheeler awareness rally focuses on road safety||An awareness rally on woman safety and helmet rule adherence was held here on Thursday. In Salem, the City Police in coordination with Sparkling Starz organisation organised the two-wheeler awareness rally for woman safety and helmet awareness. City Police Commissioner T. Senthil Kumar flagged off the rally at Ammapet. About 100 women police personnel and college-going girl students took part in the rally. Mr. Kumar advised the riders to strictly adhere to traffic regulations to make the roads safer. He also advised the participants to spread the message to other motorists. Mr. Kumar said that fatalities due to road accidents is one of the highest in the country. In Namakkal, District Collector K. Megraj flagged off the rally at Namakkal North Government Higher Secondary school. Senior officials took part in the event. In Coimbatore, as part of the Road Safety Month, the Transport Department organised an all-women helmet rally to create awareness on wearing helmet. District Collector K. Rajamani, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic) R. Mutharasu and Joint Transport Commissioner (Coimbatore Zone) K. Umasakthi flagged off the rally on the premises of Regional Transport Office – Central on Dr. Balasundaram Road. A release said that around 375 women, including women police constables, college students and driving school instructors, participated in the rally. The rally reached the V.O.C. Park via Gandhipuram covering Children’s Traffic Park and Gandhipuram Town Bus Terminus, according to the release. In Tiruppur, District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan flagged off the rally at the Collectorate’s entrance. The women motorists completed the rally on the premises of the Regional Transport Office – Tiruppur South, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-wheeler-awareness-rally-focuses-on-road-safety/article33631309.ece
22 January 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Natarajan returns home to grand reception||Chinnapampatti erupted in a festive mood on Thursday as Indian cricketer T. Natarajan returned home to a grand reception. After the historic test series victory in Australia, Natarajan reached Salem in the evening from Bengaluru. His family and villagers accorded him a grand reception at the entrance to the village on Tharamangalam Road. Then, they put him on a horse cart and took him out in a procession, with the Chenda Melam. His mother Shantha and other family members performed aarti for him before the cart wound its way through the village streets. The cart took close to two hours to cover less than two kilometres as the residents crowded the streets. He held the national flag high all through the procession. Villagers accompanied him so far as his home where his family performed aarti again. Once at home, Natarajan came to the balcony and greeted the people with folded hands. Pappanpadi village panchayat president T. Vedappan said a grander welcome was planned, but it was cut down because of the COVID-19 restrictions. It was also a day of great inspiration for students at Natarajan Cricket Academy that the cricketer runs. Block Medical Officer S. Anbuselvan visited Natarajan’s family at their home and advised them on quarantine measures. Dr. Anbuselvan said that since Natarajan was a foreign returnee he would have to be in home quarantine for 14 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/natarajan-returns-home-to-grand-reception/article33631187.ece
22 January 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Hero’s welcome bowls over Natarajan in his village||Indian cricketer T. Natarajan returned from Australia to a hero’s welcome in his village Chinnapampatti in Salem district on Thursday. After being part of the historic test series win over Australia, the India pacer reached Salem on Thursday evening from Bengaluru. His family members and villagers had already gathered at the entry point to the village on Tharamangalam Road. From there, the villagers took him on a procession on a horse-drawn cart, which was led by a troupe performing chenda melam . His mother Shantha and other family members did an arathi for him and the cart rode through the streets of Chinnapampatti. It took close to two hours for the cart to cover a distance of less than two kilometres to his home. People crowded the streets to welcome their hero. He held high the national flag as he passed through the streets. Once home, Mr. Natarajan came out on the balcony to greet the people with folded hands. Pappanpadi village panchayat president T. Vedappan said they planned a grander welcome for the cricketer but had to downsize the celebration due to COVID-19 restrictions. At the Natarajan Cricket Academy the cricketer runs in the area, one of its trainees S. Premkumar said they all were elated and it was a moment of great inspiration to them. Earlier, Block Medical Officer S. Anbuselvan visited the family at their residence and advised them on quarantine guidelines. Dr Anbuselvan said that since Mr. Natarajan had returned from abroad he would have to be in home quarantine for 14 days. Officials advised the public to maintain COVID-19 safety protocols and avoid gifting him shawls, bouquets and other gifts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/heros-welcome-bowls-over-natarajan-in-his-village/article33631301.ece
22 January 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Class 10 student tests positive for COVID-19||A student of Class 10, studying in a government model school near Attur, tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday. According to officials, the student is responding well to treatment. According to health officials, the girl from Karamandurai is a student of the Government Model School in Pethanaikenpalayam. Her swabs were lifted for testing on January 19, after she reported a mild fever. T. Ganesh Moorthy, chief education officer, said that the school administration was not informed about the test. He added that though students were screened while entering the campus, it did not raise any alarm. After her results returned positive, the student was admitted to the Attur Government Hospital for treatment. Mr. Moorthy said besides the student’s school, the Government High School in Periyakrishnapuram had also been closed for disinfection, since students of both the schools were residents of the same hostel. Mr. Moorthy said Health Department officials had advised home quarantine for 36 students, and their swabs had been lifted for testing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/class-10-student-tests-positive-for-covid-19/article33631210.ece
22 January 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Repeal of farm laws sought||Members of the Cauvery Rights Retrieval Committee on Thursday took out a rally in the town demanding the repeal of the new farm laws. Holding aloft green flags, the organisation members and farmers marched from the statue of farmers’ leader, late Narayanasamy Naidu, at Tholkappiar Square to the statue of King Rajaraja Chola in the town. The general secretary of the Manithaneya Jananayaga Katchi M.Thamimun Ansari inaugurated the rally. P. Maniarasan, coordinator of Cauvery Rights Retrieval Committee and others participated. The marchers also demanded sanction of Rs. 40,000 an acre as compensation for crop damages suffered by farmers due to heavy rainfall this month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/repeal-of-farm-laws-sought/article33631257.ece
22 January 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Remand extended||Judicial Magistrate Panneerselvam has extended the remand of Rasheed, the key accused in NEET impersonation scam, till February 4. The CB-CID police had arrested as many as 17 people in connection with the scam, which rocked the State in 2019. Rasheed surrendered before the JM Court here about a fortnight ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/remand-extended/article33631499.ece
22 January 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Efforts on to give crop loss relief, insurance benefits||The Department of Agriculture has initiated steps to ensure early disbursal of crop loss compensation and get insurance benefits as farmers have suffered extensive loss of crops due to the recent rain, Director of Agriculture V. Dakshinamoorthy has said. Besides causing extensive damage to the district’s infrastructure, the recent rain, particularly, the unexpected and unseasonal showers that lashed the coastal district continuously for four days just before ‘Pongal’ dashed farmers’ hopes by destroying crops, mostly rain-fed crops including maize, corn, pearl millet, green gram, black gram and chilli, all cultivated on over 1.70 lakh acres in the northern part of the district, particularly in Kayathar, Kovilpatti, Ettaiyapuram, Vilaathikulam and Pudhur taluks. Similarly, the Tamirabharani following heavy downpour in the catchment areas of Manimuthar and Papanasam Dams inundated the paddy cultivated on a few thousands of acres along the watercourse leaving the farmers in tears. When the affected farmers submitted petitions to Collector K. Senthil Raj on last Monday, he admitted that the aggrieved agriculturists would be bailed out once the ongoing crop damage survey by the Departments of Revenue and Agriculture was completed. Against this backdrop, Mr. Dakshinamoorthy, who came to the district on Thursday to expedite this process, discussed the quantum of crop loss in the district with Additional Collector Vishnu Chandran and senior officials of Departments of Revenue and Agriculture. He said the district, in the wake of the downpour, had lost crops cultivated on 1,64,274.12 acre - minor millets on 69,426.23 acre, green gram and black gram on 76,448.16 acre, paddy on 3,079.94 acre. He also visited some of the affected fields where the crops had suffered extensive damage and said the survey on crop loss would be completed and forwarded to the government. “We are keen on distributing the compensation to every farmer who has lost his crop. No affected farmer should be left out in this exercise, the officials have been told. Farmers, in case of crop loss, should give relevant details including their names, area of cultivation, crop variety, Aadhaar number, bank account number to the officials for getting the compensation. Moreover, process on getting insurance benefits for the crop loss has been started simultaneously,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/efforts-on-to-give-crop-loss-relief-insurance-benefits/article33631291.ece
22 January 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Cricket match for the differently abled held||A cricket match for the differently abled was conducted here on Thursday by NSS Units 54 and 56 of Kamaraj College as part of ‘Road Safety Month’ celebrations. Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar, who inaugurated the match, played cricket with the participants for a while. The Ramanathapuram team that won two of the three matches by defeating the Thoothukudi team bagged the title. Deputy Superintendent of Police, Thoothukudi, Ganesh, principal of Kamaraj College, Nagarajan, NSS programme officers A. Devaraj and Ponnuthai and others were present. Mr. Jayakumar also inaugurated an all-women bike rally as part of ‘Road Safety Month’ to stress the need for two-wheeler riders wearing helmet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cricket-match-for-the-differently-abled-held/article33631656.ece
22 January 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Beware of BJP, DMK cadre told||The DMK cadre should work hard during the election as the party, besides taking on the ruling AIADMK, had to face the BJP, “which is making sustained attempts to distort Tamil language, Tamil culture and secular ideologies.” MP Kanimozhi has said. Addressing the meeting organized here on Thursday for the Thoothukudi Assembly constituency area in-charge cadres, she said the DMK, which was facing the Assembly election in the absence of M. Karunanidhi and former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, had an edge over the political rivals as the party was being guided by M.K. Stalin. Even as the AIADMK was facing the threat of suffering vertical split even before the polls, the DMK’s major challenge would be taking on the BJP at the Centre, which was working overtime to destroy Tamil culture and secular ideologies and distort Tamil language. “Every DMK cadre has to work hard for ensuring DMK’s resounding victory in the Assembly polls. We should be very clear that whom should enter the Assembly and who should not,” she said. She charged that the Tamil Nadu Government, which had miserably failed in implementing welfare measures including distribution of monthly assistance to senior citizens due financial mismanagement, was wasting people’s money by giving misleading advertisements. She handed over retrofitted two-wheelers to two physically challenged women from Kovilpatti.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/beware-of-bjp-dmk-cadre-told/article33631249.ece
22 January 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination drive gains pace despite portal malfunction||While doctors and other healthcare workers have begun to take part in the vaccination drive to fight against COVID-19, glitches continued in the Co-Win portal developed to facilitate the process. As the drive was affected due to persistent lag in the portal, vaccination centres have resorted to making manual entries. “At the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital, the number of persons who volunteered to get a shot of the vaccination is gradually increasing”, K. Vanitha, Dean told The Hindu . “The initial hesitation is disappearing and many, including our house surgeons, healthcare workers of private hospitals in the city, are coming to get vaccinated. The awareness on the importance of the vaccine as a weapon to fight against COVID-19 is also increasing,” she said. While on the first few days the data entry operators and vaccination officers who underwent training for the process were flustered due to the lack of response from the Co-Win portal, they have now resorted to making manual entries. “The vaccination has to go on. We cannot send someone back because the portal is malfunctioning,” a doctor in-charge at the venue said. Through the portal, healthcare workers were to register ahead of the day of vaccination. A senior health official said there was a heavy load on the portal’s servers as many vaccination centres across the country were trying to enter data at the same time. Despite the glitches, inoculation work has been streamlined at the centres, officials said. At the Tiruchi MGMGH, two separate registration desks - one for Covishield and one for Covaxin have now been set up so that a health worker can approach them and register their details. In the case of Covaxin, an additional number of steps, including the signing of a consent form is required before a dose is injected. A station to check the patients' vitals, including blood pressure and blood oxygen level, has also been set up in the same room. After that the beneficiary is led to a chamber where two nurses provide the vaccination. Two dedicated chambers, one for Covishield and one for Covaxin have been set up. “Work is going on without the portal, the authorities should have tested it during the dry run held across the country,” the doctor said. With the help of house surgeons, they would attempt to make entries on the portal at the end of the day. “The work has all been streamlined now, as we have gained some experience. Within a week, the demand for the vaccine will also increase and we are prepared for it,” Dr. Vanitha said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-drive-gains-pace-despite-portal-malfunction/article33631263.ece
22 January 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Automatic number plate reader cameras to be installed in Tiruchi||Commissioner of Police J. Loganathan on Thursday said that all check-posts in the city would be strengthened by installing Automatic Number Plate Reader (ANPR) cameras along with surveillance cameras. The ANPR cameras would capture the registration number of vehicles entering or leaving through the check-posts. This would enable the police in identifying and determining if suspect vehicles were involved in any kind of offence by examining the database and help in securing such vehicles, Mr. Loganathan told reporters here on the sidelines of the 32nd National Road Safety Month observation. There were totally 1,031 surveillance cameras installed all over the city, he added. Mr. Loganathan said fatal cases due to road accidents in Tiruchi City had dropped by 17% in 2020 as compared to the previous year. The City Police had identified 18 accident hotspots in Tiruchi City after analysing the accident spots last year, he said adding that officials from the Transport Department, the National Highways Authority of India and the police had inspected the hotspots. Steps were being taken at those places to further reduce the accident rate. As part of the Road Safety Month, Collector S. Sivarasu inaugurated a helmet awareness motorcycle rally of women two-wheeler riders. The rally started from the railway junction and culminated at the Old Collectorate. Transport Minister M. R. Vijayabhaskar joined a group of women riders in a helmet awareness two-wheeler rally organised in Karur on Thursday. Wearing a helmet, Mr. Vijayabhaskar drove a motorcycle along women riders in the rally that was flagged off by Karur Collector S. Malarvizhi and the Superintendent of Police, Karur, P. Pagalavan. The Minister said accidents could be completely avoided if every individual adhered to road rules and urged two-wheeler riders to compulsorily wear a helmet. In Perambalur, Collector P. Sri Venkanda Priya flagged off an awareness rally taken out by police personnel and members of women self help groups to drive home the importance of wearing helmets while driving two-wheelers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/automatic-number-plate-reader-cameras-to-be-installed-in-tiruchi/article33631255.ece
22 January 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Railway workshop bags two new orders||The Golden Rock Railway Workshop here has manufactured 275 wagons against the Railway Board's Rolling Stock Programme orders within eight months. Of this, 200 are BOXNHL wagons and the remaining 75 are BVCM wagons. This is the highest ever production in a financial year in the last 17 years with still two and half months to go, a press release from the workshop here said. The 200th BOXNHL wagon was flagged off on Wednesday by Shyamadhar Ram, Chief Workshop Manager in the presence of officers, supervisors and staff. The release said the Railway Board has placed two new wagons orders - one order for manufacturing 15 metre gauge wagons for the UNESCO fame Nilgiri Mountain Railway and another for manufacturing 48 well type wagons for transportation of track machines in Southern Railway. The workshop also has an order from the CONCOR (Container Corporation of India Limited) for manufacturing 1,035 BLCS wagons for carrying double stack containers at 100 kilometres per hour for which production has commenced. The workshop has been involved in production of new wagons since 1961 catering to freight services across the country, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/railway-workshop-bags-two-new-orders/article33631253.ece
22 January 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Faculty Induction Programme for higher education teachers gets under way||The UGC-Human Resource Development Centre of Bharathidasan University on Wednesday initiated the third and fourth faculty induction programmes (FIP) on virtual platform, for university and college teachers from across the country. The first and second FIP, which is equivalent to an orientation programme, were conducted last November-December. The 40 participants from Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Bihar and West Bengal, besides Tamil Nadu, will be taking part in the month-long programme as a mandatory exercise for professional development. The UGC's framework for FIP states that newly-recruited teachers will be trained within a year of their joining service to improve their teaching and management skills, adjust to the culture of higher educational institutions, and better understand their professional responsibilities. The pedagogy of the programme is based on a combination of peer-facilitated, expert-led and self-learning processes. Inaugurating the third and fourth FIP through video-conference, Archana Thakur, UGC Joint Secretary, stressed upon the need and significance of the continual professional development for the teachers to stay updated and up-skilled in the 21st century educational environment. She highlighted the salient features of the Gurudakshta, the UGC's curriculum framework for the FIPs, being organised by the UGC’s Human Resource Development Centres. Emphasising on ethics in research and publications, she said the University Grants Commission-Consortium for Academic and Research Ethics (UGC-CARE) ensures ethical practices in academic research, Ms. Archana said integration of digital technologies into pedagogical practices has now become necessary for teachers to ensure ‘anytime anywhere’ learning opportunities to the learners of the present generation. Presiding over, Srinivasa Raghavan, Controller of Examination, Bharathidasan University, explained the importance of e-resources and their utility for students to gain world-class learning experiences. As part of the FIPs, the participants would present seminars, involve themselves in certain online / offline activities, take tests, present micro-teaching sessions and prepare a research proposal. Their performance will be evaluated and grades given, as per UGC’s norms, S. Senthilnathan, Director of the UGC-Human Resource Development Centre, Bharathidasan University, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/faculty-induction-programme-for-higher-education-teachers-gets-under-way/article33631258.ece
22 January 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||‘Assessment of crop damages will be completed by January 29’||Assessment of crop damages caused by the heavy unseasonal rainfall during this month would be completed before January 29 and all possible assistance would be extended to the affected farmers to overcome the losses, Gangandeep Singh Bedi, Agricultural Secretary, said here on Thursday. “The rainfall before and during the Pongal festival in the State had caused extensive damages to crops, causing heavy losses to farmers. The extent of the damage was being assessed currently by officials of departments of Agriculture, Horticulture and Revenue jointly. The officials have been asked to complete the assessment before January 29 in all districts,” Mr.Bedi said while speaking to reporters after inspecting the crop damages in some parts of Thanjavur district. Once the assessment is completed, a report would be submitted to the Commissioner of Revenue Administration and steps will be taken to extend assistance to the farmers. Mr. Bedi also disclosed that the government has asked the crop insurance companies to advance the crop cutting experiments to assess the yield so that the compensation for yield losses would be disbursed to the affected farmers at the earliest. Answering a query on relaxing the norm that the crop should have sustained 33% damage to be eligible for sanction of compensation, Mr. Bedi pointed out it was a Central government rule for sanction of compensation from disaster relief fund. However, farmers can get compensation under crop insurance even if there was five percent yield loss. “Our objective is to stand by farmers and extend all possible help to them in these difficult times,” Mr. Bedi affirmed. Mr. Bedi, who also inspected the pilot run of a paddy drier at the Director Purchase Centre in Thanjavur district to help farmers reduce the moisture content in paddy, said steps would be taken to purchase and deploy more paddy driers in Thanjavur and other districts. The driers can help reduce the moisture content in paddy from 25% to about 15%. Two more paddy driers, purchased by Agricultural Engineering Department, was scheduled to arrive in Thanjavur on Thursday evening, he said. Based on the success of the initiative, steps will be taken to buy more machines and deploy them in other districts, he added.  Insurance companies have been asked to advance crop cutting experiments so that compensation is disbursed at the earliest to farmers Gangandeep Singh Bedi Agricultural Secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/assessment-of-crop-damages-will-be-completed-by-january-29/article33631272.ece
22 January 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Drinking water supply to be suspended today||Drinking water supply will remain suspended in the following areas in the city on Friday, owing to a power shutdown announced by Tangedco for maintenance work at the Srirangam sub-station: Srirangam, Sanjeevi Nagar, Devadhanam, Viragupettai, Mahalakshmi Nagar, Nehruji Nagar, Ariyamangalam Ukkadai, Ariyamangalam, Jaganathapuram, Malaiyappa Nagar, Rail Nagar, Senthaneerpuram, Sangiliandapuram, Military Colony, Vivekananda Nagar, J.K.Nagar, Mela Kalkandarkottai, Ponneripuram, Kallukuzhi, Ponmalaipatti, Central Prison, Subramaniapuram, Airport, Kamaraj Nagar, Sembattu, Khaja Nagar, Khajamalai, K.K.Nagar, Thendral Nagar, Anand Nagar, Sathyavani Muthu Nagar, Ayyappa Nagar, Woraiyur, Mangala Nagar, Fathima Nagar, Siva Nagar, Rainbow Nagar, Selva Nagar, Anandam Nagar, Bharathi Nagar, Puthur, Edamalaipattipudur, K.Sathanur, Anbu Nagar, Krishnamurthy Nagar, Thondaiman Nagar and Crawford. Regular supply will resume on Saturday, Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian said in a press release. Power shutdown There will be no power supply from 9.45 a.m. to 2 p.m. on Friday in the following areas due to maintenance work to be taken up at the K. Sathanur sub station by the Tangedco: K.K. Nagar, Indian Bank Colony, SMESC Colony, Krishnamurthy Nagar, Sundar Nagar, Ayyappa Nagar, LIC Colony, Palani Nagar, Mullai Nagar, R.V.S. Nagar, Wireless Road, Sembattu, Kuditheru, Bharathi Nagar, Kamarajar Nagar, J.K. Nagar, Santhosh Nagar, Anand Nagar, K. Sathanur, Olaiyur, Vadugapatti, parts of Mannarpuram, Khaja Nagar and SIMCO Colony.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drinking-water-supply-to-be-suspended-today/article33631652.ece
22 January 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||OFT Security Officer gets Chief of Army Staff Commendation card||Lt. Col. K. Karthikesh, Security Officer, Ordnance Factory, Tiruchi, has received the Chief of Army Staff Commendation card, his fourth award in a career spanning 19 years. The award was presented on the occasion of Army Day 2021 for outstanding contribution to security environment of the Ordnance Factory. Lt. Col. Karthikesh who hails from Coimbatore had, earlier received an award for bravery during anti-terrorist operations in Manipur and two more distinguished awards for meritorious service to the Indian Army. He had served in the Black Cats Division of NSG and also represented India in the UN peace-keeping mission in Lebanon and Syria from 2013 to 2015.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/oft-security-officer-gets-chief-of-army-staff-commendation-card/article33631261.ece
22 January 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Further drop in cases||The central districts on Thursday recorded 43 new cases of COVID-19, a drop compared to the previous days. The region recorded one death, in Thanjavur, according to the bulletin released by the Department of Health and Family Welfare. A 60-year-old man with a history of acute respiratory distress syndrome succumbed to the infection in Thanjavur. Tiruchi and Nagapattinam reported 11 fresh positive cases each. Patients in both districts were isolated cases or were primary contacts. In Tiruchi, two patients who had been undergoing treatment for COVID at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital were discharged after recovering from the viral infection. Meanwhile, all other districts in the region reported less than ten cases. Karur and Tiruvarur reported six new cases. Thanjavur reported a drop in cases, with only five patients testing positive on Thursday. A total of 38 patients who had been undergoing treatment at the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital were discharged from the hospital. Meanwhile, Pudukottai reported three. Ariyalur reported one case, while Perambalur reported no fresh cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/further-drop-in-cases/article33631266.ece
22 January 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Fisherman drowns in sea||A 26-year-old fisherman of Mayiladuthurai district drowned on Wednesday after the fibre boat he was in capsized due to rough weather. He was identified as P. Marudhupandi of Kodiyampalayam. He along with four others had set sail on a fibre boat from the Pazhaiyar fishing harbour on Wednesday evening. Upon reaching five nautical miles of Pazhaiyar, the fishermen decided to head back due to rough sea condition. As the boat was nearing the shore, it got capsized. While four fishermen managed to swim and return to the shore Marudhupandi was reported missing. Local fishermen found the body on Thursday morning. The body was brought to the shore and sent to the Sirkazhi Government Hospital for post mortem. It was later handed over to the family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fisherman-drowns-in-sea/article33631268.ece
22 January 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Cleanliness drive begins in Tiruchi||The Tiruchi Corporation on Wednesday began a mass cleaning drive across the city. A total of 25 sites were identified across the 65 wards where sanitary workers would conduct a mass cleaning. The drive was inaugurated by Vellamandi N. Natarajan, Minister for Tourism in the presence of Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian and other officials at Tharanallur. Speaking at the event, Mr. Natarajan said that the aim was to maintain a clean and green Tiruchi city. Through the cleanliness drive, patchwork on roads, and other works would be addressed, he said. “We are also checking water pipelines and ensuring that they are not in any way near sewage lines. The public too must take ownership of the cleanliness,” he said. Roads which have been dug up for the underground drainage system will soon be relayed and all malfunctioning street lights would be replaced, he added. Officials requested citizens’ cooperation as they conducted this drive. “We will also go door-to-door to create awareness on rainwater harvesting, segregation of waste and maintaining local cleanliness. We will also get an assurance from the residents that they would not dump garbage in public spaces,” a sanitary supervisor said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cleanliness-drive-begins-in-tiruchi/article33631259.ece
22 January 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Vacancies in Coop. Dept. being filled||The Department of Cooperation is taking steps to fill up all the vacancies in the department in a phased manner, Minister Sellur K. Raju has said. During informal chat with reporters at Kovilpatti on Thursday after handing over loan to the tune of Rs. 2.35 crore to 345 beneficiaries, Mr. Raju said the vacancies in primary cooperative societies and urban cooperative societies were being filled up in phased manner after recruiting them through due process. Work on the recruitment of the personnel for filling up these vacancies would be completed shortly. As interview for filling up the salesman posts in ration shops had been completed, the selected personnel would be appointed shortly. He rejected the allegation that distribution of ‘pongal gifts’ to the beneficiaries had not been done properly. “There is no delay in distribution of the ‘pongal gift.’ Whenever the speed of the server goes down due to heavy traffic, the distribution gets affected in some areas. Once the normalcy returns, the distribution continues,” he said. When asked about DMK president M.K. Stalin’s prediction that the DMK would return to power within three months, the minister said that he, who had claimed that the DMK could topple the AIADMK government within a second, was making this claim for the past three years. “In fact, we, by giving the loan of Rs. 50,000, have salvaged 16,51,891 roadside small vendors across the State, who had been left at the mercy of moneylenders during the previous DMK regime. Mr. Raju also inaugurated an automated teller machine on the Central Cooperative Bank’s main branch premises on New Road and a fuel station there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vacancies-in-coop-dept-being-filled/article33631251.ece
22 January 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||30 of 48 infiltration wells resume water supply||Thirty of the 48 infiltration wells supplying drinking water to the residents of Tirunelveli Corporation have started pumping out drinking water again as the wells, damaged by the recent floods, have been repaired, Commissioner G. Kannan has said. He said the recent floods in the Tamirbhraani had badly damaged 48 infiltration wells, supplying drinking water to the residents, and motors fitted in these wells as well. As drinking water supply got affected, the corporation ensured continuous supply through lorries. After the flood subsided, the corporation deployed 100 men for repairing the infiltration wells and motors following instructions from Collector V. Vishnu. In Suththamalli pumping station, 3 of the 6 infiltration wells had been repaired and made operational on Thursday. “Since the remaining 3 wells are in deeper part of the Tamirabharani, repair work is going on,” he said.  Damage However, the corporation personnel’s good works got thwarted as unidentified villagers broke the drinking water pipeline at Tharuvai for drawing drinking water. “We’re working on sealing this broken pipeline besides working on making the remaining 3 infiltration wells operational again,” said Assistant Executive Engineer, Melapalayam Zone, Lenin. Mr. Kannan informed that the damaged pumping stations at Kurukkuthurai and Theepaatchi Amman Temple have been repaired and distribution of drinking water from these projects would resume shortly. Since the flood has destroyed all electrical equipment in the Kondaanagaram pumping station, work on replacing these gadgets is going on. In Thirumalaikozhunthupuram pumping station, 2 of the 3 infiltration wells have resumed drinking water supply and one of the five infiltration wells under the DRO Colony Drinking Water Scheme is ready for operation on completion of repair. The remaining four infiltration wells, all situated in deeper parts of the river, would be repaired shortly. “Precisely, 30 of the 48 infiltration wells have started pumping drinking water and the remaining 18 will be operational at the earliest as the repair work is going on round-the-clock,” said Mr. Kannan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/30-of-48-infiltration-wells-resume-water-supply/article33631658.ece
22 January 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Senior citizens demand old age pension||Delay for getting old age pension for 30 poor senior citizens continues. After their applications seeking old age pension did not evoke any positive response from officials, 30 of them from Koththankulam near Gopalasamudram came to the Collectorate on Thursday. While most of them had submitted their applications thrice, some had completed the formality twice but in vain. “Though we approached the officials to inquire about the fate of our plea, we were not given any clear reply,” they said. When they came to the Collectorate, they were asked to meet the Tahsildar, Cheranmahadevi, to get clarification for the delay. “When we met the tashildar, she told us to cross-check with the below poverty line families list available with the local body, based on which the assistance is given. The below poverty line families list compiled in 2007 says only 7 of the 30 senior citizens are eligible for the assistance while all of them are living in abject poverty. The below poverty line families list should have been renewed periodically by the administration and not by individuals. So, we’re planning to meet the tahsildar again on Friday (January 22),” said Prabha Rathi of Mahila Congress who had brought the senior citizens to the Collectorate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/senior-citizens-demand-old-age-pension/article33631660.ece
22 January 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Kangeyam farmers’ protest enters third day||Theindefinite hunger strike by a group of farmersat Kangeyam, demanding adequate release of water under the Parambikulam-Aliyar Project (PAP) for the Vellakoil branch canal, entered its third day on Thursday. Organised by PAP-Vellakoil Branch Canal Water Protection Committee comprising farmers from Kangeyam and Vellakoil blocks, the protest began on Tuesday. So far, two of the farmers had fainted during the strike and were subjected to a medical check-up at the protest venue, he said. The farmers’ organisation alleged that the Public Works Department (PWD) has been releasing water into the branch canal for only three days per month, while water was supposed to be released for 14 days in a month as per the Parambikulam-Aliyar Project (Regulation of Water Supply) Rules. The water being released is not sufficient for 48,000 acres of agricultural land in Kangeyam and Vellakoil Blocks, which depend on the Vellakoil branch canal for irrigation, they claimed. On Thursday, Erode MP A. Ganeshamurthi met with the farmers to express solidarity. Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K.S. Alagiri visited the protest venue on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kangeyam-farmers-protest-enters-third-day/article33631199.ece
22 January 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Meeting held on schools reopening||State Project Director of Samagra Shiksha G. Latha chaired a meeting with the officials in Tiruppur district administration on Wednesday on the reopening of schools for Class 10 and 12 students. Tiruppur Chief Educational Officer R. Ramesh, Corporation Commissioner K. Sivakumar and Deputy Director of Health Services K. Jegadeesh Kumar were among those participated in the meeting held at the Collectorate, a release said. Ms. Latha urged the officials to ensure that all schools adhere to the standard operating procedures issued by the State government. Prior to the meeting, she inspected the schools in Avinashi, according to the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/meeting-held-on-schools-reopening/article33631204.ece
22 January 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Perarivalan’s parents firmly hope he will be released||“I still firmly believe that the State government will take efforts for the quick release of my son Perarivalan,” said Arputham Ammal, mother of A.G. Perarivalan, one of the seven convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case. Her response comes in the wake of Solicitor General Tushar Mehta informing the Supreme Court that Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit would take a decision in the next three or four days on the State government’s recommendation to release seven convicts, including A.G. Perarivalan, undergoing life imprisonment for the assassination of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi in 1991. Arputham Ammal, who is unwell, tweeted that she had pinned her hopes on the State government regarding her son's release. Perarivalan’s father Gnanasekaran said that it was going to be 30 years since his son has been in prison. “We have been waiting for his release for a long time now and we are hopeful to get it this time,” he said. K.Sivakumar, advocate for Perarivalan, said that in September 2018, the Supreme Court asked the Governor to decide the pardon plea and a few days after this, the Tamil Nadu Cabinet made the recommendation to the Governor to release the prisoners. “He landed in jail in 1991 and ever since his behaviour has been good. He has completed his M.Phil., in prison. Besides, his health condition is also not good,” he added.  He landed in jail in 1991 and ever since his behaviour has been good. He has completed his M.Phil., in prison. Besides, his health condition is also not good||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/perarivalans-parents-firmly-hope-he-will-be-released/article33631608.ece
22 January 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Tirupattur records no fresh case of COVID-19||After a long gap, Tirupattur district registered zero COVID-19 positive cases on Thursday. As on date, the number of positive cases stands at 7,543 in the district. Doctors attribute this to vigorous sample collection. "We are taking 2,500 samples per day right from Pongal holidays. We did not reduce it any point despite the number of cases dropping. During the initial days, we had seen zero cases," said P. Sumathi, district nodal officer for COVID-19. She said a total of 60 fever camps were conducted in the district. "We also identified 26 hot spot villages and intensified sample collection there," she added. Meanwhile, with 12 new cases, the total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 20,620 on January 21. While a total of 20,133 have been discharged, the active cases stand at 141. The district's death toll is 346. In Ranipet district, five cases were reported positive taking the total to 16,061. In Tiruvannamalai district, four new cases were reported, taking the total number of cases in the district to 19,315. Out of this, 18,997 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 35.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tirupattur-records-no-fresh-case-of-covid-19/article33631609.ece
22 January 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Many street vendors yet to get loans||Only 20% of street vendors in this town who have applied for micro-credit scheme under PM SVANidhi have got loans from banks. Majority of vendors, whose applications were collected and their genuineness was verified by the municipality, were yet to get loans, say applicants. “It has been more than two months since the applications were collected by the municipality. The local body had created awareness using mobile public address system,” said R. Koilpillai, 65, who runs a petty shop on Sattur Road. Bank officials were rejecting Rs. 10,000-loan to vendors announced as a part of economic stimulus under Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan. The vendors had to repay the loan, without any collateral, through monthly instalments in a year. “We had collected 1,446 applications and uploaded them after verification. So far, banks have given loans to 312 applicants only,” said Municipal Commissioner S. Parthasarathy. Stating that the loan was being sanctioned based on CIBIL score of vendors, he said the last batch of applications was handed over to banks 20 days back. Bank officials could take sometime to process the applications. Communist Party of India (Marxist) district secretary K. Arjunan said that the Centre was willing to give crores of rupees as loans to big corporates but is not ready to give small loans to poor street vendors. “This hype in announcement of assistance and not implementing them on the ground is nothing new,” he said. Stating that even in the PM-KISAN scheme, the government had given a free run to all ineligible persons, he said all the actual people behind the huge scam have not been so far identified. “We want the banks to give loans to all poor vendors, who have been hit hard by the pandemic lockdown. Otherwise, we will mobile the vendors and stage a protest,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/many-street-vendors-yet-to-get-loans/article33631295.ece
22 January 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||‘Follow road safety rules’||Collector R. Kannan flagged off a two-wheeler rally to highlight the importance of wearing helmets here on Thursday and inaugurated a traffic awareness bus introduced by Tamil Nadu Transport Corporation. He said that these efforts were part of the 32nd National Road Safety Month being observed from January 18. The rally passed through arterial roads and crowded places in the town to create awareness among the people of the importance of following road rules. The awareness bus had photographs of road accidents on its body. Inside the bus, officials displayed various exhibits on road safety rules. A television screen played video-clippings of road accidents. The TNSTC organised fun games for school children wherein they have to match symbols of various road rule signs. Similarly, another game taught the children about safe way of negotiating curves on roads. The bus would be taken to various schools in the district to create awareness among the children about the road rules. Superintendent of Police P. Perumal, TNSTC General Manager R. Sivalingam, Deputy Commissioner of Transport, M.S. Iangovan, Regional Transport Officers, Ilango (Virudhunagar), Mookkan (Sivakasi) and Murugan (Srivilliputtur), TNSTC Manager (Commercial), Marimuthu, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/follow-road-safety-rules/article33631285.ece
22 January 2021||January 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore dist. reports 59 new cases, one death||Coimbatore district on Thursday reported 59 new cases of COVID-19. The Health Department said that 528 patients from the district were undergoing treatment different in hospitals on Thursday. According to the Department, a 72-year-old male from Coimbatore district died at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on Tuesday, taking the district’s death toll to 665. Sixty persons from the district got discharged from different hospitals. In the Nilgiris, six people tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 8,135. Tiruppur district reported 32 fresh cases, taking its tally to 17,639 cases. No deaths were reported in the district, according to the Health Department. As many as 17,239 patients have recovered and 180 were active cases. Tiruppur district reported 220 deaths overall. On Thursday, 38 patients from the district were discharged from various treatment centres. A total of 393 frontline workers in Tiruppur district took the COVID-19 vaccines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-dist-reports-59-new-cases-one-death/article33631209.ece
22 January 2021||January 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||27 new cases in Salem||A total of 27 COVID-19 positive cases were reported in Salem on Thursday. According to health officials, all the cases were indigenous including seven in Salem Corporation limits. In Namakkal, eight cases were reported, all indigenous. Erode district reported 17 new cases, taking the tally to 14,159. While 27 persons were discharged, 137 continue to be under treatment. Coimbatore district reported 59 new cases. The Health Department said that 528 patients from the district were undergoing treatment different in hospitals on Thursday. According to the Department, a 72-year-old male from Coimbatore district died at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on Tuesday, taking the district’s death toll to 665. Sixty persons from the district got discharged from different hospitals. In the Nilgiris, six people tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 8,135. Tiruppur district reported 32 fresh cases, taking its tally to 17,639 cases. No deaths were reported in the district, according to the Health Department. As many as 17,239 patients have recovered and 180 were active cases. Tiruppur district reported 220 deaths overall. On Thursday, 38 patients from the district were discharged from various treatment centres. A total of 393 frontline workers in Tiruppur district took the COVID-19 vaccines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/27-new-cases-in-salem/article33631311.ece
22 January 2021||January 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Strong protest’ over deaths of T.N. fishermen||“Our strong protest in regard to this incident was conveyed by our High Commissioner to the Sri Lankan Foreign Minister today [Thursday],” the Ministry of External Affairs said in New Delhi. Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking an inquiry. “I have written to the Prime Minister insisting that an appropriate inquiry be initiated into the incident through the High Commission of India,” he said. He sanctioned Rs. 10 lakh each in solatium to the families of the fishermen. One member each of the families would be given a government or government-related job. DMK president M.K. Stalin demanded that Mr. Modi condemn the Sri Lankan government for the incident and sought a compensation of Rs. 5 crore for each of the families. Mr. Stalin alleged that while India’s External Affairs Minister recently said he had raised the issue of freeing Indian fishermen held in Sri Lanka, the Sri Lankan government was not respecting India or its government. Fishermen staged protests in parts of the State condemning the incident. The development comes days after four fishermen from Tamil Nadu, who ventured into the Palk Strait on Monday, were reported missing. The Sri Lankan Navy said their boat “sank” while “resisting arrest” by the Sri Lankan patrol units that tried to seize the Indian fishing trawler for allegedly fishing in Sri Lankan waters. The Sri Lankan Navy’s divers recovered two bodies on Wednesday and two more on Thursday, reportedly of the missing fishermen. Once officials at the Indian Consulate-General in Jaffna identify the bodies, further action will be taken, based on the directives of the magistrate court and judicial medical officers, Sri Lankan Navy officials said. “There are also COVID-19 protocols to be followed. We will take necessary steps accordingly,” Navy spokesman Indika de Silva told The Hindu . “We are shocked at the unfortunate loss of lives of three Indian fishermen and one Sri Lankan national following a collision between their vessel and a Sri Lankan naval craft,” the Ministry of External Affairs said in a strongly worded statement. “Expressing our deep anguish at the loss of lives, we emphasised the need to deal with issues pertaining to fishermen in a humanitarian manner. Existing understandings between the two governments in that regard must be strictly observed. Utmost efforts should be made to ensure that there is no recurrence,” it said. Though fishermen’s arrests are regularly discussed at bilateral meetings, the last time the matter escalated was in 2017, when Rameswaram fisherman K. Britjo died of a bullet injury in the Palk Strait. While Tamil Nadu fishermen said he was shot dead by the Sri Lankan Navy, the Sri Lankan Navy denied the charge. The Government of India had sought a full investigation then. ( With inputs from Tamil Nadu Bureau )   I have written to the Prime Minister insisting that an inquiry be initiated into the incident through the High Commission of IndiaEdappadi K. PalaniswamiChief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/strong-protest-over-fishers-death/article33631182.ece
22 January 2021||January 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Special buses for Thai Poosam||The Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) Managing Director M A Murugesan has said that in view of the Thai Poosam to be held on January at Dhandaythapani Swami Temple, Palani, special services would be operated from January 25 to 29. They have planned to operate at least 350 buses from Dindigul, Madurai, Tiruchi, Karaikudi, Natham, Pudukottai, Theni, Karur, Erode, Coimbatore and Tirupur to Palani. Hundial collection HR&CE officials opened the hundial at the Dhandayuthapani Swami Temple, Palani, and counted the offerings on Thursday. The offerings totalled about Rs. 1.63 crore. Apart from cash, the hundial had 629 grams of gold, 20,600 grams of silver and 43 currencies of different countries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-buses-for-thai-poosam/article33631653.ece
22 January 2021||January 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatoretoday||Avinashilingam University: Convocation, Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, chief guest, Thiruchitrambalam Auditorium (virtual), 2.30 p.m.  DJ Academy for Managerial Excellence: Felicitating distinguished alumni, 9 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatoretoday/article33631197.ece
22 January 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Trek to the Himalayas||A team of mountaineering enthusiasts from Belagavi successfully completed a trek to Kedarkantha in the Himalayas recently. They reached the 12,500 ft mountain top in a span of five days. The team included Kishor Singh Thakur, Prasad Birje, Vicky Sawant, Dinesh Naik, Gurudevi Hiremath, Uday Patil, and Kamal Kant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/trek-to-the-himalayas/article33631330.ece
22 January 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Felicitations||Visvesvaraya Technological University felicitated some of the recipients of the Rajyotsava Award in Belagavi on Thursday. Vice-Chancellor Karisiddappa honoured Kempavva Harijan, Bayalata folk artiste, Anant Terdal, Hindustani classical musician, and Ashok Shettar, Vice-Chancellor of KLE University, at a simple function. Dr. Shettar said that the award belonged to the institution and the people who supported him in his endeavours. Ms. Harijan sang folk songs. Registrar A.S. Deshpande, Registrar (Evaluation) B.E. Rangaswami, publications division head M.N. Birje and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/felicitations/article33631322.ece
22 January 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Appointed coordinator||National Testing Agency has appointed Manjit Jain, principal of Jain Heritage School, as the city coordinator for Belagavi for the All Indian Sainik Schools Entrance Examination (AISSEE) to be held on February 7. NTA is in charge of conducting efficient, transparent and international standard tests for admissions to premier higher educational institutions. The offline, pen and paper examination will qualify children for admission to Sainik Schools across the country. Dr. Jain will supervise and oversee the examination in Belagavi and ensure that COVID-19 protocols are followed. He has served as the city coordinator for NEET 2020 and JEE examinations earlier, said a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/appointed-coordinator/article33631323.ece
22 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘U.K. will take measures to attract students, skilled labour’||A year after the Brexit deal and amidst the vaccination drive against COVID-19, the United Kingdom will roll out measures aimed at attracting students and skilled labour from countries such as India. Among these are post-study work visas and flexibility in points awarded to different aspects, such as English language ability and skills for work visas, said British Deputy High Commissioner to Karnataka and Kerala, Jeremy Pilmore-Bedford at a virtual press briefing here on Thursday. “Points will be awarded for a job offer at the appropriate skill level, if they speak English and meet the appropriate salary threshold. This allows greater flexibility. Before, there were limited chances of obtaining a visa if, for example, you did well in English but had no skills. About half of our entrepreneur visas are from India. So given the large share, India will certainly benefit,” he said. According to the British Deputy High Commissioner, as far as work visas are concerned, Indians account for almost half (45%) of all tier 2 visas (skilled worker visa) granted, but the number of grants fell by 36% to 36,219 in the year ending September 2020. There were increases for Nigeria (+19%) and Egypt (+9%). On the other hand, with regard to student visas, Indians saw a notable increase in the number of tier 4 visas granted. “India was the only one to see a large increase and now account for 26% of all tier 4 visas in the year ending September 2020, up from 11% a year earlier. While tier 4 visas to Indians decreased by 6,444 or 48% from April-August 2020 compared to the same period in 2019 due to COVID-19, the significant increase in other months of the year ending September 2020 sustained a notable increase compared to 2019,” details shared by the commission said. For the year ending September 2020, there were just over one million applications for visitor visas, a decrease of 61% compared to the previous year. However, COVID concessions were doled out for students, with those starting their studies in the one year master’s degree courses in January 2021 still being eligible to apply for the Graduate Route even if they are studying remotely, provided they are in the U.K. by September 27, 2021 and complete the final semester of their studies in the U.K. Students who were starting courses in summer and autumn 2020 could still be eligible for the Graduate Route, provided they are in the U.K. by April 6, 2021 and meet the other requirements of the route.    Speaking about the ongoing vaccination drive, Mr. Pilmore-Bedford said the U.K. is “very keen to ensure that the vaccine is available to most people around the world,” and that India is an ideal partnership for this because of its vaccine manufacturing capacity. “For the U.K., the Prime Minister is working on getting sufficient people vaccinated by March. Most of England is in tier 4, but the hope is that by the end of March, people will move out of severe tierage. The goal is to have the whole of adult population vaccinated by summer,” he said. Though the emergence of new variants of the virus is certain, our scientists will be ahead of the game, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/uk-will-take-measures-to-attract-students-skilled-labour/article33631144.ece
22 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 vaccination: Karnataka achieves 43% of target on sixth day||Although, Karnataka continues to lead with the highest number of healthcare workers getting vaccinated compared to other States, the overall coverage is just a little above 55% so far. As on Thursday, a total of 1,31,515 healthcare workers of the targeted 2,36,812 have been vaccinated. On Thursday, the sixth day after vaccination began on January 16, the State achieved a coverage of 43% with 14,108 of the day’s targeted 32,773 coming forward to take the jab. While vaccination was not held in Haveri, Uttara Kannada, and Yadgir districts, Chamarajanagar recorded the lowest coverage with 18% and Mandya recorded the highest coverage with 82%. With vaccine hesitancy being one of the main causes for the targets not being met, sources said the use of Covaxin in six districts where healthcare workers have no choice (and will not be vaccinated if they do not give consent) has added to the problem. The State received 20,000 doses of Covaxin and it was allotted to district hospitals in Chamarajanagar, Hassan, Chikkamagaluru, Shivamogga, Davangere, and Ballari. This even as concerns over the lack of substantial efficacy data of Covaxin still exist. Sources said most healthcare workers in these district hospitals are hesitant to take Covaxin. Members of Karnataka Association of Resident Doctors (KARD) had written to the Minister for Health and Family Welfare demanding that they be allowed to choose the vaccine. These resident doctors demanded that house surgeons, postgraduates, and super speciality residents of government medical and dental colleges should be provided vaccines that have shown results with respect to safety and efficacy. They have also stated that the vaccines which have got results of phase III should be given. “As this is a new vaccine, the government should have introduced Covaxin only after the phase 3 clinical trials were completed. Maybe the response would have been much better if only Covishield was introduced,” sources said. According to the media bulletin released by the Health Department, a total of seven serious adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) have been reported in the State so far. No major AEFI was reported on Thursday. In BBMP limits, a total of 23 minor AEFI were reported on Thursday. These included 22 in West Zone and one in South Zone, BBMP officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-vaccination-karnataka-achieves-43-of-target-on-sixth-day/article33631130.ece
22 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. decides to provide bank guarantee for KHDC loan||The State government has decided to provide bank guarantee for one year for the loan that has been raised by the Karnataka Handloom Development Corporation (KHDC). Home, and Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister Basavaraj Bommai told presspersons after the Cabinet meeting that the corporation had raised a total of Rs. 31 crore as loan, of which Rs. 7 crore had been returned. For the remaining Rs. 24 crore loan that is pending, the State government would give bank guarantee for one year, Mr. Bommai said. Further, the government has decided to buy saris that are given as uniforms for anganwadi workers and helpers at a cost of Rs. 10.27 crore from the KHDC. He said that each worker and helper would receive two saris. A total of 62,580 helpers and 65,911 workers would receive the saris, and each sari would cost Rs. 400, he said. Changes to rules The State government has also decided to bring changes to the Karnataka Civil Services (Appointment on Compassionate Grounds) (Amendment) Rules, 2020, to provide scope for appointment of guardians and women members of the family of government employee who dies while in service. The appointment on compassionate grounds has been modified to include the married daughter and guardian, he added. He also said that the government had decided to regularise 65 layouts developed by the Karnataka Housing Board since 2000. Of the 65 layouts, 59 have been completed and six are ongoing. “The KHB had not taken layout approval from local authorities for various reasons. It has been decided to give one-time approval for these layouts,” Mr. Bommai said. The Law Minister said that an amendment being brought to the Karnataka Town and Country Planning Act in the legislature would enable property developers to buy higher FAR by paying money. “Local bodies have been given the right to decide on how much FAR has to be given,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-decides-to-provide-bank-guarantee-for-khdc-loan/article33631140.ece
22 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||NEERI to examine Mangaluru smart city projects on adherence to pollution norms||The Mangaluru Smart City Ltd. (MSCL), a special purpose vehicle created by the State government to implement smart city projects in Mangaluru city, has agreed to appoint CSIR-National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) to examine all projects are taken up in compliance with the Construction and Demolition Waste Management Rules, 2016. The MSCL, which has stopped constructions works after being pulled up by the Karnataka High Court for carrying on the works without adhering to the C&DWM Rules, on Thursday agreed to the court’s suggestion to entrust the task of adhering to the rules to NEERI. Following this undertaking given on behalf of MSCL, a Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum adjourned till January 28 further hearing on a PIL petition filed by Karnataka State Legal Services Authority on failure of the Mangalore City Corporation (MCC) to implement the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016. Meanwhile, the Bench directed the MCC Commissioner to release ad hoc compensation to eligible persons who lost property and land due to sliding of municipal solid waste staked at Pachchanady landfill in August 2019. As the court during earlier hearing questioned how an officer can head both the MCC and MSCL as it would result in conflict of interest, the government on Thursday indicated to the court that an officer would be appointed to the post of Managing Director of MSCL.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/neeri-to-examine-mangaluru-smart-city-projects-on-adherence-to-pollution-norms/article33631516.ece
22 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Heart attack deaths not linked to jab’||The deaths of two healthcare workers — a Group ‘D’ employee in Sandur and a doctor in Shivamogga — two days after getting vaccinated cannot be linked to the jab, said C.N. Manjunath, director of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences. Dr. Manjunath, who took the vaccine shot on Thursday, told The Hindu that the vaccine against COVID-19 does not cause heart attack. However, some coincidental events can happen. The doctor said: “During the active phase of a COVID-19 infection or post COVID-19, there is inflammation of blood vessels with propensity for clot formation. This can cause heart attacks. However, as the vaccine contains inactivated virus, it is immunogenic and hence, produces antibodies but not the inflammation,” he explained. Asserting that both the persons who died had comorbidities, Dr. Manjunath said the doctor, who died in Shivamogga, had undergone a bypass surgery in the past. “It is just a coincidence,” he said. “Taking vaccine is the only way we can end this pandemic. I took it and nearly 85% of the day’s target of 1,100 employees at our institute took it, and we are fine. Healthcare workers should volunteer for vaccination without fear and apprehension as it is safe. Mild fever, injection site pain, and fatigue are not side effects but effects of vaccine. If more and more people take it, public confidence can be boosted and thereby, we can achieve herd immunity on expected lines,” Dr. Manjunath added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/heart-attack-deaths-not-linked-to-jab/article33631132.ece
22 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Disaster management plan ready for Aero India||An Off-site Disaster Management Plan has been formulated by the Revenue Department for a structured and planned response to any emergency outside the Air Force Station premises, related to Aero India 2021. The plan will help reduce the time taken to mobilise resources for an effective response and enable a harmonious relationship among all stakeholders, Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA) Commissioner Manoj Rajan has told The Hindu . The plan identifies trigger points for various response actions and integrates such actions as per the SOP of the department/agency concerned. The plan was initiated through a series of meetings by the Revenue Department with officers of IAF, HAL, BBMP, DCs of Bengaluru Urban and Rural Districts, Bengaluru City Police, Fire and Emergency Services, and other agencies. It was prepared based on the spatial analysis of the venue and the surroundings; probable hazards; resource mapping, SOPs, and Incident Command Control Centre (ICCC), the official said. Mr. Rajan said an exclusive GIS portal has been developed by the Karnataka Remote Sensing Application Center [http://dev.ksrsac.in/  aeroshow/] where the on-site and off-site plans are integrated. The deployment of teams and equipment by departments concerned will be uploaded on the portal for resource mapping and coordinated response.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/disaster-management-plan-ready-for-aero-india/article33631145.ece
22 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||PU lecturers’ service matters likely to come under Sakala||Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar said the Pre-University Department is considering bringing all service-related matters of teachers under Sakala. He was responding to issues of red tape in the department, flagged by office-bearers of the State Pre-University College Principal and Lecturer’s Association, at a meeting he chaired on Thursday. “We will use the e-kacheri portal and decentralise most of the file clearance, apart from including services under Sakala to avoid red tape,” the Minister said, adding transfers will happen after the department frames rules for the same. The Minister said the department had held talks with the Karnataka State Open University to increase the number of B.Ed seats this year so that 2,357 lecturers, who are yet to get their B.Ed degrees, can sit for exams and complete their B.Ed courses in a single year. Since 2007, lecturers in PU colleges have to mandatorily have a B.Ed degree. Meanwhile, those lecturers who have been part of the PU Department from the Department of Technical Education are nearing retirement and those with less than seven years service left, could be exempted from the B.Ed norm. “We are considering this,” he said. Meanwhile, the Minister appealed to lecturers to cooperate with the department to build trust over examinations with students and parents and not to resort to any protest over evaluation this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pu-lecturers-service-matters-likely-to-come-under-sakala/article33631147.ece
22 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Change in KIA train timing||South Western Railways (SWR) on Thursday revised the schedule of the Bengaluru Cantonment - Bangarpet DEMU train. A release stated that the train (number 06269) will leave Cantonment at 6.05 p.m., instead of 5.55 p.m. As per the revised timings, the train will arrive at Kempegowda International Airport halt station at 7.02 p.m. It will reach its final destination, Bangarpet, at 9.55 p.m. The SWR is currently running 10 trains, including six new ones, to KIA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/change-in-kia-train-timing/article33631127.ece
22 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||674 new cases, two deaths reported||The State on Thursday reported 674 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 9,34,252. With two deaths, the toll rose to 12,187. This is apart from 19 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 815 persons were discharged on Thursday, taking the total recoveries to 9,14,492. Of the remaining 7,554 active patients, 171 are being monitored in the ICU. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.75%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 0.29%. Bengaluru Urban reported 371 cases, taking its tally to 3,96,140. With one death coming from Bengaluru, the toll in the district rose to 4,373. Active cases in Bengaluru reduced to 4,997. As many as 88,855 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 81,699 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total tests are 1,63,06,609.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/674-new-cases-two-deaths-reported/article33631131.ece
22 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||NCB seizes 49.3 kg of ephedrine, arrests two||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) have arrested two people who were allegedly part of an international drug racket and smuggled ephedrine to buyers in foreign countries using courier companies. In a series of raids, the first in Hyderabad and later in Tamil Nadu, which was conducted by the Bengaluru NCB unit, officials seized 49.3 kg of ephedrine from them during a raid. In a press release on Thursday, NCB zonal director Amit Ghawate said the racket came to light last Friday when the bureau’s Hyderabad unit intercepted a consignment of kitchen utensils which had 4.3 kg of ephedrine concealed in it. The parcel was to be shipped to another country. The NCB Bengaluru unit raided a house in Chengalpattu in Tamil Nadu and arrested M. Mydeen and K. Meeran, and recovered 45 kg of ephedrine. The stimulant, which is often prescribed to treat low blood pressure, breathing and congestion related problems, was found concealed in specially designed cavities of kitchen utensil packages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ncb-seizes-493-kg-of-ephedrine-arrests-two/article33631133.ece
22 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Police recover LSD worth Rs. 1.3 crore||The Kumaraswamy Layout police have arrested two people who were allegedly part of an inter-State drug racket and seized LSD strips worth Rs. 1.3 crore from them. The police on Monday received a tip that a man was peddling drugs near a private hospital. They nabbed Rahul Tulsiram Sharma, 28, who had a few LSD strips on him. He allegedly confessed to dealing drugs with his partner,Balaji C. The police arrested him and recovered 9,300 strips, Rs. 27.5 lakh, mobile phones, and a laptop during a raid of his residence in BTM Layout.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-recover-lsd-worth-rs-13-crore/article33631135.ece
22 January 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||KMF’s new launch||The Karnataka Milk Federation (KMF) has launched four types of breads under the brand name ‘Nandini Goodlife’. According to a KMF press release, the varieties of breads are milk bread, sandwich bread, whole wheat bread, and multigrain bread. The price of the bread ranges from Rs. 22 to Rs. 50.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kmfs-new-launch/article33631138.ece
22 January 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Assumes charge||C. Munikrishna took charge as chairman of Marketing Communication and Advertising Ltd. on January 18, according to a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/assumes-charge/article33631139.ece
22 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||ITI dispatches communication racks to Army||ITI Ltd. has dispatched the first consignment of communication racks, fabricated in-house at its Doorvaninagar factory in the city, to the Indian Army to support ASCON IV, the Army’s telecom network spread across different terrains in the northern, north-eastern, and western regions of the country. The communication racks are deployed in inter-node communication between various sites to ensure privacy and safety to the link. These specially designed racks are used in the ASCON communication networks. According to ITI chairman and managing director R.M. Agarwal, 22 of the 35 racks were dispatched to the Defence Headquarters, New Delhi, on Wednesday. “The in-house fabrication has given a boost to the manufacturing facility under the Make in India initiative at ITI,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/iti-dispatches-communication-racks-to-army/article33631137.ece
22 January 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||SPIC MACAY music programme||Society for the Promotion of Indian Classical Music and Culture Amongst Youth (SPIC MACAY), Bengaluru chapter, will present ‘Yamini 2021’, an overnight series of five, programmes from January 25, 8 p.m., to January 26, 6 a.m. The programmes are open to all and will premier on SPIC MACAY’s YouTube channel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/spic-macay-music-programme/article33631128.ece
22 January 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Man held for rape of child||A four-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a neighbour in Sakleshpur taluk on Wednesday. The incident took place when her parents went to work at a plantation after leaving their daughter at the neighbour’s house. The parents came to know about the incident on Wednesday evening when their daughter complained of pain and narrated to them the incident. Following a complaint filed by the girl’s mother, the Sakleshpur Rural police registered a case under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, besides sections of the Indian Penal Code, on Thursday. The police have taken Chandru, the accused, into custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-held-for-rape-of-child/article33631541.ece
22 January 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Vinay Kulkarni’s bail plea in murder case rejected||The High Court of Karnataka, Dharwad Bench, on Thursday rejected the bail plea filed by Congress leader and former Minister Vinay Kulkarni who has been arrested in connection with the murder of zilla panchayat member Yogeeshgouda Goudar. On Wednesday, after hearing the arguments of both the sides, a single judge bench headed by Justice K.N. Nataraj posted the matter for order on Thursday and accordingly, announced it on Thursday rejecting the bail petition. Appearing on behalf of CBI on Wednesday, Additional Solicitor General S.V. Raju had presented before the court the developments in the investigation so far and said that the statements of 164 persons had been recorded in connection with the case. He had contended that Mr. Kulkarni was in touch with Basavaraj Muttagi, the main accused in the murder case, before and after the murder. He had appealed to the court not to grant bail as the investigation had reached a crucial stage and if granted bail, Vinay Kulkarni, being an influential person, could influence witnesses. Following a direction from the court, CBI counsel had submitted statements of 164 people in the case to the court in a sealed cover. Vinay Kulkarni’s counsel Shashikiran Shetty had countered the argument of CBI counsel and said that the arrest was politically motivated and his client should be granted bail. It might be recalled that during the police investigation, Vinay Kulkarni’s name never cropped up. But after the case was handed over to the CBI, they grilled him and subsequently, arrested him. Arrested on November 5, Vinay Kulkarni is now lodged in Hindalga Jail in Belagavi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vinay-kulkarnis-bail-plea-in-murder-case-rejected/article33631327.ece
22 January 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Central University Registrar refuses to vacate office||Despite an order by the Vice-Chancellor (Acting) of Central University of Karnataka, the incumbent Registrar of the university has refused to hand over charge to the new Registrar. Late on Wednesday, Vice-Chancellor (Acting) M.V. Alagawadi issued the order replacing Registrar Mushtaq Ahmed I. Patel with Basavaraj P. Donur, a professor of English in the university, on the grounds that the deputation of the former from Maulana Azad National Urdu University (MANUU), Hyderabad, has ended and his request for an extension has not been approved by the competent authority. When Mr. Donur came to the office of the Registrar on Thursday morning, Mr. Patel refused to hand over charge stating that the very order of the Vice-Chancellor (Acting) was illegal. The office was later kept locked as the matter was not settled. As per information available, the selection committee recommended Mr. Patel’s appointment as Registrar for a period of five years, which was later approved of by the Executive Council, the highest governing body of the university, at its 42nd meeting. However, Mr. Patel was deputed by his parent organisation, MANUU, in November 2018 for two years. His request for extension for another two years was approved of by MANUU in November 2020 before the expiry of his term. “The order by the in-charge Vice-Chancellor lacks legal validity. Both my parent institution and the Vice-Chancellor of Central University approved of my extension request in November 2020. It is to be placed before the Executive Council of the Central University for approval whenever the meeting is convened. I have written to the authorities concerned and I hope that the wrongdoing on the part of the Vice-Chancellor (Acting) would be corrected respecting the law of the land,” Mr. Patel told The Hindu . Mr. Alagawadi, however, justified his action stating that the performance of Mr. Patel as Registrar was not up to expectations. “His [Mr. Patel’s] term as Registrar has ended and I have repatriated his services exercising my powers under Section 11(3) of Central University of Karnataka Act. He is questioning the authority of the Vice-Chancellor, though he is not the employee of the university, but one serving on deputation,” Mr. Alagawadi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/central-university-registrar-refuses-to-vacate-office/article33631326.ece
22 January 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Loan settlement drive||The Canara Bank Regional Head Office, Ballari, conducted a One-Time Settlement (OTS) drive in various branches on Thursday. A team lead by Rajan Kumar, Recovery Section Head, conducted a special camp to benefit customers, especially those in the agriculture sector. Regional Head D.C. Mohan Kumar in a release stated that the bank has provided attractive schemes to help more customers to settle their loans under the One-Time Settlement drive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/loan-settlement-drive/article33631324.ece
22 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Man accused of harassing woman on city bus held||The police have arrested a man who allegedly harassed a woman while travelling on a city bus here last week. The woman had narrated her ordeal on Instagram and had posted the photo of the accused which led the police to trace him. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar on Thursday gave the name of the accused as Hussain (41), a worker, hailing from Perla Kedamoole near Kumble in Kasaragod district of Kerala. Mr. Kumar said that Naseema (25), an education counsellor in an overseas education consulting firm, had posted details of her being harassed while travelling on the bus from Asaigoli to Pumpwell on January 14. The police traced the victim the next day and a case was registered at the Women’s Police Station. A special police team comprising five police officers led by Assistant Commissioner of Police (South) Ranjith Kumar Bandaru and 15 policemen worked on the image of the accused provided by the victim and traced him in Perla. The police arrested Hussain for an offence punishable under Section 354 of Indian Penal Code. While lauding the victim for coming forward to report the case of harassment and also Vidya Vinutha D’Souza, Assistant Professor at St. Aloysius College’s Social Work Department, who supported the victim, Mr. Kumar regretted the silence of the bus driver, conductor and fellow commuters when the victim raised her voice against harassment on their bus. He expressed the need for installing CCTV cameras on all city buses. He said that he will take up the issue with the Deputy Commissioner, Regional Transport Office and Private Bus Operators Association. Assuring people of increased police patrolling in public places and on city buses, Mr. Kumar said that victims or those who witness such incidents should report by dialling 112 or calling police officers. “Such harassment brings a black mark to the city known for its education and tourism and where women have greater prominence. Be bold to speak aloud of such harassment,” he said. Mr. Kumar felicitated Ms. Naseema and Ms. D’Souza. He also presented cash reward of Rs. 10,000 to the police team involved in tracing the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-accused-of-harassing-woman-on-city-bus-held/article33631513.ece
22 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Stand up against harassment of women in public places’||Twentyfive-year-old Naseema Asleem, a victim of harassment by a co-passenger on a city bus here on January 14, slapped the accused, who has now been arrested by police, twice just as Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar left the conference hall after briefing the media in his office on Thursday. Venting her frustration, she slapped the accused once in the hall and for the second time in the corridors of the Police Commissioner’s office, while the accused was being taken away by the police. Incidentally, Ms. Asleem suffered a fracture on her right leg after the two-wheeler in which she was a pillion rider was hit by a vehicle in the city on January 16. She had come to the Police Commissioner’s office from the hospital where she was undergoing treatment. “I am greatly relieved as the police acted swiftly on my (social media) post and arrested the man who harassed me. Instead of just bearing with such harassment, I reacted and took the legal course to ensure that the offender paid for his act,” she told reporters and added: “This is the happiest day in my life as the offender is caught and I am getting discharged from hospital.” Ms. Asleem said that the accused, Hussain (41), boarded the private city bus at K.S. Hegde Hospital stop at Deralakatte and sat next to her on January 14. As he began harassing her, she raised her voice and the accused got off the bus. But he boarded the same bus again after three more stops and continued to harass her while sitting on the rear seat. “Though I informed the bus driver, conductor and fellow passengers of this, none reacted,” she said and added that the accused removed his mask and brazenly posed for a photo when she told him that she would post it on the social media. Her post on the incident on Instagram was shared 70,000 times and one among those who read it was Vidya Vinutha D’Souza, Assistant Professor in the Department of Social Work, St. Aloysius College. “When I called her to ask whether she had filed a complaint, she went silent for a minute. I then accompanied her to file a complaint with the Women’s Police Station (on January 15),” said Ms. D’Souza. Ms. D’Souza said that Ms. Asleem has inspired women to stand up and speak aloud against “harassment by idiotic mindset persons who spoil the peace of mind of women”. Instances of harassment and other crime should be immediately reported by dialling 112, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/stand-up-against-harassment-of-women-in-public-places/article33631512.ece
22 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||1,511 health workers vaccinated in DK, 720 in Udupi district||A total of 1,511 of the 2,459 health workers, who were registered, turned up for COVID-19 vaccination at the 27 centres in Dakshina Kannada on Thursday. At the same time, 720 of the 1,500 registered health workers turned up for vaccination in Udupi. A good number of health workers continued to turn up for vaccination at private medical college and hospitals in Dakshina Kannada. As many as 274 health workers received the vaccine at the K.S. Hegde Hospital, 236 at the A.J. Hospital, 220 at the Father Muller College and Hospital, 190 at the K.V.G Hospital, 150 at the KMC Hospital Attavar, 117 at the Yenepoya Medical College and Hospital and 83 health workers were given the jab at the Benaka Health Centre. And, 68 health workers turned up at the Kanachur Hospital, 50 at the Srinivasa Hospital, 45 at the Chetana Hospital Puttur, 30 at the Government Wenlock Hospital and 16 health workers at Government Lady Goschen Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/1511-health-workers-vaccinated-in-dk-720-in-udupi-district/article33631519.ece
22 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Three drown in beach||Three persons, including a woman, from Bengaluru drowned in the sea at Gokarna main beach in Uttara Kannada on Thursday. According to the police, a group of 16 friends from Bengaluru had come to Gokarna on a tour. Of these, five entered the sea waters at about 1.30 p.m. When they were caught in the waves, the local lifeguards were able to rescue two persons, while three drowned. The bodies of Suma, 22, Tippeswamy, 21, and Ravi Kumar, 40, have been recovered. Gokarna Police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-drown-in-beach/article33631517.ece
22 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Man arrested for bid to set fire to bus driver||The Kankanady police have arrested Mohammed Ashraf alias Ashraf, 21, of Faizal Nagar on the charge of throwing petrol on a private city bus driver and making an attempt to set the latter on fire here on Tuesday. Ashraf was enraged with Sampath Poojary, driver of city bus on route no. 23, as the latter had not given way to the former to overtake. Ashraf, who was on a motorcycle, blocked the bus near Veeranagar and threw a bottle of petrol on Poojay as he came out of the bus on January 19. Poojary ran away as Ashraf made an attempt to set fire to him, the police said. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar said that Ashraf has been booked under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of Indian Penal Code. The police was taking serious note of such road rage incidents. A rowdy sheet will be opened against such offenders, he said and added that Ashraf will be rowdy-sheeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-arrested-for-bid-to-set-fire-to-bus-driver/article33631518.ece
22 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Govt. looks to reposition Lalitha Mahal as luxury hotel with new management||The State government intends to hand over the management of the iconic Lalitha Mahal hotel in the city to reposition it as a world-class luxury hotel and shore up its value among niche tourists. This is also expected to give a boost to the arrival of tourists in the luxury segment, which will have economic spin-off benefits for the sector. Sources in the government told The Hindu that a Request for Proposal (RFQ) was floated last year, but no action was initiated because of the pandemic. Now, with certain changes in the norms, the RFQ will be reissued and global tenders will be floated to bring the best in the hotel industry to manage Lalitha Mahal, which will soon celebrate its centenary. A senior official said that the final approval of government was awaited. The hotel is currently being operated by Jungle Lodges and Resorts (JLR), but sources said that though JLR can operate Lalitha Mahal, it may be difficult to reposition it as a luxury brand. “We are in the business of eco-tourism and have positioned JLR as the best in the country in this segment. But to operate a five-star hotel, there are others with a history of managing such properties and it would be prudent to let them operate and bring value to it,” the official said. Dismissing reports that the hotel has already been handed over to a particular group, the official said tenders were yet to be invited. Lalitha Mahal is ensconced at the foot of Chamundi Hills with a large open space. It has 52 rooms which are airy and spacious and is among the most beautiful heritage properties in Karnataka. Hence, it is bound to attract the best hoteliers in the business to operate and reposition it among the best hotels in the country, the official opined.  To operate a five-star hotel, there are others with a history of managing such properties and it would be prudent to let them operate and bring value to the hotel a government official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-looks-to-reposition-lalitha-mahal-as-luxury-hotel-with-new-management/article33631543.ece
22 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||KEA moots summer expo in Mysuru||Karnataka Exhibition Authority (KEA), headquartered in Mysuru, has proposed to conduct a summer expo at the Dasara exhibition grounds in the city to give traction to the local economy and revive the demand for textiles and crafts. This was decided by the KEA at a recent meeting and the proposal has been submitted to the government for approval. The authorities are confident of securing approval as they expect the situation to have further improved by April. KEA chairman Hemanth Kumar Gowda said that the pandemic-induced lockdown had created a pent-up demand for purchase and sales and the exhibition could harness this sentiment. “It is almost an year since the outbreak of COVID-19 and routine economic activities, including purchase and sale of textiles, fabric and crafts, have been affected. But people are now more than willing to go out and get back to normalcy, besides seeking a break as the pandemic is now ebbing while the vaccine has also been rolled out,” said Mr. Gowda. The exhibition will be a full-fledged one lasting 45 days during the forthcoming summer. The proposal has received widespread support as the famed Dasara Exhibition — which used to be held for 90 days and would often be extended because of its popularity — was also cancelled in 2020. Mr. Gowda said that if government approved the expo, the KEA would ensure that all protocols pertaining to COVID-19 were followed. Expressing confidence there was a demand for such exhibitions, he said a spate of smaller expos by private players in the city in recent times, after the graded unlocking, had seen a lot of footfall. Other officials of the KEA said given the scale and variety of items consumers will have to choose from at KEAexhibitions, the turnover could be much higher and it would be a small step towards reviving the consumer habit of spending, which was vital to generating demand, and accelerating industrial activity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kea-moots-summer-expo-in-mysuru/article33631540.ece
22 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘SC/ST entrepreneurs can get 100% subsidy from govt.’||A. Kokila, head of the National SC/ST Hub, Bengaluru, has said that 100% subsidy would be provided by the State government to entrepreneurs from Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe communities who avail training and technology transfer from CSIR-Central Food Technological Research Institute, Mysuru. She was speaking after the inauguration of a series of capacity-building training programmes in food processing for aspiring and existing entrepreneurs from SC/ST communities, sponsored by the National SC/ST Hub (NSSH), Ministry of MSME, at CSIR-CFTRI here recently. She told the participants that to be innovative in their products in order to be unique in the market. She said the NSSH was supporting SC and ST entrepreneurs in providing training, availing loans, and marketing products with the aim to reach the 4% procurement quota allocated to SC and ST entrepreneurs at the national level. The NSSH is also providing them training in tendering and e-tendering. Megha, Assistant Director, Department of Social Welfare, Mysuru, was the guest of honour at the programme, while Sridevi A. Singh, Director, CSIR-CFTRI, presided. The training programmes covered five major areas of food processing — nutri-cereal processes and products; traditional sugar confectionery and sensory science concepts for product development; entrepreneurship development programme on the processing of spices, coffee and tea; wheat milling and baking technology; and fruit and vegetable technologies for value addition. Ms. Megha, in her address, asked the course participants to make the best use of the training programme and gain knowledge for starting their own business. Dr. Singh said CSIR-CFTRI had more than 300 kinds of technology available with it for technology transfer. She extended the institute’s hand-holding support to the participants of the training programme. Ajay W Tumaney, coordinator, STC programmes, and principal scientist, Lipid Science department, briefed the audience about the capacity-building programmes undertaken by CFTRI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/scst-entrepreneurs-can-get-100-subsidy-from-govt/article33631542.ece
22 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||CM’s nod sought on temple authority helping villages||Chamarajanagar district administration has urged Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, who is also the chairman of Sri Kshetra Malai Mahadeshwara Temple Development Authority, M.M. Hills, to permit the authority to support villages in the vicinity of M.M. Hills. A proposal in this regard was submitted by Deputy Commissioner M.R. Ravi in Bengaluru on Wednesday. Mr. Ravi attended a meeting of Deputy Commissioners and zilla panchayat CEOs, convened by the Chief Minister on Wednesday in view of the State Budget, and gave details of the development projects proposed in the district. He sought their inclusion in the Budget. The Deputy Commissioner urged the Chief Minister to sanction roadwork between Hanur and the M.M. Hills temple as a lot of devotees visit the temple site. Already, work between Kollegal and Hanur is under way under the Karnataka State Highways Improvement Project, and work between Hanur and M.M. Hills will also largely benefit locals, he said. Mr. Ravi also sought funds for the construction of a Mini-Vidhana Soudha at Hanur, a new taluk in the district, andadded that a proposal seeking Rs. 10 crore for the construction of the new building was submitted tothe government. He said a proposal had been sent to Karnataka Road Development Corporation Ltd. for a 7-km road between Santhemarahalli and Mugur Cross, along the national highway connecting 112 and 209. The DC urged the CM to give approval for the Rs. 18-crore proposal. Funds were also sought for other projects, including upgrading Yelandur taluk hospital from a 30-bed facility to a 100-bed public healthcare facility (Rs. 15.3 crore) and creating another sub-division after Kollegal with the addition of Hanur as a taluk in the five-taluk district. “This will help in improving administration,” Mr. Ravi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cms-nod-sought-on-temple-authority-helping-villages/article33631544.ece
22 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Training: Navodaya Vidyalaya Samiti ties up with CIIL||Taking a step towards the successful implementation of the National Education Policy (NEP) in terms of promotion of regional languages in schools, the Navodaya Vidyalaya Samiti (NVS) has collaborated with the National Testing Service-India under the Central Institute of Indian Languages (CIIL), Mysuru, to train language teachers of Navodaya Vidyalayas in the country. A six-day online capacity-building programme for each language is planned. NVS, in collaboration with NTS-I, CIIL, has proposed to run the programme for 14 languages. The capacity-building programmes for four languages — Kannada, Marathi, Malayalam, and Telugu — will be conducted in January and February 2021. C.G. Venkatesha Murthy, director, CIIL, Mysuru, said CIIL was ready to help, collaborate, guide, and provide academic resources and training to NVS or any other organisation on any front for matters pertaining to Indian languages. He further added in a release that CIIL was fully equipped to conduct training and the institute was committed to the protection, preservation, and promotion of all Indian languages, irrespective of their socio-linguistic status. Vinayak Garg, commissioner, NVS, said language teacherswould prove to be the backbone for the successful implementation of NEP-2020. He said such programmes, along with their training modules, would be made available throughgovernment portals such as Diksha, Swayam, and NIOS for the larger benefit of the teaching community and the public. Mr. Garg stated that students must be able to hone L-S-R-W (Listening, Speaking, Reading, and Writing), the four skills of language learning, in their mother tongue and regional languages as native languages are very important for the better cognitive development of an individual. He also added that teaching regional languages to non-native speakers was one of the very important pillars of “Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat” as it would help strengthen the unity and integrity of a country like India, which has among of the highest linguistic diversity in the world. P.R. Dharmesh Fernandez, head, Centre for Testing and Evaluation, briefed the participants about the activities undertaken by CIIL and its seven regional centres across the country. He also gave a detailed description of CIIL’s major schemes and projects such as NTS-I, NTM, BVP, LDCIL, SPPEL, and Centres for Studies on Classical Languages. The training Lectures/sessions in the programmes will be delivered by renowned scholars from across the country. About 350 teachers will be trained with state-of-the-art techniques, tools, and technology in the area of language education, assessment, and evaluation. Pankaj Dwivedi, officer in-charge of NTS-I, CIIL, is programme coordinator. Gyanendra Kumar and Gopal Krishna, NVS, Deputy Commissioners, and Mohammad Aziz, Navodaya Leadership Institute, Rangareddy are supervising overall logistics of the programmes. Rakesh Cherucode (SRLC, CIIL) and Sujata Bhujang (WRLC, CIIL) are extending their academic support. The programmes will be organised under the joint patronage of Director, CIIL Mysuru, and Commissioner, NVS (HQ).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/training-navodaya-vidyalaya-samiti-ties-up-with-ciil/article33631546.ece
22 January 2021||January 22 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||HC notice on illegal construction in park||The Karnataka High Court on Thursday ordered issue of notice to the State government on a PIL petition seeking action against constructions put up illegally in the notified Cubbon Park area by various organisations, including agencies of the government. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum passed the order on a petition filed by Cubbon Park Walkers’ Association. Pointing out that Cubbon Park is notified under the Karnataka Parks, Play Fields and Open Spaces (Preservation and Regulation) Act, 1985, the petitioner has stated that several constructions were carried out illegally despite the High Court in 2001 specifically directing the government not to allow any new construction in the notified area without taking clearance from the court before proceeding with the construction. New structures The Public Works Department permitted construction by Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board, the Century Club, the Karnataka State Lawn Tennis Association, the Karnataka Government Secretariat Club, the Karnataka State Government Employees’ Association, the Press Club of Bangalore, and the Young Men’s Christian Association, who are operating in the area leased to them, the petitioner has alleged. The Century Club had put up several structures, including a swimming pool, the Government Secretariat Club had built a generator room and tennis courts, the Lawn Tennis Association had built a swimming pool, an extra room and other structures, and the BWSSB had built a tertiary treatment plant, the petitioner pointed out. The bench decided to hear the petition again on Friday after petitioner’s advocate Shankaranarayana Rao B.V. sought an interim order to restrain further construction by the Horticultural Department, which is maintaining the Cubbon Park, while the State Government Employees’ Association has commenced construction of a new hall in addition to the “NGO Hall” built earlier. The petitioner has also stated that all the constructions carried out in violation of the 2001 directions of the High Court should be demolished.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-notice-on-illegal-construction-in-park/article33631125.ece
22 January 2021||January 22 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Settlement demolished, several families rendered homeless||The Slum Board on Thursday morning razed several hutments in Krishnappa Garden, coming under New Thippasandra ward, rendering hundreds of people homeless. The residents, mostly daily wage labourers, claimed to have been living in the settlement for the past 30 years. They claim to possess voters’ identity cards, Aadhaar cards and to have voted in the recent Assembly and parliamentary elections. Uma Devi, a resident, said she and a few women were cooking for her extended family of 15 members when the police arrived with officials. “They kicked our vessels, spilled our ration and refused to allow us to collect our belongings. Our homes were razed in front of our eyes,” she said, and added that her family, including four children aged between one-and-a-half years to 12 years, are now out on the streets. Another resident said that there were originally 450 families living in the settlement. Houses were allotted to 353 families who have since shifted out. “The remaining families have been running from pillar to post to get allotment,” she said. According to K. Mariyappa from the Bhoomi Vasati Hakku Vanchitara Horata Samiti, though several representations have been submitted to the Karnataka Slum Development Board, Revenue Department, there has been no respite for over 80 families who continue to reside in the settlement. “The officials had reportedly pasted a notice announcing demolition on January 18. The notices should have ideally been issued to each house,” he said. K.R. Puram tahsildar maintained that the demolition had been carried out following directions of the High Court. He said the Slum Board had already rehabilitated 353 eligible families.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/settlement-demolished-several-families-rendered-homeless/article33631123.ece
22 January 2021||January 22 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||5 held for rape of PU student||The Hanumantha Nagar police on Thursday arrested three youths – aged between 20 and 25 years – for the rape of a 17-year-old first pre-university college student, and two of their friends for abetment. According to the police, the prime accused, Venkatesh, befriended the girl on social media and would allegedly force her to meet him and his friends. “The victim often visited her grandparents. She would slip out of the house late in the night to meet him,” said the police. Venkatesh allegedly instructed her to come to her grandparents’ house on January 18 and meet him at night when her family members were asleep. “He along with his friend Lekhan, another accused, took her to an apartment in Guttahalli and raped her. Some of their friends lived in the flat. Venkatesh had asked them to leave the place,” said a police officer. Meanwhile, the girl’s grandfather woke up in the middle of the night and realised that she was missing. He immediately alerted the police who began searching for the girl.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/5-held-for-rape-of-pu-student/article33631126.ece
22 January 2021||January 22 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Car festival||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/car-festival/article33631510.ece
22 January 2021||January 22 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||In right earnest||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/in-right-earnest/article33631329.ece
22 January 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Long wait ends, Alappuzha bypass opens on Jan. 28||After a wait of almost five decades, the Alappuzha bypass road will be opened to traffic on January 28, Public Works Minister G. Sudhakaran has said. It will be inaugurated jointly by Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari and Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan at 1 p.m. The 6.8-km two-lane bypass road, passing through the western side of NH 66, will link Kommady in the north to Kalarcode in the south. One of the major features of the bypass is a 4.8-km stretch of elevated highway that passes by the Alappuzha beach. Of the 4.8-km elevated highway, 3.2 km is flyover. The bypass is expected to bring relief to Alappuzha town, which has been witnessing traffic bottlenecks on its arterial roads for several years now. With the new road, the town will be able to breathe a little easier. It will also ensure smooth movement of traffic between the State capital and Ernakulam and beyond. The project comes to fruition after a wait of nearly five decades. Although mooted in the 1970s, it had remained on paper until the work got under way on April 10, 2015. The project which was set to be completed in September 2017 got delayed further on account of various reasons, including getting permission from Railways to place girders over the railway track as part of the construction of two rail overbridges (ROBs) at Malikamukku and Kuthirapanthy. Structural changes After inspecting the girders brought for the construction of the ROBs, Railways had recommended structural changes. Following this, necessary changes were made in the girders of both ROBs. Later, Railways granted permission to place the girders at Malikamukku in January 2020 and the nod for the work at Kuthirapanthy was received in June. The project has been implemented at a cost of Rs. 344 crore with equal shares borne by the Union and State governments. Besides, the State government spent an additional Rs. 25 crore for developing Kalarcode and Kommady Junctions, installing street lights among other works. Earlier, in November 2020, the State government received a message from the Centre informing of the Prime Minister's desire to inaugurate the Alappuzha bypass road. Mr. Sudhakaran said the State government had waited for two months to get the Prime Minister's date. After the Prime Minister informed about his inconvenience, Mr. Gadkari promised to launch the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/long-wait-ends-alappuzha-bypass-opens-on-jan-28/article33631446.ece
22 January 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Paddy farmers object to new procurement price||The State government’s decision to raise the procurement price of paddy to Rs. 28 has failed to enthuse paddy farmers in the district. The Kerala State Nel-Nalikera Karshaka Federation said that increasing the price from Rs. 27.48 to Rs. 28 was an insult to the farmers. Federation president Baby Parakadan said that procurement price should be increased to Rs. 30. The puncha paddy cultivation is progressing in Kuttanad and other parts of the district. Crop in 600 ha lost An increase in water level coupled with bund breaches following heavy downpour destroyed paddy in around 600 hectares in Kuttanad in recent weeks. Seepage of saline water into fields also poses a threat to the paddy crop. Irrigation Department, which opened some of the shutters of the Thanneermukkom bund earlier this month to drain excess water following a rise in water level in Kuttanad, has now closed the shutters to prevent the intrusion of saline water. Farmers have sown paddy in more than 26,000 hectares in Kuttanad and other parts of the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/paddy-farmers-object-to-new-procurement-price/article33631471.ece
22 January 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Floating solar project on solid ground||The first and largest floating solar project in the country on the Banasura Sagar Dam at Padinharethara in Wayanad has set a model in utilising non-conventional energy sources to tackle power crisis. The project, under the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB), was commissioned in December 2017. The board had spent Rs. 9.25 crore on the project, including Rs. 7 crore from the Innovation Fund of the State government and Rs. 2.25 crore as loan from NABARD. Capacity The project has the capacity to generate 7.5 lakh kilowatt hour (kWh) a year and it could generate 10,72,768.1 kWh till December 2020, P. Manoharan, Assistant Executive Engineer, (Research and Dam Safety sub-division) Banasura Sagar, told The Hindu . The 54,450-sq ft plant, with 1,938 solar panels, each with a capacity of 260 watts, are installed on 18 indigenously developed floating structures, Mr. Manoharan said. Besides, 500-kVA (kilovolt ampere) transformer, 17 inverters, each with 30-kW capacity, a Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) system to control and monitor power generation, and an anchoring system imported from Sweden to stabilise the plant on water are the constituents of the project. The power produced is transmitted to the 11-kV line of the KSEB, he said. The KSEB has also installed a dam-top solar project, which has been generating five lakh units of power a year. As many as 1,760 solar panels, each with a capacity of 260 watts, have been installed on the road atop the dam at a length of 285 metres. The project was commissioned in August 2016.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/floating-solar-project-on-solid-ground/article33631390.ece
22 January 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Experts submit report on medical college site||The visit of an expert team led by Wayanad District Collector Adeela Abdulla to identify a suitable land for setting up the proposed medical college in the public sector concluded on Thursday. The government had allocated Rs. 300 crore for the proposed medical college in its 2021 budget. The 10-member team comprising experts from the National Institute of Technology, Kozhikode, senior officials of Soil Conservation, Public Works and Health Departments visited four sites in the district, including the District Hospital at Mananthavady, a site under the possession of the government at Boys Town in Periya village, another at Madakkimala in the Kottathara village, and a piece of private land at Chelode in Chundale village. The team assessed the advantages and drawbacks of the four sites and submitted its report on Friday. The team found that the 50-acre plot at Madakkimala was suitable for the project owing to its proximity to the district headquarters, being at the centre of the district. But, the land lies in the orange zone and it would adversely affect the future prospects of the medical college, sources said. The land at Chelode is situated in an ideal place but it was yet to be acquired by the government. The team found that if the District Hospital which is spread on 8 acres of land is to be converted into a medical college, it would be more feasible as the current infrastructure facilities could be used for the project and a seven-storey building being constructed on the premises could be used for the purpose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/experts-submit-report-on-medical-college-site/article33631391.ece
22 January 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Unnikrishnan Namboothiri cremated with State honours||Actor Unnikrishnan Namboothiri was cremated on his house premises with full State honours on Thursday morning. Mr. Namboothiri had passed away at the age of 98 at the Payyanur Cooperative Hospital, where he was admitted with breathing issues. He was treated for COVID-19 and had tested negative for the virus. Actors Mammootty, Mohanlal, and Kamal Haasan paid their respects. Mr. Namboothiri had also acted with Rajinikanth and Kamal Haasan. He made his film debut at the age of 76 by acting in Desadanam directed by Jayaraj in 1996.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/unnikrishnan-namboothiri-cremated-with-state-honours/article33631388.ece
22 January 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Five rubber check dams for Kasaragod||Five rubber check dams in the district, under the Kasaragod Development Package, will be inaugurated on January 30. A dam will come up across the Madhuvahini river at a cost of Rs. 62 lakh. A sum of Rs. 48 lakh will be spent on the dam across the Manadukkam stream, Rs. 26.8 lakh on the dam at Kakoora filed at Kavumchira Pothodan across Alanthat Nappachal road, Rs. 28 lakh on the dam across Maniyat river at Kalikadavu, and Rs. 80 lakh on the one at Pampankuzhi across the Manjeswaram river.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/five-rubber-check-dams-for-kasaragod/article33631384.ece
22 January 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||4 kg of gold seized from car, two held||The Customs seized 4 kg of gold worth Rs. 2 crore, which was hidden in a secret cavity inside a car near Bekal here on Thursday. Officials of the Customs intercepted the car based on specific information. Two persons from Belgaum in Karnataka have been arrested in connection with the case. According to the officials, Jotiram, 23, and Thushar, 27, from Sakleshpur in Belgaum were caught with the gold, hidden in a secret compartment under the back seat of the Maruti car. The youths were caught near the Pallikkara toll booth at 11.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/4-kg-of-gold-seized-from-car-two-held/article33631447.ece
22 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||PCB to inspect industrial units in Eloor-Edayar zone||The State Pollution Control Board will inspect the industrial units in Eloor-Edayar area to check whether the companies were complying with norms and operating with the board’s consent under relevant Acts. The move forms part of the follow-up measures being initiated after the major fire breakout in two industrial units in Edayar on Saturday. The Environmental Surveillance Centre of the board at Eloor will inspect the companies in the Eloor-Edayar industrial belt. A preliminary assessment based on visits to some units by board officials in Eloor revealed lapses in the operation and failure to comply with rules and regulations. Some of the units were engaged in the production of materials other than what they had agreed to at the time of issuing the consent to operate. Officials found that the erring industrial units had not displayed sign boards at specific spots inside and outside their premises despite rules making them mandatory. It was found that certain chemical units were functioning without the valid consent of the board. The inspection team had to wait for long in front of a locked gate of an industrial unit. Employees who turned up after some time feigned ignorance when asked to submit the licence and documents pertaining to the consent to operate. Owners of units were summoned in some cases and asked to submit or renew licences immediately. A few units were functioning without adequate pollution control facilities. The board found that certain units had not designated officials capable of explaining details related to raw materials used, products and pollution control measures available. The failure to comply with the directions issued by the board earlier also came to the fore at the time of inspection. Managements had given least priority to implement the norms prescribed under environment protection, air, and water Acts. The board’s plan is to inspect the industrial units in the Eloor-Edayar region in a phased manner. Notices will be issued to units operating in violation of norms. The companies will get a chance to submit their reply and implement necessary steps within the time-frame prescribed under rules.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pcb-to-inspect-industrial-units-in-eloor-edayar-zone/article33631424.ece
22 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||KURTC will be given a new lease of life, says Biju Prabhakar||The six-year-old Kerala Urban Road Transport Corporation (KURTC) will be revived and given a new lease of life soon, simultaneous with the formation of KSRTC-SWIFT, a legally independent company for operating long-distance buses. This will bring about optimal utility of KURTC’s fleet of 340 low-floor non-AC buses on city routes. “Most of these non-AC services were idling due to their low fuel efficiency and higher operation and maintenance expense as compared to regular buses operated by KSRTC, KURTC’s parent organisation,” said Biju Prabhakar, Chairman and Managing Director of KSRTC. “A decision has been taken to operate the 140-strong fleet of Tata Marco Polo buses of KURTC in Thiruvananthapuram city. Automatic gear system will be installed in the 200 Ashok Leyland rear-engine buses since repairing their manual gear system proved costly and drivers were finding it difficult to change gears. This had resulted in most of them idling in depots, although their engine is very good. Trial run of buses retrofitted with automatic gear was successfully completed in Thiruvananthapuram. More such buses will shortly turn automatic and resume their services,” he said. AC buses The KURTC will be divested of the balance 190 AC buses, which will be brought under KSRTC-SWIFT, which would have under it all long-distance buses of the RTC. Over the past year, these low-floor AC buses — each of which costs Rs. 1 crore, together operated only 5.17 lakh km, as compared to their potential to operate 190 lakh km. Few complained when this many premium buses, which were procured under JNNURM scheme, were let to rust. The seats of a few of these buses had been modified in order to provide a more comfortable ride. This improvisation will be done in other buses as well, Mr. Prabhakar said. The resumption of services of KURTC’s 340 non-AC buses will in turn improve chances of empanelled bus crew being regularised. The agency, formed as per a Government Order, will also get a full-fledged bylaw to streamline its operations, sources in the agency said. Urban transport The KURTC, headquartered at Thevara, was formed in 2015 to array AC and non-AC low-floor buses which were procured largely using Central government funds, to usher in a qualitative change in urban public transport in Kerala. Sadly, it does not even have a full-time special officer to oversee its functioning. Official sources in KURTC said that the agency’s daily services from Thevara fell to a mere 23 AC buses. The pandemic took a toll on patronage for AC buses, which too recorded fuel efficiency of just around 2.40 km per litre, they said. In the absence of a dedicated team, the operation of KURTC buses was still controlled by KSRTC’s operations wing, based in the State capital. “For now, we have been instructed to start the idling buses every few days and move them a little, so that they are in running condition. Low-floor buses, priced much higher than regular buses, would not have fallen out of demand if key features like GPS in them had been activated when they were launched over a decade ago,” they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kurtc-will-be-given-a-new-lease-of-life-says-biju-prabhakar/article33631420.ece
22 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Canal, drain cleaning in city will be completed by May, says Mayor||At the Kochi Corporation’s first meeting after the new council took charge, Mayor M. Anilkumar said that work on cleaning canals and drains in the city would be completed by May. Estimates for work to be undertaken had already been prepared and an official would be appointed to oversee the work on large canals. United Democratic Front (UDF) councillors raised grievances over the matter of the corporation having to deposit Rs. 4.88 crore with the District Disaster Management Authority for the restoration of the Mullassery Canal and a few channels in other areas, as per a High Court order. They pointed out that the previous council had unanimously decided that the corporation would implement the work, while the Operation Breakthrough team would only prepare a detailed project report for it. With the court order, the corporation would only deposit the money, while the Operation Breakthrough team would implement it, said UDF councillor Deepthi Mary Varghese. M.G. Aristottil stated that the projects implemented under Operation Breakthrough had failed to alleviate the city’s waterlogging woes, and that the cost for the work should be deposited only when the team prepares the DPR and submits it to the council for its approval. The Mayor said that the money would have to be deposited in a month’s time as per the court order. “But once the amount is paid, the corporation can insist on the DPR to be presented to the council before the project is implemented,” he said. When councillors raised the issue of the Operation Breakthrough team not consulting them while preparing or implementing projects, Mr. Anilkumar said that a special council meeting would be held to discuss waterlogging-related work that had been omitted under the project. A new study on the ways to address waterlogging would be necessary, the Mayor said. For the smaller drains in each division, a sum of Rs. 1 lakh has been allotted for the cleaning and spraying necessary to control mosquito menace. The Mayor has directed all councillors to constitute ward-level committees as soon as possible and conduct a meeting of these committees along with standing committee chairpersons or senior councillors to implement a campaign to control the city’s mosquito problem. Road restoration UDF councillors also said that there was no clarity over the digging up and restoration of roads that would be undertaken by Indian Oil-Adani Gas Private Limited for the city gas project. Opposition leader Antony Kureethara said that a detailed discussion would be necessary to ensure that the public is not inconvenienced by ruined roads. Mr. Anilkumar said that the company was obligated to restore the roads and in case of issues, the corporation could intervene. The previous council had already agreed to the matter of the company digging and restoring the roads to lay gas pipelines, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/canal-drain-cleaning-in-city-will-be-completed-by-may-says-mayor/article33631427.ece
22 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||College explores scope of tourism, heritage studies||Maharaja’s College, Ernakulam, has scaled up efforts to explore job and research potential in the fields of tourism and heritage. The only autonomous college in the government sector launched a certificate programme on ‘Intangible Heritage Tourism’ on Thursday. The programme, consisting of 60 hours, will be completed in six months online. Venu Rajamony, former Ambassador of India to the Netherlands, urged the college authorities to involve the tourism industry to enhance the quality and potential of the programme. “Tourism cannot be learnt inside a classroom alone. You need to invite people representing the tourism sector as guest faculty and in designing the curriculum,” he said in his inaugural address. Mr. Rajamony suggested that the course be tailor-made in tune with the requirements of the tourism industry. “Stakeholders in the tourism sector can share their experience with course participants,” he said. The former diplomat also recommended audio and video documentation of memories related to the Maharaja’s College by its former faculty members and students while saying that the history of the college was intertwined with the rich legacy and heritage of Kochi. New course P.K. Raveendran, outgoing chairman of the governing council, said that the college will soon roll out the integrated postgraduate programme in Archaeology and Material Cultural Studies as part of the continuing efforts to enhance research and learning in niche areas. “The certificate programme in Intangible Heritage Tourism will help in creating professionals guides in the field of tourism, heritage, museum, etc.,” he said. Vinodkumar Kallolickal, Associate Professor, Department of History, said that students would also gain essential knowledge and skills to carry out independent studies and research in heritage and conservation projects at museums, heritage sites and tourism places. There is no age bar for joining the course. Graduates from any university in the country and abroad approved by the University Grants Commission can apply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/exploring-scope-of-tourism-studies/article33631416.ece
22 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||CM to launch Water Metro project on Feb. 22||The Rs. 747-crore Water Metro project to introduce a fleet of 78 air-conditioned ferries in the Greater Kochi area will be inaugurated online on February 22 by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, sources at Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) said. This is a week and a half earlier than was estimated. The first 100-passenger vessel that is slated to roll out of Cochin Shipyard later this month, is slated to begin service on the Vyttila-Kakkanad route, where work on terminals at either end is in its last lap. It will undergo trial runs for a few weeks before the formal inauguration. The first batch of 23 vessels will have seating capacity for 50 passengers, while another up to 50 people can commute standing. The vessels will have speed of over 8 knots (over 15 km per hour), which is double the speed of conventional ferries (except SWTD’s fast ferry Vega-120 that travels much faster) that operate in Kochi. A team from IIM-Kozhikode is slated to shortly suggest a fare structure for the Water Metro project. “The deadline to submit the recommendations (including on the basis of online survey) expired on Wednesday. The team is keen to expand the ambit of their survey and have fanned out to social media platforms and the target group of the Water Metro project — thousands of people who live on islands around mainland Kochi,” metro sources said. Armed with Malayalam and English questionnaires, they are in touch with self-help groups and Ayalkoottams to get an idea of how much fare probable commuters consider as reasonable and affordable. A few members are taking the response of people who alight from ferries at SWTD jetties, they added. Night navigation While the first ferry is expected to be handed over to KMRL this month-end, the other 22 will follow suit in batches, so that all of them are made available to the agency by year-end. The metro agency, which has assured the same level of comfort and reliability as Kochi metro in the ferries, will place orders for the balance 55 fifty-passenger ferries, based on feedback for the ferries launched in phase one. The ferries, which have capability of night navigation as well, are expected to operate from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m., just like metro rail services. The project’s operational control centre (OCC) is expected to get ready later this year near its ferry terminal at Vyttila Mobility Hub. The second corridor where the ferries would operate is the passenger-dense High Court-Vypeen-Fort Kochi route.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-to-launch-water-metro-project-on-feb-22/article33631421.ece
22 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Prison officials likely to get clean chit in youth’s death||The prison authorities are likely to be given a clean chit in the death of a remand prisoner who had a seizure and collapsed at the Borstal school at Thrikkakara on January 12 and died the day after at Kottayam Government Medical College Hospital. Shefeek, 35, of Kanjirappally in Kottayam was arrested by the Udayamperoor police and was kept at the Borstal school in the interim period awaiting his COVID-19 test result before being shifted to prison as is the practice now in the case of remand prisoners. Sam Thankkayyan,, DIG, Prisons, Central Zone, who was entrusted with a probe into the death after the victim’s family alleged foul play and custodial torture, is likely to submit his report to DGP, Prisons, in the next couple of days. The report, it is learnt, has absolved the prison authorities of any wrongdoing and vindicates their claim that they had ensured timely medical assistance and followed all legal protocol. Social media post The controversy around the death was reignited on Thursday after Nipun Cherian, the campaign controller of V4 Kochi, in a social media post accused the prison authorities of indifference and demanded that they be charged for culpable homicide not amounting to murder. He was an inmate at the Borstal school at the time of the incident after being remanded in connection with the unauthorised opening of the Vyttila flyover. He claimed that he was eyewitness to the incident that happened right opposite the cell in which he was kept. “The victim was attended by his co-inmates and the jail authorities rather than moving him to hospital despite repeated pleas. His death could have been averted if timely medical assistance was provided,” said Mr. Cherian who also complained of the unhygienic conditions, bad food, and absence of COVID protocol in the Borstal school. Allegations denied However, the Borstal school authorities shot down the allegations and claimed that the victim was given timely medical assistance despite his reassurance that he used to have seizures and that there was nothing to worry about. “He had a seizure at 12.30 p.m. following which he was sent to the Thripunithura taluk hospital to consult the doctor despite his reluctance. He was alright thereafter before he vomited following which he was rushed to the Ernakulam General Hospital from where he was referred to the Kottayam Medical College only because of lack of beds and not because his condition was serious,” said the Borstal school authorities. He died there the next day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/prison-officials-likely-to-get-clean-chit-in-youths-death/article33631425.ece
22 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Panel moots steps to boost ornamental fisheries||The committee of experts constituted to study the problems dogging ornamental fisheries in the State has suggested, among other things, promoting indigenous varieties for export, establishing an aquatic quarantine centre, easing the process of brood stock imports to encourage local entrepreneurs, and setting up a laboratory for repackaging export consignments. A large variety of ornamental fish available in the Western Ghats region hold great potential for exports, said Riji John, Dean, Fisheries, Kerala University of Fisheries and Ocean Studies, who headed the committee. He pointed to the success of “Miss Kerala” or Red Line Torpedo Barb, which is indigenous to some of the streams in the Western Ghats and has been in great demand. Dr. John said that the breeding biology and seed production had been standardised for Miss Kerala. There were 117 varieties indigenous to the State, which held potential for ornamental fisheries. There was also potential for Kerala to grow into an exporter of marine ornamental fishes, he said. He said that import of brood stocks should be made easier to help local rearing. Groups such as Kudumbashree could be involved in rearing them until they attained the marketable size. An aquatic quarantine centre was needed to ensure that pathogens did not enter the country through ornamental fish imports. The aquatic quarantine centre now was in Chennai for shrimps. Dr. John said that Kerala accounted for about 20 per cent of the ornamental fish exports from India and the State earned Rs. 1.56 crore out of a total national export of Rs. 7.6 crore. But there was high potential for the business, given the State’s natural advantages. Ornamental fisheries would get a big boost with the business being included in the Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana. The aim of the programme was to raise fish production to 220 lakh tonnes by 2024-25, at an average annual growth of nine per cent by investing around Rs. 20,000 crore in various projects. Meanwhile, Kerala Aqua Ventures International Limited (KAVIL), established in 2008-09 to help ornamental fisheries business, is reviving its activities after the infrastructure established initially suffered a setback during the floods of 2018 and 2019. A senior official said that the Ventures was now into establishing a brood stock bank, launching an aquarium fabrication unit and establishing an aquatic plant production unit. The process of revival of the hubs for ornamental fish production and rearing was also under way, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/panel-moots-slew-of-measures-to-boost-ornamental-fisheries/article33631418.ece
22 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Proposed law to ensure quality of cattle feed welcomed||The State government move to bring about legislation to ensure the quality of cattle feed available in Kerala has widely been welcomed by the community of dairy farmers and experts in the sector. “Cattle feed is a big business and unscrupulous elements have been exploiting the market situation, especially the shortage of raw materials, in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. In this context, the move by the government to bring about a law to ensure quality is most welcome,” said a senior veterinarian. Minister for Animal Husbandry and Dairy Development K. Raju had said that the draft of the new law was ready and was meant to ensure the supply of quality feed in the State. The Minister was speaking in response to a query by Anoop Jacob, MLA, who sought measures both for giving subsidy to farmers in the wake of spiralling feed price and supply of quality feed in the State.  Sony Eeettakkan, dairy farmer and president of the Chakkampuzha Dairy Cooperative (Pala), said that the quality of most of the supplies in the market had deteriorated so much that farmers were now being forced to source inputs separately and mix in their own households to feed animals. There are farmers who visit Tamil Nadu centres to source inputs on a regular basis. “This ensures quality feed as well as health of animals,” he said. Dairy farmer and president of the Ernakualm Region Cooperative Milk Producers’ Union John Theruvath said that Milma was ensuring quality feed supplies and pointed to certain areas which needed attention to ensure that farmers got the best from the market. Major producers Kerala Feeds Limited (KFL) and Milma are the key producers of cattle feed in the State. KFL capacity is 1,750 tonnes per day, while Milma produces 10 tonnes per day from its two plants. Milma accounts for about 30% of the feed market in Kerala, said an official of the cooperative.  A KFL official said that the company had facilities for testing raw materials as well as finished product at all its production sites in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/proposed-law-to-ensure-quality-of-cattle-feed-welcomed/article33631411.ece
22 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||COVID fails to dampen spirit of book lovers||The pandemic, it seems, largely failed to break the tryst between readers and books going by the applications for membership being received by the Ernakulam Public Library. One of the oldest libraries in the State kept its lending section open all along except during the 40 days of the lockdown immediately after which readers, both new and old, started returning. “On an average, we have been receiving 70 new membership applications since our lending section was reopened after the lockdown. It has further surged in the past couple of months. Though yet to return to the pre-COVID levels, the lending of books has been stable and is increasing all the time,” said the librarian, Priya K. Peter. However, the library has no immediate plans to run any membership campaign, which it has been doing at regular intervals, owing to the prevailing restrictions. Extension centres After being closed for months, the library threw open the doors of its reading and reference sections and an adjoining hall where the general public can bring their own books to read, on the New Year day in strict compliance with COVID protocol. Plans are also afoot to open the library’s extension centres at the High Court, Infopark Kochi and the Greater Cochin Development Authority office shortly. “Food and water from outside are strictly banned inside the library premises while masks and gloves are mandatory. Only five persons are allowed inside the lending section at a time and 15 in the reading room,” said Ms. Peter. All recent titles The library never ceased buying new books through the pandemic times and has already bought all recently released English titles, including from the recently held book fest by the library council. The library now boasts over 2 lakh books and over 10,700 members. The library was fully fumigated during the height of the pandemic and even used to sanitise the books returned. Later, the sanitisation was stopped but the books were kept separately for 15 days, which has since then been reduced to seven days, before they were returned to the racks of the lending section. The library now offers five different categories of membership – A, B, and C, life membership and institutional membership. All members, except those under the B and C categories, were eligible to take home four books at a time and the other two could take two and one book respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-fails-to-dampen-spirit-of-book-lovers/article33631650.ece
22 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC disposes of plea for probe||The Kerala High Court on Thursday disposed of a petition seeking a probe by a Central agency into the findings of the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) that several irregularities crept into the agreement between the State and Adani Ports Private Limited for setting up the Vizhinjam international multi-purpose deepwater seaport. The CAG had also reported that several conditions in the agreement were unfavourable to the State, contended the petitioner. The State submitted that it had sanctioned a Vigilance investigation into the matter after receiving a commission report, which looked into the CAG's findings. Considering the submission of the State, the court noted that the State had taken care of the grievance brought to the notice of the court by appointing a Commission of Inquiry as well as by directing a Vigilance investigation. Once the Vigilance investigation is complete, the law shall take its own course, the court noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-disposes-of-plea-for-probe/article33631636.ece
22 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC orders payment of withheld allowances||The Kerala High Court has asked the Fertilizers and Chemicals Travancore Ltd (FACT) to refund within one month the enhanced house rent allowance and local travel expenses to its retired employees, which the company had held back awaiting the approval of the Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers. It was on a batch of petitions filed by the former employees that the court issued the order. The petitioners alleged that large amounts were deducted from their terminal benefits as the government of India had not yet approved the payment of enhancement of the HRA/LTE.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-orders-payment-of-withheld-allowances/article33631410.ece
22 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||771 new COVID cases, 713 recoveries in Ernakulam||Ernakulam district recorded 771 new COVID-19 cases and 713 recoveries on Thursday. In Thrikkakara, 35 people tested positive, while 22 cases were reported from Mazhuvannoor, 21 from Kavalangad, and 20 each from Thripunithura and Vengoor. Twelve health workers also tested positive. A total of 11,078 people are being treated for the disease in the district. PVS Hospital would soon be able to accommodate 100 patients in order to handle the surge that the district has been witnessing, said Dr. Mathews Numpeli, district programme manager, National Health Mission. The Government Medical College would retain around 40 ICU beds for critically ill COVID patients even when it resumes non-COVID inpatient services, he said. The District Hospital at Aluva would begin functioning as a COVID care facility by the end of the month. 1,039 vaccinated The Covishield vaccine was administered to 1,039 health workers at 12 centres on Thursday. New vaccination centres began functioning at the Kumbalanghi Community Health Centre, North Paravur Taluk Hospital, Muvattupuzha General Hospital and the Angamaly taluk hospital. A total of 180 people took the vaccine at the Government Medical College Hospital at Kalamassery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/771-new-covid-cases-713-recoveries-in-ernakulam/article33631428.ece
22 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||EV charging station opened||An electrical vehicle charging station was inaugurated at the Vyttila Indian Oil Corporation outlet on Thursday by Tarun Kapoor, Secretary, Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas. A communication from the oil company said that IOC would commission a total of 15 EV charging stations across Kerala by March this year. Earlier, the company had commissioned an EV charging station at Edappally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ev-charging-station-opened/article33631412.ece
22 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Laity forum warns Bishops||The Joint Christian Council, a federation of laity organisations, has warned that the alleged move by Bishops to draw the Christian community members into the Sangh Parivar fold would pave the way for major setbacks and that the Bishops, who were trying to “sell” the community members to the Sangh Parivar, would be obstructed in the streets. ‘Backdoor talks’ Backdoor discussions were on by the Bishops to “fix a price on the community members,” the council alleged, said Felix Pulloodan, president of the council in a statement here. George Kattikkaran and Joseph Velivil were among those who participated in the meeting here on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/laity-forum-warns-bishops/article33631413.ece
22 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Four Customs officials suspended||Four Customs officials were suspended from service following the CBI crackdown at the Kozhikode airport the other day. Those who have been placed under suspension are Customs Superintendent Asha and Sathyendra Singh, and Inspectors Sudheer Kumar and Yazar Arafath.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/four-customs-officials-suspended/article33631422.ece
22 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||74.5% polling in Kalamassery ward||A total of 74.52% of the electorate, accounting for 775 of the 1,040 voters, cast their votes in the election to ward no 37 of Kalamassery municipality on Thursday. Polling to the ward could not be held along with the election to other local bodies in December following the death of a candidate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/745-polling-in-kalamassery-ward/article33631423.ece
22 January 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||647 test positive in Kottayam||As many as 647 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Thursday. Of the new cases, 641 persons, including a health worker, contracted the virus through local contact. The new cases also included 69 children and 110 persons aged above 60. With 79 cases, Kottayam municipality led the tally, followed by Ettumanur with 32 cases. With 697 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 6,459 active cases. In Pathanamthitta, 534 persons contracted the virus on Thursday. Of the fresh cases, 507 persons were infected through local contact and among these, the contact source of 34 cases were yet to be identified. Two deaths Among the local bodies, Pathanamthitta reported 25 cases, followed by Kulanada with 21 cases. The disease claimed two more lives in the district and the victims were identified as 55-year-old woman from Erathu and a 57-year-old woman from Ranni-Pazhavangadi. With 594 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 5,321 active cases. Alappuzha reported 415 COVID-19 cases on Thursday. It also recorded two COVID-19-related deaths. The new cases include 404 patients who contracted the disease through local transmission. The source of infection of six people remains unknown. Four people who came from abroad and one health worker tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Meanwhile, 398 people recovered from the disease on Thursday. The active COVID-19 caseload stands at 4,263.  (With inputs from Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/647-test-positive-in-kottayam/article33631475.ece
22 January 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Duck farmers to get damages||The disbursement of compensation to duck farmers in Kottayam and Alappuzha districts who sustained losses during the recent bird flu outbreak will begin on Sunday. An official statement by the Animal Husbandry Department said Minister K. Raju will inaugurate the disbursal of compensation at a function to be held at the Alappuzha district panchayat hall at 2 p.m. Categories Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac will preside over the function. Public Works Minister G. Sudhakaran and Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala will take part. As per the compensation announced, the government will give Rs. 5 an egg. For birds below 60 days, Rs. 100 each will be given and above 60 days, Rs. 200 each will be given. A government order with regard to expending the amount from the corpus fund of Animal Disease Control Programme too has been issued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/duck-farmers-to-get-damages/article33631473.ece
22 January 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||MG varsity bags patent||The Mahatma Gandhi University, Kottayam, has bagged yet another patent for developing a polymer nanocomposite material that can block electromagnetic waves emitted by cell phones. The material, developed by the International and Inter University Centre for Nanoscience and Nanotechnology (IIUCNN), was invented during a joint research carried out by Sabu Thomas, Vice Chancellor of MGU, Nandakumar Kalarikkal, Director of IIUCNN , Ajitha A.R., Geethamma V.G., Lovely P. Mathew, and Aswathi M.K. The material, prepared by mixing carbon nanotubes with the polymer blend of polytrimethylene terephthalate and polypropylene, achieved good electrical and mechanical properties. It can be used as a protector against the electromagnetic radiations from mobile phones and other gadgets.  Develops material that can block electromagnetic waves emitted by cellphones||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mg-varsity-bags-patent/article33631472.ece
22 January 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Aged man’s death: son taken into custody||A day after the ordeal of 80-year-old Podiyan and his 76-year-old wife Ammini came to light, the Mundakkayam police on Thursday took their younger son into custody. According to the police, 38-year-old Reji Kumar, a native of Asambani, near Mundakkayam, was taken into custody in connection with the death of his father, Podiyan. The accused has been charged with Section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the Indian Penal Code as he deliberately denied food, water and medicine to his father despite being aware that it would lead to his death. The police are also slated to book the accused under relevant sections of the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act, 2007 , besides seeking the possibility of arraigning Reji’s wife as a co-accused. Though Podiyan, along with wife, was rescued from their house the other day, the health of the 80-year-old had fatally deteriorated. A primary report of the post-mortem examination attributed the death to severe malnutrition. Malnutrition “As per the statement of the forensic expert, the victim’s internal organs had fatally contracted due to malnutrition, caused by lack of food. The exact reason of the malnutrition is yet to be ascertained but at the same time, the case has been altered from unnatural death to culpable homicide,” said J. Santhosh Kumar, Deputy Superinendent of Police, Kanjirappally. Officials said the investigation had revealed lapses on the part of their son in taking care of his parents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aged-mans-death-son-taken-into-custody/article33631433.ece
22 January 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Girl sustains severe burns||The police on Thursday launched a probe into the incident in which a 19-year-old girl, a Kalathippady resident, sustained severe burns allegedly following a leakage in the LPG cylinder. She was rushed to hospital where her condition continues to be critical.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/girl-sustains-severe-burns/article33631476.ece
22 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Call to release funds for road project||The Mananchira-Vellimadukunnu Road Action Committee has welcomed the State government’s decision to sanction Rs. 134.5 crore for the road widening project. However, the committee leaders, including historian M.G.S. Narayanan and Gandhian Thayat Balan, said the allotted funds should be immediately transferred to the Kerala Road Fund Board (KRFB). The funds should also be transferred to landowners who had agreed to hand over title deeds for the project. Committee working president Mathew Kattikkana and general secretary M.P. Vasudevan said the government should start the process of acquiring the required land under the Land Acquisition Act. Tenders for widening the road to a four-lane carriageway could be started only after acquiring the land, they said. The committee members also appealed to the government to avoid delay in releasing funds. Previously, when funds were sanctioned, they either lapsed or were delayed, they said. Earlier, the committee members had accused A. Pradeepkumar, MLA, of neglecting the project in the second phase of the Kozhikode City Road Improvement Project. Mr. Pradeepkumar had clarified through a statement of the Public Works Department (PWD) on January 15 that the government had accorded sanction for purchase of land for the project. The PWD said the Mananchira-Vellimadukunnu corridor was one of the seven projects included in the first phase of the Kozhikode City Road Improvement Project. KRFB Chief Executive Officer had requested the release of the third and final allotment from the totally sanctioned amount of Rs. 234.5 crore. About Rs. 100 crore for land acquisition was approved earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/call-to-release-funds-for-road-project/article33631393.ece
22 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Youth clubs to revive water sources||The fight to beat drought and scarcity of potable water will henceforth draw the active participation of youth club members in Kozhikode district. Preparations are in full swing to enlist all youth clubs functioning under the Nehru Yuva Kendra (NYK) to take up village-level campaigns for the revival of unused potable water sources and creation of maximum rainwater harvesting facilities. The clubs will collaborate with the district administration and local self-government institutions in the special drive under the Centre’s Jal Shakthi Abhiyan. The support of other voluntary youth organisations will also be sought during the implementation phase. Central, State and local body funds will be used for the activities. The major interventions planned under the initiative include water conservation and rainwater harvesting, revival of abandoned water sources, promotion of watershed development projects, and intensive afforestation. Improvement of such existing projects will also be considered. Each club is supposed to undertake water conservation activity in the respective area and spread the message among community members. They can approach the local bodies concerned for support and guidance. Also, club members have been asked to construct their own water harvesting structures on their house premises and encourage others to join them in the mission. According to NYK officials, the special drive aims at taking up advanced drought mitigation activities in areas with over-exploited groundwater levels. Districts with least availability of groundwater will be given preference, they said. “In Kozhikode, we have around 500 registered youth clubs under NYK. Of them, over 250 are very active in the field. With their support, we will be able to do something productive during this season to conserve water,” said an NYK official. The Kozhikode district panchayat has been very keen on preparing advance drought mitigation plans with the revival of abandoned water sources and creation of more rainwater harvesting structures.  Each club will undertake water conservation activity in the respective area and spread the message among community members||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youth-clubs-to-revive-water-sources/article33631402.ece
22 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Interest subvention to benefit thousands of MSMEs||The interest subvention for term loan and working capital loan declared by the State government is likely to benefit thousands of micro, small and medium enterprises(MSMEs) in Kozhikode district, which were going through acute financial crisis following the pandemic outbreak. The newly declared benefits under the ‘Vyavasaya Bhadratha’ (industrial safety) scheme will be available for those who secured bank loans for various ventures from April to December 31, 2020. According to Industries Department officials, 50% interest subsidy will be granted for eligible entrepreneurs under the scheme. The maximum amount to be granted for a loan will be Rs. 30,000. Those who have taken term loan and working capital loan will be eligible to claim Rs. 60,000 as subsidy. Only units which functioned properly in the first three months of 2020 will be eligible to apply for the aid. As of now, there are about 11,500 registered MSME units in Kozhikode district alone. Official figures with the District Industries Centre show that these units have around 45,000 workers to support various production activities. Self-help groups and individual ventures by a large number of women entrepreneurs are also part of the network. The closure of many such units after the COVID-19 outbreak led to the declaration of relief measures by the government. An official attached to the Industries Department said the interest subvention for term loan and working capital loan was only one of the several relief measures earlier declared by the State government. “About 17 specific measures, including extension of moratorium on industrial purpose loans, one-time settlement benefits, waiver of penal interests, interest-free top up loans and freezing of various premium payments or payments for common facilities, had been taken,” he said. The official also said the measures to start new ventures in the MSME sector were simplified to facilitate the entry of more youths into the sector and increase local employment opportunities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/interest-subvention-to-benefit-thousands-of-msmes/article33631406.ece
22 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Nature walk to bring Chalipuzha into focus||The Kerala Nadi Samrakshana Samiti (All Kerala River Protection Committee) is organising a nature walk along Chalipuzha in the district on January 30 to “highlight the threat faced by the river owing to disaster management activities.” It was barely a week ago that members of the Samiti paid a visit to Kodenchery where people from three wards along the the river had protested against the District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) for converting the river into a canal by demolishing boulders and levelling the bottom of the river. The action was reportedly taken by the DDMA to avert disasters like the floods of 2018 and 2019, when huge boulders and trees were washed away, causing a ‘dam effect’ around an irrigation bund on the river, thus flooding the neighbourhood. However, locals claimed that the move had disrupted the natural flow of the river and damaged its suitability to host Kayaking championships in the future. People from nearby tribal colonies also complained that crabs and fish had disappeared, and that they could not bathe in the river any more, as the little pools among boulders where they used to bathe have disappeared as well. “It is necessary that people get to know of this disaster. The nature walk will help us understand the river, its boulders, small crystal-like rocks, clear pools, and rapids. It will create awareness about the destruction of the river,” said T.V. Rajan, State general secretary of the Samiti. Meanwhile, a group of around 30 environmentalists from across the State will visit the river by the end of the month to assess the damage caused. The Samiti also plans to meet District Collector Seeram Sambasiva Rao on January 25 to discuss the matter. Those interested in participating in the nature walk shall contact 94973-07319 / 75599-73021 for registration, before January 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nature-walk-to-bring-chalipuzha-into-focus/article33631396.ece
22 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Varied permutations at Vadakara||The candidature profile of the Vadakara Assembly segment, mostly socialist, is likely to change with the Congress and the CPI(M) pitching for their own nominees in the forthcoming Assembly polls. In the 2016 polls, the Janata Dal (Secular) and the Janata Dal (United) were in a direct contest, from the LDF and the UDF camps respectively. But now, both entities are with the LDF and are making moves to get the seat. However, the CPI(M) leadership has different electoral plans — to put up its own candidate or an acceptable face in the Vadakara segment. All these years, the CPI(M) has been offering the seat to the ‘socialist’ parties. Incidentally the last victory of a communist here was in 1957, that of Kelu Mandoti Kuniyil. Veteran leader C.K. Nanu won the seat in 2016, 2011 and 2001 on the JD(S) ticket and as Janata Dal nominee in 1996. M.K. Premnath of the JD(S) was the winner in the 2006 polls. Another socialist leader K. Chandrasekharan represented the segment from 1977 to 1996. If the CPI(M) decides to execute its plan, the intense political rivalry between the JD(S) and the now transmuted nascent partner in the Left platform, Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD), will finally come to an end at least electorally. In the Congress Into the bargain is the Congress party after its spectacular victory in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Then Congress nominee K. Muraleedharan logged 71,162 votes while P. Jayarajan of the CPI(M) secured 48,199. The Congress has never won from the segment. However, the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) leadership is planning to support K.K. Rema, wife of slain Revolutionary Marxist Party (RMP) leader T.P. Chandrasekharan, as an Independent candidate sensing that the political narrative in Vadakara will favour the Congress coalition. In the 2016 Assembly polls, Ms. Rema got over 20,000 votes as an RMP candidate while Mr. Nanu secured 49,211 votes and his opponent Manayath Chandran, 39,700 votes. However, the RMP, which had an electoral understanding with the UDF in the recent local body polls, is yet to decide on contesting the seat. Nevertheless, in the last three parliamentary polls, the RMP has been tactically ensuring the victory of Congress candidates in Vadakara. This will be more pronounced now in the Assembly segment also.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/varied-permutations-at-vadakara/article33631383.ece
22 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||How ‘ummini valya onnu’ expounded social constructivism||“ Onnum onnum ummini valya onnu (One plus one equal to a slightly bigger one)”. Kozhikode Mayor Beena Philip on Thursday picked this well-known phrase from Vaikom Mohammed Basheer’s classic Malayalam novel Balyakalasakhi to explain how she leaned on his works to learn the concept of “social constructivism”. Ms. Philip was opening the writer’s birth anniversary celebrations here. “Social constructivism is a theory in teaching that says knowledge is what we learn from others, from the family, the neighbourhood, from the outside world. When we interact with others, the knowledge we learn stays with us,” she said. Students should not be forced to learn through rote only from textbooks. They should instead interact with society. Teachers need to be the resource persons who chisel this knowledge,” Ms. Philip, who had been a teacher herself, said. “There is no need for degrees or PhDs to have this realisation. We just need to think. Basheer’s words assume significance here. We need to tell the children when one plus one becomes a bigger one and when it becomes two,” Ms. Philip said. Basheer also did not care much about grammar but only looked at how his words communicated with the readers, she added. Later, artist Madanan drew a portrait to formally open ‘Chitra Bhitthi’, a series of paintings based on the works of Basheer, drawn over a week by around 30 artists and to be displayed on the 150-ft-long port compound wall near the Beypore Jhankar jetty. Video contest The over-a-month-long celebrations include an art, craft, tourism, and literature festival. One of the events planned is ‘Hundred Minutes Ka Sultan’, a short video competition depicting any character or life situation associated with the writer or his works. Artist Gurukulam Babu will create a sand sculpture of Basheer on the Kozhikode beach on January 30. Pradeep Hudinho, magician, is the general convener of the festival being organised by the All-India Malayalee Association along with the Beypore Heritage Forum. Mizoram Governor P.S. Sreedharan Pillai will open the literary and cultural festival at Hotel Malabar Palace on February 1. A film festival, a short film festival, and a global short story contest on the theme ‘Survival’ are part of the festival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/how-ummini-valya-onnu-expounded-social-constructivism/article33631432.ece
22 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Govt. nod for Rs. 290-cr. project for MCH||The State government has given administrative approval for the first phase of the master plan aimed at taking up development work to make the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, a centre of excellence. The estimated cost of the project is Rs. 290 crore. As per the plan, all outpatient wards will be shifted to a new building near Indian Coffee House restaurant, sources said. The proposal will now be presented at a high-level meeting of the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) to be held this month, for approval. Once the plan gets KIIFB nod and funds are allocated, construction work will begin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-nod-for-rs-290-cr-project-for-mch/article33631385.ece
22 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Exporters form new panel for coordination||Leading exporters from north Kerala on Thursday formed a new committee under the Kerala Exporters’ Forum to keep them updated on incentives and financial aids given by the Central and State governments for promotion of export and import. Six regional office-bearers and a nine-member executive committee were elected. District-wise meetings will be held soon to form separate committees and bring members together through social media platforms. Committee members said that lack of awareness or absence of proper communication on various benefits offered by Customs, Directorate General of Foreign Trade, forex banks, and shipping lines for exporters resulted in heavy losses for several entrepreneurs. The formation of the committee was a year-old plan, which got delayed further following the COVID-19 outbreak, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/exporters-form-new-panel-for-coordination/article33631386.ece
22 January 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||579 fresh cases, 525 recoveries in Kozhikode||As many as 579 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode on Thursday, while there were 525 recoveries. According to the District Medical Officer, there were 564 locally acquired infections and the source of 12 others was not known. The test positivity rate is 9.32%. A total of 133 cases of local transmission were reported from Kozhikode Corporation. Vadakara had 33 such cases, Kakkodi 28, and Thamarassery 21. Seven deaths were reported between Wednesday and Thursday at the Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode. 238 cases in Wayanad As many as 238 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad on Thursday. Of the new cases, 237 patients were infected through local contact.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/579-fresh-cases-525-recoveries-in-kozhikode/article33631399.ece
22 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Guns recovered||A special squad of the Forest Department recovered guns and many other accessories used by a poachers’ gang at Kallanpullu near Poovaranthodu in Kozhikode district on Thursday. The gang fled from the spot on seeing the squad. Officials, who were part of the inspection, said there were attempts to attack the squad members using guard dogs. A search in the area had been intensified to arrest the escapees, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/guns-used-by-poachers-gang-recovered/article33631401.ece
22 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||stress on gender-inclusive business||The second edition of the International Conference on Gender Equality (ICGE) to be held on the Gender Park campus in Kozhikode from February 11 to 13 will focus on the measures to unleash the economic potential of women and transgenders that will empower them to become successful entrepreneurs. Around 50 speakers, primarily industry experts, policymakers, academics, professionals and domain experts from across the globe will address the event featuring delegates, including budding entrepreneurs and social innovators. The three-day conference will also discuss how to make entrepreneurship and social businesses more gender inclusive to facilitate the active participation of women and transgender persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stress-on-gender-inclusive-business/article33631397.ece
22 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Straying wild boar shot dead||A wild boar that strayed into a residential area at Pattarchola in Karassery panchayat was shot dead on Thursday. The animal was killed with the support of a licensed gun owner called to the spot by the Forest Department by around 3.30 p.m. Earlier, a villager had a narrow escape from the attack of the animal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/straying-wild-boar-shot-dead/article33631404.ece
22 January 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Kerala’s tillers go all the way to Assam||The Palakkad Division of the Southern Railway added yet another feather in its cap when it carried 648 power tillers in a special goods train from here to Assam on Thursday. This was the third consignment of power tillers sent from Palakkad Division to the northeast during the COVID-19 period. The Railway officials here were upbeat when they loaded the KAMCO power tillers into BCCNR wagons specially designed for carrying road vehicles and farm vehicles. The special goods train left Palakkad Junction for Changsari in Assam on Thursday night. Railway officials said that the tiller consignment would fetch them Rs. 25.46 lakh revenue. 1,239 so far Palakkad Rail Division has despatched 1,239 power tillers since COVID-19 lockdown in March. When 618 power tillers were carried in May, 621 were carried in June, easing Railways from a crisis brought about by the lockdown. The Palakkad Rail Division’s freight offer provided relief to Kerala Agro Machinery Corporation Ltd. (KAMCO) during the lockdown as the tiller producer was finding it tough to transport the machines to the northeast. KAMCO, one of the biggest manufacturers of power tillers in India, faced the crisis at a time when it began getting bulk orders from the northeast. KAMCO’s road transport experiment failed as it not only took many days, but also involved complicated transshipment. It took up to 25 days to reach the destination from here. Limitations Trucks could carry only a limited number of tillers. When an ordinary truck could carry 10, a Taurus truck could carry up to 15. Railways addressed this problem by providing BCCNR wagons which could carry 25 tillers in each. Railway officials said here on Thursday that the train would cover more than 3,000 km in five days and would reach Assam by Tuesday.  Train will cover more than 3,000 km in five days and reach Assam by Tuesday||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/keralas-tillers-leave-for-assam-by-rail/article33631470.ece
22 January 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||New Collector takes charge||Mrunmai Joshi Shashank took charge as the District Collector here on Thursday. She replaces D. Balamurali, who has been appointed Labour Commissioner. Ms. Shashank said that she would give special attention to the uplift of backward areas, especially Attappady region. The new Collector said that efforts would be made to complete the drinking water and irrigation projects. An IAS officer of the 2013 batch from Maharashtra, Ms. Shashank had held such posts as Additional Director of Tourism, Secretary of Kozhikode Corporation, and Subcollector of Kasaragod.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-collector-takes-charge/article33631592.ece
22 January 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||240 cases in Palakkad||As many as 240 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Palakkad district on Thursday. When 89 of them contracted the disease through direct contact with infected persons, the source of infection could not be identified in146 cases. There were 123 recoveries in the district on Thursday. As many as 4,341 active cases are being treated across Palakkad. District officials said that 712 health workers were vaccinated in Palakkad on Thursday, taking the total number of vaccinated persons to 2,935. None reported any reactions or difficulties after the vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/240-cases-in-palakkad/article33631590.ece
22 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Minister flays EICL’s ‘detrimental stance’||Lashing out at the ‘detrimental stance’ adopted by English India Clays Ltd. (EICL), Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan has said the government has been adopting all possible steps to thwart the management’s attempt to close down its Kochuveli unit. No notice Responding to a question raised by V.S. Sivakumar, MLA, in the Assembly on Thursday, Mr. Jayarajan accused the management of unilaterally suspending operations without providing even a notice, let alone any lay-off compensation or any other financial assistance. “The company has attempted to cease production and flee from the State by portraying that the unit has been incurring losses. The government has been viewing the issue as a serious one and has been behind efforts to force the company to resume operations,” he said. Mr. Sivakumar said around 1,500 employees were pushed to dire straits ever since EICL suspended operations on August 10 last year. While the workers have been agitating for 165 days, the management has turned a blind eye to their woes. The hardships prompted one employee to commit suicide, while an attempt made by another to take the extreme step was thwarted by his colleagues. He added that the management has so far refused to relent to the directions of the government and remained hell-bent on ceasing operations despite being a profitable venture that functioned on an 11.5-acre plot leased by the government . The company has adopted delaying tactics to slow pedal the government’s bid to broker peace and resume operations, Mr. Sivakumar alleged. Mr. Jayarajan, along with Labour Minister T.P. Ramakrishnan and Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran, had held talks with EICL representatives and trade union leaders on Wednesday. Another meeting While the meeting resolved to conduct another round of meeting on February 24 to take a call on resuming operations, the company was also directed to inform the government on its decision regarding the payment of interim relief to employees within a week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minister-flays-eicls-detrimental-stance/article33631638.ece
22 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Higher education reforms soon||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said that the government will soon initiate steps for a comprehensive overhaul of the higher education sector. Promising measures to expedite the proposals that figured in the State Budget, he said State universities and other major institutions will be upgraded as centres of excellence. Infrastructural facilities will be enhanced at these centres to help students maximise their potential. Hostel facilities will also be improved, the Chief Minister added. Mr. Vijayan was addressing a conclave of academics and science, technology and environment experts to evolve a framework for further growth of the sector on Thursday. He stressed the need to introduce reforms that could attract Keralite students who aspired to pursue higher education in other States. At a later stage, efforts would be made to attract youngsters from abroad to the State. Using CSR funds He said appropriate changes would be made to university statutes to keep up with the changing times. Advocating greater collaborations between the industry and educational institutions, Mr. Vijayan suggested efforts to channelise corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds from various organisations for universities and colleges. He added industry experts should ideally be inducted into the boards of studies of higher educational institutions. Industry-oriented courses should be launched to equip students with skills required to land jobs in the competitive job market. While more finishing schools will be established, the facilities in the existing ones will be bolstered. Bridging digital gap The Chief Minister also announced the government’s willingness to adopt steps to plug the digital divide that existed between senior citizens and youngsters. As part of such measures, training programmes could be organised across local bodies, libraries and day care centres for senior citizens (Pakalveedu). The government is also open to amending timely changes to its Information Technology policy. State Planning Board vice chairman V.K. Ramachandran, Kerala State Council for Science, Technology and Environment executive vice president K.P. Sudheer, noted academicians K.P. Kannan, K.N. Ganesh, Rajan Gurukkal, Michael Tharakan, S. Geetha, Mini Sukumar, K. Gangadharan, and V.K. Damodaran participated in the conclave.  The Chief Minister stresses the need to introduce reforms that could attract Keralite students who aspire to pursue higher education in other States||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/higher-education-reforms-soon/article33631631.ece
22 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Assembly passes vote on account by voice vote||The Assembly late on Thursday passed the vote on account for the 2020-21 financial year by voice vote. The provision allowed the current government to withdraw money for spending for the next few months until the next administration unveiled a Budget for the entire fiscal. Rounding up the discussions, Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac said borrowing for infrastructure development would not imperil the State’s finances. The Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) had resorted to scaremongering tactics to frighten voters that the State’s outstanding debt had increased. It had drawn an erroneous analogy between private borrowing and public borrowing. The Left Democratic Front (LDF) government had put in place firm guard rails to reduce fiscal risks even as it raised money from the open financial market to meet the development aspirations of the people. The government had imposed tight fiscal discipline. However, the COVID-19 pandemic had upended the government’s calculations. Duties fulfilled  However, the government did not default on its duties. Social welfare pensions cost the exchequer Rs. 6,565 crore. The administration spent Rs. 5,417 crore on free food kits. Free COVID-19 treatment cost the State Rs. 1,617 crore. The government used Rs. 20,590 crore to meet its debt. Dr. Isaac said no government possessed a magic wand to dodge debt. The State’s outstanding debt had doubled every five years irrespective of the political dispensation in power. Despite the contagion hobbling the economy, Kerala registered a growth of 5.9%. Dr. Isaac scotched reports that the government would shutter the Kerala Transport Development Finance Corporation (KTDFC). He said the government used its various financial institutions for additional resource mobilisation. There was no economic situation that warranted their closure. He denied that the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) sat on projects. He said KIIFB would extend funds only after vetting the projects. KIIFB funds had transformed the public health sector in Kerala. The State’s education sector had also benefitted hugely.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/assembly-passes-vote-on-account-by-voice-vote/article33631442.ece
22 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||2.67 crore figure on voters’ list for Assembly polls||In all, 2,67,31,509 voters figure on the final voters' list published for the upcoming Assembly elections in the State. The public can access the rolls, published on Wednesday, on the websiteceo.kerala.gov.in, Chief Electoral Officer Teeka Ram Meena said on Thursday. Of the total electors, 1,37,79,263 are women, 1,29,52,025 are men and 221 are transgender persons. First-time voters aged 18 and 19 number 2,99,258. As many as 5,79,835 voters have been newly enrolled and 1,56,413 names deleted. The final voters list published for the 2019 Lok Sabha polls had 2,54,08,711 voters. More time to add names Mr. Meena said “the public can still add their names on the voters’ list. We have not closed the online application process. The names of the new applicants will feature in the supplementary list which will be published 10 days before the withdrawal of nominations,” Mr. Meena said. The rolls are also available at taluk and village offices and with booth-level officers (BLOs) for verification. Malappuram tops Among the districts, Malappuram has the highest number of voters (32,14,943) and the highest number of women voters (16,07,004). Wayanad has the lowest number of voters at 6,07,068.  Thiruvananthapuram has the highest number of transgender voters. Of the total 221 voters in this category, 57 are in Thiruvananthapuram. As per the final voters' list, Kerala has 6,21,401 voters who are 80 or above and 1,33,005 voters in the people with disabilities (PwD) category. Service voters number 56,759 and NRI voters 90,709. Kozhikode has the highest number of NRI voters at 34,216. Kozhikode also has the highest number of first-time voters at 40,867. Voters accounted for 75.73% of the population of the State as per the final voters' list in 2020. Now it has risen to 76.55%, Mr. Meena said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/267-crore-figure-on-voters-list-for-assembly-polls/article33631321.ece
22 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State tops daily case chart||The State reported 6,334 new cases of COVID-19 on Thursday when 61,279 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. Test positivity rate (TPR) remained high at 10.34%. The cumulative case burden of the State has risen to 8,70,529 cases. The active case pool of the State, which has been steadily rising, now stands at 69,771. Kerala continues to top all States when it comes to new cases and the active caseload. The State now accounts for 36.36% of the total active case pool in the country, while Maharashtra, with 24.95% of the active cases, is second. With 6,229 persons more testing negative, the cumulative recoveries in the State has risen to 7,96,986. The addition of 21 new deaths on Thursday to the official list of COVID fatalities has taken the State’s toll to 3,545. Thrissur reported four deaths, Ernakulam, Kannur and Kozhikode three each, Kollam and Alappuzha two each, while Thiruvananthapuram, Kottayam, Kasaragod, and Malappuram reported one death each. The number of critically ill patients who are currently being treated in ICUs in various hospitals is 804, according to official reports, with 241 of them requiring ventilator assistance. Ernakulam continues to report the highest number of cases with 771 cases. U.K. variant A total of 66 people who arrived in the State from the U.K. have so far tested COVID-19 positive, with one more testing positive in the past 24 hours. Of these, the samples of nine, following genomic analysis, have been found to have the presence of the SARS-CoV2 variant first reported in the U.K.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-tops-daily-case-chart/article33631438.ece
22 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||VHSE NSS units win top honours||Vocational higher secondary education (VHSE) National Service Scheme (NSS) school units reached the first position in eight districts in the State as part of the ‘Swachh Bharat Summer Internship’ programme implemented by the Union Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports and the Jal Shakti Ministry in 2019. The VHSE NSS school units came second in two districts too. The award recognises excellence in the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan activities taken up by the NSS volunteers inside campuses and outside from June 10 to July 31 in the 2019-20 academic year. There are 22 NSS cells across schools, colleges, and universities in the State. As part of the summer internship programme, the VHSE students were given activities to be taken up, and the outstanding among them were selected. These could include cleanliness activities and waste disposal inside the campus and literacy campaign on how to manage waste, green audit and so on outside the campus. Besides routine green campus activities, ideas such as ‘pen bin,’ biodiversity park, waste collection for charity, daily thought presentation boards were some of the main activities taken up inside campuses. Outside the campuses, cleaning of public premises, heritage areas, setting up of public gardens near waste dumps, and road shows were taken up. After a preliminary screening by the VHSE NSS, a committee led by the District Collector concerned selected one best activity of schools and nominated it to the Union government. Green audit Green audit, done in association with the Suchitwa Mission, was among the best activities taken up by the NSS units. Students reached out to hundreds of houses as part of the green audit. LED bulb repair was also taken up widely in association with the Energy Management Centre as part of social asset creation. Some activities such as poster-making, street play, and so on were also taken up by schools. The first prize of Rs. 30,000 were won by VHSE NSS units in eight districts. The win was secured by the VHSE school NSS units by competing against other directorates and universities in Kerala and Lakshadweep.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vhse-nss-units-win-top-honours/article33631588.ece
22 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||War of words over investment ranking||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala was engaged in a war of words with Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan over the State’s standing in the ease of doing business ranking during discussions in the Assembly on Thursday. The verbal spat occurred as Mr. Jayarajan elaborated on the progress achieved by the government in attracting investments to the State. Mr. Chennithala interjected the Minister’s address by lashing out at the government for its alleged failure in preventing the State’s fall in the rankings from 21 to 28 during the Left Democratic Front government’s rule. His criticism was countered by the Industries Minister who claimed that the State was bound to progress in the rankings after becoming the eighth in the country to undertake the ‘ease of doing business’ reforms as mandated by the Centre. The Congress leader also accused the government of making tall claims of having attracted huge investments through the Ascend Kerala 2020 global investors meet held in Kochi last year. “While several potential investors were invited to the event, not a single rupee has been invested in the State yet. Despite its efforts to portray the State as an investor-friendly one, no major investment has been made during the LDF rule,” Mr. Chennithala said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/war-of-words-over-investment-ranking/article33631630.ece
22 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||468 test positive in capital||The district witnessed a spike in COVID-19 cases on Thursday as 468 people were diagnosed with the disease during the last 24 hours. While 333 people recovered from the disease, the number of active cases stood at 3,688. While most of the fresh cases have been attributed to local contact, four health workers have also tested positive. The administration placed 1,409 people under quarantine, taking the number of people being supervised for COVID-19 symptoms to 20,518 in houses and 55 in various institutions. As many as 1,107 people have been excluded from the quarantine list. Vaccination A total of 639 people were administered the COVID-19 vaccine in 11 centres in the district on Thursday. There were inoculated in General Hospital, (100), Thiruvananthapuram Medical College Hospital (85), Government Women and Children’s Hospital, Thycaud (60), Pangappara model community health centre (46), Pulluvila community health centre (65), Anjuthengu community health centre (58), District Hospital, Nedumangad (39), Parassala taluk hospital (34), Varkala taluk hospital (68) and Kuttichal community health centre (84).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/468-test-positive-in-capital/article33631639.ece
22 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Youth Congress march to Assembly turns unruly||A march taken out by the Youth Congress to the Assembly demanding Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan’s resignation turned unruly on Thursday. Tension Tense scenes unfolded in the area after a group of agitators attempted to climb a barricade after burning an effigy. This prompted the police to twice use water cannons on the agitating Youth Congress protesters. While the police action led to a minor scuffle, senior leaders of the organisation convinced the agitators not to escalate the stand-off into a full-blown clash . Youth Congress vice president N.S. Nusoor inaugurated the demonstration. The agitation was held when the Assembly witnessed an intense debate, moved by the Opposition for the Speaker’s removal. MSF march The Muslim Students Federation (MSF) also took out a protest march to the Assembly on the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youth-congress-march-to-assembly-turns-unruly/article33631642.ece
22 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Raj Bhavan’s mango tree in perfect health||Tree Walk, a collective of nature lovers in the city, which had been invited by Raj Bhavan to conduct an assessment of a 150-year-old mango tree after it petitioned Governor Arif Mohammed Khan to prevent it from being felled, has found that the tree is in perfect biological health and does not have to be cut down. The move to cut down the tree had come to the attention of Tree Walk in December last year, and a petition signed by 100 prominent citizens of the city had been submitted to the Governor recently. Following this, Tree Walk was invited to view the tree directly. A team comprising S. Santhi, environmental researcher; Radha Gopal, environmental scientist; former Botany professor Abraham Thomas; Binu K. of Vriksha Paristhithi Samrakshana Samithi; and Anitha S, coordinator of Tree Walk; has sent their report to the Governor. They found that the tree had enough support to the depths of the substrate it grows in that will hold its height and crown base. The straight growth of the tap roots would ensure it did not fall. The bark of the tree was in perfect health. There was slight deterioration of the aging branches owing to age and Loranthus infestation. The tree was flowering, and it supported many living organisms such as birds, bats, and bees. The soil too was deep and good. Tree Walk suggested tree healing as per Vriksha Ayurveda to rejuvenate the tree. Pruning of branches infested by Loranthus after the fruiting season by an expert team of scientists and ecologists, a comprehensive assessment of tree health by a tree protocol team from the Kerala Forest Research Institute, and creating a germ plasm of mango trees on the Raj Bhavan campus are its other recommendations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/raj-bhavans-mango-tree-in-perfect-health/article33631637.ece
22 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Constitution literacy drawing to a close||A report on a Constitution literacy programme organised by the State Assembly and the Kerala State Literacy Mission was handed over to Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan by Minister for General Education C. Ravindranath on Thursday. Two phases The Constitution literacy programme, which began on November 26, 2018, was held in two phases. Books on Constitution literacy, cultural procession by the name of ‘India the republic,’ yatra to spread the message of the Constitution, study classes, awareness campaigns, and talks were held. More than 50 lakh people participated in the campaign, the literacy mission said in a statement here on Thursday. A talk by the Speaker on ‘India the Republic’ on January 26 to mark the conclusion of the second phase of the programme will be shown live on the literacy mission’s Facebook page. The Constitution literacy programme was held to create basic awareness of the Indian Constitution among the people. Efforts were made to inform people in every wards about the foundations of the Constitution. This social literacy initiative was held in the wake of caste discrimination, superstitions and other such practices, and religious extremism gaining ground despite the progress on the education front. Timeline The timeline of the formation of the Constitution, and parts of it dealing with Fundamental Rights, secularism, individual liberty, and gender equality were given importance in this mass campaign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/50-lakh-people-take-part-in-constitution-literacy-event/article33631477.ece
22 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||20 industrial units shut due to lockdown||The COVID-19-induced lockdown and the resultant economic downturn have forced the closure of 20 industrial units in the State. While 16 of these were in Pathanamthitta, three were in Alappuzha, and one was in Kozhikode. Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan, who spoke of the repercussions of the pandemic in the industrial sector in the Assembly on Thursday, said several enterprises ran into huge losses with productivity coming to a standstill, wholesale distribution channels hit and demand slumping during the nationwide lockdown. Considering the bleak situation, the government recently introduced Vyavasaya Bhadratha, a special package of 17 relief schemes for the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) sector, to tide over the crisis. Norms liberalised The Entrepreneur Support Scheme norms were liberalised and subsidy provided as investment support for MSME units launched by Scheduled Castes and Tribes, the youth and women entrepreneurs hiked from 20% to 25%. Various incentives were also extended through Kinfra and KSIDC, he said. The Minister also said that 2,798 non-resident Keralites (NoRKS) had registered as on January 16 in the online Pravasi portal launched by the Industries Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/20-industrial-units-shut-due-to-lockdown/article33631448.ece
22 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Disburse more farm, educational loans: MP||Shashi Tharoor, MP, on Wednesday urged banks to improve disbursement of agricultural and educational loans in the district. Mr. Tharoor inaugurated, via videoconference, the third quarter district-level review committee meeting for 2020-21 convened by the Indian Overseas Bank (IOB), the lead bank for the district. He also suggested that the credit deposit ratio of the district requires improvement by tapping the available potential. Mr. Tharoor released the potential-linked credit plan for 2021-22, prepared by NABARD which envisages a credit potential of Rs. 11,961 crore under priority sector. Of this, agriculture accounts for 42%, MSME 20%, housing 18%, education 6% and other priority sectors 14%. The credit deposit ratio of the district is 65% as of September 2020. Total deposits for the district stood at Rs. 98,414 crore and total advances, Rs. 64,358 crore as on September 30, 2020. Of this, Rs. 23,882 crore accounted for advances to priority sectors, which is 37% of the total advances. District Collector Navjot Khosa, who presided, stressed the need for a one-time settlement campaign for loans, particularly educational loans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/disburse-more-farm-educational-loans-mp/article33631635.ece
22 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Robot designed for COVID control measures||‘Middleman’, a robot designed by students of the Government Engineering College, Barton Hill, was formally inducted into the COVID-19 control measures being undertaken in the city on Thursday. The services of the robot were enlisted to boost the functioning of the COVID-19 First-line treatment centre (FLTC) in the Karyavattom Greenfield Stadium. The students and faculty of the college formally handed over the robot to District Medical Officer K.S. Shinu. Besides designed to supply food to patients and people placed under observation, it can also be used for doctor-patient interaction, remote health monitoring and dispensing sanitisers. In addition, it also enables doctors to keep tabs on the oxygen levels of patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/robot-designed-for-covid-control-measures/article33631643.ece
22 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||In the hot seat for 4 hours||For nearly four hours, Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan had to sit along with members when the Assembly witnessed a heated debate on the motion seeking his removal as Speaker . It was Deputy Leader of the Congress Legislature Party K. C. Joseph who brought to the attention of the Chair that Mr. Sreeramakrishnan was not in the House. “Where is the Speaker? Who will reply to the motion? He should come to the House and reply to the motion,” Mr. Joseph said. Following this, Mr. Sreeramakrishnan walked into the House and occupied the first seat on the right side earmarked for the Deputy Speaker. He kept his cool even when the UDF legislators launched a scathing attack on him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-the-hot-seat-for-4-hours/article33631436.ece
22 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Certification for Nutrimix units||Two of the Kudumbashree’s Nutrimix units have received ISO (International Organisation for Standardisation) certification. In all, 241 Kudumbashree units comprising 1,569 neighbourhood group members produce Amrutham Nutrimix, the take-home ration provided through the 33,115 anganwadis in the State as part of a convergence programme involving the Kudumbashree and the Women and Child Development Department. Sanjeevani and JARMS Group Nutrimix, the two units from Malappuram district, secured ISO 22000:2018 certification in food safety management. The Sanjeevani unit was started by 10 members under the Thazhekode community development society (CDS) in April 2006. The unit, which has an annual turnover of Rs. 1.32 crore, produces the Amrutham Nutrimix powder and value-added products such as flour under the brand Jeevas and Nutrimix biscuit cake. The JARMS Group unit was started under the Manjeri municipality CDS 2 in July 2006. The six-member unit also produces ‘pazhampori’ mix, ‘palappam’ mix, ‘matta puttu’ powder, and ‘payasam’ mix, taking its annual sales to Rs. 1.13 crore. The two units took the initiative to get ISO 22000 certification and trade mark registration and succeeded. The 241 units in the State produce and distribute 23,000 tonnes of Nutrimix, with an annual turnover of Rs. 169 crore. Some of the units that produce value-added products have good annual sales, even up to Rs. 2 crore. Most units have a turnover of at least Rs. 40 lakh. The maximum number of Nutrimix units is in Malappuram - 43. Kudumbashree officials say that inspired by the two units that have received ISO certification, other units have got in touch with them to find out how they too can get the certification. All the units function as per a standard operating procedure. They are monitored by the Kudumbashree district missions, ICDS supervisors under the Women and Child Development Department, and Food Safety officials. The units are graded to ensure the quality of the Nutrimix. This is done following a joint inspection by the Kudumbashree, Women and Child Development Department, and Food Safety officials to look into aspects such as hygiene, quality control, bookkeeping, production, and teamwork. After a grading in 2017, the process is currently under way. At present, 228 units have the ‘A’ grade. In 2019, the Nutrimix was fortified with 11 micronutrients in collaboration with the Women and Child Development Department and the UN World Food Programme. For this, all the units were provided with training and equipped with a 100-kg blender. Challenge ahead The challenge ahead is to enhance the value-addition done by the units, upgrade the few units that do not have the ‘A’ grade, and secure standardisations such as the ISO for the other units, say Kudumbashree officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/certification-for-nutrimix-units/article33631587.ece
22 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||10,953 get vaccination on Day 4||On the fourth day of the COVID-19 vaccination drive on Thursday, 10,953 more health-care workers were inoculated in the State. The drive was held in 135 sites, with 15 in Ernakulam, 11 in Kozhikode, 10 in Thiruvananthapuram, and nine sites each in rest of the districts. The drive is being held four days a week, though isolated sites function in districts on other days too. Ermakulam had the maximum number of beneficiaries, with 1,039 health-care workers being vaccinated. So far, 35,773 health workers have been vaccinated in the State. Till date, other than the expected side-effects, no serious adverse events have been reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/10953-get-vaccination-on-day-4/article33631430.ece
22 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Pettah-Anayara road gets Rs. 100.68 crore||Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran has said that Rs. 100.68 crore has been sanctioned from KIIFB for the development of the Pettah-Anayara-Oruvathilkotta road. While the road had earlier been envisaged to be developed to a width of 18 metres, the decision was modified after taking into account the need to reserve provisions for a sewerage line that will be laid through the AMRUT project. As a result, the stretch from Pettah rail overbridge to Venpalavattom will have a width of 14 metres, and that from Venpalavattom to the service road of NH-66 bypass will be 12-m wide. The two stretches will have a total length of 3.81 km.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pettah-anayara-road-gets-rs-10068-crore/article33631632.ece
22 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Auxiliary polling stations||With the publication of the final voters' list, a clearer picture of the challenges involved in the conduct of the 2021 Assembly polls has emerged. Kerala needs 15,730 auxiliary polling stations in addition to the existing 25,041 stations, taking the total number to 40,771. Given the COVID-19 scenario, the Election Commission has set a condition limiting the number of voters for each polling station at 1,000. Auxiliary stations will be established wherever the number of voters exceeds 1,000. But finding space for the auxiliary stations is going to be a challenge, according to Chief Electoral Officer Teeka Ram Meena.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/auxiliary-polling-stations/article33631450.ece
22 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Raj Bhavan demonstration||The Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU), Kisan Sabha and Kerala State Karshaka Thozhilali Union will jointly organised a mass demonstration in front of the Raj Bhavan from January 23 to 25 to pledge support for farmers’ agitation in Delhi. In a statement, CITU State secretary V. Sivankutty said the trade unions in the district will participate in the demonstration after marching from near the Museum premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/raj-bhavan-demonstration/article33631640.ece
22 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Expedite Sivagiri works: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has issued directions to expedite the Sivagiri Madhom development project by removing hurdles that have delayed the proposed construction works. Convening a meeting held to review its progress on Thursday, Mr. Vijayan ordered the Varkala municipality to adopt necessary steps and ensure the completion of the construction in a time-bound manner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/expedite-sivagiri-works-cm/article33631641.ece
22 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||POCSO arrest 1||The Vanchiyoor police on Thursday arrested a 41-year old man for allegedly sexually harassing a minor girl.The police identified the accused as Sasidharan, 41, of Palkulangara. He has been accused of assaulting the victim on January 14. Despite efforts made by the accused to evade arrest, he was nabbed by the police and booked under provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. The accused was remanded to judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pocso-arrest-1/article33631644.ece
22 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||POCSO arrest 2||The Mangalapuram police on Thursday arrested a 65-year-old man for allegedly sexually abusing two minor girls. Vikraman of Murukkumpuzha was arrested for purportedly subjecting the victims, siblings aged nine and six years, to sexual abuse for nearly four months. The accused used to work as a helper in a rented house where the victims’ used to reside with their grandmother as their mother has been working abroad, the police said. The incident came to light when the children revealed their ordeal to the Childline authorities during a counselling session. Following his arrest, the accused allegedly confessed to the crime. He was arrested under provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pocso-arrest-2/article33631645.ece
22 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Results published||The results of the Class 10 SAY equivalency exam held in November 2020 have been published. The results can be accessed onwww.keralapareeksha bhavan. in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/results-published/article33631429.ece
22 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Paramedical courses: verified data published||The verified data of applicants for the professional diploma course in Health Inspector and other paramedical courses for 2020-21 have been published on the websitewww.lbscentre.kerala.gov.in. Applicants are to upload the required documents before 5 p.m. on January 24. For details, dial 0471 2560363, 364.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/paramedical-courses-verified-data-published/article33631439.ece
22 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Registration open for agri hackathon||The Agriculture Department has invited students, start-ups, professionals, farmers, and the general public to be part of a hackathon being organised in connection with the Vaiga agri expo to be held in Thrissur. The Vaiga Agrihack 2021 will seek to find solutions to the problems in the agriculture sector. Teams can register for the hackathon on the websitewww.vaigaagrihack.intill January 22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/registration-open-for-agri-hackathon/article33631440.ece
22 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||KILE civil service academy inaugurated||Labour Minister T.P. Ramakrishnan on Thursday inaugurated a civil service academy to provide coaching for children and kin of workers in the organised and unorganised sectors. The academy established under the Kerala Institute of Labour and Employment (KILE) will provide coaching for competitive exams at affordable rates. KILE chairman V. Sivankutty presided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kile-civil-service-academy-inaugurated/article33631441.ece
22 January 2021||THIRUVANATHAPURAM,KERALA||Pinarayi firm on SilverLine||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday reiterated that the government was for the 529.45-km semi-high speed rail, SilverLine, from Kochuveli to Kasaragod and that the people will be taken into confidence while executing the project. The SilverLine will be a game changer in State’s infrastructure growth as well as economic development, the Chief Minister said while replying to Mons Joseph and others in the Assembly on Thursday who sought leave for an adjournment motion to drop the SilverLine and to augment the existing railway network. “We are here not to inconvenience the people. But to help the people. The impact will be minimal and the rehabilitation of those being displaced will be taken care. The Suburban Rail is not feasible. The High Speed Rail Corridor is costly and will take time,” he said. Only 9,314 buildings will be affected by Silverline and 88 km of the 115 km passing through paddy fields will be elevated. The Cabinet has already given its approval to the Detailed Project Report (DPR), submitted by the implementing agency Kerala Rail Development Corporation Limited (K-Rail), a joint venture of Indian Railways and the State government. The DPR is under Centre’s scrutiny, the Chief Minister said. International financial institutions are to be approached as the cost-sharing project between State and Railways is estimated at Rs. 63,941 crore.  ‘Massive displacement’ Earlier, Mr. Mons Joseph said massive displacement will occur due to the SilverLine and the government should take a practical approach. “Metroman E. Sreedharan has said 25,000 to 30,000 families will be hit and the cost will go up to Rs. 1.20 lakh crore. The government should drop it and go for augmenting the existing network with modern technology,” he added. Leader of Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said Paris-based consultant Systra that prepared the DPR had been black-listed. The project is being used to siphon off funds and as a cover for corruption, he said. The government should convene an all party meeting and should not go ahead with land acquisition. Land acquisition for the project will be taken up only after getting the final nod from the Centre, Minister for Public Works and Railways G. Sudhakaran said. Following the Chief Minister’s reply, Deputy Speaker V. Sasi denied permission and the Opposition walked out in protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pinarayi-firm-on-silverline/article33631435.ece
22 January 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||81.82% polling in Pullazhi bypoll||Registering a record polling, 81.82% voters exercised their franchise in the byelection held to the Pullazhi division of the Thrissur city Corporation on Thursday. Of the 4,533 voters, 3,709 cast their votes. Brisk polling was witnessed from the morning itself. Polling was held in three booths arranged at Little Flower Convent School. Election to the Pullazhi division was postponed following death of Left Democratic Front candidate M.K. Mukundan. Six in fray There are six candidates in the election fray — Madathil Ramankutty (LDF); K. Ramanadhan (UDF); Santhosh Pullazhi (NDA); Jogish A. John (Aam Admi Party); Antony Pullazhi (Independent ) and Joshy Thaikkad (Independent). Polling started by 7 a.m. and concluded at 6.15 p.m. Two COVID-19 patients cast their votes in booth number two and three in booth number three by maintaining COVID-19 protocols during the allotted time. Some of the COVID-19 patients had already sent their postal votes. Counting will be held at Maharajas Technical Institute from 8 a.m. on Saturday. Postal votes will be counted first. People can follow results through e-trend.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/8182-polling-in-pullazhi-bypoll/article33631585.ece
22 January 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||468 test positive in Thrissur||A total of 468 COVID-19 cases were reported in the district on Thursday while 402 people recovered from the disease. There are 4,883 active cases in the district and 107 persons from the district are undergoing treatment in hospitals in other districts. So far 83,135 COVID-19 cases have been reported from the district and 77,701 people have recovered. According to the official statistics, 458 people, including one health worker, contracted the disease through local contact on Thursday. Of them, 88 people are above the age of 60 and 20 are children below the age of 10. In all, 3,482 people are under home care and 118 people were admitted to hospitals for treatment on Thursday. A total of 5,738 samples were collected on the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/468-test-positive-in-thrissur/article33631583.ece
22 January 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||SIB registers Rs. 91.62-cr. net loss||The Thrissur-based South Indian Bank (SIB) has announced the Q3 results with a net loss of Rs. 91.62 crore as against net profit of Rs. 90.54 crore during the corresponding period of the previous year on account of higher credit cost. Murali Ramakrishnan, MD & CEO of the bank, while announcing the results mentioned that despite the COVID-19 pandemic scenario in the country, the bank could register a moderate growth in the desired segments during the period. As part of the business strategy to reduce the exposure in the Corporate Advances, the bank has brought down the share of Corporate Advances from 30% as on December 31, 2019 to 24% as on December 31, 2020. He added that the growth in the desired portfolios and the reduction in the corporate exposure has further strengthened bank’s balance sheet. He said that the quarterly loss was mainly on account of credit cost on the higher proforma slippages during the third quarter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sib-registers-rs-9162-cr-net-loss/article33631586.ece
22 January 2021||January 22 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||In many hues||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-many-hues/article33631415.ece
22 January 2021||January 22 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Hopes run high||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hopes-run-high/article33631480.ece
22 January 2021||January 22 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||In support of farmers||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-support-of-farmers/article33631634.ece
22 January 2021||January 22 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||On the warpath||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/on-the-warpath/article33631647.ece
22 January 2021||January 22 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Widening workforce||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/widening-workforce/article33631444.ece
22 January 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anantapur roads to be pothole-free||The Anantapur Municipal Corporation on Thursday launched a campaign to make the city roads ‘pothole-free’ by recarpeting the main roads at a cost of Rs. 40 crore. Municipal Commissioner P.V.V.S. Murthy inspected the work on the Railway Station to Ramachandra Nagar stretch where all the projections on to the thoroughfare were removed, along with some other stretches in the city. Hot bitumen mix for recarpeting has become very scarce and the municipal body has been scouting for the suppliers as works are in progress in other parts of the district and also new roads are being laid at other places. “The work is apace and we hope to complete it at the earliest and give the least discomfort to commuters on city roads. Widening works are in the progress on Court Road and Gooty Road, while the railway station approach roads and the Subhash Road, along with Raju Road and its extension up to Gooty Road will be renewed ,” said the Commissioner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anantapur-roads-to-be-pothole-free/article33631555.ece
22 January 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. will move apex court on local body polls issue: Minister||The State government will move the Supreme Court against the Andhra Pradesh High Court’s judgment on the conduct of the local body polls in the State, Roads and Buildings Minister Malagundla Sankaranarayana said here on Thursday. “Giving green signal to the conduct of local body elections by the division bench of the High Court is very unfortunate. Keeping in view the health of people and government employees in the wake of coronavirus pandemic and the ongoing vaccination drive, the State government will soon take a decision on when to approach the apex court,” said the Minister. ‘Stiff opposition’ Hindupur MP Gorantla Madhav said that the government had been keeping away from holding the elections in view of the stiff opposition by the non-gazetted officers and other government employees to get involved in the local body polls. “The government employees have already announced their inability to get involved in the elections. They are meeting the Governor to prevail upon the State Elections Commissioner to put off the local body polls,” he observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-will-move-apex-court-on-local-body-polls-issue-minister/article33631083.ece
22 January 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Banana ryots hit hard as prices slip in Anantapur||The price of banana, one of the major horticulture crops in Anantapur district, has fallen sharply despite the total acreage coming down due to incessant rains during the monsoon and the lack of market for close to eight months during COVID-19 lockdown period. Farmers are left with no choice but to leave large quantities of bananas to ripen on the plant on-farm and allow them to rot instead of incurring expenditure on cutting and transportation of the produce to the market. Obulapuram and Kadavakallu in Putlur mandal are known for producing the best quality of bananas that are exported the world over and supplied to major retail chains within the country by several contract farming companies. A visit to B. Lakshmi Narsimhudu’s farm in Obulapuram showed several heaps of rotten bananas scattered all over and some ready-to-eat ripened fruit bunches hanging from the plants. Labourers were carrying large green bunches to be loaded on to a lorry hired by a local trader for supply to a market in Bengaluru. “I have been offered Rs. 4.25 per kg and am glad that someone is taking at least some quantity so that I can retrieve some investment (more than Rs. 3 lakh) on my three-acre plot and repay the debts to the fertilizer shops and other lenders borrowed at extortionist interest rates,” Mr. Narsimhudu said. The produce from the first crop was offered Rs. 9,600 per tonne and the price fell to Rs. 4,000 to Rs. 4,500 during the second crop, he explains. Desperate situation Another farmer from Kadavakallu K. Srinivasulu said: “While many companies and traders offer to buy our produce in the initial phase, after eight months when the fruits are ready for cutting, they point out some blemishes and reduce the price drastically. We have not other option but to sell only to them at their price. If I am adamant, none of the 11 major groups operating in this region buy from me. Delay of even a couple of days will lead to the ripening of some bunches, which will totally make our farm ineligible for cutting and purchase.” Some of the export-oriented companies, which bought the produce at Rs. 14 a kg last season, have not offered more than Rs. 11.50 per kg in the current cutting season that began in December and will last for another 20 days. Deputy Director APMIP B. Subba Rayudu, who also looks after Horticulture, said four companies have been procuring the produce for exports and large internal markets, along with some small traders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/banana-ryots-hit-hard-as-prices-slip-in-anantapur/article33631576.ece
22 January 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Defence panels formed in 230 Chittoor villages||Formation of village defence committees, the gram secretariats system and digital policing will play a key role in reducing crime rate and help promote goodwill and harmony among various communities, Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar has said. Launching the first phase of Village Defence Committees under Operation Samaikhya programme in 230 villages of Nagari, Satyavedu and GD Nellore Assembly constituencies at Puttur on Thursday, the SP said that along with the efforts of the official machinery to guard places of worship belonging to all communities, public cooperation was crucial to ensure foolproof protection. “Our investigation into some recent acts of vandalism at religious places showed that they were mostly the handiwork of miscreants and gangs involved in property offences,” Mr. Senthil Kumar said. The SP said that thousands of villagers, including the elderly, youth and students, had approached the police expressing their readiness to join the village defence panels and ensure an atmosphere of peace and amity among people in the backdrop of the Ramateertham incident. “It is a welcome sign that the field staff of village secretariats attached to the police department are working very well everywhere,” the SP said. Senthil Kumar warned that circulation of unverified information and acts of incitement on social media would be viewed seriously and criminal cases would be filed against such individuals or groups. He urged public to reach the police on Instagram and WhatsApp groups or Dial 100 to pass on vital information regarding strangers and suspicious elements in their areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/defence-panels-formed-in-230-chittoor-villages/article33631578.ece
22 January 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Aghora’ gang that stole gold from trader nabbed||The Madanapalle taluq police on Thursday nabbed a six-member gang from Rajasthan for tricking a trader and decamping with valuables worth Rs. 3 lakh. They were moving suspiciously at a temple near Madanapalle, close to the Karnataka border, when they were caught. Apart from the stolen gold, the police also seized Rs. 75,000 and a car from them. Deputy SP (Madanapalle) A. Ravi Manohar Achari and circle inspector M. Srinivasulu, who produced the accused before the media, said the gang, comprising a man, his two sons and three relatives, all in the age group of 55-27, attired as mendicants and accosted a trader near Piler on January 19. They reportedly predicted that his fortunes were on the dim and that he immediately needed to perform special pujas. As the trader agreed, in the name of performing rituals they scooted away with the gold ornaments used in the puja, after asking the victim’s family to utter a hymn behind closed doors. It was found that they had moved around in the western mandals of the district for a couple of weeks claiming to be ‘Aghoras’ from the Himalayas with magical powers and lured even highly educated persons by uttering hymns. Interestingly, they reportedly made a policeman shell down Rs. 1,500 right on the police station premises after making a prediction about the latter’s career. The gang members were booked under Section 420 of the IPC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aghora-gang-that-stole-gold-from-trader-nabbed/article33631577.ece
22 January 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kala was not arrested, says Sajjala||Adviser (Public Affairs) Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy has said that the police have not arrested TDP leader K. Kala Venkata Rao but have issued notice to him under Section 41A of the CrPC for interrogation. Addressing the media here on Thursday, Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy criticised TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu for making false allegations against the Director General of Police which, he said, were derogatory and fit for filing a suit. “Mr. Naidu’s attitude is coercive. He has been acting as an irresponsible Opposition leader,” Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy said, and recalled how Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was treated when he was the Opposition leader during his visit to Visakhapatnam. With regard to the Nandi idol at Santhabommali, he said the TDP leaders were behind the attaks on temples.  Unable to digest the welfare initiatives of the YSRCP government, Mr. Naidu was encouraging desecration of idols, he alleged. Further, he said the government would approach the Supreme Court against the High Court verdict on the local body elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kala-was-not-arrested-says-sajjala/article33631561.ece
22 January 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tobacco Board chief calls on Poonam||Tobacco Board Chairman Y. Raghunadha Babu on Thursday called on Poonam Malakondiah, Special Chief Secretary, Agriculture and Cooperation Department, at Secretariat in Velagapudi. Mr. Raghunatha Babu explained to her the problems faced by the Flue Cured Virginia tobacco growers and the need for mechanisation in FCV tobacco cultivation. Mr. Raghunatha Babu requested her to include mechanised loose leaf barns for subsidy in Farm Mechanisation Scheme of the A.P. Government. Mr. Raghunatha Babu has also sought provision of power at the rate of Rs. 1.50 per unit on par with aqua culture farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tobacco-board-chief-calls-on-poonam/article33631084.ece
22 January 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Suneetha elected MLC||Pothua Suneetha has been elected unanimously as Member of Legislative Council. Returning Officer P.V. Subba Reddy handed over the letter of confirmation to Ms. Sunitha, who was elected under the MLA quota. As she was the only candidate to file nomination, the Returning Officer declared that she was elected unanimously.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/suneetha-elected-mlc/article33631562.ece
22 January 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||IndiGo team visits Orvakal airport||The representatives of Indigo Airlines visited the greenfield airport at Orvakal in Kurnool to get the first-hand information about the facilities available there before they begin commercial operations, once the facility is declared open. The AITA code for the airport has been proposed as the KJB. Indigo Airlines, which has sought the permission of the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) for operating commercial services from this airport, sent a team to assess the amenities in the terminal building, runway and others. The team expressed satisfaction over the facilities available at the airport. The 970-acre airport has four parking bays for aircraft. The team was accompanied by DRDA Project Director M.K.V. Srinivasulu and Airport Director Kailash Mondal. Meeting on Feb. 5 The DGCA allowed commercial operations from the airport on January 15. The Indigo Airlines team said a meeting has been scheduled on February 5 to take a decision on the airports to be connected with Kurnool. The Truejet has become the first commercial operator from the airport and Indigo Airlines has been selected as an operator under the UDAAN-4 scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/indigo-team-inspects-facilities-at-orvakal/article33631554.ece
22 January 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Farmers seek unconditional withdrawal of three farm laws||Farmers and agricultural labourers under the aegis of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) took out a tractor rally here on Thursday, seeking unconditional withdrawal of the three new farm laws. Farmers from across Prakasam district came riding hundreds of tractors and motorcycles for the rally organised by AIKSCC district convenor Ch. Ranga Rao to express their solidarity with their counterparts agitating in the national capital. They urged the Central government to ensure remunerative price for farm produce as per the formula suggested by agriculture scientist M.S. Swaminathan and increase the quantum of the Prime Minister's Kisan Yojana benefits to at least Rs. 18,000 taking into consideration the rising input cost. Leading the rally, All India Kisan Sabha national joint secretary Vijoo Krishnan said it was unfortunate that the ‘black laws’ were enacted at a time when the farmers were enduring huge losses because of the coronavirus and the ‘unplanned lockdown’. “Instead of providing relief to the small and marginal farmers, the Centre chose to curry favour with the corporate sector, leaving the farmers to fend for themselves. The new laws will eventually reduce farmers to labourers on the own land,” he said.  Cooperative farming He further said that massive protests should continue even after the Republic Day to bring more pressure on the NDA government to take back the three farm laws and press cooperative farming with the participation by farmers and agricultural labourers instead of corporate farming. Though the Centre has offered to keep the new laws in abeyance, the farmers should maintain a constant vigil as the BJP-ruled States could go ahead with the implementation, he cautioned. Social security scheme AIKS-led Tenant Farmers Association State secretary P. Jamalaiah demanded a comprehensive social security scheme for farmers and farm workers and food security for the nation, ‘which was at jeopardy following the amendment made to the Essential Commodities Act.’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/farmers-seek-unconditional-withdrawal-of-three-farm-laws/article33631557.ece
22 January 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police focussing more on arresting Opposition leaders than probe: BJP||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State Executive Committee member Nadukuditi Eswara Rao urged the State government to concentrate on the investigation into the idol desecration at the Ramateertham temple in Vizianagaram district, instead of focusing on the arrests of the opposition leaders. Addressing the media at Ranasthalam of Srikakulam district on Thursday, Mr. Eswara Rao said that the Police Department was yet to get any break through in the case. “The Police Department appears to be in a hurry to arrest the opposition leaders for alleged violation of the law and order. It is using all its resources to suppress the voice of the leaders belonging to the opposition parties. However, it is showing little interest in tracing the culprits” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-focussing-more-on-arresting-opposition-leaders-than-probe-bjp/article33631558.ece
22 January 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jana Sena to mob Assembly during next session on farmers’ issue||The Jana Sena Party (JSP) has decided to mob the Assembly building during its coming session in protest against the ‘anti-farmer measures’ of the State government. The party’s political affairs committee (PAC) meeting held here on Thursday was attended by its president Pawan Kalyan, PAC chairman Nadendla Manohar and others, where a decision was taken to this effect. The party had earlier demanded a compensation of Rs. 30,000 per acre and an immediate relief of Rs. 10,000 to the farmers hit by Cyclone Nivar. With the government ‘turning a deaf ear’ to its demand, the PAC planned the protest to let the government understand the gravity of the situation. The meet gave a call to party workers from all the 175 constituencies to turn up at the Assembly on the chosen date. The meet also resented the ‘dictatorial attitude’ of the YSRCP government, which, the leaders alleged, was resorting to muzzling dissenting voices, adding that political vendetta against opponents was uncalled for.  Tributes paid The participants paid tributes to their activist Bandla Vengaiah Naidu, who had committed suicide in Prakasam district recently. The party activist had shot to prominence after he accosted the local Giddalur YSRCP MLA last week, with a demand to get the damaged road to their village repaired. However, he took his life after allegedly being harassed and taunted reportedly by workers of the ruling party. Members P. Hariprasad, K. Tata Rao, P. Yasaswi, P. Nanaji, B. Naicker, B. Srinivasa Yadav, P. Balakrishna, K. Durgesh, Manukranth Reddy, M. Sasidhar and Madhusudhan Reddy took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jana-sena-to-mob-assembly-during-next-session-on-farmers-issue/article33631580.ece
22 January 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP’s ‘Dharma Parirakshana Yatra’ foiled in Tirupati||The Dharma Parirakshana Yatra of the TDP was foiled by the police at Alipiri, the foot of Tirumala hills, here on Thursday. Through the yatra, the TDP sought to highlight the government’s “failure” to prevent the series of attacks on temples and desecration of idols. Atchannaidu confined to hotel room It was to have been launched by party State president K. Atchannaidu, but he was prevented from stepping out of his hotel room. Mr. Atchannaidu was detained along with senior leaders such as N. Amaranatha Reddy, Nakka Ananda Babu, and MLAs Nimmala Rama Naidu and A. Satya Prasad. The rally was scheduled to culminate at the NTR statue, where Mr. Atchannaidu was supposed to address the people. Reacting strongly to the development, Mr. Atchannaidu said, “The government is behaving in a high-handed manner. It has fear neither for law nor for God. It is bent on deriving political mileage by creating rift between castes and religions.” Meanwhile, Panabaka Lakshmi, the TDP candidate for the byelection to the Tirupati Lok Sabha seat, demanded the immediate release of Mr. Atchannaidu. The second rung party leaders, sympathisers and youth wing members, who turned up in large numbers at Alipiri, waited patiently for the leaders to arrive, but had to be content with a symbolic rally in the absence of the seniors. The police prevented the motorcycle-borne youth wing members from taking out a bike rally and later chased them away. Nearly 70 of them were detained and sent to Muthyala Reddy Palle and Chandragiri police stations. Over 100 two-wheelers lay scattered on the road even as the party activists ran helter-skelter. Former TUDA chairman and TDP parliamentary constituency president G. Narasimha Yadav staged a sit-in at the police station. “I wonder why the police swooped on the leaders for no reason after giving permission for the rally. Do we need permission to garland the statue of our founder N.T. Rama Rao? The police excesses will not be tolerated,” he said. Later, Mr. Narasimha Yadav sat on ‘mouna deeksha’ at Alipiri denouncing the police attitude. Dharna today Meanwhile, as per the call given by party national president N. Chandrababu Naidu, the activists are gearing up to stage a dharna in the city on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-foil-tdp-yatra-in-tirupati/article33631013.ece
22 January 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP’s yatra a bid to disturb harmony: SP||Terming the ‘Dharma Parirakshana Yatra’ by the TDP leaders as ‘an attempt to disturb communal harmony’, Tirupati Urban Superintendent of Police Avula Ramesh Reddy has said that the permission for the same was withdrawn in the last minute. After the TDP raised a hue and cry over the police withdrawing approval for their scheduled programme, Mr. Reddy on Thursday clarified to the media that the permission was first given only for the procession, not for the public meeting, which the leaders later organised. Leaders detained “Several Telugu Desam leaders were detained at a hotel after they tried to disturb the parliamentary standing committee meeting which was going on at the same venue. If outsiders come all the way to Tirupati and attempt to disturb the peaceful environment, it will not be tolerated,” the SP pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdps-yatra-a-bid-to-disturb-harmony-sp/article33631559.ece
22 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mobile dispensing vehicles roll out||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy flagged off the mobile dispensing units (door delivery vehicles) here on Thursday. As many as 9,260 vehicles will supply essential commodities, comprising Sortex Swarna variety rice, medium slender rice, pulses etc., at the doorstep of the ration card-holders in the State. The new system will be implemented from February 1. The programme is aimed at supplying quality rice and other essential commodities. It is also aimed at ensuring that there are no “slippages and adulteration” of the commodities. It also provides relief to the card-holders as they need not wait in long queues at the fair price shops. Eradication of corruption by doing away with the role of middlemen in the process of distribution is another giant step towards providing adequate, quality and nutritious supplies to the poor, it is said. Of the 9,260 vehicles, 2,500 vehicles meant for use in Krishna, Guntur and West Godavari districts were lined up on the MG Road (Bandar Road) here. The Chief Minister flagged them off at around 10.45 a.m. Employment for youth The vehicles were purchased at a cost of Rs. 539 crore. These were provided at 60% subsidy to the eligible beneficiaries through various welfare corporations under the Employment Guarantee Scheme for the unemployed youth. The value of each vehicle is Rs. 5,81,000, of which Rs. 3,48,600 is provided as subsidy. Ministers Kodali Sri Venkateswara Rao (Civil Supplies), Perni Venkataramaiah (Transport), Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy (Panchayat Raj), Ch. Ranganatha Raju (Housing), and V. Srinivas (Endowments), MPs, MLAs, and MLCs were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mobile-dispensing-vehicles-roll-out/article33631016.ece
22 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Police have evidence on role of political leaders in temple attacks’||Deputy Inspector General of Police (DIG-Technical) G. Pala Raju has said that the police have enough evidence on the involvement of political cadres in the temple attack cases and appealed to the party leaders not to target police personnel individually. Addressing reporters at the AP Police Headquarters on Thursday, he said the police had investigated the cases of vandalising of idols in the temples in the State in all angles and found the involvement of some persons, who had political background. “We have scientific evidence against the 15 political leaders arrested in nine idol damaging cases. It is not correct to criticise the investigation officers, who are doing their legitimate duties, in the name of religion, caste and nativity,” the DIG said. The SIT constituted to probe the attacks on temples is investigating the pending and fresh cases in all aspects, Mr. Pala Raju said. As regards summoning of former TDP Minister K. Kala Venkata Rao, the DIG clarified that police took Mr. Rao to the station to question him under Section 41 CrPc, in the Ramateertham temple case, and he was not arrested. ‘Protest is a right’ On the protest at the AP Police Headquarters by BJP leaders on Thursday, Mr. Pala Raju said expressing protest is a basic right of every citizen, but the protesters should not create law and order problems and cause inconvenience to any person. “If there is a law and order problem due to any protest, police will take action as per the law,” Mr. Pala Raju said. DIG (Law and Order) Rajashekar Babu said the Tirupati police had cancelled permission to the TDP’s Dharma Parirakshana Yatra as the protesters had violated the conditions, which could lead to violence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-have-evidence-on-role-of-political-leaders-in-temple-attacks/article33631467.ece
22 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Surprise inspections unravel ‘stinking’ reality at pvt. colleges||The sorry state of affairs at several private junior colleges and hostels has come to light during surprise inspections conducted by the Andhra Pradesh School Education Regulatory and Monitoring Commission (APSERMC). Poor unhygienic conditions and lack of basic amenities greeted the commission members at many many branches of Narayana and Sri Chaitanya Junior Colleges, during the inspections conducted in the last two days. “Many students are attending classes in highly unhygienic conditions in some corporate and private junior colleges. We received complaints on poor water supply, untidy conditions and lengthy working hours,” said the members of the commission. Managements pulled up The commission pulled up the college managements over the poor sanitation in the classrooms, kitchens, dining halls, corridors and hostel dormitories. “Following the directions of APSERMC Chairman R. Kantha Rao, we are conducting surprise inspections. Some private college managements were found to have started classes without cleaning or sanitising the campuses after the institutes were opened after the prolonged colousre in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic. There is no supply of sanitisers, masks, proper drinking water and power supply in many campuses,” said APSERMC members V. Narayana Reddy and B. Eswaraiah. ‘COVID norms violated’ The commission members also interacted with the students who poured out their woes. “Many students were found attending their classes without taking bath as there was no water supply in the hostels and toilets. We will recommend criminal action and other penalties against the managements concerned as per the provisions of the Epidemic Act, 1897,” said Mr. Narayana Reddy after inspecting several campuses on Thursday. Some private managements running institutions without ensuring the basic amenities on their premises even after collecting heavy fees from the parents, said C.A.V. Prasad, another member of the commission. Hefty fees “Classes began from December 16 last year. The college management collected Rs. 8,000 for non-AC rooms and Rs. 12,500 for AC rooms in the hostels, in addition to Rs. 80,000 for tuition fee and Rs. 5,000 for pocket money per student. But, there is no drinking water supply to hostels. Some of the rooms do not have even fans,” complained a Intermediate second year student Karthik (name changed). Another student, Sravan, said classes for the first year intermediate students began from January 16. “We cleaned the hostel rooms, classrooms and benches, which were filled with dust. The toilets were not cleaned and nauseating smell was emanating from the class and hostel rooms. The staff are not allowing parents into the hostels or classrooms. There is no water to wash clothes. The condition is worst,” he complained. ‘Raids will continue’ Parents complained to the Commission members over the poor hygienic conditions at the colleges. “Some parents told us that that the college staff were harassing their children, if they revealed the problems they faced on the campus,” said Commission vice-chairperson Vijaya Sarada Reddy. “The students and parents urged us to conduct frequent raids on the private educational institutions. Similar raids will be conducted across the State,” said Mr. Narayana Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/surprise-inspections-unravel-stinking-reality-at-pvt-colleges/article33631090.ece
22 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Post HC verdict, SEC sounds the poll bugle||With the Division Bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court setting aside the interim stay ordered by the single judge on the conduct of gram panchayat elections, the State Election Commission (SEC) has asserted that elections to the local bodies will take place in four phases – February 5, 9, 13 and 17. State Election Commissioner N. Ramesh Kumar, in a statement on Thursday, said the Division Bench cleared the decks for the conduct of the gram panchayat elections in the State. The SEC would, accordingly, go ahead with the elections as per the schedule notified earlier, he said. ‘High-level meet soon’ “A meeting with the Chief Secretary, the Director General of Police, the District Collectors and the Superintendents of Police will be convened at the earliest to discuss the arrangements to be made of the elections,” Mr. Ramesh Kumar said. “The State government has submitted an undertaking to the court that it shall do everything possible for holding the gram panchayat elections and shall not seek change in dates,” he pointed out. Model code The Model Code of Conduct had come into effect following the judgment, he said. ln the rural areas, people’s representatives shall not be associated with the distribution of benefits that would influence the electorate, he made it clear. The Chief Secretary had already been advised to to bring this to the notice of the District Collectors. Safety protocol Mr. Ramesh Kumar said that the SEC was concerned about the safety of the electoral staff and the electorate as well. “A comprehensive safety protocol has already been incorporated in its proceedings by way of guidance to the government. The government shall take all measures to ensure safety of the poll staff as well as the voters,” he said, and added that “law and order continues to be the focus area in the light of past experiences.” “The SEC solicits the cooperation of all the stakeholders for ensuing a fair and peaceful elections, and urges the voters in particular to exercise their franchise to strengthen the gram panchayats as they play a significant role in managing, among other things, the COVID-19 pandemic,” he observed “The elections in Andhra pradesh are held in terms of the constitutional mandate as being the case elsewhere in the country. Elections to gram panchayats in particular is a process of empowerment as envisioned by the 73rd Amendment,” he added.  The State government has submitted an undertaking to the court that it shall do everything possible for holding the gram panchayat elections and shall not seek change in dates. The government shall take all measures to ensure safety of the poll staff as well as the voters N. Ramesh Kumar State Election Commissioner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/post-hc-verdict-sec-sounds-the-poll-bugle/article33631570.ece
22 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Farm laws: opposition parties express solidarity with ryots||The CPI, CPI (M), Congress and other parties and their frontal organisations have expressed solidarity with the farmers’ unions which called for a dharna at Raj Bhavan in Vijayawada on January 23 and parades in all districts on January 26 to protest against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act. A resolution to that effect was passed at a seminar held by the Left parties at Makineni Basavapunnaiah Vignana Kendram here on Thursday. The meeting was presided over by CPI State secretary K. Ramakrishna. CPI(M) State secretary P. Madhu, Pradesh Congress Committee president Sake Sailajanath, Telugu Rythu State president M. Srinivasa Reddy and others took part in the deliberations. ‘False claims’ They alleged that the farm Acts would be more beneficial to corporate entities than the farmers and that the claims being made by the Central government were false.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/farm-laws-opposition-parties-express-solidarity-with-ryots/article33631081.ece
22 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||For second day in a row, no COVID-19 deaths in State||For the second time in a row and third time in a week, the State saw no deaths due to COVID-19 in the last 24 hours ending Thursday morning. During the period, 139 new cases with 0.28% positivity rate, the lowest in the past eight months, were reported as 49,483 samples were tested. The tally wen t up to 8,86,557 and the toll remains at 7,142. The overall positivity rate further came down to 6.96% and the recovery rate slightly increased to 99.02% with a total of 8,77,893 recoveries. As many as 254 patients recovered in the past day leaving 1,522 cases active as of Thursday morning. The tests per million ratio increased to 2.38 lakh. Lowest recovery rate Krishna district, which has the lowest recovery rate, reported 35 new infections, the highest single-day tally in the districts. It was followed by Chittoor with 20 infections, Guntur, 17, and East Godavari with 13 cases. Nine districts reported new cases in single-digits. They were Prakasam (9), Anantapur (8), Visakhapatnam (7), West Godavari (7), Kurnool (6), Nellore (5), Vizianagaram (5), Kadapa (4), and Srikakulam (3). The district-wise tallies were: East Godavari (1,24,110), West Godavari (94124), Chittoor (86,906), Guntur (75,355), Anantapur (67,578), Nellore (62,274), Prakasam (62,141), Kurnool (60,757), Visakhapatnam (59,585), Kadapa (55,201), Krishna (48,430), Srikakulam (46,081) and Vizianagaram (41,120). All the districts except Krishna have recovery rate of over 99% or close to it, while Krishna has 98.04% recovery rate with 272 active cases, the highest in districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/for-second-day-in-a-row-no-covid-19-deaths-in-state/article33631077.ece
22 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Unannounced traffic diversions cause inconvenience to motorists||Traffic diversions and regulations imposed by the police for Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s programme at Benz Circle here caused severe inconvenience to the passengers and motorists on Thursday. Police diverted traffic coming from Machilipatnam, Hyderabad, Gudivada, Bhimavaram, Visakhapatnam, Rajamahendravaram and other places to Eluru Road, Pinnamaneni Polyclinic Road and other sub-roads. Mr. Reddy launched 2,500 vehicles meant for door delivery of ration across the State. However, sub-roads witnessed major jams as many vehicles, autos and the school and college buses were parked on the roadside. “Police arranged barricades without any indication and diverted traffic towards Pantakaluva Road, Skew Bridge Road, Patamata and other sub-roads. There wase traffic jam in the narrow lanes,,” said a vehicle rider Shiva. Emergency services, including ambulances were stuck in the traffic for a few hours on the National Highways. A traffic constable was seen clearing the vehicular movement for an ambulance near Ramavarappadu. “Police focussed on only Benz Circle, and stopped vehicular movement on all other roads leading to the venue. They ignored the traffic at all other junctions and other thoroughfares,” said a two-wheeler rider Sridevi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/unannounced-traffic-diversions-cause-inconvenience-to-motorists/article33631673.ece
22 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Degree college lecturers seek fair deal||Leaders of the Joint Action Committee of Degree College Lecturers’ Association on Thursday staged a protest at Dharna Chowk here seeking solution to key issues such as pending transfers, payment of dues and re-designation of their posts. Progressive Democratic Front’s Deputy Floor Leader in the Legislative Council K.S. Lakshman Rao said the lecturers who should be in the classroom teaching lessons, were forced to take to the streets since their problems were being neglected by the officials for a very long time. He said the protest was aimed at drawing the government’s attention to their problems. MLC Ravi Varma said it was unfortunate that the lecturers had to resort to a protest to make their point to the government. A.P. Teachers’ Federation State president Panduranga Prasad wondered about the delay in transfers despite the process being completed long time back. The JAC leaders said the file pertaining to transfers had moved long back and Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh had sent the memo related to teacher transfers to the Commissioner of College Education in June. But the teachers were yet to receive their transfer orders. They said many teachers had been working in remote Agency areas for last 7 to 8 years and had been eagerly waiting for a transfer. There were also “spousal” and medical cases waiting for transfers for the last four years. They said the UGC grants released by the Centre in June were yet to be paid to the lecturers. Their plea to the A.P. State Council for Higher Education (APSCHE) to give them the details had fallen on deaf ears. Similarly, G.O. relating to payment of additional increment to teachers who had completed M.Phil and Ph.D was not yet released though permission was given in September 2019. Pointing to the fact that lecturers, Assistant Professors and Associate Professors in Degree colleges across the country had been re-designated, they said though the government released GOs 14 and 38, they were yet to be implemented. During the lockdown necessitated,degree college lecturers walked the extra mile to ensure that the students did not lose their academic year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/degree-college-lecturers-stage-protest-seek-fair-deal/article33631086.ece
22 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||A ‘small’ bid to enter record book||City-based artist Pamarti Naga Siva Rao has made the smallest vacuum cleaner in an attempt to enter the Guinness Book of World Records, here on Thursday. The working vacuum cleaner model, which is only 1.4 centimetres in length and width, was made in the presence of students and faculty of Government ITI in the city, said Mr. Siva. It was made using a syringe, battery, plastic sheet and mini vibrator, he said. Mr. Siva said the proposal was accepted and the model was sent for verification.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-small-bid-to-enter-record-book/article33631078.ece
22 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||BIE puts pvt. junior colleges on notice||The State Board of Intermediate Education (BIE) has issued a stern warning to private unaided junior colleges against collection of excess fee. In a statement on Thursday, Secretary of the Board V. Ramakrishna said complaints were received from students and parents regarding collection of excess fee by certain college managements. He said all private unaided colleges were directed to strictly follow the GO 57 issued by the Department of School Education on October 30 on the government decision to reduce 30 % of the tuition fee for the academic year 2020-21. Mr. Ramakrishna said principals of the colleges should display the fee particulars to be collected category-wise on the notice board prominently. Any deviation would be viewed seriously and stringent action be initiated, he warned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bie-puts-pvt-junior-colleges-on-notice/article33631085.ece
22 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||23,338 take the shot against COVID||As many as 23,338 beneficiaries were given vaccine shots against COVID-19 in the State on Thursday. The vaccination drive was conducted in 616 sessions across the State. Covishield was administered to 21,814 beneficiaries, while Covaxin was administered to 1,524 beneficiaries and no case of Adverse Event Following Immunisation was reported in both the cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/23338-take-the-shot-against-covid/article33631079.ece
22 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||IRCTC plans different packages||The Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) is offering Bharat Darshan special tourist train package, domestic air packages and roadway packages to various destinations, according to IRCTC deputy general manager Kishore Sathya. Tours will be arranged from Hyderabad, Secunderabad, Visakhapatnam, and Renigunta, from January 25 to March end. Speaking to the media here on Thursday, Mr. Kishore said Bharat Darshan trip will have Ganga-Yamuna yatra, Jagannath dham yatra, Ramayan yatra and Ayodhya to Chitrakoot. The train will originate from Renigunta, Secunderabad (via. Vijayawada) and Renigunta (via. Vijayawada). IRCTC area manager T. Murali Krishna said the trip would cover Prayagraj, Varanasi, Gaya, Puri, Bhubaneswar, Konark, Ayodhya, Chitrakoot, Gaya, Nandigram, Shringaverpur and other places. Trips would begin on February 20, March 3 and 15, he said. “The corporation is offering domestic air packages to Andaman, Madhya Pradesh Maha Darshan, Saurashtra with Statue of Unity, Majestic Kerala with Shree Padmanabha Swamy and Goa. The trains will start from Hyderabad and Visakhapatnam.” The tour would cover Port Blair, Havelock Island, Neil Island, Indore, Maheswar, Omkareswar, Ujjain, Ahmedabad, Dwaraka, Cochin, Munnar, Alleppey, Kovalam, Trivandrum, South Goa and other tourist sites, Mr. Murali Krishna said. Domestic air packages would begin in February and March. Tourists may contact over phone Nos.040-27702407, 9701360701, 8287932228, 0866-2572280 or 8287932312 (Vijayawada), 0877-2222010 or 8287932317 (Tirupati).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/irctc-plans-different-packages/article33631088.ece
22 January 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP firm on taking out yatra||Taking objection to the arrest of party leaders who were protesting against the attacks on temples, BJP State president Somu Veerraju said on Thursday that it was an undemocratic act and wondered if undeclared emergency prevailed in the State. Mr. Veerraju vowed to undertake the ‘Devalaya Parirakshana Yatra’ from February 4, for which police permission had been sought. Addressing the media at his residence at Tadepalli, Mr. Veerraju said thousands of cadres were arrested as they embarked on a visit to Ramatheertham temple in Vizianagaram district, where the idol of Lord Rama was desecrated. The DGP purportedly made a statement that some BJP and TDP workers were involved in the attack on nine temples even before investigation was completed claiming to have prima facie evidence. He condemned the taking into custody of MLC P.V.N. Madhav who tried to approach the top police officials at the DGP office and the house arrest of some other top leaders of the party a day after an application had been submitted in writing to Additional DGP Ravi Shankar Ayyanar seeking permission for the ‘Devalaya Parirakshana Yatra’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-firm-on-taking-out-yatra/article33631560.ece
22 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI hails HC verdict||CPI State secretary K. Ramakrishna has welcomed the High Court judgment on elections to the local bodies. In a statement on Thursday, Mr. Ramakrishna said the court had stated that both elections and public health were important. “The onus lies on the government to honour the judgment. Except the YSRCP, all political parties are in favour of the elections. The government should cooperate with the SEC. ,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpi-hails-hc-verdict/article33631572.ece
22 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Irani gang’ rears its head in city||After a hiatus of two years, the notorious ‘Irani’ gang appears to have struck again in the city, allegedly committing a crime under Duvvada police station limits on Thursday. The gang, which is known to have a presence across India, has given police across various States a tough time, by way of their uncanny ability to hoodwink them by changing their personal appearances. They are known for masquerading as police or senior government officers and conning gullible victims. The gang traces its ancestry in India to the Golconda kings. The Qutb Shahi dynasty that ruled the Golconda Sultanate from 1518 to 1687 had brought able-bodied Persians to be their personal bodyguards. They selected the strongest, bravest and the finest warriors. The members of this gang are said to be the descendants of these warriors. Today, they may have lost the warrior touch, but they have harnessed their skills in altering their personal appearance and masquerade as policemen to con people. Based on their ancestry, the police in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana have named them the ‘Irani gang’. According to DCP (Crimes) V. Suresh Babu, the gang members are spread across the country from Punjab to Tamil Nadu and they live in small groups. In A.P., they live in and around Guntakal and in around Hyderabad in Telangana. S. Varadaraju, former Additional DCP (Crime) of Visakhapatnam City Police, who is now posted as Additional SP (Vigilance) in Eluru, said that the descendants of the Qutb Shahis have retained their physical appearance and have a fair complexion with robust personalities despite mixing with the ethnic people through marriage. “A well-dressed able-bodied man can easily pass off as a high-ranking police officer or a government official, and they utilise this physical trait of theirs to full effect. Another added advantage for them is their fluency in Hindi, Telugu and at times even English,” he said. Modus operandi Their modus operandi is simple. In most cases, it has been seen that they operate in a group of two to four. All the members are well-dressed and at times even wear ‘Safari suits’, as worn by police officers sometimes. They conduct a recce of an area and after identifying potential victims, they approach them at a lonely spot as friendly police officers. To shake the victim off guard, they sound a word of caution that a gang of robbers is moving in the area and that they are on patrol duty. On the pretext of advising them to keep their jewellery safe, they suggest the victim to remove the jewellery and wrap it in a cover or handkerchief. Then, one of the gang members diverts the attention of the victim and that is when they strike. It is not till later that the victim realises that he or she has been conned. There are a number of gangs in A.P. and Telangana such as Aksar Ali gang, Nazaru gang and Yasin Ali gang, and the police caution people to keep away from such unknown people and not listen to their advice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/irani-gang-rears-its-head-in-city/article33631690.ece
22 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vigilance teams do quality checks at major retail stores||Officials from Vigilance and Enforcement, Legal Metrology, and Department of Food Safety conducted surprise checks at three major retail stores at Birla Junction, Marriot Hotel Junction and Dutt Island and another store at One Town area in the city on Thursday to check the quality of food products being stocked. Teams led by Regional Vigilance and Enforcement Officer (RVEO) G. Swaroopa Rani checked various products being sold in the stores. Deputy Superintendent of Police (Vigilance & Enforcement) A. Narasimha Murthy said this was a regular inspection to check whether the stores are complying with the standards of food safety. He said that as part of quality checks, samples of several products were collected and sent to labs for testing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vigilance-teams-do-quality-checks-at-major-retail-stores/article33631688.ece
22 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||SEC’s approach vindictive, alleges Kannababu||Agriculture Minister K. Kannababu has accused State Election Commissioner N. Ramesh Kumar of being vindictive. Addressing the media here on Thursday, Mr. Kannababu said, “A week ago, the High Court had passed an order that local body elections cannot be held due to the prevailing COVID-19 pandemic and the vaccination drive. The same court has now given its nod for the elections.” ‘Personal agenda’ “This has happened as the SEC appealed to the court against the earlier order. Where was the need for Mr. Kumar to go to the court when the earlier order was clear? This indicates that he has a personal agenda,” Mr. Kannababu alleged. “We are not afraid of conducting the local body elections. We do not want to compromise on the health of people and the five lakh employees who will be engaged for conducting the elections,” the Minister said. “Holding elections is a huge task. In the present circumstances, it is risky. The safety of people and employees is at stake,” he pointed out.  ‘Naidu daydreaming’ “Mr. Naidu will be daydreaming if he thinks that his party can win the elections as the turnout will be poor during the pandemic. The YSRCP won with absolute majority and it will continue its winning streak,” Mr. Kannababu said. Referring to the byelection to the Tirupati Lok Sabha seat, Mr. Kannababu said the TDP would be in the fourth or fifth position, and would be competing with the NOTA numbers. He further said the arrests made in the Nandi idol case at Santhabommali in Srikakulam had exposed the “nefarious goals of the TDP.” Anakapalle MLA Gudivada Amarnath and Paderu MLA K. Bhagyalakshmi were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/secs-approach-vindictive-alleges-kannababu/article33631574.ece
22 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||High cement, steel prices weighing down real estate||An abnormal hike in the prices of cement and steel is not only causing undue burden on middle-class homebuyers but is also putting pressure on builders, according to the Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India’s (CREDAI)Visakhapatnam chapter. “Cement manufacturers have formed a cartel to hike the price of cement by Rs. 100 to Rs. 150 a bag, thereby resulting in an escalation in the cost of apartments by Rs. 100 to Rs. 150 per sft. Similarly, an abnormal hike in the cost of steel, by Rs. 30,000 a tonne, is leading to a further increase in the sft. cost by an additional Rs. 100, CREDAI Visakhapatnam chairman Peela Koteswara Rao and president B. Srinivasa Rao told reporters here on Thursday. The shortage of sand and manipulation by the sand mafia was further adding to the sft. cost, they alleged. Inadequate supply of sand, particularly in Visakhapatnam city, has become a perennial problem for builders, leading to hampering of construction activity and rendering hundreds of workers jobless. While commending the YSR Congress Party government for introducing a new sand policy and online booking to eliminate sand mafia, they alleged that builders were not getting the supplies to meet the requirements of their project. The State government had fixed the price at Rs. 375 a tonne at the sand reaches and around Rs. 800 for supply at the construction site. Improper implementation of the policy at the grassroots level was resulting in undue delays in supply and forcing builders to procure stocks from neighbouring Odisha at Rs. 1,700 to Rs. 2,000 a tonne. Manufactured sand (M-sand), an alternative to river sand, which was available to builders at Rs. 700 a tonne, was also in short supply due to technical issues. Mr. Koteswara Rao explained that the cost of almost all commodities had increased due to the COVID-19 pandemic. But the builders were being forced to bear the hike in costs as there was no ‘cost escalation’ clause in the agreement. Honorary secretary V. Dharmender also spoke. CREDAI leaders appealed to the State government and the authorities concerned to look into the issues and initiate steps to control the prices of steel, cement and ensure adequate supply of sand at rates fixed by the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/high-cement-steel-prices-weighing-down-real-estate/article33631666.ece
22 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Roadmap for city’s growth discussed at high-level meet||Chairman of the Andhra Pradesh Legislative Council’s Committee on Papers Laid on the Table, Yelamanchili Venkata Babu Rajendra Prasad, and its members Illa Venkateswara Rao and Chikkala Ramachandra Rao, held a review meeting at the VMRDA office here on Wednesday to discuss a range of issues such as the city’s growth and rising pollution. Metropolitan Commissioner P. Koteswara Rao gave a presentation on the jurisdiction, objectives, programmes being undertaken and economic issues to the committee. The committee gave suggestions for the measures to be taken for development of the region as Visakhapatnam was emerging as an industrial and financial capital of the State. He suggested conducting of field-level surveys and marking of master plan roads to prevent prospective land buyers being deceived by unscrupulous real estate dealers. He also advised VMRDA officials to coordinate with various departments in the laying of the six-lane national highway bypass from Anakapalle to Anandapuram. He also suggested their involvement in the protection of Erramatti Dibbalu (red sand dunes) and to mitigate growing pollution in the city by growing more trees. VMRDA secretary Ganesh Kumar, Chief Engineer K. Ram Mohan Rao, DFO Shanti Swaroop amd Chief Statistical Officer Nirmalamma were among those who participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/roadmap-for-citys-growth-discussed-at-high-level-meet/article33631678.ece
22 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Venkata Rao’s arrest decried||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) activists and leaders staged a protest at the Gandhi Statue near the GVMC office here on Thursday and raised slogans condemning the arrest of TDP leader and former Minister Kala Venkata Rao. Mr. Venkata Rao was arrested, and later released, on the charge of inciting TDP workers to attack a car carrying YSR Congress Party leader and Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy to Ramatheertham in Vizianagaram district. Terming Mr. Venkata Rao’s arrest as ‘illegal’, the TDP leaders alleged that the YSRCP government was targeting the opposition to cover up its failure in arresting the culprits who were behind the attacks on temples. MLA Velagapudi Ramakrishna Babu and party leader Palla Srinivasa Rao alleged that the police had booked Mr. Venkata Rao at the behest of Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy, which was evident as the case was booked on the same sections as sought by Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy. They also alleged that the Jagan government was targeting BC leaders. Party leaders Pothana Reddy and Sanapala Panduranga Rao were present. Later, party leaders and activists proceeded to Rajam in Srikakulam district to express solidarity with Mr. Kala Venkata Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telugu-desam-leaders-decry-kala-venkata-raos-arrest/article33631613.ece
22 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Tourism and industry can propel growth’||Industries Minister Mekapati Goutham Reddy has said that tourism and industry are two sectors that can propel the growth of the State. At a review meeting held at the residence of Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao here on Thursday, Mr. Goutham Reddy said that measures would be taken for the promotion of industries and tourism in North Andhra in a big way. A mega industry meet would be conducted under the auspices of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) in February. An amount of Rs. 5,500 crore would be spent for provision of internet facility all over the State. He described the Medtech Zone in the city as the best destination for the manufacture of medical equipment. Visakhapatnam would be developed on a fast-track mode with Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy announcing it as the executive capital of Andhra Pradesh. He said that a conducive atmosphere was being created to attract investments to the State. Mr. Goutham Reddy said that the COVID-19 pandemic has made Work from Home (WfH) the new norm in the IT sector. This has prompted the government to make IT available at home in all the villages. IT services would be further expanded in Visakhapatnam and those who had migrated to other cities would find it attractive to return home, he said. He said special attention was being given to the implementation of ‘Ease of Doing Business’ all over the State. Problems would be resolved through EODB, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tourism-and-industry-can-propel-growth-of-state-says-mekapati/article33631670.ece
22 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||828 mini-trucks to deliver ration at people’s doorstep||A fleet of 828 vehicles that will deliver rations to beneficiaries’ doorstep across the district were flagged off by Visakhapatnam district in-charge Minister K. Kannababu, Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao and Collector V. Vinay Kumar at Beach Road on Thursday. Addressing the gathering, Mr. Kannababu said that the aim of the programme is to ensure that all ration supplies reach every eligible citizen without any irregularities. “The government is aware that after a day’s hard work, many farmers and poor people walk to the nearest ration stores and stand in long queues to get their ration supplies in the evening. To save time and energy of the beneficiaries and put an end to irregularities being committed by dealers, the initiative was taken by the YSRCP government,” Mr. Kannababu said, recalling how the scheme had undergone a successful trial run in Srikakulam district and is now being rolled out across all districts in the State. Mr. Srinivasa Rao said that Visakhapatnam district has been allotted 828 mini-trucks worth Rs. 50 crore. He also said that eligible youth were being employed through this initiative. “These trucks will come in handy for people in rural and Agency areas in Vizag district as many of them travel long distances to reach the ration depots,” he said. Collector V. Vinay Chand said that major reforms were brought in the field of civil supplies and due to this, about 12.50 lakh people will be benefited in the district. He also thanked bank officials, apart from revenue and civil supplies officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/828-mini-trucks-to-deliver-ration-at-peoples-doorstep/article33631685.ece
22 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Road works in Agency to begin by end of February||ITDA Project Officer S. Venkateswar on Thursday directed officials to accord top priority to the construction of roads in remote tribal hamlets in the Agency areas of the district. Addressing officials of the Panchayat Raj, Forest and Police Departments at Paderu, Mr. Venkateswar discussed the construction of roads sanctioned under PMGSY and RCPLW schemes. He said that three roads were sanctioned in Anantagiri mandal, two in Pedabayalu, one each in Paderu and Chintapalli and 15 roads in GK Veedhi mandal. The PO directed the Forest and Panchayat Raj officials to conduct a joint inspection and obtain permission from the Forest Department and start the construction work by February-end. On completion of survey in the forest areas, the engineering officials should submit the relevant maps to the Forest officials. The Forest Department would be given alternative land to compensate for the land acquired in the forests for the construction of roads. Paderu DFO Vinod Kumar, Panchayat Raj SE G. Sudhakar Reddy, Executive Engineer K. Srinivasa Rao, Forest Rangers of the 11 Agency mandals, Revenue and PR Engineering officials participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/road-works-in-agency-to-begin-by-end-of-feb-says-itda-official/article33631668.ece
22 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||RTC Vizag region earns Rs. 2.65 crore||The Visakhapatnam region of the APSRTC has earned a revenue of Rs. 2.65 crore through the operation of 1,562 special buses from Visakhapatnam to various destinations in the State and to Hyderabad for the Sankranti festival. Sankranti specials were operated from Visakhapatnam to Hyderabad, Vijayawada, Narasapur, Bhimavaram, Rajamahendravaram, Ichchapuram, Srikakulam, Sompeta, Parvathipuram, Bobbili and Vizianagaram from January 8 for the festival. A total of 3,84,461 km were covered by the 908 buses operated before the festival, earning an income of Rs. 1,45,77,757 at Rs. 37.92 earning per km and Occupancy Ratio (OR) of 77%, Regional Manager M.Y. Danam said on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rtc-vizag-region-earns-rs-265-crore/article33631675.ece
22 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Naidu making a hue and cry over Kala’s arrest’||Ministers M. Srinivasa Rao (Tourism) and K. Kannababu (Agriculture) have lashed out at TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu here on Thursday for making a hue and cry over the arrest of his party leader K. Kala Venkata Rao. Addressing the media here on Thursday, Mr. Srinivasa Rao said desecration of the idol of Lord Rama at Ramatheertham in Vizianagaram district was an unfortunate incident, but Mr. Naidu was trying to portray it as a political conspiracy. Post the incident, Mr. Naidu and YSRCP Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy had visited the temple the same day. Some unruly persons in the TDP had attacked Mr. Vijaya Sai with sticks, stones and chappals, and Mr. Venkata Rao was arrested in the case, Mr. Srinivasa Rao said. “Mr. Vijaya Sai escaped as he was travelling in a bullet-proof vehicle. Instead of condemning the act, Mr. Naidu is trying to make an issue out of it,” he alleged. Mr. Kannababu said he was confused by the statements made by Mr. Naidu. “On the one hand Mr. Naidu questions the arrest of Mr. Venkata Rao and on the other he wonders why the police have released him. Is Mr. Naidu unhappy for letting Mr. Venkata Rao go,” he asked. Lack of issues and bankruptcy of ideas were forcing Mr. Naidu to make a hue and cry over every small issue, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-making-a-hue-and-cry-over-kalas-arrest/article33631677.ece
22 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tri-weekly superfast special to Secunderabad from Jan. 27||A tri-weekly superfast special 02203/02204 between Visakhapatnam and Secunderabad will be operated by the Railways with effect from January 27. Train 02204 Secunderabad-Visakhapatnam superfast special will leave Secunderabad at 8.15 p.m. on Mondays, Wednesdays and Saturdays with effect from January 27 to arrive in Visakhapatnam on the following day at 6.25 a.m. Train 02203 Visakhapatnam-Secunderabad superfast special express will leave Visakhapatnam at 7.50 p.m. on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Sundays with effect from January 28 to arrive in Secunderabad on the next day at 6.05 a.m. These trains will have stoppages at Guntur and Vijayawada. These trains will have LHB coaches with one First AC coach, three 2nd AC, 11 3rd AC coaches and two Generator Motor cars. Passengers are requested to follow all health protocols before undertaking a journey in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. Passengers are also requested to convey their accurate mobile number to receive SMS alerts in time if there is any update about the train such as train cancellation and change of timings. Short termination Due to a traffic block between Thane and Mulund stations, train 01020 Bhubaneswar-Mumbai CST special express leaving Bhubaneswar on January 22 and 23 will be short-terminated at Kalyan and will be partially cancelled between Kalyan and Mumbai CSMT.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tri-weekly-superfast-special-to-secunderabad/article33631669.ece
22 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Miscreants pose as police to steal gold||Impersonating policemen, two unidentified persons allegedly decamped with three-and-a-half tolas of gold ornaments from a man at Kurmannapalem area in Visakhapatnam on Thursday. According to preliminary information from Duvvada police, a man named Ramakrishna (59), an employee of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, was heading to work at 8.15 a.m. on Thursday. When he reached Abhiram Constructions area, two unidentified persons intercepted him and claimed to be special officers from the city police department. They asked him to be cautious in the wake of rising crimes in the city and take out all gold ornaments which he was wearing and wrap them in a handkerchief. Believing them, Mr. Ramakrishna did so and left the place. But after some time, he realised that the handkerchief and the gold was missing. He then realised that he was conned by the two persons impersonating as policemen. “The victim informed the police that the persons were speaking to each other in Hindi. Soon after receiving the complaint, we have formed teams and are in search of the accused,” said Inspector of Duvvada police station, G Lakshmi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/miscreants-pose-as-police-to-steal-gold/article33631683.ece
22 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Teacher found dead with burns||The partially burnt body of a 50-year-old government school teacher was found at an isolated place in Golugonda in Visakhapatnam district late on Wednesday night. The deceased K. Varahala Babu of Kothamallampeta village in Golugonda mandal worked as a Telugu teacher in the Kothamallampeta high school. According to the police, tipped off by local people they had retrieved the body and sent it for post-mortem. They registered a case and began investigation.  Suicide angle According to sources, the police are suspecting it to be a suicide. A family member is said to have told the police that they saw Mr. Babu walking towards Jogampeta holding a can around 8.15 p.m. on January 19. This was also visible in a CCTV camera footage. Police also came to know that the deceased had sent a message to a colleague that he was having family disputes since 2012 and was vexed over them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/teacher-found-dead-with-burns/article33631581.ece
22 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bike rally on road safety, girl child||A motorcycle rally is being organised by the district unit of the Youth Hostels Association of India (YHAI) as part of the ongoing 32nd Road Safety Month celebrations and the Girl Child Day on January 24. The rally will begin at Gandhi Park near GVMC at 7 a.m. on Sunday. It will pass through Gurudwara, Kancharapalem, NAD, Gajuwaka, Balacheruvu Road, Gantyada and Gangavaram before reaching Yarada. Organisers will arrange snacks and meals en-route. Those interested in participating can contact programme director V. Ravi Kumar on 9441756400 or district unit president M. Ibrahim on 9440042366.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bike-rally-on-road-safety-girl-child/article33631674.ece
22 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. urged to set up juvenile courts||State Convener of the Child Rights Protection Forum (CRPF) G. Sitaram requested the State government to set up special juvenile courts in all 13 districts of the State, especially in Visakhapatnam, to ensure speedy justice for juveniles in conflict with law and their parents. In a press release issued on Thursday, Dr. Sitaram said that setting up of juvenile courts would help in resolving cases of sexual abuse against children and provide immediate punishment to perpetrators. He said that the State Commission for Protection of the Rights of the Child (APSCPCR) had expired in August last year and the chairperson and members of the commission are yet to be appointed. Restoring the commission would be beneficial for children, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-urged-to-set-up-juvenile-courts/article33631676.ece
22 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Delivery of DLs held up||The printing of Driving Licence (DL) cards has been stopped due to shortage of smart cards all over the State. The DL cards will be sent to eligible applicants through speed post to their addresses after receipt of smart cards, according to Deputy Transport Commissioner G.C. Raja Ratnam. In the meantime, DL applicants can download Form 6 from the websitehttps://aprtacitizen. epragathi.org/and use it as an authorised certificate, pending issue of the smart cards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/delivery-of-dls-held-up/article33631679.ece
22 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Cheer for oil palm farmers’||Minister of Agriculture and Marketing Kurasala Kannababu said that oil palm farmers will get better rates than ever before this year. This is on par with Telangana State and the best rate available in the country, he said. If the rate is translated to financial benefit, then it would be close to Rs. 14,000 per tonne, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cheer-for-oil-palm-farmers/article33631689.ece
22 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vinay Chand named best election officer||District Collector V. Vinay Chand has been selected as the Best District Election Officer in the State for his services during the last one year. On the directions of the Election Commission, the Chief Electoral Officer of Andhra Pradesh selected him for the award in view of the forthcoming National Voters Day. The award will be presented to him during the National Voters Day programme at Raj Bhavan on January 25, according to a communication from the State Election Commission CEO’s Office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vinay-chand-named-best-election-officer/article33631682.ece
22 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||City museum to be reopened||Visakha Museum, closed for several months in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, will be reopened from January 23. New curator of the museum B. Sanyasi Naidu said that the decision was taken following instructions to this effect from GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana. Mr. Sanyasi Naidu appealed to visitors to follow COVID-19 safety protocols by wearing masks and maintaining physical distancing at the museum.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/city-museum-to-be-reopened/article33631686.ece
22 January 2021||VIZIANAGARAM / SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telugu Desam cadres take to the streets in Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts||Condemning the arrest of senior leader K. Kala Venkata Rao, TDP leaders and cadres staged protests across Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts on Thursday. Mr. Venkata Rao was arrested on Wednesday in the case related to the agitation staged by the party on January 2 denouncing the desecration of the idol at the Ramateertham temple, wherein the party cadres allegedly pelted stones on the convoy of YSRCP Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy. Though Mr. Venkata Rao was released on bail from the Cheepurupalli police station, the party cadres staged protests not only in his home town Rajam but also in Srikakulam, Palasa, Bobbili, Parvatipuram, Vizianagaram and other places. Human chain In Rajam, the TDP formed a human chain denouncing Mr. Venkata Rao’s arrest and sought an apology from the government. TDP in-charge in Rajam Kondru Muralimohan and Vizianagaram TDP parliamentary party wing president Kimidi Nagarjuna condemned the arrest of Mr. Venkata Rao without a valid reason. “Mr. Venkata Rao is known for his clean and decent politics. He has never indulged in violence,” said Mr. Mohan. The arrest was nothing but political vendetta, Mr. Nagarjuna alleged. TDP leaders such as Gunda Appala Suryanarayana, Gunda Lakshmi Devi and Madarapu Venkatesh staged a protest at the Gandhi statue in Srikakulam. In Vizianagaram. senior TDP leader P. Ashok Gajapathi Raju, MLCs Dwarapu Reddy Jagadish and Gummadi Sandhya Rani, Telugu Mahila State president Vangalapudi Anita and others decried the arrest of Mr. Venkata Rao and vowed to teach a lesson to the ruling YSRCP in the next elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telugu-desam-cadres-take-to-the-streets-in-vizianagaram-and-srikakulam-districts/article33631566.ece
22 January 2021||VIZIANAGARAM / SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||I have the courage to face false cases: Kala||Senior TDP leader K. Kala Venkata Rao on Thursday said he had the courage to face “false cases” filed against him and other party leaders, and alleged that the YSRCP government was misusing the Police Department to suppress the voice of the opposition parties. Mr. Venkata Rao was arrested late on Wednesday night at Rajam in Srikakulam district in the case pertaining to agitation at Ramatheertham and was released on bail in the early hours of Thursday from the Cheepurupalli police station in Vizianagaram, where he was kept for nearly five hours. ‘No prior notice’ Later, addressing the media at Cheepurupalli and at Rajam, Mr. Venkata Rao said he was arrested without any legal basis and prior notice. “I have been asked to attend a meeting with the committee that is looking into the Ramatheertham case. But they arrested me on the charge of indulging in violence during the visit of YSRCP Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy to the temple,” he said. Earlier, high drama was witnessed at Cheepurupalli with the arrival of party leaders from Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts on Wednesday night itself. Vizianagaram SP B. Vijayakumari told the media that Mr. Venkata Rao was arrested after receiving a written complaint from Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/i-have-the-courage-to-face-false-cases-kala/article33631564.ece
22 January 2021||January 22 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC nod to panchayat elections||The court also stated that it was a considered decision of the SEC that the objectives of the local body elections and vaccination programme could be harmonised and Category-I and Category-II vaccinations would not affect the local body elections and it was on the aforesaid premise the SEC favoured completing the election process before the rollout of Category-III vaccination that would account for more than 93 lakh people. The green signal given by the court for the elections comes as a shot in the arm for Commissioner N. Ramesh Kumar who argued, in his writ appeal, that the government was seeking postponement of elections on one pretext or the other and the single judge erred in suspending the election notification dated January 8 as it was against the settled principle of law that the court cannot interfere with the election notifications and the process thereof once the exercise begins. The SEC issued the impugned notification for conducting the elections in four phases -- on February 5, 9, 13 and 17. Govt. argument In its writ petition, the government maintained that the situation is not conducive for elections citing a possible resurgence of COVID and vaccination drive. It informed the court that consultations were held on COVID containment measures as a mere formality and its concerns were brushed aside by the SEC. It was alleged that the SEC did not apply its mind to the enormity of the ground situation arising from vaccination and the involvement of many government departments and the deployment of men and resources and its importance for public health. Citing a Supreme Court judgment, the High Court on Thursday stated that the ultimate decision as to whether it is possible and expedient to hold the elections at any given point of time must rest with the Election Commission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-nod-to-panchayat-elections/article33631568.ece
22 January 2021||January 22 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Furry friends||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/furry-friends/article33631692.ece
22 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Suspense over contents of PRC recommendations continues||The suspense over the contents of the report submitted by the Pay Revision Commission headed by retired bureaucrat C.R. Biswal, the first constituted after the formation of Telangana, continues. Three weeks after the commission members submitted their report to Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, the government is yet to circulate the copies of the report or at least the executive summary to the stakeholders, including the representatives of the recognised employees unions. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has announced constitution of high power committee headed by the Chief Secretary and comprising Principal Finance Secretary K. Ramakrishna Rao and Water Resources Department Principal Secretary Rajat Kumar as its members immediately after the submission of the report by the commission. The committee was directed to study the report in detail and hold discussions with the employees unions to understand their aspirations before taking a final call on the issues like fitment benefit that should be given to the employees. Three weeks passed since its constitution, the committee is yet to meet formally to study the contents of the report, leave alone inviting the employees’ representatives for talks. While there were speculations over the quantum of the fitment benefit that is likely to be awarded initially, the talk among the employees is now focused on whether the PRC had made any recommendations on pay revision at all. The government awarded 43% fitment for employees of all cadres against the 29% fitment recommended by the previous PRC. Though no date for the formal meeting of the three member committee has been finalised yet, sources said “the meeting can happen at a short notice as all the ground work has been completed.” One major thing the government is working on is said to be the financial burden that the implementation of the PRC recommendations will have on the government’s ex-chequer as it will be a recurring one, not a one-time measure. Moreover, due consideration should also be given to the payment of arrears that will be due from July 1, 2018 in case the government wants to implement it with retrospective effect. Employees, meanwhile, are apparently becoming impatient over, what they call, the inordinate delays in announcing the fitment benefit long overdue. A delegation of the employees’ unions which called on the Chief Secretary on Wednesday expressed their dissatisfaction over the delays in circulating the PRC recommendations and extending invitation to the employees for talks. The delegation reportedly told the Chief Secretary that they would wait till Friday for an announcement failing which they would seek audience with the Chief Minister himself for representing their grievances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/suspense-continues-over-contents-of-prc/article33631336.ece
22 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Focus on beggar rehabilitation||The City Convergence Meeting at the GHMC headquarters on Thursday has resolved for coordination among various departments for the special drive towards identification and rehabilitation of the persons involved in begging across the city. Speaking at the meeting, GHMC Commissioner D.S.Lokesh Kumar said already several programmes have been taken up to ensure a beggar-free city, and a fresh drive will be taken up soon to identify beggars and conduct rehabilitation and livelihood training programmes for them. Any information about persons involved in begging at major junctions and religious places may be shared with GHMC, upon which they will be rescued, and shifted to GHMC shelter homes after due medical examination. Special training programmes will be conducted for the able bodied persons towards self employment, Mr.Lokesh Kumar said. He directed the Zonal Commissioners and Engineering officials to take up repairs for all the major roads in the city, and asked them to issue notices to the agencies which neglect the bad road conditions. The meeting has decided to improve the implementation of the street vending policy, by constituting town vending committees with members drawn from other stake-holding departments such as the Police. Officials from the Police department sought GHMC’s support for installation of 10,000 more CCTV cameras in three phases across the city. The Traffic Police has requested for more footpaths, their better management, installation of sign boards, and construction of road medians towards bringing down the number of pedestrian deaths. A list of black spots with high incidence of accidents has been presented to the GHMC where repairs and development works need to be taken up. Mr.Lokesh Kumar informed that construction of over 30 foot over-bridges has been taken up across the city, and sought joint inspection by the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board, TSSPDCL and Hyderabad Metro Rail officials for removal of obstructions. Officials from the Hyderabad, Cyberabad, and Rachakonda police commissionerates, TSSPDCL, HMWS&SB, Hyderabad Metro Rail, HMDA, Revenue, and other departments attended the meeting, apart from GHMC Additional Commissioners, Zonal Commissioners, Town Planning and Engineering department officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/focus-on-rehabilitation-of-beggars/article33631358.ece
22 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State should conduct more COVID tests, says HC||The more tests, the safer it is being the theory, 40,000 COVID-19 tests a day on an average done in Telangana State are lower vis-a-vis the number of tests done in a city like Delhi. Making this observation, the Telangana High Court on Thursday directed the State government to furnish different details like the figures of Rapid Antigen Tests and RT-PCR tests conducted daily across the State. Hearing a batch of PIL petitions seeking multiple reliefs related to the coronavirus pandemic situation, a bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy asked the government to furnish a geo-map of the spread of COVID in different districts of the State. The bench also wanted the government to explain the inputs of sero-surveillance conducted in different regions or districts. Sero-surveillance is a method adopted to measure the levels of anti-bodies against a specific infection by conducting random sample tests. It helps decode the percentage of population affected by the virus. Details of RAT and RT-PCR, which would be conducted from January 25 to February 10, should be furnished in tabulated form district-wise. The bench observed that it was heartening to note that compliance of the HC directions from time to time by the government resulted in containing further spread of the virus. The situation was not as critical as it was earlier. Advocate General B.S. Prasad told the bench that four cases of new strain were reported in the State while the government machinery was taking adequate steps to track the carriers and their contacts. However, the CJ said that the number of tests carried out in the State per day was not impressive. The CJ observed that Telangana State, which was bigger in area and population compared to Delhi, could have conducted more tests going by the COVID-19 test figures of Delhi. Time line of the tests, time taken to give results, areas affected the most in the State and district-wise information, should be compiled and presented before the bench by February 19, the bench said. Meanwhile, remarking that there was no need for multiple PIL pleas on the same content, the CJ disposed of all PIL petitions on COVID, barring two. However, the petitioners and their counsels can suggest to the bench any issues related to the matter, the bench said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-should-conduct-more-covid-tests-says-hc/article33631344.ece
22 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||EWS - Govt takes a decision after much dilly-dallying||After much persuasion and pressure from different quarters the Telangana government has decided to implement the 10% Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) reservations for people who are not covered under any existing reservation policy. Telangana is one of the few States in the country where the policy is yet to be adopted though it was brought in 2019 through the 103rd Constitution Amendment to allow reservations for poor among upper castes. Though the Central government passed the law it left its implementation to the States since the subjects covered — Education and Employment — were in the Concurrent List. A high-level meeting in a few days will discuss the modalities of the implementation and orders will be prepared accordingly, according to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. The EWS reservations primarily aim to create 10% super-numerary posts wherever it is implemented without disturbing the existing 50% reservations meant for socially backward classes. It has two components — education and employment.  Annual income The quota is applicable to people whose parents annual income is less than Rs. 8 lakh and the beneficiaries should not own more than 5 acres of agriculture land. Similarly, they cannot own a residential flat of more than 1,000 sq ft, or residential plots of 100 yards and above in cities and 200 yards and above in towns and villages. However, the statement from the Chief Minister’s Office says the reservations will go up to 60% with the EWS without clarifying whether the Chief Minister meant 60% in general sense or 60% within the existing seats. Officials with whom The Hindu spoke to clarified that EWS is as per the Central policy without affecting the existing 50% reservations. Several State governments have implemented it in different ways. For example, Andhra Pradesh has adopted it in education but is yet to prepare the guidelines to implement it in employment. Other States that adopted the EWS in toto for both education and employment include Bihar, Chattisgarh, Delhi, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jharkhand, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and West Bengal.  Most States While Andhra Pradesh and Odisha have adopted it for education so far, Maharashtra has amended the norms to ensure it applies only to the Marathas (native Maharashtrians).  Other States where the policy is still under consideration includes the BJP-ruled Karnataka, Punjab and Tamil Nadu. Telangana has now decided to implement it. Political parties, student organisations and bodies representing the upper castes have been questioning the delay in Telangana. Loss of seats The BJP had raised the issue on several platforms. Reddy Jagruthi president Pitta Srinivas Reddy said they had represented to all the ministers, legislators and even sent letters to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao as the delay was causing loss of seats in educational institutions to poor upper caste students. The Chief Minister’s decision is now being claimed by these groups. However, Telangana State Council of Higher Education (TSCHE) Chairman T. Papi Reddy said it was under consideration for a long time with the Chief Minister. A draft prepared by the TSCHE with minute details was sent for deliberations a couple of months back. Professor Papi Reddy thanked Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao for considering it given its advantages where none of the existing beneficiaries in reserved categories will be affected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ews-govt-takes-a-decision-after-much-dilly-dallying/article33631371.ece
22 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Over 50% govt. healthcare workers vaccinated||More than 50% healthcare workers (HCWs) in Telangana had received the COVID vaccine. On the fourth day of vaccination (Thursday), 27,682 HCWs were vaccinated. Six of them developed minor Adverse Event Following Immunisation (AEFI) but the condition of all of them was stable. Health department officials planned to vaccinate 48,447 beneficiaries in 726 sessions on Thursday and 57.1% were given the vaccine. On the whole, there are around 1.65 lakh HCWs in the department and another 5,000 in the Central Health department. Since the start of vaccination drive, 97,307 HCWs have got the shot. The officials aim to immunise the remaining staff on Friday. And till date, 45,861 HCWs had missed or chose not to take the vaccine. They would be provided another chance. Director of Public Health Dr. G. Srinivasa Rao said that a mop-up round might be held on Monday. The vaccination for HCWs in private hospitals might start from next week. The entire inoculation programme for healthcare workers from government and private hospitals is scheduled to end by February first week. Frontline workers from municipal, police and other departments might be inoculated from the second week of February.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/over-50-govt-healthcare-workers-vaccinated/article33631342.ece
22 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Centre urged to consider TS request for vaccine testing lab||Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu has urged the Centre to consider the request of Telangana government to set up a vaccine testing and certification laboratory at Genome Valley in Hyderabad. An official release said the Vice-President on Thursday spoke to Union Health Minister Dr. Harsh Vardhan and referred to the request made by Telangana Industries and IT Minister K. T. Rama Rao in this regard. On Wednesday, in a letter to the Union Health Minister, Mr. Rao had underscored the need for having such a facility here as Hyderabad manufactured over six billion doses of vaccines annually and contributed to one-third of global vaccines production. Pointing out that Hyderabad has come to be known as the ‘Vaccine Capital of the World’, Mr. Rao had sought to highlight the issues for the vaccine-makers in sending the vaccines for testing and certification to the Central Drug Laboratory in Kasauli, Himachal Pradesh. “The logistics and the time involved in sending the vaccines to the CDL in Kasauli were constraining the industry in being a more effective and competitive destination,” he had said in the letter. The release said Dr. Harsh Vardhan assured the Vice-President that he would examine the request from all angles. He also informed Mr. Naidu that there were seven vaccine testing and certification laboratories in the world, including the facility at Kasauli and an accreditation would be required from an international body for such a (new) facility. Genome Valley, on the outskirts of Hyderabad, is a life science hub and home to multiple facilities of vaccine manufacturers. The Indian Council for Medical Research is establishing the country’s largest National Animal Resource facility for biomedical research there. Referring to the upcoming facility, for which the State government had provided land for free to ICMR, Mr. Rao had said it could be strengthened further to conduct testing and pre-release certification of immuno biologicals meant for human use in India. He had also sought the setting up of a Government Medical Store Depot (GMSD) facility by the Centre in Hyderabad with state-of-the-art data monitoring and tracking system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/centre-urged-to-consider-ts-request-for-vaccine-testing-lab/article33631348.ece
22 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Constitute Police Complaints Authority’||Telangana High Court on Thursday instructed State government to constitute State Police Complaints Authority within four weeks of receiving names of retired Supreme Court or High Court judges for appointment as the Authority’s chairman. A bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy passed the direction after hearing a PIL petition on the constitution of State Security Commission and State Police Complaints Authority in the States of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. The bench gave four weeks of time to AP government to initiate the process of constitution of the Authority after the State’s special counsel represented that due to COVID-19 pandemic it got delayed. The erstwhile Hyderabad HC for AP and Telangana in 2017 disposed of a writ petition directing the two States to constitute SSC and PCA in compliance with the Supreme Court directions in Prakash Singh vs Union of India. Suo moto contempt proceedings were initiated against the Home Secretaries of the two States as the HC directions were not enforced. Telangana Advocate General B.S. Prasad informed the bench that chairman of the State PCA should be a retired judge of SC or HC. For district PCA, a retired district judge was to be appointed as chairman. State government had already written to the HC to suggest names of a retired judge of SC or HC for appointment and would constitute soon after receipt of the recommendation of names from the HC. The matter was posted to June 4 for next hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/constitute-police-complaints-authority/article33631365.ece
22 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||IRDAI panel for making Cyber insurance wordings, claim process easier||A working group of insurance regulator IRDAI on Cyber Liability Insurance has highlighted the significance of the cover for individuals and recommended for creation of more awareness of such products, making policy wordings and claim process easier and permitting bundling of cyber cover with package policies. In its report on Individual Cyber Insurance, the Working Group said cyber insurance policies currently available address requirements of individuals reasonably well. However, there are some areas in the product features and processes which need improvement. Figuring in the recommendations of the working group, whose members were drawn from among senior officials of public and private insurers, experts and IRDAI officials, was one advising insurers to not insist on police FIR (First Information Report) for claims up to Rs. 5,000. “FIR is a critical requirement to assess claims and hence can’t be fully dispensed with. However for small claims up to Rs. 5,000, insurers may build flexibility with regard to this requirement,” the report said. Other recommendations include clarity in exclusion language relating to compliance with reasonable practices and precautions and need for coverage for bricking costs. Bricking refers to a loss of use or functionality of hardware as a result of a cyber event, the report said. Noting that cyber insurance covers cannot be static as the risks are not static, the working group, which submitted its report in two parts, said “it is necessary that as the market evolves in response to the emerging needs, the scope of the cyber policy needs to be enhanced.” On standardisation of cyber insurance policy, the Working Group said a model policy wording, conceptualised by the Working Group, can be considered by the insurers as a reference point to provide minimum basic coverage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/irdai-panel-for-making-cyber-insurance-wordings-claim-process-easier/article33631629.ece
22 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Five firms pay up for using biological resources for research||About a dozen Biodiversity Management Committees (BMCs) belonging to Indra Karan, Cheryal, Kasipur and Julkal gram panchatyats in Sangareddy mandal of Medak district, Yalaworthy and Kozzaguda gram panchayats, Shankarpally and Ramanthapur municipalities of Rangareddy district, Mekavanampally gram panchayat of Sadasivapet in Vikarabad district, Kadakverugu and Cheryal mandals of Siddipet district, and Janagam municipality of Warangal distrct received Rs. 9,500 each under benefit sharing component from five firms for accessing biological resources for research purposes. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC ) too had received the highest amount of Rs. 7.72 lakh from the firms, including Biotech Laboratories India Ltd. Hyderabad, DCM Shriram Ltd, India, Bharat Biotech International Ltd, Laurus Labs Limited and L’Oreal SA for accessing the biological resources from the particular region. The cheques were handed over by Telangana State Biodiversity Board (TSBDB) secretary Kalicharan S. Khartade during a meeting, said an official spokesperson on Thursday. The secretary advised the representatives of the areas to utilize the amount towards conservation and promotion of biological resources and other socio-economic activities. The mandate is also for equitable sharing benefits arising out of utilization of biological resources with local communities for livelihood improvement||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/five-firms-pay-up-for-using-biological-resources-for-research/article33631352.ece
22 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CCMB’s Atal Incubation Centre gets Rs. 5.25 cr. seed support grant||The Atal Incubation Centre - Centre for Cellular & Molecular Biology (AIC-CCMB) has been awarded the ‘NIDHI-Seed Support System’ (NIDHI-SSS) grant of Rs. 5.25 crore by the National Science & Technology Entrepreneurship Development Board (NSTEDB) of Department of Science and Technology (DST) on Thursday. The scheme aims to ensure timely availability of seed fund to deserving start-ups which can get up to Rs. 25 lakh and in exceptional cases, can be awarded Rs. 1 crore as seed support in the early stages of their journey for market access and scale-up. “This grant will support efforts of start-ups and ensure their leads reach the market as life sciences is a very capital intensive field where the development time is longer than any other sector. Time and money required for various validation and regulatory clearances for bringing a product to the market puts a huge pressure on the entrepreneur. We have seen many life sciences start-ups struggling to raise funds just to stay afloat,” pointed out CEO Dr. N. Madhusudana Rao. A selection committee would assess start-ups’ projects for their relevance, marketability and deep science before they are deemed eligible for seed support. AIC-CCMB has successfully supported over 40 life science start-ups in the last three years, all working in the areas of human and animal health as well as industrial biotechnology. Some of these had played a pivotal role in developing COVID-19 solutions for diagnostic, therapeutics and food supplements, explained Dr. Rao. CCMB Director Rakesh Mishra said, “Having ‘set structures’ for funding deep tech start-ups in life sciences is important since the requirements are very different from those in IT. It is a welcome step that NSTEDB sees the importance and has launched NIDHI-SSS. We are very hopeful this will motivate many companies to work with us and help bridge the much lacking communication gap between academic researchers and industries.” “Incubators like AIC-CCMB are empowered with our fund to further harness the true potential of science, technology and innovation driven by new age innovators, entrepreneurs and start-ups,” said Head NSTEDB, DST, Dr. Anita Gupta.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ccmbs-atal-incubation-centre-gets-rs-525-cr-seed-support-grant/article33631345.ece
22 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Raising funds for sports easier now: Gopichand||A change in government policy and corporates approach to deploying CSR funds has made raising financial assistance for sports easier in the last few years, according to Chief National Badminton Coach Pullela Gopichand. “In last four to five years, things have changed. I have been very fortunate that the [badminton] Academy had some great support from CSR. Government policy changed, which has helped sport raise money,” he told the Hyderabad Software Enterprises Association (HYSEA) summit on corporate social responsibility here on Thursday. The former all England Open Champion said this while recalling the struggle he underwent when he approached companies for financial assistance to set up a badminton training academy. “They would say badminton does not have the eyeballs to be a world sport and Indians can’t be champions in this sport. Cricket is the sport where we put our money on, nobody watches badminton. They would ask me to go to [those dealing in] CSR programmes who [in turn] would say girl child, education, sanitation and homes [were covered], sport does not figure.” Mr. Gopichand said the Finance Ministry favourably considered his request for tax breaks on funding for sports though the move did not help him much. “In 2007-08 I was so disappointed with the entire journey that I said forget it and almost mortgaged my house to set up the academy,” he said, adding that then entrepreneur Nimmagadda Prasad believed him and gave him first Rs. 2 crore and then Rs. 3 crore for the Academy, which over the years had produced many champions, including Olympic medallists. A day-long event, the HYSEA CSR SUMMIT 2021 on ‘Volunteer to make a difference’ consisted of an expo by NGOs, conference and presentation of CSR awards. HYSEA president Bharani K Aroll said education and environment were the focus CSR areas thus far. Health and well-being got added this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/raising-funds-for-sports-easier-now-gopichand/article33631350.ece
22 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State joins league of States with 100% functional household tap connections||The State has achieved another milestone by becoming the second State in the country to achieve 100% functional household tap connections (FHTCs) after Goa. Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat congratulated the State for joining the league of 100 per cent FHTC States. With the achievement, the country inched closer to ensuring rural households getting equipped with tap water connections. “Our vision of #HarGharJal will be a reality soon,” the Minister tweeted. Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Minister Errabelli Dayakar Rao said effective implementation of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s brainchild, Mission Bhagiratha, ensured that a new feather is added into the State’s cap. Telangana and Goa were leading from the front with 100% per FHTCs -- followed by Puducherry - 87.32%, Haryana - 85.11%, Andaman Nicobar Islands - 83.76%, and Gujarat - 81.63% in the sixth place. Mr. Dayakar Rao recalled the initiative by the Chief Minister 25 years ago when he launched the drinking water supply project in Siddipet which he was representing then. The scheme was an inspiration for Mission Bhagiratha which is now being implemented by several States under different names. Mission Bhagiratha is also the inspiring force behind the Jal Shakti programme launched by the Centre. Mission Bhagiratha had received several awards nationally and at international levels as water is being supplied with quality standards prescribed by the World Health Organisation. The scheme had also helped in supply of 100% fluoride free water covering even remote and interior areas. The government earmarked over Rs. 45,000 crore for the project and is likely to save Rs. 8,000 crore because of the effective planning and implementation. The government launched Mission Bhagiratha brand water which would soon be available at all the government institutions and the offices of the elected representatives. The State government had taken adequate steps to ensure supply of 100 litres per capita in rural areas, 135 litres per capita in municipal areas and 150 litres in the corporations. He thanked the Chief Minister for giving him the opportunity for implementation of the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-joins-league-of-states-with-100-functional-household-tap-connections/article33631367.ece
22 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Nod for private maintenance of infra||Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation Standing Committee meeting on Thursday has accorded approval for several proposals handing over the maintenance of city infrastructure across different locations to private entities under Corporate Social Responsibility. Structures handed over for private maintenance include GHMC park in Road No. 45, Jubilee Hills, Punjagutta graveyard, central medians and traffic islands at several locations, greenery on road shoulders, and others. In all, 20 proposals received the stamp of approval at Thursday’s meeting, among which were several for property acquisition related to road widening. A total of 306 properties are accordingly set to be acquired on the road between Banjara Hills, Road No. 12 up to Jubilee Hills Checkpost, 92 properties between Spring Valley up to Shilpa Valley, and 196 properties between Kushaiguda up to Dammaiguda. Proposals were also cleared to take up construction of multi-purpose function hall in Patigadda with an expenditure of Rs. 5.9 crore, to develop three parks in Amberpet constituency with Rs. 2.98 crore, and invite bids to install 700 traffic umbrellas at Traffic Control Booths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nod-for-private-maintenance-of-infra/article33631359.ece
22 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||We Hub partners with Western Digital||We Hub, Telangana’s incubator that fosters women’s entrepreneurship, on Wednesday, began its collaboration with Western Digital, a data infrastructure provider, to launch an acceleration programme focusing on tech for women entrepreneurs. The collaboration entails a 12-week acceleration programme for eight start-ups, which will be mentored by We Hub’s network of technology support, business mentors, venture capitalists, and enterprise executives. The start-ups will also stand to benefit from Western Digital’s expertise in data-led innovation. The eight start-ups — Aarca Research, AarogyaAI, Bioscan Research, Empiezo IT Solutions, Innogle, MedMarvel Software Solutions, Paraclete Image Labs and Edubuk — were selected from seven cities and from a pool of 963 applications sent from across the country. Of these applications, 40 were short-listed for Data Innovation Bazaar 2020, which was conducted jointly by Western Digital and Start-up India, Invest India, MeitY, DST and TiE Delhi-NCR. IT Principal Secretary Jayesh Ranjan said, “I am glad to see WE HUB is enabling high potential women led technology start-ups to be a part of this innovation revolution in Telangana and bringing along corporate giants like Western Digital.” Western Digital VP and country manager Supriya Dhanda said, “The idea behind this joint initiative is to provide a platform for women innovators to showcase their ideas and offer the guidance required to accelerate their business.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/we-hub-partners-with-western-digital/article33631346.ece
22 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Suspended TSSP constable found dead||A constable with Telangana State Special Police was found dead at his residence at Rama Rao Nagar of Borabanda here on Wednesday night. According to Sanathnagar police of Cyberabad Commissionerate, Malleshetty Rajender (45), died after hanging himself from a ceiling fan allegedly over family disputes. A 2005 batch constable posted at 1st Battalion of TSSP, Yousufguda, he hailed from Nagarkurnool district. In October last, he was placed under suspicion for ‘negligence in performing duty’. On Wednesday evening, Rajender sent a WhatsApp message to his wife, who along with their two daughters went to her maternal house in Wanaparthy district for the Sankranti festival, stating he would resort to the extreme step. She saw his message around 9 p.m. and called him repeatedly, but in vain. “When he did not answer her calls, his wife alerted their neighbours who rushed to their house and found him hanging,” police said. A case was registered and a probe is on to ascertain the exact reason for Rajender’s extreme step.  (There is always someone to listen at: +914066202000 or 6666 1117 in case of any emotional breakdowns at this Hyderabad-based suicide intervention centre, Roshni)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/suspended-tssp-constable-found-dead/article33631623.ece
22 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Five of SIM swap gang held||Five persons of a ‘notorious’ Mira Road gang were arrested by the Crime wing of Cyberabad police on Thursday on the charge of SIM swap fraud. Commissioner of Police VC Sajjanar said that since 2011 the fraudsters had adopted the technique of SIM swap to get access to the net banking of their targets and siphon off the money from the accounts. The kingpin of the gang, a Nigerian national, was operating from abroad. In June last, a man approached Cyber Crime police stating that he had taken a new SIM card on his old number, but was unable to make or receive calls. After he contacted customer care of the network provider, the issue was resolved. Later, when he tried to login to his Internet banking account, he got to know that someone had changed his user ID and password. “By using his debit card credentials, he changed the password of Internet banking and tried to make a transaction. But, his account was emptied,” Mr. Sajjanar said. On visiting the bank, he learnt that someone made three Immediate Payment Service (IMPS) transactions from his account and siphoned off Rs. 4,25,000 by swapping his SIM card. In October, another complainant lost Rs. 6,75,000. Based on their complaints, cases were registered and police arrested five persons – Chandrakant Siddhanth Kamble, Zameer Ahmed Munir Sayyed, Adil Hassan Ali Sayyed, Junaid Ahmed Shaik and Ashwin Narayana Sharegar, all residents of Mira Road in Mumbai. The Commissioner said that the kingpin James, a Nigeria national, who is currently at large, hacks the net banking credentials of his target through phishing mails in the name of IT returns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/five-of-sim-swap-gang-held/article33631355.ece
22 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man kills wife, her daughter; surrenders||An auto-rickshaw driver killed his wife and divorced stepdaughter at Huzurabad town in Karimnagar district in the small hours of Thursday over property disputes. The victims are K Rama (45) and her daughter K Amani (24), the police said. Huzurabad ACP S Srinivasa Rao said that between 12 a.m. and 3 a.m. the accused, K Venkatesh (51) killed the women by hitting their heads with an iron rod while they were asleep. The house they were living in and an auto-rickshaw were registered in Rama’s name and Venkatesh wanted the property in his name. After killing the mother-daughter duo, Venkatesh approached Huzurabad MRO Sandeep and narrated the incident to him. Venkatesh was taken into custody. Constable found dead A constable with Telangana State Special Police was found dead at his residence at Rama Rao Nagar of Borabanda here on Wednesday night. According to Sanathnagar police, Malleshetty Rajender (45), died after hanging himself from a ceiling fan allegedly over family disputes.   (Suicide prevention helpline, Roshni: : +914066202000 or 6666 1117)  Set afire by father A 10-year-old boy, who was set on fire by his father allegedly in a drunken state on Sunday night, succumbed to burns in the wee hours of Thursday. A student of sixth class from KPHB Colony, the victim suffered more than 80 % burns. In the dying declaration, the boy said that his father, Balu, had beaten him severely before setting him ablaze. Even the accused confessed to his crime and he was booked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-kills-wife-stepdaughter/article33631353.ece
22 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Stabilise Nagarjunasagar ayacut with Krishna water||In view of uncertainty over availability of water in Krishna river, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has asked officials to stabilise ayacut of Nagarjunasagar which was fed by Krishna with water from Godavari in Khammam district. At a meeting with irrigation officials on Thursday, Mr. Rao recalled that the State government had sanctioned Sitarama lift-irrigation project on Godavari to irrigate lands in Khammam district. There was abundant water in Godavari throughout the year in Dummugudem. The availability of water at Dummugudem was enough to meet the irrigation requirements of entire Khammam. Lifting water from Dummugudem, lands in Illandu and Sattupalli could be irrigated and Palair reservoir filled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/stabilise-nagarjunasagar-ayacut-with-krishna-water/article33631368.ece
22 January 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||ICET third phase from January 23||The third round of the Telangana State Integrated Common Entrance Test (TS-ICET) will be held from January 23. Candidates who qualified in Integrated Common Entrance Test 2020 but did not participate in certificate verificiation can now do so on January 24 while web options can be exercised from January 23 to 25 by all. Seats will be allotted on January 27. Those who participated in the earlier phases can also also exercise the web options with their old kogin ID and password.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/icet-third-phase-from-january-23/article33631356.ece
22 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State records 226 COVID cases, one dies||Telangana recorded 226 COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the total to 2,92,621. While 31,647 people were examined, the results of 714 were awaited. One more COVID-19 patient died. The new 226 cases include 39 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 16 each from Medchal Malkajgiri and Karimnagar, and 15 from Rangareddy. No case was reported from Jogulamba Gadwal and Kamareddy, and only one case was detected in Kumram Bheem Asifabad district. From March 2, 2020, to January 20 of this year, 75,74,184 people were tested and 2,92,621 were detected with coronavirus. Of the total cases, 3,920 were active cases, 2,87,117 have recovered, and 1,584 people died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-records-226-covid-cases-one-dies/article33631338.ece
22 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Dial ‘104’ for queries on reactions after vaccination||A few doctors at Osmania General Hospital (OGH) who developed weakness and nausea after taking the COVID vaccine said that they were not informed of the helpline number in case they develop any reactions after going home. Health department officials had earlier informed that people can dial ‘104’ to complain about Adverse Event Following Immunisation (AEFI), or for queries on vaccination. “But we were not informed of the number at the vaccination centre. After I felt weak and nauseous, I was clueless on whom to call,” said a doctor who got vaccinated at the government hospital on Tuesday. A senior Health official said that healthcare workers have been calling them on this number. Director of Public Health Dr. G. Srinivasa Rao said that 25 people called on ‘104’ on Tuesday. The callers had queries on various aspects related to COVID-19 vaccination. One of the callers, for example, who has a one-year-old baby, asked if she could feed her baby after getting vaccinated. A few others complained of mild reactions such as body pain, vomiting, and cough. Dr. Rao said that staff attending calls have been trained on providing appropriate information based on the queries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dial-104-for-queries-on-reactions-after-vaccination/article33631339.ece
22 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Boy set afire by father, succumbs||A 10-year-old boy, who was set on fire by his father allegedly in a drunken state on Sunday night, succumbed to burns in the wee hours of Thursday. A student of sixth class from KPHB Colony, the victim, was undergoing treatment at Gandhi Hospital. He suffered more than 80 % burns and all his vital organs were damaged. Police said around 9.30 p.m. on Sunday, the victim’s father R. Balu had set the boy on fire for delay in getting a bundle of beedis and also not performing well in studies. The boy’s dying declaration was recorded in the presence of the magistrate. He told police that his father, Balu, had beaten him severely before setting him ablaze. The father was booked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/boy-set-afire-by-father-succumbs/article33631622.ece
22 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Book cases against errant petrol bunks’||The Forum for Good Governance has in a memorandum to Controller of Legal Metrology sought cases of cheating of customers by petrol bunks as offences punishable under IPC. Forum secretary M. Padmanabha Reddy said cases are presently compounded by imposing fine ranging from Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 25,000. Not a single case was found where the accused was prosecuted and the bunk seized. An RTI query revealed that all 5 cases in 2018-19 and one case in 2019-20 in Medchal dist. were compounded by imposing small fines. In Rangareddy dist., 28 cases were booked and all of them were compounded with fines. The bunks used remotely controlled quantity adjustable fuel dispensing units. In a few cases, the operators of bunks tampered with seals and fixed integrated chips. Hence, these cases attract provisions under sections 418 and 420 of IPC which are punishable with imprisonment up to 7 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/book-cases-against-errant-petrol-bunks/article33631627.ece
22 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Page 3 Restaurants penalised||GHMC officials have, on Thursday, imposed penalties on two renowned restaurants in the city for various violations. Officials from Musheerabad circle, along with Medical, Food Safety and Veterinary wing officials, inspected three restaurants, Bawarchi, Cafe Bahar and New Astoria. Compounding fee of Rs. 25,000 was imposed on Bawarchi restaurant for using unstamped meat for cooking, while the same amount was imposed on New Astoria restaurant for unhygienic conditions in the kitchen, a press statement informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/page-3-restaurants-penalised/article33631360.ece
22 January 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Narrow escape for lorry driver, cleaner||The driver and cleaner of a lorry had a narrow escape after the vehicle-laden with urea bags went up in flames on the bypass road here on Thursday. An electrical short-circuit in the lorry’s engine is suspected to have caused the fire. The lorry was heading towards Sattupalli from the FCI godowns area in the town when the incident occurred on Thursday afternoon. Soon after noticing smoke billowing out of the lorry’s engine, the driver and the cleaner jumped out of the vehicle before the fire engulfed the cabin, leaving the vehicle on the roadside. Alerted by some bystanders, a fire tender reached the spot and brought the blaze under control. The front portion of the lorry was gutted in the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/narrow-escape-for-lorry-driver-cleaner/article33631373.ece
22 January 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Bar Association chief dies in accident||Senior advocate Mantripragada Satyanarayana, 60, was killed when a speeding lorry rammed his car at Gokavaram village on Sattupalli-Khammam highway in Kallur mandal on Thursday. Mr Satyanarayana, Sattupalli Bar Association president, was heading towards Khammam in his car when the mishap took place, sources said. Sources said that he was negotiating the pot-hole ridden stretch of the highway when the speeding hit his car from the opposite direction near Gokavaram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bar-association-chief-dies-in-accident/article33631375.ece
22 January 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||‘Get ready for reopening of schools’||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao said that all steps would be put in place for the reopening of schools. Participating in a meeting held with officials and teachers here on Thursday, Mr. Harish Rao said that officials should create facilities in schools and confidence among parents by holding meetings with them and stating that their children were safe in schools with COVID-19 regulations in place. “Make a perfect plan to conduct classes for 9th and 10th classes from February 1. About 50,000 masks will be supplied for students of government schools free of cost. We will take the request of farmers to provide vaccine to teachers on priority basis. Schools were closed for about 11 months and getting opened now. Get ready and keep them clean,” said Mr. Harish Rao adding that the schools must be sanitised before opening them. “Use the services of panchayat staff and NREGS workers to get the schools ready for reopening. See that water is available in schools. Get the rice and pulses for mid-day meals. Dig a pit and bury if there was rotten stock in schools. Do not allow students if there are fever or other symptoms. Let RTC run buses for students,” said the Minister. Zilla Prarisaht chairperson V. Roja Sharma and , MLC Raghottam Reddy were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/get-ready-for-reopening-of-schools/article33631626.ece
22 January 2021||New Delhi,||SFI, AISA submit MoU to reopen campuses in city||The Students’ Federation of India (SFI) and the All India Students’ Association (AISA) on Thursday protested outside the MHRD and the UGC, respectively, demanding the reopening of college campuses, disbursal of scholarships and an end to digital divide.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/sfi-aisa-submit-mou-to-reopen-campuses-in-city/article33631231.ece
22 January 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Odisha BJP stages farmers’ rally to protest halt in paddy procurement||The Odisha unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Thursday staged a massive protest at Sambalpur, a western Odisha town, demanding immediate procurement of paddy stocks lying at different market yards. The State BJP summoned almost all its MPs and MLAs to participate in the farmers’ rally, and besieged the office of the Revenue Divisional Commissioner (RDC) at Sambalpur. Farmers from 37 Assembly segments participated in the demonstration to protest non-procurement of paddy, and slashing of a small portion of paddy from every packet by procurement agencies. Bijaypal Singh Tomar, co-in-charge of the Odisha BJP, and State chief Sameer Mohanty, led the agitation. They said, “Farmers remained neglected for long under the Congress rule and they were deprived of their share of benefits. Farmers continue to languish even under the Biju Janata Dal (BJD) regime. Farmers are facing crisis due to the unholy nexus between the government and millers.”  ‘Man-made crisis’ “A farmer in Bargarh district died of cardiac arrest. Due to the incompetent State government, hundreds of paddy packets have been lying in market yards across the State. The crisis is fully man-made,” said Mr. Mohanty. He demanded that the government should immediately do away with its token system, and purchase at the rate of 13 quintals of paddy for one acre of non-irrigated land and 19 quintals per acre of irrigated land. BJP workers tussled with police personnel deployed to keep law and order outside the RDC’s office. Later, the police took BJP leaders into custody. ‘We won’t leave’ “We will not leave Sambalpur until the State government takes the decision to resume procurement at different market yards. The government must also ensure that paddy procurement is resumed smoothly,” said Suresh Pujari, Bargarh MP. Ranendra Pratap Swain, State Food Supplies Minister, had said the procurement of paddy was affected due to non-release of subsidy to the tune of Rs. 6,039 crore by the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/odisha-bjp-stages-farmers-rally-to-protest-halt-in-paddy-procurement/article33631245.ece
22 January 2021||JAIPUR,||Campaign in Rajasthan for audit of village cooperatives||As part of steps to strengthen the cooperative sector, a campaign has been launched in Rajasthan to clear the backlog and carry out audit of the accounts of village service cooperative societies to enable them to obtain loans from banks. The exercise will be completed by January 31. Cooperatives Registrar Muktanand Agrawal said here on Thursday that the instances of loans being disbursed to cooperative societies without the completion of audit had come to light in the past with the “apprehensions about financial irregularities”. The campaign will ensure transparency in the process of release of loans. The managing directors of central cooperative banks have been asked to check the completion of accounts. Mr. Agrawal said action under the Rajasthan Cooperative Societies Act, 2001, would be initiated against the village cooperative societies not getting their audit done for a long time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/campaign-in-rajasthan-for-audit-of-village-cooperatives/article33631246.ece
22 January 2021||Mumbai,||‘State-wide agitation today to demand Arnab’s arrest’||Maharashtra Congress president Balasaheb Thorat said the party would be carrying out a State-wide agitation on Friday to demand the arrest of Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami over violation of the Official Secrets Act. All party MLAs, MPs and Ministers have been asked to join a protest march to Mr. Goswami’s office in Worli. “WhatsApp chats between Mr. Goswami and a former official of Barc, Partho Dasgupta, have revealed serious issues, particularly in connection with the Balakot air strike. How did he get the information on February 23, 2019, three days before this action? Did he give this information to anyone else? He has himself admitted that the person who gave him this information is a big name in the Modi government. Therefore, an in-depth investigation is needed in the entire case,” said Mr. Thorat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/state-wide-agitation-today-to-demand-arnabs-arrest/article33631465.ece
22 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Deferment of new laws not part of demand: farmers||The farmers at the Singhu border, while rejecting the Centre’s proposal of suspending the three controversial farm laws for 18 months, said the deferment was not their demand and reiterated a full repeal. The protesters from Delhi’s neighbouring States have been at the city’s borders for nearly two months now, demanding a legal guarantee of Minimum Support Price and a repeal of the three agriculture laws brought in by the Centre. Several protesters on Thursday alleged that the proposal to suspend the laws for a certain period of time was the government’s tool to appease the farmers ahead of Punjab Assembly polls in 2022. Daljit Singh, 61, from Punjab’s Patiala, on Wednesday, said: “Almost three decades ago, a similar protest had taken place in Punjab though it lasted for a month. It has taken these many years for such a large movement to take place. It is not easy to gather tens of thousands of people. By proposing things like deferment of the implementation of the laws, the government is simply hoping that people would calm down. The Centre also has to keep in mind the upcoming elections.” Stating that the government was “wary” of the proposed tractor rally on Republic Day, Mr. Singh said, “They [government] are worried about the rally. This is not just a small movement. Often political leaders have no clue about what farming actually entails and instead they end up making policies for profit only. Every five years, they come to us with folded hands, asking for votes. After the elections, they make the citizens fold their hands and beg to them for basic rights.” Gurjeet Singh, another farmer from Patiala said: “What will the government do in 18 months? If this proposal is accepted then the scenario will end up being the same after one and a half years. We are not going to go back... the government has to accept our demands.” Several farmers like Sikander Singh from Punjab’s Moga district, were of the opinion that “one could not depend on what the government is saying.” “The government and the Prime Minister say a lot of things but we all know how much truth there is. How can we suddenly accept this proposal of deferment by 18 months? We cannot accept anything apart from the laws being repealed,” he said. Tractors on the way The agitating farmers also said thousands of tractors were on their way to the national capital for the upcoming Republic Day parade. Amritpal Singh, a farmer from Punjab’s Rajgarh village, said, “We reached the Singhu border on Thursday and on our way, we saw thousands of tractors on their way to the border. Each village is sending 10 tractors each at least and they are even bringing reinforcements including ration.” Many of the farmers, who have been at the Singhu border since the first day of the protest, said even if the farm unions accepted the government’s proposal, those who had assembled for the agitating were not ready to leave without the laws being repealed. Sukhjeet Singh, a farmer from Punjab’s Patiala district said, “We will fight for our rights before dying. What began on November 26 as a march to Delhi will culminate with thousands participating in the parade on January 26,” said Mr. Singh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/deferment-of-new-laws-not-part-of-demand-farmers/article33631244.ece
22 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Talks with police fail, farmers stay firm on tractor rally route||Even on the second day, the meeting between the police and farmer unions regarding the proposed tractor rally on January 26 remained inconclusive. JCP (Northern Range) S.S. Yadav coordinated the meeting held at Mantram Resort near the Singhu border on Thursday. The farmers said the police officers had tried to convince them to hold the rally on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) Expressway instead of the Outer Ring Road but in vain. A farmer leader said: “The government wants us to take out our rally outside Delhi but we won’t. No decision was taken in today’s [Thursday] meeting.” An officer said they have proposed a shorter route inside Delhi for farmers’ tractor rally but they want to go on their proposed route on Outer Ring Road. The meeting was also attended by Special Commissioner (Law and Order-Western Zone) Sanjay Singh, Special Commissioner of Police (Intelligence) Dependra Pathak and other senior officers from Delhi, Haryana and U.P. police. A similar meeting was held on Wednesday between the union leaders and officers of Delhi, U.P. and Haryana police at Vigyan Bhawan to discuss the route of the proposed rally on Jan. 26.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/talks-with-police-fail-farmers-stay-firm-on-tractor-rally-route/article33631241.ece
22 January 2021||New Delhi,||Advisory for full dress rehearsal||The Delhi Traffic Police on Thursday issued an advisory in place to ensure smooth conduct of full dress rehearsal on Saturday for January 26. The rehearsal will start at 9.50 a.m. on Saturday from Vijay Chowk and proceed to the National Stadium, they said. Traffic movement on certain roads leading to the parade’s route will be restricted and no traffic will be allowed on Vijay Chowk from 6 p.m. on Saturday, said JCP (Traffic) Manish Kumar Agarwal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/advisory-for-full-dress-rehearsal/article33631242.ece
22 January 2021||Pune,||Nearly 4,000 more recoveries, 2,886 new cases in Maharashtra||Recoveries continued to outpace cases in Maharashtra on Thursday, with as many as 3,980 COVID-19 patients being discharged as opposed to 2,886 new cases. With 52 more fatalities, the State’s death toll has climbed to 50,634. The total case tally has breached the 20 lakh mark to reach 20,00,878, while the active case tally has dipped to 45,622. The cumulative recoveries has crossed 19 lakh to reach 19,03,408. The State’s recovery rate now stands at 95.13% and the case fatality rate is 2.53%. Pune reported over 450 new cases to take its tally to 3,83,428. Seven deaths saw the toll rise to 7,885. As per the district administration, the active case tally stands at 4,960, while the recovery rate is 96.30%. Mumbai city reported 527 new cases to take its case tally to 3,04,653, of which just 6,669 are active. Ten fatalities saw the city’s death toll climb to 11,278. Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported more than 300 new cases, taking the district’s case tally to 1,33,138, of which 4,242 are currently active. Five deaths saw the total death toll reach 3,318. In western Maharashtra, Satara reported two deaths while 70 fresh cases saw the tally rise to 55,826, of which just 707 are active. Its death toll stands at 1,799. Neighbouring Sangli reported 12 cases and no deaths. The district’s tally reached 50,666, of which 472 are active. Its toll stands at 1,778. Kolhapur reported just 23 cases and no deaths as its total case tally reached 49,030, of which just 172 are active. The toll stands at 1,670. In north Maharashtra, Nashik district reported more than 200 cases and two fatalities as its total case tally reached 119,741, of which 1,262 are active. Its toll stands at 1,972. Jalgaon reported 65 new cases and a single death as its total case tally reached 57,107, of which 492 are active, while its death toll stands at 1,470. “Of 1,40,19,188 laboratory samples tested so far, 20,00,878 (with the case positivity rate down to 14.27%) have returned positive, with over 62,000 samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate. A total of 2,12,023 people across the State are in home quarantine and 1,936 are in institutional quarantine facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/nearly-4000-more-recoveries-2886-new-cases-in-maharashtra/article33631466.ece
22 January 2021||WASHINGTON,||Senate confirms Biden’s first Cabinet pick||Three new Senators were sworn into office on Wednesday after President Joe Biden’s inauguration, securing the majority for Democrats in the Senate and across a unified government to tackle the new President’s agenda at a time of unprecedented national challenges. In a first vote, the Senate confirmed Mr. Biden’s nominee for Director of National Intelligence, Avril Haines. Senators worked into the evening and overcame some Republican opposition to approve his first Cabinet member, in what’s traditionally a show of good faith on Inauguration Day to confirm at least some nominees for a new President’s administration. Ms. Haines, a former CIA deputy director, will become a core member of Mr. Biden’s security team, overseeing the agencies that make up the nation’s intelligence community. She was confirmed 84-10. The new Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., urged colleagues to turn the spirit of the new President’s call for unity into action. “President Biden, we heard you loud and clear,” Mr. Schumer said in his first speech as majority leader. “We have a lengthy agenda. And we need to get it done together.” Harris delivers oath Vice-President Kamala Harris drew applause as she entered the chamber to deliver the oath of office to the new Democratic Senators — Jon Ossoff, Raphael Warnock and Alex Padilla — just hours after taking her own oath at the Capitol alongside Mr. Biden. The three Democrats join a Senate narrowly split 50-50 between the parties, but giving Democrats the majority with Ms. Harris able to cast the tie-breaking vote. Mr. Ossoff, a former congressional aide and investigative journalist, and Mr. Warnock, a pastor from the late Martin Luther King Jr.’s church in Atlanta, won run-off elections in Georgia this month, defeating two Republicans. Mr. Padilla was tapped by California’s Governor to finish the remainder of Ms. Harris’ term.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/senate-confirms-bidens-first-cabinet-pick/article33630994.ece
22 January 2021||COLOMBO,||Sri Lanka reopens for tourists||Sri Lanka on Thursday reopened its borders for foreign tourists after about 10 months, hoping to revive its pandemic-hit tourism sector. The Sri Lanka Tourism Promotion Bureau has set up what it calls a “Safe and Secure” bubble, mandating pre-departure PCR tests for tourists, restricting their stay to designated high-end hotels and beach resorts, and allowing access to select tourist spots, to limit visitors from mixing with the local community. As per the arrangement, Sri Lanka does not require tourists to stay for a minimum number of days, while visitors are offered a “quarantine free” experience. “The only requirement put in place for the safety of the traveller, tourism stakeholders and Sri Lankan community is the need for the travellers to stay at a ‘Safe and Secure’ certified, Level 1 hotel or hotels in the initial 14 days of their stay,” Sri Lanka Tourism said in a statement. The move follows a ‘pilot project’ in late December when some 185 tourists from Ukraine arrived in the island nation. However, with at least six of them testing COVID-19 positive on arrival, the government drew flak from the Opposition for opening up the country in a hurry and “putting lives of locals at risk”. Sri Lanka reported the first case of COVID-19 when a local tourist operator tested positive in March 2020. Though public health authorities, with the support of the military, controlled the first wave effectively, the second wave that broke out in early October persists, taking the number of cases from around 4,000 then to 55,189 as of Thursday. The fatalities have also risen more than 10 times in the last four months, to 274. More recently, health authorities have reported the new “UK-variant” of the virus. Vaccine rollout Meanwhile, Sri Lanka is yet to begin its vaccine rollout. Colombo is expecting supply from different sources, including India, to arrive in two weeks, according to health officials. India is among Sri Lanka’s top tourist source markets and the possibility of establishing a tourism bubble for the neighbours was discussed when External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar visited Colombo earlier this month. Faced with an aggravating economic crunch due to the pandemic, Sri Lanka decided to reopen the country for international visitors, after tourist arrivals in 2020 fell to a fourth of the nearly 2 million arrivals recorded in 2019. The country’s vital sector — it is one of the chief foreign exchange earners — reported $ 3.6 billion earnings in 2019, with the industry accounting for 4.3% of the GDP. Much of last year saw few international flights arriving at the Colombo and southern Mattala international airports, to repatriate Sri Lankans living and working abroad, even as several thousand Sri Lankan migrant labourers, employed mostly in West Asian countries, still await financial assistance to afford air tickets to travel back home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lanka-reopens-for-tourists/article33630995.ece
22 January 2021||January 22 2021 00:00 IST,||China defends new village in Arunachal Pradesh||China on Thursday said its construction of a village across the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Arunachal Pradesh was “beyond reproach” because it had “never recognised” Arunachal. India’s Ministry of External Affairs said earlier this week it was aware of the construction “along the LAC”. This followed a report showing satellite images of the village, built between November 2019 and November 2020 and located a couple of kilometres across the LAC, beyond what India sees as the border separating Arunachal Pradesh and Tibet, on the banks of the Tsari Chu river in Upper Subansiri district in Arunachal. Indian officials said this area has been under Chinese control since 1959. There are close to two dozen spots along the entire length of the LAC in all sectors where India and China do not agree on its alignment. Indian officials said China had earlier built a permanent construction of military barracks in this area. The construction of the village has been seen by analysts as a move to bolster China’s claim to the area, and part of a broader recent push by China to build civilian settlements in disputed frontier areas, which it has also done with Bhutan. ‘Clear position’ The Chinese Foreign Ministry on Thursday said at a press briefing, to a question about the construction, that China’s “position on Zangnan [or South Tibet, as China refers to Arunachal] region is consistent and clear”. “We never recognised the so-called Arunachal Pradesh,” spokesperson Hua Chunying said. “China’s development and construction activities within our own territory is normal. This is beyond reproach as it is in our territory.” The Communist Party-run Global Times newspaper, in a report earlier this week, said the area “has never been recognised by the Chinese government”. “China and India haven’t demarcated the border line of this area yet. So they cannot accuse China of building a village on the Indian side,” Qian Feng, director of the research department at the National Strategy Institute at Tsinghua University, was quoted as saying. That is in large part because China has refused to exchange maps showing its LAC perception in the eastern sector, leaving unclear the extent of its claims on what is under its control. Zhang Yongpan, a research fellow at the Institute of Chinese Borderland Studies at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences (CASS), told the Global Times “there is no doubt that the Tsari Chu basin is an inherent part of China’s territory”. The site of the village is close to where China had attacked an Assam Rifles post in 1959, in what is known as the Longju incident, said south India-based Tibet scholar Claude Arpi. He said it is at least 2 km south of the McMahon Line, which China doesn’t recognise. After the 1962 war, India stopped patrolling the area. Mr. Arpi said the construction appeared to be part of a programme by China to build what it calls “poverty alleviation” villages. He estimates that under the initiative, launched after a Tibet economic work conference in 2015, some 600 villages have been built, of which around 100 are in border areas. “While the government calls them poverty alleviation villages, some of the villages in border areas are very remote with little economic activity there, so they appear to have a strategic purpose,” he said, adding that people had been moved to some of the new villages from other parts of Tibet, including families of herders, to occupy the newly built houses. Another village built last year, called Pangda, was built 2-3 km inside what Bhutan sees as its territory, in another disputed area. The new village in Arunachal is around 30 km from another well-known border village called Yumai, which made headlines in China in 2017 when President Xi Jinping sent a letter to its residents saying he hoped they “will motivate more herders to set down roots in the border area like galsang flowers, and become guardians of Chinese territory”. In 2015, the Chinese National Geography magazine reported that “the Tibetan family’s residence there had helped China maintain control of the territory”, said a report in the South China Morning Post . “Yumai would be occupied by India already if the family had decided to leave,” the village’s head was quoted as saying. Mr. Arpi notes at the time of Mr. Xi’s letter, Yumai had around 30 residents. Today, he said, there are some 200 people living there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-defends-new-village-in-arunachal-pradesh/article33631022.ece
22 January 2021||Washington,||Sanders sparks meme storm||Standing out in a crowd of glamorously dressed guests, Bernie Sanders showed up for the U.S. presidential inauguration in a heavy winter jacket and patterned mittens — with an AFP photo of the veteran leftist spawning the first viral meme of the Biden era. The Senator from the northeastern state of Vermont, beloved by supporters for his earnest and seemingly grumpy style, was seated alone at the socially distanced event on Wednesday where Joe Biden took oath as President. Social media users quickly pounced on AFP photographer Brendan Smialowski’s shot of a bundled-up Mr. Sanders sitting cross-legged, superimposing it on a wide variety of images. One placed Mr. Sanders on a bench next to Tom Hanks in Forrest Gump , another put him in detention with the teenagers fromThe Breakfast Club, and he also made it into numerousStar Warsscenes. Some photoshopped him on to the covers of albums by music stars such as Taylor Swift, Kendrick Lamar and Oasis. “You know, in Vermont... we know something about the cold. We’re not so concerned about good fashion, we want to keep warm. And that’s what I did today,” Mr. Sanders said with a snicker on CBS News after the inauguration. His wife Jane O’Meara Sanders also praised the look, tweeting: “Vermont jacket, Vermont gloves, Vermont common sense!”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sanders-sparks-meme-storm/article33630987.ece
22 January 2021||BAGHDAD,||At least 32 killed in Baghdad bombings||Twin suicide bombings ripped through a busy market in the Iraqi capital on Thursday, killing at least 32 people and wounding dozens, officials said. The rare suicide bombing hit the Bab al-Sharqi commercial area in central Baghdad amid heightened political tensions over planned early elections and a severe economic crisis. Blood was splattered on the pavement of the busy market amid piles of clothes and shoes as survivors took stock of the disarray in the aftermath. No one immediately took responsibility for the attack, but Iraqi military officials said it was the work of the Islamic State group. Iraq’s Health Minister Hassan Mohammed al-Tamimi said at least 32 people were killed and 110 were wounded in the attack. He said some of the wounded were in serious condition. Iraq’s military previously put the number of dead at 28. Maj. Gen. Tahsin al-Khafaji, spokesman for the Joint Operations Command, which includes an array of Iraqi forces, said the first suicide bomber cried out loudly that he was ill in the middle of the bustling market, prompting a crowd to gather around him — and that’s when he detonated his explosive belt. The second detonated his belt shortly after, he said. “This is a terrorist act perpetrated by a sleeper cell of the Islamic State,” Gen. al-Khafaji said. He said IS “wanted to prove its existence” after suffering many blows in military operations to root out the militants. Pope condemns attack Pope Francis denounced the attack as a “senseless act of brutality” and urged Iraqis to keep working to replace violence with fraternity and peace. The telegram of condolences sent to the Iraqi President was particularly heartfelt, given Pope Francis is due to visit Iraq in March to try to encourage the country’s Christian communities that have been devastated by IS persecution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/at-least-32-killed-in-baghdad-bombings/article33630997.ece
22 January 2021||Beijing,||China calls for ‘better angels’ to prevail in reset with Biden’s U.S.||China on Thursday congratulated U.S. President Joe Biden on his inauguration and called for a reset in relations between Beijing and Washington after a corrosive period of diplomacy under Donald Trump. Beijing also welcomed news that the U.S. would rejoin the World Health Organization and the Paris climate accord. The ever-antagonistic Mr. Trump harangued China over trade, rights, the origins of the COVID-19 virus, tech and defence supremacy, prompting angry near-daily jousts between both countries’ diplomats. The new U.S. President is expected to remain tough on the superpower rival but soften the tone and commit to international cooperation after Mr. Trump’s divisive “America First” approach. “With cooperation from both sides, the better angels in China-U.S. relations will beat the evil forces,” Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said. She said Mr. Biden had used the word “unity” several times in his inauguration speech, and that it was “precisely what is needed currently in U.S.-China relations”. “The recent period has indeed been especially difficult,” she added. Beijing also sanctioned former Secretary of State MIke Pompeo, more than two dozen advisers and ex-officials in the former President’s administration. The officials and their family members will be prohibited from entering mainland China, Hong Kong and Macau, the Foreign Ministry said. “Over the past few years the Trump administration, especially Pompeo, has buried too many mines in U.S.-China relations that need to be eliminated, burned too many bridges that need to be built, and destroyed too many roads that need to be repaired,” said Ms. Hua.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-calls-for-better-angels-to-prevail-in-reset-with-bidens-us/article33630989.ece
22 January 2021||Paris,||Google, French press ink copyright payments deal||Google and French newspapers said on Thursday they had signed an agreement aimed at opening the path to digital copyright payments from the online giant after months of heated negotiations. The accord signed with the APIG alliance of French dailies involves “neighbouring rights,” which call for payment for showing news content with Internet searches, a joint statement said. It said the agreement sets a framework for Google to negotiate individual licence agreements with newspapers on the payments and will give papers access to its new News Showcase programme, which sees it pay publishers for a selection of enriched content. Payments are to be calculated individually and will be based on criteria including internet viewing figures and the amount of information published. APIG head Pierre Louette said the deal amounts to the “effective recognition of neighbouring rights for the press and the start of their remuneration by digital platforms for the use of their publications online.”  News outlets struggling with dwindling print subscriptions have long seethed at Google’s failure to give them a cut of the millions it makes from ads displayed alongside news search results.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/google-french-press-ink-copyright-payments-deal/article33630990.ece
22 January 2021||Geneva,||U.S. resumes WHO support, launches $1.9 tn virus plan||The U.S. said on Thursday it would resume its funding for the UN's health agency as President Joe Biden shifts towards greater international cooperation in the fight against COVID-19, while also launching a $1.9 trillion plan to tackle the pandemic at home. Top U.S. scientist Anthony Fauci praised the agency for “relentlessly” working to help rid the world of COVID-19. “This is a good day for WHO, and a good day for global health,” WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-resumes-who-support-launches-19-tn-virus-plan/article33630999.ece
22 January 2021||Beijing,||Twitter locks account of China Embassy||Twitter said on Thursday it has locked the account of the Chinese Embassy in the U.S., over a tweet claiming Uighur women were no longer “baby-making machines” after their minds had been “emancipated”. A Twitter spokesperson told AFP it took action against the tweet for “violating our policy against dehumanisation”. More than one million Uighurs and other Muslim minorities are believed to be held in re-education camps in the country’s northwestern Xinjiang region, where China is also accused of forcibly sterilising women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/twitter-locks-account-of-china-embassy/article33630998.ece
22 January 2021||Taipei,||Taiwan invited to inauguration in a rare shift||Taiwan’s de facto Ambassador to the U.S. was formally invited to President Joe Biden’s inauguration in what Taipei said on Thursday was a precedent-setting first since Washington switched recognition to Beijing in 1979. Hsiao Bi-khim, Taipei’s envoy, posted a video of herself at inauguration, saying she was “honoured to represent the people and government of Taiwan here at the inauguration of President Mr. Biden and Vice-President Harris”. Taipei’s Foreign Ministry said it was the first time in decades that a Taiwanese envoy had been “invited” by the inauguration committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/taiwan-invited-to-inauguration-in-a-rare-shift/article33630996.ece
22 January 2021||January 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Are courts encroaching on the powers of the executive?||On January 12, 2021, the Supreme Court stayed the implementation of three controversial farm laws passed in September 2020 and ordered the constitution of a committee of experts to negotiate between the farmers’ bodies and the Government of India. Rather than deliberating on the constitutionality of the three laws, the court appears to be trying to move some of the parties towards a political settlement. Arguably, in doing so, it is wading into the domain of the government. Has the court in this case abdicated its constitutional duty mandated by the Constitution and is this a growing trend? Anuj Bhuwania and Arun Thiruvengadam discuss this question in a conversation moderated byJayant Sriram. Edited excerpts: In the present instance of the court staying the farm laws and forming a committee to break the deadlock between the farmers and the government, what really stands out to both of you as problematic about this particular intervention? Anuj Bhuwania:What’s really striking here is that nobody asked the court to intervene in this particular manner, to break the deadlock. As the court itself noted in its January 12 order, there are three sets of petitions: one is challenging the constitutionality of the laws and the others are with regard to the protests. None of them ask the court to negotiate between the two parties. Now, the court has repeatedly said in its oral comments that it views the protests as completely legal and part of the exercise of citizens’ rights under Article 19 of the Constitution. And it has also said that the police alone can take a call on the security aspect. The court is not even framing these cases before it in legal terms. But it has still gone ahead and intervened in this manner, noting that the government has not been particularly successful in negotiating with the farmers’ groups. It has decided that it can do better than the government and appointed its own committee. The court gave the precedent of the Maratha reservation case in which it had issued a stay, but in that instance, the stay was given on constitutional grounds. Here it does not take up any such constitutional issues though these issues have been pleaded before the court by the farmers associations. The issues are of federalism, of agriculture being a State subject, as well as the manner in which the voice vote was passed in the Rajya Sabha, which was controversial.   Arun Thiruvengadam:If you look at the January 12 order, what is striking is that the court does not even set out clearly what the legal grounds of challenge are. The petition filed by the Bharatiya Kisan Party argues that under our constitutional scheme, agriculture and farm produce are matters reserved under entries 14, 18, 30, 46, 47 and 48 of List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution, which lays out the subjects on which State Legislatures are competent to enact law. The argument is that the Centre simply could not pass the farm bills as it did not have legislative competence. Courts are, of course, competent to issue stay orders on parliamentary laws, but they need to set out legal reasons. When you look at the reasoning given by the court, in paragraph 8, the court says, “We are also of the view that a stay of implementation of all the three farm laws for the present may assuage the hurt feelings of the farmers and encourage them to come to the negotiating table with confidence and good faith.” Now, this is a strange reason and arguably not a sound legal reason. To issue a stay, courts usually state the legal and constitutional arguments which make them take the view that the law, on its face, raises a question of constitutional violation. But when the court cites “assuaging hurt feelings” of a section of people who are protesting against the laws as a reason to stay a parliamentary law, the order does not seem to have a clear legal basis. That’s why some commentators have asked whether the court is looking at administrative concerns rather than legal considerations. In a different but related case, the Supreme Court told the Delhi Police that the question of whether the tractor protests should be allowed or not is a ‘law and order’ question and that it is for the police to deal with. It said, don’t come to us. This seems particularly strange because the question of the protesting farmers is also a ‘law and order’ question that authorities have to deal with. The constitutional challenge to the farm bills involves far more people and far more serious questions than only the farmers who have gathered at the borders of Delhi. So, it seems to me that the Bench has been inconsistent in how it is approaching these questions. Broadening the scope of the discussion, is there a case for the Supreme Court, or for the High Courts for that matter, to be more proactive in matters of governance? AB:In India, almost every political issue gets rapidly translated into legal terms, and there’s nothing inherently wrong with that. In fact, what we see here with regard to the court is not just a problem of commission but also a problem of omission. There are issues central to Indian politics such as the change to Article 370, the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, reservation quotas for economically weaker sections, electoral bonds, and, more recently, the so-called ‘love jihad’ laws which are all extremely politically controversial. What is striking is that the court has shown no urgency in hearing any of them and has refused to pass a stay order in all of these cases. On the other hand, the court has very much intervened in matters that are extremely controversial, the most recent obvious example being in the Ayodhya case, if it is determined to do so. So, what we see is that the court is actually abdicating its constitutional responsibility of judicial review. At the same time, it’s acting in usurpation of executive and legislative powers, going beyond the standard areas of judicial behaviour. AT:Let me take a slightly broader view. This question of judicial overreach is a phenomenon that has been observed in multiple contexts in various countries. Historically speaking, the idea that judges can exercise review powers to overturn laws enacted by democratically elected governments and Parliaments is of fairly recent origin. It is only in the post-World War II era that this idea has become dominant around the world. This has also led to changes in thinking about the role of courts. For instance, in South Africa, there is an interesting provision in their Constitution that enables courts to enter into a dialogue with legislators to prevent a situation of a legal vacuum. So, the court can point out that a law that Parliament has passed is inconsistent with the Constitution to a particular extent, and can allow Parliament time to fix the identified problem. In India, while adopting our Constitution in 1950, the framers of our Constitution made departures from the idea of parliamentary sovereignty, i.e., the kind you see in the Westminster type of Constitution in the U.K. (where Parliament has much greater power as compared to other systems). The framers gave courts the important power to strike down parliamentary laws. Over time, courts have used this power to check the power of the executive, while also extending their own authority. So, to give you an example, take the power of imposition of President’s rule under Article 356. It was initially understood that courts cannot go into the question of whether President’s rule has been properly imposed as this was based on the ‘subjective’ satisfaction of the President, but the Supreme Court has held that even that high power can be reviewed, at the very least on procedural grounds ( S.R. Bommai v. Union of India ). So, these are some of the trends that led to the Indian Supreme Court being described routinely as the world’s most powerful court, from about the 1980s till about 2015. But in all the recent cases that Anuj has mentioned, where legal and constitutional questions were raised, the court simply has not taken on those questions, and has put them in cold storage, often for years at a time. Instead, it is choosing to intervene in cases which are arguably less consequential or relevant, leading to questions being raised about the legitimacy of its intervention. Looking at the work of the court since 2017, it is quite debatable whether it is as strong a defender of constitutionalism and rights as it was in previous years. AB:Usually when we talk about the Supreme Court, we say that in the initial period it was a more conservative court and then it became more radical over time. But even if you look at the so-called conservative period and the big-ticket political issues that came its way such as land reforms, reservations, the use of Article 356, bank nationalisation, privy purses etc., these are all issues on which the court actually adjudicated pretty promptly. Not necessarily in ways that many of us may agree with but the point is that the court didn’t shy away from giving its opinion. But what we’re seeing recently is the court is very reluctant to take up constitutional challenges to similarly politically controversial moves. That’s quite unfortunate. Can we point out instances in which the court has played a positive role in protecting or advancing the rights of various groups, in some cases, perhaps even taking up issues before the executive could come to them? Has the manner in which the courts have done so changed over the years? AT:The classic justification for taking up these cases is to uphold the interests of a group which cannot prevail in a majoritarian system of elections, which are important but not the only concern of constitutional democracies. I think a classic instance fairly recently where the court was seen as performing that role is in the Navtej Johar case ( Navtej Singh Johar v. Union of India ) which relates to the question of the LGBTQ community and specifically on the question of decriminalisation of Section 377. This is an issue that the courts grappled with for a fairly long time. We know that LGBTQ populations in any human population are going to be a fairly small number. So, for them to run a political campaign and get a majority in Parliament for their position was going to be difficult. After a long struggle and considerable back and forth, the court finally decriminalised same sex relations in 2018.  AB:The court’s record of acting in a counter-majoritarian manner is extremely erratic if not non-existent. Even if we take the Navtej Johar case as an exemplary instance, it was preceded by the Kaushal v. Naz judgment, where the court dismissed the LGBTQ community as a minuscule minority. The court has not been particularly interested in performing any counter-majoritarian role for a long time now. The Navtej Johar judgment is more like the exception that proves the rule. I would say in general that when we look at the court’s role we have to think of it more institutionally, we have to think about how it grounds its decision in terms of its reasoning. And look at its politics somewhat expansively — not just in terms of outcomes and who it benefits, but also in terms of its process. And the process includes who it hears and how it hears but also how it decides in terms of its reasoning.  Looking at the work of the court since 2017, it is quite debatable whether it is as strong a defender of constitutionalism and rights as it was in previous years. Arun Thiruvengadam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/are-courts-encroaching-on-the-powers-of-the-executive/article33630983.ece
22 January 2021||January 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Defending liberty against political prosecution||One of the oldest, most pernicious and widespread forms of abuse of state power in India involves the police and enforcement agencies selectively targeting political and ideological opponents of the ruling dispensation to interrogate, humiliate, harass, arrest, torture and imprison them, ostensibly on grounds unrelated to their ideology or politics, while sparing comparably placed supporters and friends of rulers of the day. As a recent example, the November 27, 2020 Supreme Court judgment granting TV anchor Arnab Goswami bail says, not without considerable irony because of the personality involved (https://bit.ly/2XXTlL0), “The specific case of the appellant [Arnab Goswami] is that he has been targeted because his opinions on his television channel are unpalatable to authority.” Scores of others are currently so targeted. Many, not as fortunate as Mr. Goswami to be quickly bailed out by the top court, are languishing in prison in inhuman conditions. Is this use of state power legally permissible? Is there no escape for victims of such abuse of state power? Is their only remedy bringing an action for wrongful prosecution years later — if they are acquitted and after suffering through many years of process as punishment? Or is there a legal remedy for nipping this evil in the bud, at the very outset, to protect the life and liberty of the accused? Separating two legal issues The problem is that the illegality involved in this type of prosecution is not self evident. At first glance, the prosecution appears legally kosher — acting on information about legal infractions, the police pursue the accused as per law. The illegality becomes plain when two legal questions are clearly distinguished and separated: first, the legality of the exercise of prosecutorial discretion in the selection of the accused for being investigated and prosecuted; and second, the merits of the criminal case filed against them. The two are independent legal issues and should not be wrongly conflated. Selective prosecution On the first question, the applicable legal standard is that while the police and prosecutors in common law jurisdictions enjoy vast discretion in deciding who they may pursue and who they may spare, the choice of accused must not be based on grounds that violate Constitutional rights, including the Article 14 right to equal protection of the law. The accused should not be selected, either explicitly or covertly, on constitutionally prohibited grounds. The illegal selection of accused based on grounds prohibited by the Constitution is called “selective prosecution”. In the words of then Chief Justice W. Rehnquist of the United States Supreme Court (https://bit.ly/3918fqb), “A selective-prosecution claim is not a defense on the merits to the criminal charge itself, but an independent assertion that the prosecutor has brought the charge for reasons forbidden by the Constitution.” ( United States v. Armstrong (1996)). “Selective prosecution” is thus a constitutional claim asserted by defendants to assail the proceedings against them on the basis that they were selected for being prosecuted in violation of Article 14 because the grounds of selection are constitutionally prohibited and are arbitrary. When the choice of accused runs afoul of the Constitution, the entire criminal proceeding is vitiated, irrespective of the determination of the second issue, viz. , whether the accused are convicted or acquitted on the charges brought against them. Once the proceedings fail under the first issue, there is no legal basis to proceed to the second issue., i.e., trial on the merits of the case. The theory is that the Constitution cannot be violated to uphold the law — such an approach would spell doom for the Constitution. The selective prosecution claim must be adjudicated as a threshold issue, with the prosecution being quashed at the outset of the criminal case if the claim is justified. In the context of this discussion, the constitutionally prohibited ground we are confronting in India is the political or ideological affiliation of the accused. It is an arbitrary ground that violates the Article 14 guarantee of equal protection of the law. Common law jurisprudence The United States Supreme Court has a long record of experience with the claim of selective prosecution relevant to us as it is based on American equal protection jurisprudence to which our own Article 14 traces its roots. In Yick Wo v. Hopkins , the United States Supreme Court said some 135 years ago (in 1886) that to punish some persons for “what is permitted to others as lawful, without any distinction of circumstances [is] an unjust and illegal discrimination”. The Court said further, “Though the law itself be fair on its face and impartial in appearance, yet, if it is applied and administered by public authority with an evil eye and an unequal hand, so as practically to make unjust and illegal discrimination between persons in similar circumstances, material to their rights, the denial of equal justice is ...within the prohibition of the Constitution.” Chief Justice William Rehnquist said in Armstrong , “A prosecutor’s discretion is subject to constitutional constraints… One of these constraints, imposed by the equal protection component of the Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment… is that the decision whether to prosecute may not be based on “an unjustifiable standard such as race, religion, or other arbitrary classification”…. Justice John Paul Stevens said in the same case, “the possibility that political or racial animosity may infect a decision to institute criminal proceedings cannot be ignored... For that reason, it has long been settled that the prosecutor’s broad discretion to determine when criminal charges should be filed is not completely unbridled….” Failure of Indian courts Our courts have not recognised selective prosecution as an independent claim because of the erroneous assumption that the lawfulness of prosecution can only be taken up after the trial, if the accused is acquitted. Thus, for example, the 2018 Report of the Law Commission on ‘Wrongful Prosecution (Miscarriage of Justice): Legal Remedies’ discusses remedies for wrongful prosecution available only if and after the accused is acquitted. Remedy after acquittal comes far too late, well after a brutal and long drawn out criminal justice process that upends the lives of the victims. Also, the right against selective prosecution cannot be extinguished by conviction. Separate from post-acquittal actions for wrongful prosecution (which will still be available), the claim of selective prosecution is a threshold issue that is required to be adjudicated at the outset of criminal proceedings (even during the investigation stage) irrespective of the merit of the charges. Importance of Goswami case The judgment of Justice D.Y. Chandrachud in the Goswami case is crucial in this regard. It provides a much needed and long awaited legal opening to strengthen the recognition and use of the selective prosecution claim in India to counter politically coloured prosecution unleashed by the state and defend our liberty. In addition to acknowledging Mr. Goswami’s claim that he is being targeted for opinions he holds and expresses, the judgment says, “Courts should be alive to... the need ...of ensuring that the law does not become a ruse for targeted harassment ...The doors of this Court cannot be closed to a citizen who is able to establish prima facie that the instrumentality of the State is being weaponized for using the force of criminal law”. The Goswami judgment also quotes the 2018 Supreme Court holding in Romila Thapar v. Union of India that, “[T]he basic entitlement of every citizen who is faced with allegations of criminal wrongdoing is that the investigative process should be fair. This is an integral component of the guarantee against arbitrariness under Article 14 and of the right to life and personal liberty under Article 21.” To strengthen the protection of civil liberty, equality and democracy, it is time our courts — at all levels — recognise selective prosecution as a threshold constitutional defence against the abuse of police and prosecutorial power. G. Mohan Gopal is former Director, National Judicial Academy and former Director, National Law School of India University, Bengaluru||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/defending-liberty-against-political-prosecution/article33630972.ece
22 January 2021||January 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Getting it wrong on India’s level of agricultural support||The ongoing stalemate between the farmers protesting over the recently passed farm laws and the government has sparked an interesting debate regarding the level of agricultural support. Many media reports, based on data by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), have ostensibly stated that the support provided to Indian agriculture is extremely low or negative, and, therefore, net taxed. In contrast, the support provided by the Central and State governments through their various federal and sub-federal schemes is well-documented. This divergence merits a close examination for bringing clarity on this issue. Estimates and elements The OECD estimates the support to the farmers in terms of producer support estimates (PSE), which mainly comprises the following two elements: market price support and budgetary payments. The OECD has estimated that Indian farmers received negative support to the extent of minus Rs. 2.36-lakh crore and minus Rs. 1.62-lakh crore in 2010 and 2019, respectively. The support to farmers was consistently negative during 2000-2019, except in 2000. Surprisingly, the negative support of minus Rs. 1.62-lakh crore as estimated by the OECD was higher than the total budgetary allocation of the Ministry of Agriculture at Rs. 1.09-lakh crore in 2019. Let us look at the logic behind the OECD negative support to Indian farmers by assessing its components. Substantive expenditure Despite the overall negative support, the expenditure of the Central and State governments on agriculture has increased substantially since 2000. This support increased from Rs. 1.61-lakh crore to Rs. 3-lakh crore, between 2015 to 2019, registering 85% growth. Expenditure on the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Sammann Nidhi, or PM-KISAN, the National Food Security Mission, crop insurance, input subsidies such as fertilizer and electricity, are some of the measures covered under the 2019 OECD estimates. However, the expenditure related to the operation of minimum support price and general services is not covered by it. The massive negative market price support to the producers of different products has resulted in the total negative producer support, overshadowing the increase in the budgetary support over the years. The negative market price support was estimated at minus Rs. 4.62-lakh crore in 2019. The pertinent question here is what constitutes market price support? As per the OECD methodology, the market price support of a commodity is calculated by multiplying its total production with the gap between the domestic price and international prices in a relevant year. Total market support for India is calculated by adding the market price support of the agricultural commodities (of about 20 individuals) such as wheat, rice, cotton, milk, etc. The consequences This methodology assumes that in case there is no government intervention in the agriculture market, then the domestic and international price of a product will converge, resulting in no gap in prices. What are the consequences of the OECD methodology? First, if the domestic price for a product is less than its international price, then support for that product would be negative. To illustrate this, in respect of rice and milk, the domestic price was less than the international price, which led to negative support of minus Rs. 46,605 crore and minus Rs. 2.17-lakh crore in 2019. For the same year, the support for wheat and cotton was Rs. 4,034 crore and Rs. 4,414 crore, respectively. Second, a negative market price support for a product in one year can turn into huge positive support in another year on account of the relative movement of domestic and international prices. For instance, in 2018, the domestic price of cotton was lower than the international price, resulting in negative support of minus Rs. 5,102 crore. However, in the subsequent year, the domestic price exceeded the international price, and the support turned positive to the extent of Rs. 4,414 crore. Third, even if in a particular year, the government does not provide any additional support compared to a previous year, the level of support calculated by the OECD can change. This will arise if there is a change in either the gap between the domestic price and international price for a commodity, or its production, in the two years. Prices and the gap Why the gap between international and domestic prices? The OECD assumes government interventions lead to a gap between the international and domestic prices. However, even if the government does not implement any programme, the gap can still arise due to domestic and international factors. Changes in supply and demand conditions in the domestic and international market due to shocks such as the COVID-19 pandemic, weather conditions, depressed international price due to subsidies given by other countries, among other factors, can generate a gap. Question the methodology Given the unpredictability in the inherent data, the total support can move from huge negative to huge positive. For India, the negative support as a percentage of the total value of agriculture production has substantially reduced in recent years. It is possible that support to Indian farmers in the near future becomes one of the highest in the world due to pitfalls in the OECD methodology. This might set alarm bells ringing, particularly in the developed countries, which may aggressively question India’s support measures. Just as beauty lies in the eye of the beholder, the amount of subsidy depends on the methodology adopted for calculating it. Rather than being swayed by the OECD numbers suggesting negative support, farmers, policymakers, and other stakeholders need to understand the pitfalls and limitations in the underlying methodology. This will help in providing a more correct perception of the level of support to agriculture in India. Sachin Kumar Sharma is Associate Professor at the Centre for WTO Studies, Indian Institute of Foreign Trade, Delhi. Adeet Dobhal is a Research Fellow at the Centre for WTO Studies. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/getting-it-wrong-on-indias-level-of-agricultural-support/article33630975.ece
22 January 2021||January 22 2021 00:00 IST,||A case to dispose of mercy petitions swiftly||Balwant Singh Rajoana, former Punjab Chief Minister Beant Singh’s assassin, was sentenced to death in 2007 by a special CBI court. His mercy petition was filed by the Shiromani Gurudwara Prabhandhak Committee in 2014. In 2019, the Ministry of Home Affairs sent a letter to the Punjab government to commute Rajoana’s death sentence. It said it had taken an “in principle” decision to commute the death sentence as a “humanitarian gesture” ahead of the 550th birth anniversary celebrations of Guru Nanak Dev. But its decision could not be implemented because the Cabinet did not send the file to the President. Rajoana has been incarcerated for over 25 years. The Supreme Court pulled up the government for its laxity and fixed the next hearing for sometime in January 2021. Abolishing capital punishment The delay in carrying out the death penalty is one of the reasons to review India’s position on capital punishment. The debate on the efficacy of the death penalty in reducing crime has been going on for several decades. A few years ago, the issue of abolishing capital punishment was raised in the Rajya Sabha but was rejected by a voice vote. The then Minister of State for Home Affairs, Kiren Rijiju, stated that the government was not contemplating abolition of the death penalty. Through its report in 2015, the Law Commission of India proposed abolishing the death penalty and sought the comments of States and Union Territories on the subject. Despite reminders, just 14 States responded by 2018. Of these, 12 States rejected the proposal, while Karnataka and Tripura concurred. India figures among the 56 nations in the world that have retained the death penalty, while 142 have abolished it either by practice or by law. In 2019, the Sri Lankan government put an end to its four-decades-long moratorium on capital punishment when then President Maithripala Sirisena ordered the execution of four drug offenders. He claimed that the move would end the addiction problem in the country. According to Amnesty International, thousands of Chinese are executed in that country every year, though such executions are classified as secret information. In 2018, Iran executed 253 convicts and Saudi Arabia executed 149. However, the total number of executions across the world came down in 2018 to 690 from 993 in 2017. Setting a time frame While the debate on abolition of the death penalty goes on, the delay in the execution of death row convicts coupled with long years of solitary confinement leads to psychological trauma for them. The prolonged detention of death row convicts in prison is not just inhuman but also against the canons of justice. It is a small wonder that the courts tend to take a lenient view and reduce the sentence when such cases of prolonged years of detention come before them. In India, 102 convicts were awarded the death sentence in 2019, raising the total number of death row prisoners to 378. Death row convicts have suffered imprisonment up to 25 years. It goes to the credit of former President Pranab Mukherjee that during his term, he disposed of 34 mercy petitions that had been pending for years. While 30 were rejected, four were given reprieves. While the fact that he rejected 30 mercy petitions can be debated, what is important is that he dealt with the petitions swiftly. A time frame needs to be fixed for the President to dispose of mercy petitions. The lack of accountability of various officials in the government and the courts have adversely affected our criminal justice system. Delays in investigations, court hearings and administrative steps to be taken after the final verdict need to be inquired into, and responsibility fixed. M.P. Nathanael is a retired Inspector General of Police, CRPF||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-case-to-dispose-of-mercy-petitions-swiftly/article33630978.ece
22 January 2021||January 22 2021 00:00 IST,||American healing||After one of the most contentious elections and presidential transitions in recent history, it was a relatively scaled-back inauguration ceremony that finally placed 46th President of the U.S. Joe Biden in the Oval Office. The devastating human and economic toll of the COVID-19 pandemic, combined with deep partisan rancour and the bitter aftertaste of the Capitol building attack earlier this month, meant that Inauguration Day was less a flamboyant extravaganza than a quiet celebration of multicultural America reasserting itself. There could have been no greater symbol of that assertion than the swearing-in of Kamala Harris, his running mate of Indian and African descent, as Vice-President — the first woman ever to hold that position. Mr. Biden’s predecessor, Donald Trump, chose to not attend the event, making him only the fourth President to do so. Nevertheless, bipartisan goodwill was present on the dais before the Capitol building, as Supreme Court Chief Justice John Roberts administered the oath of office to Mr. Biden, including former Vice-President Mike Pence, Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, and former President George W. Bush. It was bipartisanship and societal healing that appeared to be the theme of Mr. Biden’s speech, as he vowed to unite all Americans to fight the foes they faced, of “Anger, resentment, hatred. Extremism, lawlessness, violence. Disease, joblessness, hopelessness”. To the world, he committed to lead “by the power of our example”. It was a demonstration of not only power but political intent when, on his first day in office, Mr. Biden expediently reversed a range of Trump-era actions by issuing 17 executive orders and directives to cancel the U.S.’s exit from the Paris Climate Agreement and WHO, include non-citizens in the census count, protect immigrants under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals programme from heightened risk of deportation, revoke the “Remain in Mexico” policy, halt construction of the infamous southern border wall and end the egregious “Muslim ban”. While these decisive actions may have felt like a balm to Democrats, he would do well to remember, as he goes about dismantling the Trump legacy, that 74 million people voted for his opponent, and Mr. Trump has encouraged them to believe that the election was stolen. If the Capitol building attack was an indication of the unhinged rage seething below the ostensibly peaceful transfer of power, it may not be long before the America of economically disenchanted white privilege again rears its head in a manner that today’s political victors find unsavoury. The fact that the White House, Senate and House of Representatives are now firmly in the grip of Democrats should not be cause for giving up on bipartisan moderation. Or else Mr. Biden’s search for a more perfect Union may take longer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/american-healing/article33630967.ece
22 January 2021||January 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Privacy and surveillance||Following an exodus of its users from its messaging service, WhatsApp, to apps such as Signal and Telegram, which promise more privacy options, the Facebook-owned service might have been forced to postpone the date for users to accept its new privacy policy terms to May 15. In just days after the earlier announcement by WhatsApp, Signal has emerged as the leading app on “app-stores” as Indian users signalled their discomfort with the former’s data sharing policies. WhatsApp, with 459 million users, had emerged as the leading communications application for most Indians. What has caused patrons discomfort is WhatsApp’s ability to seamlessly share user metadata and mobile information with its parent company and social media behemoth, Facebook. Facebook Inc., which also owns Instagram, has sought to integrate the offerings from WhatsApp, Instagram and Facebook, with the former acting also as a tool that secures payments for services and ads posted on the latter two applications, beyond its primary use as a messaging service. This integration of three large consumption products is a means to monetise their everyday use by consumers and considering the fact that Facebook’s revenue model uses data on its platform to allow advertisers to target ads towards users, the algorithms would benefit from the WhatsApp data as well. Such data transfer from WhatsApp to Facebook is not possible in regions such as the EU, where data protection laws have stringent restrictions on storage and transfer of user data. This regionally differential treatment has attracted the attention of the Ministry of Electronics and IT, which has sent WhatsApp a series of queries, including on why Indian users would be sharing information with Facebook, unlike in Europe. The onus is also on the Indian government to quickly take up the legislation for robust data protection, that aligns with the recommendations of the Srikrishna Committee, which tried to address concerns about online data privacy in line with the 2018 Puttaswamy judgment. The draft Bill proposed by the government in 2019 diluted some of the provisos, for example, by limiting data localisation in proposing that only sensitive personal data needed to be mirrored in the country, and not all personal data as mandated by the committee. But data localisation as proposed by the committee may not necessarily lead to better data privacy, as it carries the possibility of domestic surveillance over Indian citizens. Privacy is better addressed by stronger contractual conditions on data sharing and better security tools being adopted by the applications that secure user data. The proposed Bill has some of these features, similar to Europe’s General Data Protection Regulation, but it also requires stronger checks on state surveillance before it is passed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/privacy-and-surveillance/article33630968.ece
22 January 2021||January 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Following the paper trail||In a scene in the 2017 movie The Post , a group of journalists peer into a cardboard box holding the Pentagon Papers. It is an exciting and equally stressful moment: the team has a mere 10 hours to sift through 4,000 pages, make sense of them, and hammer out a report for the city edition. As all of them start complaining about the seemingly impossible task, Tom Hanks, who plays The Washington Post Editor, Ben Bradlee, says, “We have 10 hours till the deadline, so we dig in.” This scene and what follows is what a reporter’s dreams are made of. The documents may come to us with different names — police chargesheets, government file notings, personal correspondence, confidential reports, internal memos, and so on — but each of them is a hard piece of evidence. The paper is the key here. Documents, unlike people, will never betray you or withdraw comments. They will never blame you for a “misquote,” especially in the face of an unflattering story. The spoken word can be denied, retracted and changed before a story, whereas documents mostly leave no room for doubts or questions. The cold and indifferent document provides a news copy with protection as tough as Teflon; it makes the story undeniable. It is for this reason that reporters spend most of their time chasing documents. This is why we coax and convince sources to part with papers. Often, journalism is just about following that paper trail. It is about knowing where else to go looking for a document that has been denied to us by one source. We love our documents so much that most reporters are well equipped to read text even upside down on files that officers sometimes forget to close, all the while carrying on with a casual conversation. I am sure that my colleagues at The Hindu and in other media houses have a number of exciting stories about how they landed key documents for their scoops. These are stories of our little personal triumphs. I remember, for instance, the jubilation, as a cub reporter, when a source walked out of a police station on the pretext of having tea, sneaking away from the TV cameras in front of the station, only to hand me a First Information Report. What I was chasing was not a scoop; it was just a routine story that everyone else was following. But often, the difference between a half-baked news report and a rounded one is that one chit of paper or sheaf of papers. Technological changes have made accessing documents a little easier. With multiple social media sharing platforms, often voluminous reports land directly on our phones. Instead of the hard print, we now spend time squinting at our laptops. Sometimes, if a source is too reluctant to part with the documents, we try and convince them to allow us to photograph a few pages. For paper hounds like us, the spoken word, which is the most common source of news stories, pales in front of having that document. This is often a problem. Whether it’s a digital or a hard copy, the joy of having the written word to back your byline makes a world of difference. It also means that you can have a good night’s sleep on the day you have filed that rare scoop.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/following-the-paper-trail/article33630977.ece
22 January 2021||January 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Mylapore Gowri Amma||Rukmini Devi: It is with deep sorrow that I realise that a great artiste has left us. One by one India loses these persons and, unfortunately, with them also disappears a great tradition. Our younger generation does not have strong enough roots in our religious or cultural traditions for these to flourish when modern Western civilisation is overwhelming India. With an awakening of the consciousness of our art and the winning of freedom, wider knowledge and appreciation of art has taken the place of the deeper understanding. Among the great dancers whom I have known, Gowri Amma was the first one whom I met. It was after seeing Meenakshisundaram Pillai’s two disciples, Jeevaratnam and Rajalakshmi, dance, that I decided to learn this art. I searched everywhere for a teacher, but as often happens, one searches everywhere except nearest to oneself. Many teachers were suggested to me, but I went to meet Gowri Amma in the home where she lived in Mylapore. My first lesson started with her as my teacher with the sabdam “'Sarasijakshulu”. After that I arranged for her to come to Adyar to my home to teach me. I was learning secretly at that time for a large number of people in the country were against the dance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/mylapore-gowri-amma/article33630976.ece
22 January 2021||Mumbai,||‘GDP within striking distance of growth’||The economy is within striking distance of attaining positive growth, officials of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) wrote, adding that the letter ‘V’ in the V-shaped recovery stood for vaccine. The Centre unveiled a vaccination drive on January 16 to protect people from COVID-19. “What will 2021 look like? The shape of the recovery will be V-shaped after all and the ‘V’ stands for vaccine,” wrote the authors of an article on the ‘state of economy’ in the RBI’s January Bulletin. India’s vaccination drive is backed by its comparative advantage of having the largest vaccine manufacturing capacity in the world and a rich experience of mass inoculation drives against polio and measles. “If successful, it will tilt the balance of risks upwards,” wrote the article’s authors, including RBI Deputy Governor Michael Debabrata Patra. The views expressed in the article do not necessarily represent the central bank’s views, the RBI said. E-commerce and digital technologies will likely be the bright spots in a recovery in a world in which there will be rebounds for sure, but pre-pandemic levels of output and employment are a long way off, they said. “Recent shifts in the macroeconomic landscape have brightened the outlook, with GDP in striking distance of attaining positive territory and inflation easing closer to the target,” Mr. Patra and others observed. India’s GDP is estimated to contract by a record 7.7% during 2020-21 as the pandemic severely hit the key manufacturing and services segments, as per government projections released earlier this month. The economy shrank by 23.9% in the first quarter and 7.5% in the second quarter on account of the pandemic. The article’s authors further said that in the first half of 2021-22, GDP growth will benefit from statistical support and is likely to be mostly consumption-driven. With rabi sowing surpassing the normal acreage way before the end of the season, bumper agriculture production is expected in 2021.  Innovative ways needed The authors note that slippage ratios have been falling and loan recoveries are improving even as provisioning coverage ratios have risen above 70%. Capital infusion and innovative ways of dealing with loan delinquencies will occupy policy attention in order to ensure that finance greases the wheels of growth on a durable basis before the demographic dividend slips away, they said. “It will take years for the economy to mend and heal, but innovative approaches can convert the pandemic into opportunities. Will the Union Budget 2021-22 be the game-changer?,” the central bank officials wondered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/gdp-within-striking-distance-of-growth/article33630963.ece
22 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. defends decision that led to Adani bagging six airports||The Ministry of Civil Aviation on Thursday asserted that the Centre’s decision to dispense with a cap on the number of airports a single entity could bid for — a move that paved the way for Adani Enterprises Ltd. (AEL) to emerge as the highest bidder for six AAI airports — had been taken on considerations of operational scale. AEL has signed concession agreements to take over the Lucknow, Ahmedabad, Jaipur, Guwahati, Thiruvananthpuram and Mangaluru airports, after the Centre decided to privatise them. “The EGOS (Empowered Group of Secretaries) took a conscious decision not to put any restrictions on the number of airports to be bid for or to be awarded to a single entity considering the fact that these six airports are smaller in size, handling only 9.5% of the passenger traffic whereas Delhi and Mumbai airports accounted for more than 45% of the total passenger traffic in 2006 when they were brought under PPP and the decision to cap one airport to single bidder was necessary,” the Ministry said in a statement. The ministry added that the quantum of passengers handled by private airport operators was ‘crucial and [more] important than the number of airports handled by a single entity’. In 2019, the Department of Economic Affairs had recommended a two-airport cap per bidder citing the capital intensive nature of the airport projects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/govt-defends-decision-that-led-to-adani-bagging-six-airports/article33630949.ece
22 January 2021||Chennai,||Ex-Pond’s India chief Narayanan passes away||V. Narayanan (83), who served as the chairman and managing director of Pond’s India Ltd., which became part of Hindustan Lever Ltd. (HLL), and who served on the board of HLL, passed away on Thursday. He is survived by his wife and two daughters. An alumnus of Lawrence School at Lovedale and Loyola College, Mr. Narayanan began his career in 1959 as a management trainee in HLL (now HUL). In his ten years there, he served in the sales and marketing functions, both in India and in the U.K. He returned to India in 1968 and joined Chesebrough Pond’s Inc. as marketing director. He became chairman and CEO of Pond’s (India) and served the company till 1997. “He was a super visionary and a great humanitarian,” said V. Balaraman, who succeeded Mr. Narayanan as Managing Director of Pond’s India. “He... trusted employees and gave them plenty of freedom. He believed competence had no meaning unless there was character and culture,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ex-ponds-india-chief-narayanan-passes-away/article33630960.ece
22 January 2021||MUMBAI,||Sensex slips on profit booking after climbing past the 50,000 mark||The S&P BSE Sensex slid on Thursday as investors booked profits after the equity benchmark scaled the 50,000 points mark for the first time. Expectations that companies will reported improved earnings for the third quarter, combined with sustained purchases by Foreign Institutional Investors (FIIs) have buoyed stocks in recent sessions and the Sensex crossed the key 50,000 threshold when it opened higher at 50,097 points before touching an intraday high of 50,184. But a combination of caution and keenness to book profits, dragged the index down by as much as 785 points until some late bargain hunting helped limit the scale of losses. The Sensex closed 167 points, or 0.34%, lower at 49,625. ‘Just the start’ “It is a historic day for India, the Sensex has touched 50,000 mark. In 1979 it was at 100,” said the BSE’s MD & CEO Asishkumar Chauhan. “What has been done in India in the last 40 years has reflected in the Sensex touching 50,000. It is just the start,” he added. Stock indices have rallied sharply since plunging to their lowest levels in more than three years in March in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic’s outbreak. “The positive thing about the ongoing rally is that it has been fairly broad-based; across market caps and sectors,” said Joseph Thomas, Head of Research, Emkay Wealth Management. “As the panic and crash [in March] was pandemic infused, the pull-back was led by pharma and since then banks, IT and auto have also gradually moved up. A broad-based rally should be underpinned by a healthy economic growth and that would be the key variable providing indications how the future trajectory of risk assets shapes up,” he added. Reserve Bank of India (RBI) Governor Shaktikanta Das, earlier this month, flagged the disconnect between the state of the real economy and the stock markets and warned that stretched valuations of financial assets pose risks to financial stability. ‘Warrant some caution’ “The current valuations do warrant some caution with likelihood of increased volatility in the short term,” said Gaurav Awasthi, Senior Partner, IIFL Wealth Management, acknowledging the need for increased vigilance amid the euphoria. “Sensex at 50K is a psychological feel good factor and has no significance on the decision to invest or exit from equity markets. The relevant yardsticks to look at for investing include the current valuations and future earnings trajectory of underlying companies. The longer term view remains positive,” he added. The NSE Nifty slipped 54 points to close at 14,590.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sensex-slips-on-profit-booking-after-climbing-past-the-50000-mark/article33630947.ece
22 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Nasscom welcomes Biden team’s review of policy||Tech industry association Nasscom on Thursday welcomed President Joseph Biden’s commitment to review and make necessary changes to ‘harmful regulatory policies’ put in place by the Trump administration. Mr. Biden had pledged a new approach on trade and immigration, as well as a ‘renewed and revitalised’ interest in science and technology, Nasscom noted. A key challenge the tech sector faces is the lack of talent in science, technology, engineering and mathematics in the U.S., highlighted by the ‘high degree of overall unemployment’ in the country. There were more than 750,000 technology job vacancies in the U.S. as on January 11, a 20% increase since May 2020, as per a Nasscom statement. “That is, despite the high degree of overall unemployment in the U.S, demand for high-tech skills continues to remain robust — [indicating] there are just not enough workers with relevant skills to fill them. The rules announced by the previous administration will worsen this talent gap,” it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/nasscom-welcomes-biden-teams-review-of-policy/article33630951.ece
22 January 2021||MUMBAI,||JSPL turns to profit, posts Rs. 2,432 cr. net||Jindal Steel & Power Ltd. (JSPL) has reported a consolidated net profit of Rs. 2,432 crore for the third quarter ended December 31 as compared to net loss of Rs. 257 crore in the same period last year. Consolidated gross revenue from operations during the quarter rose 39% to Rs. 11,704 crore from Rs. 8,430 crore in the same period last year. JSPL said the improvement was an outcome of strong performance of its steel as well as power business in India. “All operational assets, except Australia, reported positive EBITDA in 3QFY21. JSPL continues to benefit from improving operating and financial leverage,” the company said in a regulatory filing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/jspl-turns-to-profit-posts-rs-2432-cr-net/article33630956.ece
22 January 2021||New Delhi,||‘PE investment in real estate declines 40%’||Private equity investments in real estate fell 40% year-on-year to $4.06 billion in 2020 because of the COVID-19 pandemic, according to Knight Frank India. Private equity (PE) investments in 2019 had almost reached $6.8 billion. “India attracted private equity investments to the tune of $38,149 million in the calendar year 2020. Of the total PE investment, the real estate sector claimed 11% share with $4,068 million, closing 21 deals during the year,” Knight Frank said in a statement. Investments in office assets fell to $2,509 million last year from $3,258. Residential real estate saw an inflow of $368 million versus $717 million.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/pe-investment-in-real-estate-declines-40/article33630957.ece
22 January 2021||new delhi,||Future-RIL deal gets nod with riders||Future Retail’s Rs. 24,713- crore deal to sell its retail assets to Reliance Industries has got approvals from bourses with riders. The group will have to seek shareholders’ nod as well as get an approval from the NCLT. However, BSE and NSE have stated the comments on the draft scheme of arrangement are “subject to the outcome of any of the ongoing litigations/arbitration/legal proceedings involving the draft scheme and/or decision by any competent authority/competent court in this regard.” SEBI has also given a go-ahead for the deal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/future-ril-deal-gets-nod-with-riders/article33630958.ece
22 January 2021||MUMBAI,||Bajaj Auto net rises 23% on product mix||Bajaj Auto reported a 23% growth in standalone net profit to Rs. 1,556 crore for the third quarter ended December 31, due to higher operating leverage and better product mix. Revenue grew 16% to Rs. 9,279 crore. The company saw vehicle sales grow 9% to 1,306,810 units in the quarter. “Q3 / FY21 has been a record quarter for the company,” Bajaj Auto said in a regulatory filing. Mitul Shah, head of research, Reliance Securities, said, “We expect its exports business to witness a healthy 12% growth in second half of FY21 on the back of revival in the African market.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/bajaj-auto-net-rises-23-on-product-mix/article33630945.ece
22 January 2021||New Delhi,||Hero MotoCorp surpasses 100 mn-unit production, to launch 10 new products every year||India’s largest two-wheeler maker Hero MotoCorp, that crossed 100 million units in cumulative production, said it will introduce over 10 products, including variants, refreshes and upgrades every year, over the next five years. CMD Pawan Munjal said in line with its vision to ‘Be the future of mobility,’ the firm would unveil motorcycles and scooters over the next five years while also expanding global footprint.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/hero-motocorp-surpasses-100-mn-unit-production-to-launch-10-new-products-every-year/article33630953.ece
22 January 2021||New Delhi,||BMW to unveil 25 products in India in 2021||German luxury carmaker BMW plans to unveil 25 products in India across three brands viz. BMW, MINI and Motorrad to boost sales growth in 2021. “We enter into 2021 with positivity,” Vikram Pawah, president, BMW Group India, told The Hindu . “Across BMW, MINI and Motorrad, we aim to launch 25 exciting products this year,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/bmw-to-unveil-25-products-in-india-in-2021/article33630954.ece
22 January 2021||Chennai,||Citroen new car/showroom||Carmaker Citroen, part of France’s Group PSA, opened its phygital (physical plus digital) showroom pilot in Ahmedabad on Thursday. This comes ahead of the introduction of its premium Sport Utility Vehicle (SUV) C5 Aircross in Q1 of 2021 in India. Groupe PSA is also working on a new platform and India will be the first to receive products from it, said the firm’s officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/citroen-new-carshowroom/article33630955.ece
22 January 2021||Mumbai,||RBI withdraws 3 circulars on excess pension recovery after discovering anomalies||The RBI on Thursday said rules regarding recovery of excess or wrong pensions are being flouted, and withdrew three circulars concerning the same. The RBI asked banks to seek guidance from the respective pension sanctioning authorities on the process to be followed for recovery of excess pension paid.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rbi-withdraws-3-circulars-on-excess-pension-recovery-after-discovering-anomalies/article33630961.ece
22 January 2021||LONDON,||Pogba’s strike puts United back on top||Manchester United reclaimed pole position in the Premier League as Paul Pogba’s stunning second-half strike earned it a 2-1 victory at Fulham on Wednesday. Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s side had been leapfrogged by Leicester City on Tuesday and then Manchester City, which beat Aston Villa 2-0 earlier on Wednesday, but responded with an eighth away win of the season. Long time coming United moved to the top with 40 points from 19 games, two points above City, which has played a game less, and Leicester. It is the first time for eight years it has been top at the halfway stage of the season. It had not looked good when Ademola Lookman rewarded the host by firing home after five minutes. But United, sluggish to begin with, came to life and Edinson Cavani equalised from close range in the 21st minute after a mistake by Fulham keeper Alphonse Areola. A rejuvenated Pogba earned United a vital goal in the 65th minute when arrowed an unstoppable shot past Areola. Earlier, City moved to the top temporarily after a brilliant home win over Aston Villa. Bernardo Silva put City ahead in the 79th minute with a brilliant left-footed finish and Ilkay Gundogan made sure of the three points with a 90th-minute penalty. Lewandowski does it Bundesliga top scorer Robert Lewandowski struck a first half penalty to help Bayern Munich earn a nervous 1-0 victory at Augsburg and stay four points clear at the top at the season's halfway mark.  The results:   Premier League: Manchester City 2 (Silva 79, Gundogan 90-pen) bt Aston Villa 0; Fulham 1 (Lookman 5) lost to Manchester United 2 (Cavani 21, Pogba 65).   LaLiga: Getafe 1 (Arambarri 70) bt SD Huesca 0; Real Betis 2 (Canales 25, 44) bt Celta Vigo 1 (Lorenzo 16); Villarreal 2 (Pena 29, Moises 63-pen) drew with Granada 2 (Soldado 21, Kenedy 75).   Serie A: Udinese 1 (Pereyra 1) Atalanta 1 (Muriel 44)   Bundesliga: Schalke 1 (Hoppe 57) lost to Cologne 2 (Czichos 31, Thielmann 90); RB Leipzig 1 (Forsberg 70) bt Union Berlin 0; Freiburg 2 (Sallai 32, Petersen 63) drew with Eintracht Frankfurt 2 (Younes 6, Schlotterbeck 75-og); Augsburg 0 lost to Bayern Munich 1 (Lewandowski 13-pen); Arminia Bielefeld 3 (Klos 27, Kempf 47-og, Doan 86) bt Stuttgart 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pogbas-strike-puts-united-back-on-top/article33631099.ece
22 January 2021||Mumbai,||Heroes of India’s historic series win return to rousing reception||Chants of aala re aala Ajinkya aala headlined a red carpet welcome for Ajinkya Rahane on his triumphant return from Australia with a few teammates. The chants (meaning here comes our Ajinkya) were accompanied by the beating of the traditional dhol tasha and showering of flower petals at Rahane's residential complex. Besides stand-in captain Rahane, also arriving in Mumbai were coach Ravi Shastri, star batsman Rohit Sharma, pacer Shardul Thakur and opener Prithvi Shaw, while Brisbane Test hero Rishabh Pant landed in the national capital early this morning. Mohammed Siraj drove straight from Hyderabad's Rajiv Gandhi International Airport to the graveyard and paid his last respects to his departed father Mohammed Ghouse. Chariot ride T. Natarajan, who was originally picked as a nets bowler but became the first Indian cricketer to make his international debut across all three formats during the same tour, landed in Bengaluru and then took off for his village in Tamil Nadu's Salem. Once he reached his native Chinnappampatti village, Natarajan was accorded a festive welcome, complete with garlands and a chariot ride through the streets. The players from Chennai — veteran off-spinner R. Ashwin, rookie Washington Sundar — and bowling coach Bharat Arun are currently in Dubai and are expected to arrive on Friday. On arrival in Mumbai, Rahane, Shastri, Rohit, Shardul and Shaw were felicitated by the Mumbai Cricket Association officials. Rahane also cut a cake to celebrate the team's win. Bigger surprise However, a bigger surprise awaited him at his housing society in suburban Matunga, where residents had made elaborate preparations to accord their hero a royal welcome. Rahane was joined by his wife and two-year-old daughter in the celebration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/heroes-of-indias-historic-series-win-return-to-rousing-reception/article33631062.ece
22 January 2021||MUMBAI,||MCA forced to seek new head coach after Amit Pagnis quits||The Mumbai cricket crisis may have moved from bad to worse with head coach Amit Pagnis having resigned, owning up the responsibility for Mumbai’s miserable outing in the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy. But the Mumbai Cricket Assocation (MCA) seems to be in no rush to plan the road ahead. “We have received his resignation. We will decide the future course of action in due course,” Sanjay Naik, MCA secretary, told The Hindu on Thursday. Short of time Interestingly, MCA may run short of time to get a new coach on board in time for the preparation for the next domestic tournament, set to begin on February 17. The lack of preparation was cited as the main reason by Pagnis in his resignation letter to the MCA on Wednesday. “While I take responsibility for the team’s poor performance, wish to highlight that lack of preparation amidst the pandemic has been a major setback. (The) Team barely got any time to prepare and practise together,” Pagnis wrote to MCA in an email, accessed by The Hindu . Pagnis, the former Mumbai and Railways opening batsman, was appointed as the senior team coach on December 17, barely a fortnight before the team had to enter a biosecure hub for the inter-State T20 tournament. The lack of training together reflected in the team’s performance as the star-studded outfit finished the six-team Group E at the bottom. Besides being annihilated by Delhi and Kerala, the Suryakumar Yadav-led outfit suffered a humiliating loss to Pondicherry. It will be interesting to see the process adopted by MCA to seek Pagnis’ replacement. The rules prescribe the Cricket Improvement Committee (CIC) to handle the appointment process. However, it is not clear whether the CIC headed by Lalchand Rajput was reappointed during the annual general meeting on December 27. MCA’s apex council is scheduled to meet on January 28 but with time running out, some of the MCA members feel the association should get former stalwarts involved to not only appoint a potent replacement for the remaining domestic season but also chart out a development plan for Mumbai cricket.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mca-forced-to-seek-new-head-coach-after-amit-pagnis-quits/article33631524.ece
22 January 2021||HYDERABAD,||An emotional homecoming for Siraj||For Mohd. Siraj, who played a significant role in India’s historic Test series win in Australia, it was an emotional homecoming on Thursday. He drove straight to the burial ground to pay his respects to his father Mohammed Ghaus, who passed away before the series began Down Under. Mother’s tears “Yes, I badly missed him today. It was the most difficult time for me, to be there at his grave. I never thought I would have to go through something like this,” Siraj said. “When I met my mom on reaching home today (first time since his father’s death), she was continuously weeping. Those were truly emotional moments,” he said. “I thank the entire Indian team and the support staff for the wonderful support they extended,” Siraj said. Reflecting on the series, the 26-year-old pacer said he had never expected to get the chance to play a Test. “But, once I got the opportunity I approached it like one of those India-A games, so as not to invite any pressure,” he said. “It was a different kind of challenge to play for India and I enjoyed it. Every teammate said ‘you have it in you to make it big. Just stay focused and give your best’,” Siraj said. “Frankly, the thought that I was the most experienced bowler (with three Tests) never occurred to me. “We were all determined to give our best and glad to have contributed to the team’s win,” said Siraj. Reflecting on the captaincy styles of Ajinkya Rahane and Virat Kohli, Siraj said both were very good, with the same objective — see India win. “All the youngsters were encouraged a lot and made to believe in themselves. “Even when we were not good in certain spells, Ajinkya always trusted the youngsters. “Never had a harsh word. Kept on encouraging us,” Siraj said. Still learning “I should look at the performances in Australia as a benchmark, not relax, and try to keep improving,” he said. “I am still a boy learning the art of bowling, there is room for a lot of improvement. I’ll play my heart out whenever I get the chance to represent India, which was my father’s biggest dream,” Siraj said. He signed off confirming the news that he was engaged, but refused to divulge any details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/an-emotional-homecoming-for-siraj/article33631064.ece
22 January 2021||MUMBAI,||‘Malinga’s presence will be missed’||Mumbai Indians skipper Rohit Sharma on Thursday said Lasith Malinga’s presence will be missed around the squad as the pacer announced his retirement from franchise cricket on Wednesday. Rohit posted a photo along with Malinga on Instagram with the caption the post: “One of the best the game has seen. Truly a match-winner, his presence around the squad will be missed @mumbaiindians.” Special video The franchise also came up with an emotional message for the bowler. It thanked him for the memorable moments he gave to the team, especially on the final ball of a championship match. The five-time IPL champion paid tribute with a short video in which chants of MA-LIN-GA MA-LIN-GA could be heard, recreating the Wankhede experience. “Malinga is staring down. He lifts his hand up and kisses the ball. Wankhede is echoing with MA-LIN-GA MA-LIN-GA as he picks up momentum in his run-up. He slings and bowls. The ball moves, dips, and finds the base of the stump through the batsman’s defence,” Mumbai Indians tweeted. “You gave us 170 moments to celebrate. But the most memorable ones came on the final ball of the match. You smiled, you bowled, you won and for that, we say #ThankYouMalinga.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/malingas-presence-will-be-missed/article33631095.ece
22 January 2021||Cleveland,||Sexton does the star turn for Cleveland||Collin Sexton hit the game-tying 3-pointer with 1.2 seconds left in the first overtime and scored 15 of his career-high 42 points in the second overtime as the host Cleveland Cavaliers outlasted the Brooklyn Nets for a 147-135 victory on Wednesday night. Sexton surpassed his previous career high of 41 by scoring 31 points after halftime. He shot 16 of 29 from the field overall after missing the previous five games with an ankle injury. Big trio’s debut Thanks largely to Sexton’s efforts, Cleveland overcame big nights in the debut of Brooklyn’s star trio of Kevin Durant, Kyrie Irving and James Harden, who each played the final 18-plus minutes. Durant led the Nets with 38 points but missed a potential game-winning shot at the buzzer in the first overtime. Irving added 37 points in his first game back from a two-week absence due to personal reasons, while Harden posted his second triple-double in three games as a Net with 21 points, 12 assists and 10 rebounds. Capela sizzles Clint Capela scored a season-high 27 points and grabbed a career-high 26 rebounds to help Atlanta erase a 17-point, fourth-quarter deficit and beat visiting Detroit in overtime.  Doncic’s feat Luka Doncic recorded his 30th career triple-double with 13 points, 12 rebounds and 12 assists for the Mavericks, which snapped a season-high, three-game losing streak. Rookie James Wiseman used seven dunks as a foundation for a season-best 20 points and Stephen Curry added a game-high 26 as Golden State ran away from San Antonio in San Francisco. Kawhi Leonard had 32 points, six steals and five assists as Los Angeles defeated visiting Sacramento for its fifth consecutive win.  The results: Houston 103 lost to Phoenix 109; Atlanta 123 bt Detroit 115 (OT); Toronto 102 lost to Miami 111; Golden State 121 bt San Antonio 99; LA Clippers 115 bt Sacramento 96; Minnesota 96 lost to Orlando 97; Cleveland 147 bt Brooklyn 135 (2OT); Indiana 112 lost to Dallas 124; Philadelphia 117 bt Boston 109 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sexton-does-the-star-turn-for-cleveland/article33631092.ece
22 January 2021||GALLE,||England may rotate players for second Test||While England only needs a draw here to clinch another Test series in Sri Lanka, it’s a result that will be far from the minds of Joe Root’s line-up when the second match starts on Friday. England is fourth in the ICC Test Championship standings, behind India, New Zealand and Australia. The final will be played in June and, to remain in calculation, England needs to win the second Test against Sri Lanka and then travel to India and win that series, too. England hasn’t lost a series in Sri Lanka since 2007, having generally countered spin bowling well. Root was in command in the first Test, scoring 228 in the first innings to set England on course for a seven-wicket win after Sri Lanka was skittled for 135. But it was his second innings — run out for one — that he’ll be aiming to address when he plays his 99th Test. England has a few options and could potentially make some rotations — especially fast bowlers. Jimmy Anderson missed the opening match but could return for the second. Stuart Broad played in the first Test but may get a rest. England also could swap Olly Stone for Mark Wood, while Chris Woakes and Sam Curran could be competing for the all-rounder spot. Bad start England openers Dominic Sibley and Zak Crawley were each dismissed for single digit scores in both innings, but Root has backed his openers to establish a better foundation.  Meanwhile, Sri Lanka is expected to make changes for the match. The host began the series with 22 players entering the bio-secure bubble. However, five players were sent home after Sri Lanka Cricket expressed dissatisfaction over some engaging in card games while the batting was collapsing on day one of the first Test.  Seamer Suranga Lakmal and top-order batsman Oshada Fernando are expected to return after recovering from injuries.   The teams (from):   Sri Lanka: Dinesh Chandimal (Capt.), Dushmantha Chameera, Wanindu Hasaranga, Niroshan Dickwella, Lasith Embuldeniya, Asitha Fernando, Oshada Fernando, Vishwa Fernando, Suranga Lakmal, Angelo Mathews, Ramesh Mendis, Dilruwan Perera, Kusal Perera, Lakshan Sandakan, Dasun Shanaka, Roshen Silva and Lahiru Thirimanne.   England: Joe Root (Capt.), Moeen Ali, Jimmy Anderson, Jonny Bairstow, Dom Bess, Stuart Broad, Jos Buttler, Zak Crawley, Sam Curran, Ben Foakes, Daniel Lawrence, Jack Leach, Dom Sibley, Olly Stone, Chris Woakes and Mark Wood .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/england-may-rotate-players-for-second-test/article33631097.ece
22 January 2021||January 22 2021 00:00 IST,||A worthy heir to India’s rich batting legacy||Mohali was bitingly cold on New Year’s Day in 2019. The sun made a belated, reluctant appearance at around lunch time at the PCA Stadium. And there was something else to warm the heart — the elegant batting of a tall teenager. Shubman Gill was a delight, as he drove, pulled and cut on his way to an unbeaten 69 off 73 balls and guided Punjab to a 10-wicket victory over Kerala in a Ranji Trophy match. You knew you were watching a special talent in action: you felt, like almost everybody else who had seen him bat did, that he could well be playing for the country before long. Ready for challenges Shortly after the match, as he spoke, from outside Punjab’s dressing room, which is just a few minutes’ drive from his home, it was obvious that he had already begun to expect calls from the national selectors. “I am ready for international cricket,” he had told The Hindu . “I can take on big challenges now.” He backed that early statement of intent these past few weeks in the epic Test series in Australia. Though he was named in India’s ODI and T20I squads for New Zealand within three weeks of that interview, during which he smiled throughout and finished his sentences with a polite ‘sir’, he had talked of his desire to play Tests. Right from his maiden Test innings at Melbourne, Gill has shown he has the skills and the temperament to excel at the most demanding form of cricket, in the most demanding of conditions. From six innings, he made 259 runs at an average of 51.80 (he averages 66.55 in First Class cricket). The last of those innings, 91, laid the foundation for India's incredible chase at Brisbane on Tuesday. Excellent numbers The scores in his previous innings in the series read 45, 35 not out, 50, 31 and seven. The numbers are excellent for a debutant opener in Australia against a lethal attack, but the manner in which he made those runs matters more. The 21-year-old looked completely assured as he took on Pat Cummins, Mitchell Starc, Josh Hazlewood and Nathan Lyon, who have more than 1,000 wickets among them. He is blessed with the kind of timing great batsmen possess; it is as perfect as his head position. And he is mature beyond his years. The legacy of the great Indian batting tradition seems to be safe in Gill’s hands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-worthy-heir-to-indias-rich-batting-legacy/article33631059.ece
22 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Shruti stuns Reshma||Qualifier Shruti Ahlawat played with confidence to oust second-seeded Reshma Maruri 7-6(4), 6-3 in the girls’ quarterfinals of the ITF grade-4 junior tennis tournament here on Thursday. The 14-year-old Shruti has been on a roll in her maiden ITF junior tournament, and has not dropped a set in six matches so far. Reshma was the first player to push Shruti to a tie-break, and the bespectacled girl handled the challenge with confidence. In the semifinals, Shruti will play fellow qualifier Sanjana Devineni of the US. The other semifinal will be between top seed Sanjana Sirimalla and Rutuja Chaphalkar.   The results: Singles (quarterfinals): Boys: Nishant Dabas bt Manas Dhamne 6-1, 6-2; Nikhil Niranjan (US) bt Kirtan Patel (Can) 6-2, 6-1; Ajay Malik bt Aman Dahiya 7-5, 3-6, 6-4; Chirag Duhan bt Sanjith Devineni (US) 6-1, 6-4.   Girls: Sanjana Sirimalla bt Suhitha Maruri 6-3, 6-1; Rutuja Chaphalkar bt Renne Singla 7-5, 6-2; Sanjana Devineni (US) bt Sweta Samanta 1-1 (retd.); Shruti Ahlawat bt Reshma Maruri 7-6(4), 6-3.   Doubles (semifinals): Boys: Nishant Dabas & Aman Dahiya bt Arunava Majumder & Wyatt Obrien 6-2, 6-4; Manas Dhamne & Ronin Lotlikar bt Ajay Malik & Denim Yadav 6-1, 2-6, [12-10].   Girls: Reshma Maruri & Suhitha Maruri bt Sudipta Kumar & Riya Uboveja 7-6(2), 6-3; Rutuja Chaphalkar & Hrudaya Shah bt Adithi Are & Aarni Reddy Yellu 6-2, 6-3 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shruti-stuns-reshma/article33631214.ece
22 January 2021||CHENNAI:,||Star Templar triumphs||Star Templar (Nakhat Singh up) won the Merchants Cup, the main event of the races held here on Thursday (Jan. 21). The winner is owned by M.A.M. Ramaswamy Chettiar of Chettinad Charitable Trust and trained by R. Foley. Trainer B. Suresh saddled three winners on the day.  1. QUEEN ELIZABETH COMMEMERATION CUP (1,200m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms): EMELDA (Brisson) 1, Eagle Prince (Nakhat Singh) 2, Annexed (Shahar Babu) 3 and Whistle Podu (Umesh) 4. 3-1/2, 3/4 and 1/2. 1m, 14.29s. Owner: M.A.M. Ramaswamy Chettiar of Chettinad Charitable Trust. Trainer: B. Suresh.  2. WANDERING ANGEL PLATE (1,200m), 6-y-o & over, rated 20 to 45: STAR CONVOY (Azfar Syeed) 1, Platini (Shahar Babu) 2, Intox (Manikandan) 3 and Sifan (A. Ayaz Khan) 4. Nk, 1 and lnk. 1m, 14.88s. Owner: Mr. AL. Murugappan. Trainer: B. Suresh.  3. MERCHANTS CUP (1,800m), rated 40 to 65: STAR TEMPLAR (Nakhat Singh) 1, Royal Commander (R.N. Darshan) 2, Demerara (Azfar Syeed) 3 and Penang (P. Sai Kumar) 4. 2-3/4, 3-3/4 and 1/2. 1m, 54.60s. Owner: M.A.M. Ramaswamy Chettiar of Chettinad Charitable Trust. Trainer: R. Foley.  4. BOTSWANA PLATE (Div. II) , (1,200m), 5-y-o & over, rated 40 to 65: CROWN OF STARS (Zervan) 1, Desert Hawk (M. Bhaskar) 2, Royal Rules (Iltaf Hussain) 3 and Olympicduel (Azfar Syeed) 4. Hd, lnk and 1/2. 1m, 14.09s. Owners: Kishore Futnani & Mr. Chiraj D. Joshi. Trainer: D.K. Futnani.  5. BOTSWANA PLATE (Div. I) , (1,200m), 5-y-o & over, rated 40 to 65: BREAKING BOUNDS (Iltaf Hussain) 1, Copper Queen (Nakhat Singh) 2, Thomas Hardy (Shahar Babu) 3 and Glorious Land (A.M. Alam) 4. 1-1/4, 4-1/4 and 2-3/4. 1m, 12.35s. Owner: M/s. Arun Alagappan Racing. Trainer: B. Suresh.  6. BEAUTIFUL STRANGER PLATE (1,000m), 5-y-o & over, rated 20 to 45: BUTTERFLY (H. Rahul) 1, Star Waves (C.P. Khanal) 2, Glorious Victory (Umesh) 3 and Parrys Glory (A. Ayaz Khan) 4. 1-1/4, 1-1/4 and 1. 1m, 0.46s. Owner: Mr. Deepak Kumar. Trainer: Fahad Khan.  7. DRUIDS GLEN PLATE (1,400m), 6-y-o & over, rated 00 to 25: KASI MASI (A. Ayaz Khan) 1, Supreme Commander (Nakhat Singh) 2, Beautiful Princess (M. Bhaskar) 3 and Orange Pekoe (Azfar Syeed ) 4. 2, 2-1/4 and nose. 1m, 29.53s. Owner: Mr. Shariq Joshy. Trainer: G.S. Parmar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/star-templar-triumphs/article33631172.ece
22 January 2021||Chennai,||Narayanan passes away||The Tamil Nadu Tennis Association (TNTA) condoled the demise of its former president V. Narayanan (83) here on Thursday. Narayanan played a crucial role in ensuring the only ATP Event in South Asia continued to stay in Chennai in the first decade of this century. After the 2004 edition, there was a likelihood of the event moving out of Chennai. However, ‘Nari’ as he was affectionately known astutely and determinedly made sure this major sporting event in the country remained in the city with the support of the government of Tamil Nadu and other corporate sponsors. Tennis legend and TNTA president, Vijay Amritraj, in a statement said, “It is truly a sad day for Tamil Nadu and Indian Tennis. “I knew Nari for a long time and his love for the game of tennis was immense. I worked closely with him after bringing the Chennai Open to our city. He will be truly missed. I convey my heartfelt condolences to the family.”  His love for the game of tennis was immense. I worked closely with him after bringing the Chennai Open to our city. He will be truly missed Vijay Amritraj TNTA president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tennis-fraternity-mourns-narayanans-demise/article33631173.ece
22 January 2021||SYDNEY,||World No. 1 Barty set to make a return||World No.1 Ashleigh Barty will make her first top-level tennis appearance in nearly a year when she joins a star-studded exhibition in Adelaide this month, organisers said on Thursday. “I am looking forward to playing my first match for the 2021 season in Adelaide,” said Barty. Barty, who has remained on top of the rankings despite not playing since last February, joins a field which also includes Major winners Serena Williams, Naomi Osaka and Simona Halep. Men’s Grand Slam champions Novak Djokovic, Rafael Nadal and Dominic Thiem, along with Jannik Sinner, the highly rated World No. 36 from Italy, will also play the event on January 29. It will be her first match since a semifinal loss to Petra Kvitova at the Qatar Open last February. Although Barty stayed away from tennis for much of the coronavirus-wrecked 2020 season, she still managed to make sporting headlines. In September the multi-talented Aussie, who famously played professional cricket during a hiatus from tennis, won a suburban golf tournament near Brisbane.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/world-no-1-barty-set-to-make-a-return/article33631104.ece
22 January 2021||LONDON,||Stokes, Archer return for India series||England all-rounder Ben Stokes and fast bowler Jofra Archer will return for the four-Test series in India next month as the country’s cricket board (ECB) named on Thursday the squad for the first two matches. Ollie Pope is yet to recover from a shoulder injury and will be added to the squad only when he passes a fitness test. Bairstow, Curran rested England’s selectors have decided to rest Jonny Bairstow, Sam Curran and Mark Wood, who are currently in Sri Lanka while Craig Overton will also return home after the second Test in the island nation. The India series is scheduled to begin on Feb. 5, with the first two matches to be played in Chennai before the teams travel to Ahmedabad for the last two games.  The squad: Joe Root (Capt.), Jofra Archer, Moeen Ali, James Anderson, Dom Bess, Stuart Broad, Rory Burns, Jos Buttler, Zak Crawley, Ben Foakes, Dan Lawrence, Jack Leach, Dom Sibley, Ben Stokes, Olly Stone and Chris Woakes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/stokes-archer-return-for-india-series/article33631056.ece
22 January 2021||January 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Williams’ header gives Bagan full points||A superb header by substitute David Williams in the 90th minute allowed ATK Mohun Bagan (ATKMB) to get back to winning ways with a 1-0 win over Chennaiyin FC in the Indian Super League match at the Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium in Fatorda on Thursday. CFC’s season-long troubles with defending set-pieces once again cost the team dearly after Javier Hernandez sent in an inch-perfect shot from a corner to an unmarked Williams who headed in to put the match to rest. ATKMB, which outplayed CFC, looked the more disciplined side in the park. Good chance wasted After a slow start, ATK had one of the best chances of the day in the 18th minute when Manveer Singh produced a good run on the right side but his heavy cross went beyond the reach of a charging Roy Krishna. Within minutes later, a header from Edu Garcia from the centre allowed Hernandez to take an opportunistic shot from outside the box but CFC goalkeeper Vishal Kaith produced a timely dive to punch it out. After starting aggressively in the first ten minutes, CFC felt the absence of Rafael Criverllaro and Anirudh Thapa to provide the creative input in the midfield. CFC had an early chance in the eighth minute when Rahim Ali went for glory with a long-ranger but was off-target. He would have been better off assisting Esmael Goncalves on his left. The defensive approach of trying to pocket one point with a goalless draw failed as last year’s runner-up slumped to its fourth loss of the season.  The result: ATK Mohun Bagan 1 (David Williams 90) bt Chennaiyin FC 0.   Friday’s match: SC East Bengal v Mumbai City, 7.30 p.m .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/williams-header-gives-bagan-full-points/article33631057.ece
22 January 2021||Bangkok,||Sindhu, Sameer cruise into the quarterfinals||India’s P.V. Sindhu and Sameer Verma stormed into the quarterfinals of the Toyota Thailand Open badminton with straight-game victories while H.S. Prannoy bowed out of the Super 1000 tournament here on Thursday. Sindhu outclassed Malaysia’s World No. 92 Kisona Selvaduray 21-10, 21-12 in the second round. World No. 31 Sameer stunned World No. 17 Rasmus Gemke 21-12, 21-9 in just 39 minutes. Malaysia’s Daren Liew defeated Prannoy 21-17, 21-18. Satwiksairaj Rankireddy and Ashwini Ponnappa also made it to the quarterfinals with a 22-20, 14-21, 21-16 win over World No. 17 German duo Mark Lamsfuss and Isabel Herttrich in a match that lasted close to an hour. Satwiksairaj and Chirag Shetty notched up a 21-18, 23-21 upset win over seventh-seeded Korean combination of Choi Solgyu and Seo Seung Jae. M.R. Arjun and Dhruv Kapila also lost 9-21, 11-21 to Ben Lane and Sean Vendy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sindhu-sameer-cruise-into-quarterfinals/article33631065.ece
22 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Overseas college admissions to be facilitated||Aiming to provide international sporting experience and quality education for talented youngsters, Football Delhi on Thursday introduced a scheme to facilitate scholarships and overseas college admissions for talented under-16 boys and girls from the NCR. The scheme, in partnership with Crayons Academy for Skills Excellence (CASE) — who would act as admission advisors and mentors — includes selecting two players (one from each gender) every calendar year, based on their football and academic achievements. The players must have represented the state at the sub-junior/junior Nationals with a minimum academic eligibility as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/overseas-college-admissions-to-be-facilitated/article33631215.ece
22 January 2021||Reggio Emilia (Italy),||Juventus lifts Super Cup||Andrea Pirlo won his first trophy as a coach on Wednesday as Juventus defeated Napoli 2-0 in the Italian Super Cup. Cristiano Ronaldo blasted in the first goal from a corner on 64 minutes, before Napoli captain Lorenzo Insigne missed a penalty and Alvaro Morata added a second deep into injury time. Juventus won the annual trophy, played between the league champion and Italian Cup holder, for the ninth time, having finished runner-up last year to Lazio. Pirlo won his first silverware five months after taking charge at his former club.  The result:   Juventus 2 (Ronaldo 64, Morata 90+5) bt Napoli 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/juventus-lifts-super-cup/article33631100.ece
22 January 2021||Lausanne,||ESL will not be recognised, says FIFA||FIFA has gone on the offensive amid ongoing speculation about a European Super League, insisting that any breakaway by leading clubs “would not be recognised by either FIFA or the respective confederation” while players would risk being banned from the World Cup and other major tournaments if involved. “Any club or player involved in such a competition would as a consequence not be allowed to participate in any competition organised by FIFA or their respective confederation,” said Thursday’s statement, signed by FIFA president Gianni Infantino along with the heads of all six continental confederations including UEFA. The statement was a response to what it called “recent media speculation” about a breakaway by some of the world’s richest football clubs. In October, outgoing Barcelona president Josep Maria Bartomeu dropped a bombshell in a statement announcing his resignation, as he also claimed the club had accepted a proposal to join other clubs in “a future European Super League”. That followed reports in the UK that negotiations were nearing conclusion for the creation of a closed “European Premier League” of 18 clubs, backed by $6 billion of financing from major banks. However, those reports came with discussions still ongoing about the future format of the UEFA Champions League. The European Leagues organisation, which represents leagues in 29 countries across the continent, said it “unanimously” supported FIFA’s statement and rejected any attempts to follow the North American franchise model for professional sports. “In the European football pyramid, every player has the opportunity to play in a club which can qualify from the base of the pyramid to the very top of professional football,” the European Leagues president Lars-Christer Olsson said in a statement. “This is the foundation of the model and the main reason for football’s success. “We are determined to protect the existing model and how football is organised in Europe and the way the industry works for professional football,” he added. Club World Cup Meanwhile, FIFA remains focused on plans for an expanded, 24-team Club World Cup, championed by Infantino. The competition was due to take place for the first time this year in China but was put back to a later date after Euro 2020 and the Copa America were postponed to June and July 2021 because of the pandemic. The delayed 2020 edition of the Club World Cup will go ahead next month in its existing format, involving only the champions of each confederation — minus New Zealand’s Auckland City of Oceania which withdrew due to complications caused by the pandemic — plus the champion of the host nation Qatar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/esl-will-not-be-recognised-says-fifa/article33631407.ece
22 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||TT Nationals moved to Panchukla||The National table tennis championships venue has been moved from Sonipat to Panchkula, near Chandigarh, and the dates advanced to February 15-23.  The dates have been advanced so that the Indian squad may reach Doha well in time for the qualifying rounds of the $200,000 WTT Contender Doha beginning on February 28. Meanwhile, the National cadet and sub-junior championships is due to start at Indore on February 18. However, the host has requested the TTFI to reschedule the event by a day or two, citing accommodation-related issues on February 17.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tt-nationals-moved-to-panchukla/article33631108.ece
22 January 2021||January 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Karan, Abhinav hit half-centuries||Half-centuries by Karan Yadav and Abhinav Chaurasia helped LB Shastri Club beat Kuldeep Deewan Academy by 40 Runs in the Turf Youth Cup under-15 tournament.  The scores: LBSC 262/8 in 40 overs (Karan Yadav 69, Abhinav Chaurasia 63 n.o.) bt KDA 222/8 in 40 overs (Yug Kumar 78, Chirag Yadav 56, Jagrit Gambhir 3/39) .    Rishab Kansal and Kartikey Rana scored fifties as RKB Academy scored a three-wicket win over MK Players XI in the Swasthik Ghevra League.  The scores: MK Players XI 210/9 in 35 overs (Nikhil Naithani 57) lost to RKBA 213/7 in 34.1 overs (Rishabh Kansal 56, Kartikey Rana 53) .    Sikander Kumar’s five-wicket haul and Kulvir Uniyal’s 89 saw Fine Talent beat Gujarat Fighters by 113 runs in the One X T20 tournament.  The scores: Maharashtra Lions 119/9 in 20 overs (Tejas Bodke 38, Shubham Sangle 3/18) lost to FTA 121/7 in 18.4 overs (Yash Pote 32, Suraj Bidgar 3/21).   Fine Talent 195/2 in 20 overs (Kulvir Uniyal 89, Ankit Maurya 45 n.o.) bt Gujarat Fighters 82 in 17.2 overs (Amit Mita 46, Sikander Kumar 5/16, Vaibhav Pandey 2/17).    Sombir Sheokand’s unbeaten 87 set up Rann Star Club’s 100-run win against Players Academy in the Shanti Devi memorial tournament.  The scores: RSC 292/5 in 40 overs (Sombir Sheokand 87 n.o., Aditya Sharma 51, Siddarth Singh Beniwal 46) bt Players Academy 192 in 39.4 overs (Vedansh Siotia 56, Mayank Malhora 35, Rahul Chaudhary 3/35) .      Gyanti Academy edged past Harry Academy by one wicket in the Endurance under-15 league.  The scores: Sporting Club 164 in 34.4 overs (Yash Solanki 59, Krish Chahar 47) lost to RCC Club 165/6 in 33.3 overs (Priyanshu Chahal 79 n.o.).   Harry Academy 157/8 in 35 overs (Ashish Kumar 54) lost to Gyanti Academy 161/9 in 33 overs (Trinav Kumar 61, Harsh Sharma 3/11, Parth Athwal 3/36).    Siddharatha Kumar (5/23) and Sitanshu Singh (91) helped Young Star Academy defeat NN Academy by 102 runs in the SN Dubey memorial under-16 tournament.  The scores:   YSA 243/5 in 40 overs (Sitanshu Singh 91, Shivam Bhati 54, Swastik Chhikara 54 n.o.) bt NNA 141 in 39.3 overs (Surya Kumar 41, Siddharatha Kumar 5/23).    Arpit Rana’s 89-ball 129 and Ankit Chouhan’s four wickets helped Bal Bhawan Ajmal Khan Club defeat Youngster Club by 179 runs in the Sunil Jain memorial tournament.  The scores: BBAK 292/8 in 40 overs (Arpit Rana 129, Yash Dhul 45, Nitish Kumar 3/53) bt Youngster Club 113 in 27 overs (Paras 32, Ankit Chouhan 4/17) .    Rajeev Giri’s 86 helped Airliner Academy beat Mairathan Academy by eight wickets in the Mairathan League.  The scores:   Mairathan Academy 172/7 in 30 overs (Adarsh 50, Ayan Kumar 46) lost to Airliner Academy 176/2 in 23.1 overs (Rajiv Giri 86).    Vahin Kakad picked up an incredible seven wickets for just 13 runs and Paramjeet Sharma top-scored with 95 runs as York CC defeated Dahiya Academy by 62 runs in the Sanjeev Tank memorial tournament.  The scores:   York CC 207/8 in 40 overs (Paramjeet 85, Vyom Arora 57, Azimu Haq 3/29) bt Dahiya Academy 147 in 32 overs (Shivam 54, Ayan Qureshi 49, Vahin Kakad 7/13).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/karan-abhinav-hit-half-centuries/article33631213.ece
22 January 2021||SONIPAT,||Jagmeet Kaur to meet Sara Yadav for title||Top seed Jagmeet Kaur outplayed Prapti Soni 6-1, 6-2 to set up a title clash against Sara Yadav in the Rs.1,00,000 AITA women’s ranking tennis tournament on Thursday.  The results (semifinals): Jagmeet Kaur bt Prapti Soni 6-1, 6-2; Sara Yadav bt Kashish Bhatia 6-1, 7-5 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jagmeet-in-final/article33631216.ece
22 January 2021||SANTIAGO,||Indian juniors stun Chile seniors||The Indian junior women’s hockey team rallied from a goal down to script a stunning 3-2 win over the Chilean senior side here. Deepika (39th minute), Sangita Kumari (45th) and Lalrindiki (47th) scored for India after Fernanda Villagran (21st) gave the host the advantage. Chile’s Simone Avelli (56th) pulled one back late in the match, but it was not enough to force a comeback. Thrird consecutive win It was India’s third consecutive victory on the tour. It had defeated the Chile junior side twice earlier this week.  The result:   India 3 (Deepika 39, Sangita Kumari 45, Lalrindiki 47) bt Chile 2 (Fernanda Villagran 21, Simone Avelli 56).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-juniors-stun-chile-seniors/article33631102.ece
22 January 2021||CHENNAI,||Uthappa joins CSK||When he strikes the ball, it is propelled to different corners of the park. Robin Uthappa can be brutally aggressive on his day. Now the 35-year-old Robin has been traded by Rajasthan Royals to Chennai Super Kings in an all-cash deal. He can disrupt attacks at the top of the order, pound the bowlers in the middle order. Integral part Robin and CSK skipper, the iconic M.S. Dhoni, travel back a long way. Robin was an integral part of the Indian team that Dhoni led to triumph in the World T20 championship in South Africa, 2007. In 13 T20Is, Uthappa has 249 runs at 24.90, strike rate of 118.00. And Uthappa is among the more successful batsmen in T20 cricket, including the IPL, with 6861 runs in 273 matches at 28.35, SR 132.88. CSK provides plenty of freedom to its experienced batsman and Uthappa could relish his time and free his arms at the Chennai franchise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/uthappa-joins-csk/article33631111.ece
22 January 2021||January 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Bhava of surrender||Vishwamitra draws attention to the ancient lore associated with the various rivers, hills, hermitages, etc, when he leads Rama and Lakshmana through the forests. At every moment of their stay, the sage, aware of Rama’s Paratva, is overwhelmed by His grace that has given him the chance to be His teacher and be near Him. Many a time, the sage is moved to such heights that he wants to propitiate Rama and offer surrender directly at His feet. But owing to his role as their teacher, instead of the sage prostrating at the Lord’s feet, Rama does so in reverence to him every morning and evening. In a discourse, Asuri Sri Madhavachariar drew attention to the view of interpreters, who state that when Vishwamitra relates the story of Vamana avatar to Rama, he is overwhelmed with the bhava to offer his surrender to Him. The sage describes how then, the devas had propitiated the effulgent Vamana, and quotes their very words in praise of the Lord. “You are without beginning or end and in your divine form we perceive the entire universe. We seek surrender at your feet.” The Lord chooses to reveal Himself to those devout souls who meditate on Him in earnest. This is evident in His vibhava and archa avatars. Krishna blesses and rewards Akrura with His divine vision when the latter leads Him and Balarama to the court of Kamsa. Azhwars behold the very Lord in the archa form in temples. Such enlightenment, also known by the terms jnana, awareness or realisation, is used in the context of an individual’s perception of the highest reality in the inner consciousness. It is a state which is attained by the grace of the Lord and the acharya by one who continues to do upasana and meditation on the Truth at all times. It is a state that transcends study and learning of the sastras.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/bhava-of-surrender/article33631053.ece
22 January 2021||January 22 2021 09:34 IST,||Sudoku - January 22, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-january-22-2021/article33631991.ece
22 January 2021||January 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Golden tipple of the East||Japan has been producing whisky since the 1920s, if not earlier, but its global popularity has spiked over the past decade. Indians got its taste through Beam Suntory, a union — so to speak — between the Japan-based Suntory and the US-origin bourbon giant Jim Beam and Maker’s Mark. With Beam Suntory, India’s launch of Yamazaki and Hibiki whiskies in 2019 and Whisky Toki in 2020, the time is ripe for a deep dive into Japan’s whisky culture. And who better to initiate us than Shinji Fukuyo, chief blender, Suntory? Excerpts from an email interview: What role does the Mizunara play in Japanese whisky, and what makes the wood so distinct? During the end of World War II, Japan was posed with a shortage of medicines, food and other necessities. While the country was going through these difficult times, the least of its concerns was the shortage of imported casks to produce whisky. Since the spirit was popular with the armed forces, distillers began to use the native oak of Japan — Mizunara. The oak requires a terrain that has high moisture content. Mizunara would ideally need to be about 200 years old before it can be cut and used as casks. Whiskies that are matured in this rare Japanese wood that grows in the forest of Hokkaido weaves complex aromas and flavours to create a harmony and balance that lends to the unique characteristic of Japanese whisky.  Could you explain the different kinds of terroir that Japan has to offer, from the valleys of Kyoto to the highlands of Hokkaido?  It is only in recent years that the notion of ‘whisky terroir’ gained popularity to express the time, region and ingredients used to create the spirit. Similar to wine that varies from region to region, the terroir plays an integral role in perfecting and making it a unique offering, gaining it worldwide recognition. There are three main factors that contribute to creating a harmonious blend of whisky. Water of the land that is pure, clean, soft and lacks minerals which would otherwise interfere with the taste. This kind of water tends to produce sophisticated whisky thereby giving other ingredients an opportunity to express themselves. Barrels made from Japanese Mizunara oak that is about 200 years old is used to give unique characteristics and to achieve a balance in flavours. There is a great change in four seasons in Japan. Due to the increase in humidity during summers, the whisky is absorbed into the wood, thereby infusing the spirit with flavour, character and depth when they contract during winters. What are the most important markets for Japanese whisky worldwide? Is India one of them?  Important markets for us include Europe, US and Asia. That being said, there is a growing demand for luxury whisky and craft gin in India, due to their massive aspirational appeal. Indians are already among the world’s largest consumers of whisky and their love for the spirit is rapidly moving towards premiumisation. As consumption patterns evolve, we find Indian consumers are truly appreciative of the quality and taste of finely blended spirits that soothe the palate. Single malt and blended Japanese whiskies are generally on the super-premium end of the price spectrum. They are highly desired and in-demand amongst the well-travelled consumer set. For someone being introduced to Japanese whisky for the first time, which three whiskies would you recommend?  When it comes to the art of creating Japanese whisky, it follows the Scottish tradition and practice but uses aged casks that are particular to the region to mature a specific quantity of malt whisky. This layer adds to a mesmerising aroma and taste that appeals to a beginner or even an aficionado. My recommendation would be to try The Yamazaki Distiller’s Reserve Single Malt for it is a rich and easy-to-drink whisky. This single malt whisky has been perfected to suit all possible sensibilities of whisky drinkers. To the nose, the beautiful liquid gold whisky has a sweet, fruity smell derived from strawberry, cherry and Mizunara, while the palate is fresh with notes of raspberry, white peach and a touch of coconut giving it a round-body and a profound taste. The Hibiki Japanese Harmony is a harmonious blend of malt and grain whiskies. Rose lends to the floral notes, lychee to the fruity, sandalwood and Mizunara to the woody topped off with hints of rosemary to tingle senses. This whiskey’s complexity lies in the subtlety of flavours that lingers on one’s palate, leaving behind a subtle and tender long finish. Suntory Whisky Toki as it is a careful combination that is a vivid, well-balanced blend that is modern, but which draws on the rich legacy and heritage of The House of Suntory craftsmanship.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/golden-tipple-of-the-east/article33631452.ece
22 January 2021||January 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Bedazzled by the ration shop||Gayathri T.S. is at her wits’ end, thanks to her mother Vimala S.’ constant reminders about collecting their monthly free kit comprising rice, wheat, pulses, oil, masala powders and more from the ration shop at Edappally, in Kochi, before the last date. “She doesn’t want to miss the generous supply of essential commodities and keeps calling our ration dealer to get updates about the distribution. This has been a routine ever since we got free kits for Onam,” says Gayathri, a media professional. The pandemic reconnected several households with the public distribution system (PDS) across Kerala. While a friend confides that she had to go scouting for her ration shop, another one said that her 70-year-old mother-in-law has stepped out of her home since March only to get her kits because of the biometric authentication in place. “It has become a habit to wait for SMS alerts every month to get updates about the kits and other items. I have to keep nagging my son to take me to the ration shop,” says Indira Radhakrishnan, a retired Government employee from Tripunithura near Kochi. Gayathri adds: “It was amusing to see Gen Z guys also queuing up. Their body language clearly showed that they were stepping into the shop for the first time. One of them said he wanted only the kit, and had no clue when the ration dealer asked whether he would like to buy anything else he is eligible for!” As per the Department of Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs, Government of Kerala, there are over 89 lakh card-holders in the State, covering four categories — most economically backward (yellow card), below poverty line or BPL (pink card), Above Poverty Line (APL) or non–priority subsidy (blue card) and non-priority (white card). The Government claims that 98% of card-holders have collected the kits since they were introduced in April via the 14,000-plus ration shops. Also, 1.5 lakh new ration cards were issued during the lockdown. While the kits distributed in the initial months had items worth Rs. 1,000, those distributed in the following months were worth Rs. 700, Rs. 350 and Rs. 500. Besides, 10 kilograms of rice, priced at Rs. 15 per kilogram, were sold for three months from April. “The good news is that the kits will be available till April this year. In addition, blue and white card-holders will be given 10 kg of rice at Rs. 15,” says Indira. Changing times For many blue and white card holders, their ration card used to be just another document to prove their identity. Complaints in plenty about the poor quality of the products had kept away many middle-class card-holders, and ration shops lost their importance with the opening of supermarket chains and provision stores. Then, lockdown began. Parvathy Nair, who works with a private FM channel in Thiruvananthapuram, says “These free kits and the reasonably good quality of products became the talk of the town. So I didn’t hesitate to get my kit. Now besides the free kits, I buy other provisions that I am entitled to get as a card-holder.” Prior to the lockdown in March, some card-holders bought rice and wheat to feed poultry says Radhika A, an IT professional from Perumbavoor in Ernakulam district. “Now I don’t want to miss out on what I am eligible for. Since I have a white card, I can buy four kilograms of rice at Rs. 10.90 per kilogram. The same would cost me at least Rs. 50 in the supermarket. Wheat flour is Rs. 17 per kilogram, whereas the retail rate in shops is Rs. 55-60. Since the kit is more than enough for my small family, I give away a few items to a neighbour. There was so much of chickpea that I didn’t know what to do with it!” she says. Image makeover Among the celebrities who rooted for the PDS was filmmaker Ranjith Sankar. On June 9, 2020, Ranjith posted on his Facebook page that he went to a ration shop for the first time in his life. “Kerosene was the only item that we used to buy from our ration shop, that too once in a while. But I never went to purchase it. However, during the lockdown the onus fell on me. It was an eye-opener. The ration dealer was such a nice man that he ensured that I purchased rice and flour as well. All it cost me was Rs. 157. I wanted more people to know about our PDS and that’s why I wrote about it,” he says. Writer-scenarist Krishna Poojappura, who penned his thoughts about ration shops in a daily, says that back in the 1970s and 1980s, ration shops used to be meeting places for people in the neighbourhood. “We all were dependent on these shops to a great extent because most of us needed the support. But after a point, I stopped buying from there, mainly due to the inferior quality of the stuff and opening of more shops. However, during the lockdown I went back to my old habit and I will hold on to it,” says the writer from Thiruvananthapuram. Ration dealers are also happy with the turn of events. Besides the basic salary of Rs. 18,000-plus, they earn Rs. 1.80 per every kilogram of rice they sell, and Rs. 7 for each kit distributed. Geetha Kumari (name changed), a ration dealer from Kottayam, says: “We are happy that more people are coming in. There have been a lot of new faces, including those who turn up in swanky vehicles!”  Ration for all  Kerala’s public distribution system divides users under four cards. The most economically backward families with the Antyodaya card or the yellow card get 30 kilogram rice and 5 kilogram of wheat per card, free of cost, plus sugar for Rs. 21 per kilogram. The pink card-holders can buy four kilogram rice and one kilogram wheat per person every month, for Rs. 2 per kilogram. Blue card-holders can purchase two kilogram rice per person at Rs. 4 per kilogram. White card-holders get four kilogram rice per person, at Rs. 10.90 per kilogram. Both blue and white cardholders can also buy one to three kilogram wheat flour at Rs. 17 per kilogram, depending on the availability.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/bedazzled-by-the-ration-shop/article33631456.ece
22 January 2021||January 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Life, unplugged||Well, we’re almost at the end of January and my parents’ New Year resolution to pull me and the PB out of the digital world and into the ‘real’ world continues. I thought everyone was supposed to quit on their New Year resolutions by the end of January and revert to their old, comfortable ways. But no, trust my parents to decide that this is the resolution they’re going to see through, no matter what. Their diet and exercise plans, of course, got cancelled on January 2, but torturing the kids is something they seem to have no trouble sticking to. When I asked them if less screen time, more real-world time meant I could quit online school and be home-schooled, they said no. They said it was in the fine print of the non-existent contract that I never signed. UGH. Anyway, this week, we received a package from Amazon, and I was super excited. I thought the folks had given into my months of begging and pleading for Call of Duty and finally gotten it for me, but I should have known better. It was… wait for it… a jigsaw puzzle. I mean. Come on. A jigsaw puzzle? What are we, five? What self-respecting tweenager does a jigsaw puzzle? Can you imagine what it would do to my rep as a seriously cool person, if the news that I did jigsaw puzzles got out? It was a puzzle of the Leaning Tower of Pisa, which Einstein PB thought was the Qutb Minar. Wow, I definitely wasn’t this stupid when I was his age. Kids! Exhausting Puzzles are not easy, people. These are not the jigsaws of pre-school where you had to slot the wooden pig into the right slot in the farm scene. It was like a thousand-piece puzzle! 1,000! Tiny, weirdly cut pieces of the monument with about 500 pieces of just the blue sky. I think we spent like an hour just flipping all the pieces over to see what they were. Then we sorted them out by colour. And then, I was so exhausted, I had to take a nap. What? Tweens need sleep, okay? We decided to split up and tackle each part of the puzzle and then try to assemble it. I saw the PB try to swipe and double-tap the pieces a couple of times to try and put them together. Maybe he does need to less screen time. We started making the puzzle on Friday evening and, by Sunday night, we were done. Sure, we didn’t work on it non-stop, but we kept coming to it when we were bored or passed by the dining table where we were working on it. By Sunday 9:30 p.m., it was almost done. Just one piece to go. We were so excited. Till we realised that the final piece was missing, we couldn’t find it anywhere. Till we saw a teeny tiny piece of sky… hanging out of Woody’s mouth. Welcome to the real world, I guess.  What self-respecting tweenager does a jigsaw puzzle?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/life-unplugged/article33631740.ece
22 January 2021||January 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Hightail it to the Highline||“If you are in New York, you have to see the Highline!” advised a friend. So I took the subway to the appropriate station, stepped out in the winter sun and walked for a couple of blocks to arrive at one end of the Highline. ‘Block’ is the New York way of saying from one traffic crossing to another. ‘Highline’, as one would expect in New York, was not some HIGH multi-storeyed building, but the name given to a RAIL line that once serviced the meat district of New York. Growing significance As the city grew, the butchers were moved out and the rail line became redundant, disused and, over time, a drug and crime hub. It was partly demolished but, thanks to some intelligent activism, the civil society group called “Friends of the Highline” saved this 2.3 km length of rail line. Using a palette of native wild plants and some fine design, the derelict rail line was turned into a public park. Inspired by a similar project in Paris, the Highline has gone on to become one of the most significant public intervention in New York. I climbed up the metal stairs to reach a raised urban plaza brimming with tourists. Clearly it was on the agenda of everyone coming to New York. Even though it was winter and the grasses, shrubs and trees were virtually dormant, it wasn’t difficult to visualise how this would transform in spring and through the seasons. As I negotiated the tourist footfall and reached its end, I came upon a view of the Hudson Bay and the most expensive privately-funded public intervention: the ‘Vessel’. Once a defunct urban rail line, The ‘Highline’ has been turned into a green corridor in an open space-starved city. Such examples and not just concretised river fronts should inform our urban interventions. For further reading, visit, https://www.thehighline.org/history/.  Using native wild plants and some fine design, the derelict rail line was turned into a public park.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/hightail-it-to-the-highline/article33631779.ece
22 January 2021||January 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Summer’s end Does the wind have eyes?||The story so far: Lunch was a disaster. But the ‘accidents’ after dinner could only be described as scary.  “We need to find Moti uncle,” said Keya, “there’s something weird happening here. Let’s see if he is outside.” They tried the kitchen door. “It’s locked from the outside,” whispered Dhruv. They heard a faint hiss, a ‘yes’, in the background but there was no one. Shuffling footsteps moved towards them. They shivered and pressed themselves against the wall. Something cold and wet swept passed them and, with a sharp clang, the bolts were drawn and the door flung open with a bang. Dhruv and Keya, rushed out into the night. Icy rain beat down on them, as they ran to the servant’s quarters but Albert’s room was empty. They heard voices in the vegetable garden. When they went there, they found Albert on the ground with Moti uncle trying to lift him up. “Give me a hand here,” said Moti uncle, hauling him up. The ground was slushy and muddy. Slipping and sliding, they lifted Albert and took him back to his room. Knocked down “What happened, Albert? Why were you lying in the vegetable garden?” Moti uncle asked. Albert was pale and shaken, his voice trembled as he spoke. “Sir…I was just getting ready for bed when the door flew open and a gust of wind swept in, bringing with it all these leaves and mud,” he paused to show them the wet leaves and mud. “So I rushed to shut the door. But the wind was so strong it kept pushing the door back. I had to use both my hands to force the door to shut. At that point, I don’t know what happened but I felt my legs give way and I fell. The next thing I know is I am lying in the vegetable garden.” Moti uncle puzzled over this and he asked sternly, “Albert, do you drink?” “Sir!” said Albert in shock. “I have never touched alcohol in my life. I swear on my mother’s grave….” Keya said, “Moti uncle, I think what Albert is saying is true.” She then recounted their experiences in the kitchen. “I am too scared to sleep alone tonight. Do you mind if I came into the house?” asked Albert. The four of them spent a restless night in the drawing room, all swaddled up in blankets. A fire roared providing warmth and a modicum of comfort. As the wind howled around the garden, they heard books falling out of the bookshelf, and papers being thrown around. Though they were safe together in the room, they could not shake of the feeling of being watched.  To be continued   Something cold and wet swept passed them...the bolts were drawn and the door flung open with a bang.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/summers-end-does-the-wind-have-eyes/article33631715.ece
22 January 2021||January 22 2021 00:00 IST,||A change of heart||“Manasi, you will welcome the chief guest with a bouquet,” said Ayesha Khan, the class teacher of Std III A. An upset Sneha looked at her bestie, Arzoo, and made a face. Manasi had joined their class just seven months ago and was already the favourite of Ayesha ma’am, the science teacher Muthuswamy Sir, and the English teacher Susan ma’am. Before Manasi, Sneha had been everyone’s pet. Whether it was minding the class, welcoming the guests or taking part in different competitions, she was usually the first choice. Manasi had spoilt everything. In her first exam, she had scored a hundred in Science. In the ‘Show and Tell’ competition, Manasi had edged out Sneha and bagged the top spot. Besides, she always completed her homework on time, her handwriting was neat and legible, and she never failed to answer questions in class. Sneha hated her. The position she had been enjoying since nursery had been snatched away. She tried to be nasty and mean to her but Manasi was always calm and smiling.  “Sneha, tomorrow there will be an elocution competition at Carmel School at 9.00 a.m. The topic is ‘India - the next sporting superpower’. Manasi and you will represent our school. Inform Manasi.” “Okay, ma’am,” Sneha said. As Sneha took the bus to her house, she had an idea. “I’ll ring up Manasi only tomorrow morning. I’ll tell her I couldn’t get through. This way, she won’t have any time to prepare for the elocution and will naturally make a mess of it. It will serve her right,” she thought. A surprise visitor Sneha was at home preparing for the competition when, suddenly, it started pouring outside. The doorbell rang and Sneha opened the door. Standing outside was a shivering Manasi, who was drenched to the skin. “C…come in,” Sneha said and immediately brought her a towel. “What are you doing here in this rain?” “Susan ma’am saw me as I was leaving. She stopped me and said, ‘Manasi, good that I saw you. I had given Sneha the topic for tomorrow’s elocution in which both of you are to participate. By mistake, I gave her the wrong topic. Your topic is ‘Nature is our best friend.’ Inform her as soon as you can,” explained Manasi. “I didn’t have your number but I knew the location of your house. When I took out my cycle, there was only a slight drizzle. I thought I would be able to make it. However, halfway through, it started raining heavily. And here I am looking like a drenched crow,” she laughed. Sneha was unable to meet Manasi’s eyes. At the competition Next day, when Sneha met Manasi at Carmel, she seemed in quite a bad shape. Her eyes were red, she was sniffing and also seemed to be running a fever. Sneha was the third speaker. After she finished, Manasi gave her a quick hug. “That was awesome.” During her turn, Manasi spoke well, despite the sniffing and couple of sneezes. When the results were announced, Manasi had bagged the second prize; Sneha’s name, however, did not figure in the top three. As Manasi went to collect her cup, the loudest applause came from Sneha, who was clapping with all her might.  Sneha hated her. The position she had been enjoying since nursery had been snatched away.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/a-change-of-heart/article33631697.ece
22 January 2021||January 22 2021 00:00 IST,||For the people||“I feel that the Constitution is workable, it is flexible and it is strong enough to hold the country together both in peacetime and in wartime.”  This is what Dr. B.R. Ambedkar, Chairman of the Drafting Committee, said at the end of the debates on the draft of the Constitution. Did you know how long the discussions took? Almost three years; two years, 11 months and 18 days exactly. But creating the draft itself took only two months (from August 28 to November 5, 1947). Why did we need a Drafting Committee? Because when India became independent on August 15, 1947, its laws were still based on those of the colonial government. The country needed a permanent constitution. Once the draft was submitted, there were multiple discussions on what it should contain in the Constituent Assembly, and all these deliberations were open to the public. That meant anyone could go to the hall and listen. Finally official On January 24, 1950, the final draft was official. Two copies were made – handwritten in English and Hindi – signed by all the 308 members of the Constituent Assembly. These copies are still preserved in Parliament House and you can see the digitised version at https://www.wdl.org/en/item/2672/ On January 26, 1950, the Constitution came into effect, making India a Republic. Therefore, this date is celebrated as Republic Day every year. Why January 26? Because, back in 1930, this was the date when the leaders of the freedom struggle called for Purna Swaraj or Complete Independence. Apart from laying down the rights and duties of the citizens, the Constitution also explains the political principles that govern the country and the rules and regulations under which the executive, judiciary and legislature should function. On Republic Day, the Prime Minister addresses the nation from the ramparts of the Red Fort in Delhi and this is followed by a parade that showcases India’s military and cultural power. Apart from the march past by the armed forces, tableaux representing the various states float down the Rajpath. The celebrations end on January 29, with Beating the Retreat, when bands from all three wings of the armed forces perform. Similar celebrations take place across all State capitals as well. This is a day to affirm that India is a sovereign, socialist, secular, democratic republic that assures its citizens justice, equality and liberty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/for-the-people/article33631748.ece
22 January 2021||January 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Ephemeral flush of the m onsoons||Each year, the magic touch of the rains awakens the earth. A kaleidoscope of life springs out wherever there is uncovered soil, especially in our forests. This floral show keeps changing from week to week, as if Nature is on a fashion parade of sorts. Naturalists call these short-lived floral displays the Ephemeral Flush Vegetation. Below are descriptions of some of these floral beauties. Can you match the descriptions with the pictures of the flowers? 1.These trumpet-shaped flowers called Crinum Lilies inaugurate the monsoon flush by appearing very soon after the first showers, even before they grow their leaves. 2.They cover the ground with carpets of their pure white blooms, looking like many snowflakes. Popularly known as Sufed Musli , the locals cook their stems and leaves into a kind of stew. 3.Dotting the landscape and hugging the ground, the Yellow Ground Stars look like bright little stars. The locals call it Kali Musli and use its tubers in various medicines. 4.As the monsoon progresses, the Cup-and-Saucer plants, with their crimson cup-like fruits and greenish saucer-like calyx, remind one of the Mad Hatter’s Tea Party in Lewis Carroll’s Alice in Wonderland . 5.Next to streams, in the shade of other plants, rise the leafless Forest Ghost Flowers in pink and purple hues. These parasites draw nourishment from the roots of other plants and do not have green leaves to carry out the food-making process: photosynthesis. 6.Their rhizomes in the ground are a much-coveted ingredient in our kitchens: Turmeric. Their flowers are bright yellow and also bear large showy pinkish violet bracts. 7.They have straight, sturdy stalks ending in a snake-like hooded head that bears foetid male and female flowers. Flies find this smell irresistible and are drawn to them. Their starchy underground root, known as Wild Yam, is a popular food. 8.Towards the end of the monsoons, these climbers bear the most spectacular chandelier-like crimson and orange flowers with twisted petals: the Glory Lilies, which bloom during the Ganpati festival and are offered to the Lord Ganesh by devotees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/ephemeral-flush-of-the-m-onsoons/article33631761.ece
22 January 2021||January 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Animal love||Once there was an old woman and an old man who wanted to adopt a cat. But when the old man steps out to find the perfect cat, he stumbles upon a sweet surprise that could change their lives forever. Millions of Cats is a 90-year-old, award-winning story from American literature first published in 1928. This edition, featuring the delightful Indian-flavoured illustrations of Boski Jain, will take you for a ride to places far and wide, and elicit happy sighs and smiles.  From the coral atolls of the Lakshadweep Islands to the high-altitude plateaus of Ladakh, friends Vikram and Aditya journey through wilderness in this eight-title series with a focus on wildlife and habitat conservation. In Ranthambore Adventure , when Aditya attempts to lay his hands on the diary of a ruthless tiger poacher, little does he know the events his action will trigger. In Ladakh Adventure , Vikram and Aditya camp on the lofty Changthang Plateau where they meet a young Tibetan boy named Tsering. When Tsering is abducted, Vikram and Aditya are thrown into a dangerous game of hide-and-seek with a band of mysterious men.  Just before the Mumbai monsoon, the Don and her gang chance upon a mysterious package on the beach. It pops open, and a little puppy wriggles out. A new puppy spells trouble. For the dogs on the beach, life can be tough. And the new arrival has broken their rhythm. But soon they discover Shingmo the Seventh is actually a sliver of sunshine on the beach. The pack weaves a circle of friendship and love that shelters them all through sun and storm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/animal-love/article33631771.ece
22 January 2021||January 22 2021 00:00 IST,||All creatures great and small||Across  1 The biggest animal on the planet (4,5) 5 Insect that makes honey (3) 7 Lives in African swamps (5) 9 Flightless bird of New Zealand (4) 10 An amphibian (4) 11 Primate (3) 12 Supposed to be cunning (3) 14 Australian marsupial (5) 15 ____ray: Flat diamond shaped sea creature (5) 16 Looks like a butterfly (4) 18 ____ tiger: A bleached Bengal tiger (5)  Down  1 A large rat (9) 2 Spiny sea creature (6) 3 Insect with a sting (4) 4 A breed of dog, short form (3) 6 Comes in Indian and African varieties (8) 8 Snake that swallows its prey whole (6) 13 A type of small fly (4) 15 Female pig (3) 17 Farm animal of the bovine family (2)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/all-creatures-great-and-small/article33631723.ece
22 January 2021||January 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Let the world know how curious you are||Why do animals have tails and humans don’t?  It’s hard to be certain why humans don’t have tails. But the answer could be as simple as: we don’t need them. If you look at all the animals that have tails and the ways they use them, it's clear that tails can and do serve many important purposes. For example, the long tail of a crocodile helps it swim fast. Tails also help animals like monkeys and squirrels with their balance and sometimes to even hold onto branches. Some animals use their tails to communicate, like dogs wagging their tail when happy. Humans have perfect balance and can communicate well enough without a tail, so we really don’t need them.  Why dowe have nails?  Human fingernails are actually flattened versions of claws. All primates, including ancient ancestors of humans, had ‘claws’ that supported their broad fingertips. The broad fingertips helped primates maintain a strong grip around objects, including trunks and tree branches. Nails help us pick things up (like food), pick things off (like bugs) and hold tightly onto things.   How to ask a curious question  1. Pick a question. 2. Visit www.ywc.thehindu.com/curiopedia and submit your question. 3. Watch this space or log on to www.ywc.thehindu.com to read your answer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/let-the-world-know-how-curious-you-are/article33631710.ece
22 January 2021||January 22 2021 00:00 IST,||GARFIELD||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/garfield/article33631706.ece
22 January 2021||January 22 2021 00:00 IST,||SUDOKU||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/sudoku/article33631731.ece
22 January 2021||January 22 2021 00:00 IST,||A change of heart||“Manasi, you will welcome the chief guest with a bouquet,” said Ayesha Khan, the class teacher of Std III A. An upset Sneha looked at her bestie, Arzoo, and made a face. Manasi had joined their class just seven months ago and was already the favourite of Ayesha ma’am, the science teacher Muthuswamy Sir, and the English teacher Susan ma’am. Before Manasi, Sneha had been everyone’s pet. Whether it was minding the class, welcoming the guests or taking part in different competitions, she was usually the first choice. Manasi had spoilt everything. In her first exam, she had scored a hundred in Science. In the ‘Show and Tell’ competition, Manasi had edged out Sneha and bagged the top spot. Besides, she always completed her homework on time, her handwriting was neat and legible, and she never failed to answer questions in class. Sneha hated her. The position she had been enjoying since nursery had been snatched away. She tried to be nasty and mean to her but Manasi was always calm and smiling.  “Sneha, tomorrow there will be an elocution competition at Carmel School at 9.00 a.m. The topic is ‘India - the next sporting superpower’. Manasi and you will represent our school. Inform Manasi.” “Okay, ma’am,” Sneha said. As Sneha took the bus to her house, she had an idea. “I’ll ring up Manasi only tomorrow morning. I’ll tell her I couldn’t get through. This way, she won’t have any time to prepare for the elocution and will naturally make a mess of it. It will serve her right,” she thought. A surprise visitor Sneha was at home preparing for the competition when, suddenly, it started pouring outside. The doorbell rang and Sneha opened the door. Standing outside was a shivering Manasi, who was drenched to the skin. “C…come in,” Sneha said and immediately brought her a towel. “What are you doing here in this rain?” “Susan ma’am saw me as I was leaving. She stopped me and said, ‘Manasi, good that I saw you. I had given Sneha the topic for tomorrow’s elocution in which both of you are to participate. By mistake, I gave her the wrong topic. Your topic is ‘Nature is our best friend.’ Inform her as soon as you can,” explained Manasi. “I didn’t have your number but I knew the location of your house. When I took out my cycle, there was only a slight drizzle. I thought I would be able to make it. However, halfway through, it started raining heavily. And here I am looking like a drenched crow,” she laughed. Sneha was unable to meet Manasi’s eyes. At the competition Next day, when Sneha met Manasi at Carmel, she seemed in quite a bad shape. Her eyes were red, she was sniffing and also seemed to be running a fever. Sneha was the third speaker. After she finished, Manasi gave her a quick hug. “That was awesome.” During her turn, Manasi spoke well, despite the sniffing and couple of sneezes. When the results were announced, Manasi had bagged the second prize; Sneha’s name, however, did not figure in the top three. As Manasi went to collect her cup, the loudest applause came from Sneha, who was clapping with all her might.  Sneha hated her. The position she had been enjoying since nursery had been snatched away.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/sudoku/article33631702.ece
22 January 2021||January 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Shaping a cultural economy||Dancers, both classical and folk, urban and rural, have endured severe economic and artistic challenges during the pandemic. Many, however, have slowly embarked on imaginative journeys to reconstruct, reinvent, and reposition their work to align with the emerging modernity and altered performance landscapes. Crucial to this process is the devising of models that ensure sustainability of performing arts and artistes. Dancers are beginning to see the need for realistic frameworks and practical strategies to reconnect with paying audiences and to navigate their dual existence in online and offline performing spaces. More than ever, there is an urgency to recognise not so much the formal as the large non-formal creative sector and, therefore, to develop sustainable cultural economics models around this idea. It is also about recognising that potential target audiences today are under 50 years of age and are mostly online and not offline. Even when auditoriums open, therefore, online performances will continue to remain attractive for funders and sponsors. This is not to say that astute marketing strategies will not materialise offline as well. The lacunae Traditionally, the performing arts in India have never applied economic analysis to their industry, with funding, ticketing and sponsorship being mostly ad hoc affairs. In turn, the government has made no effort to explore how culture might be structured as an economic sector; or to map and match the ‘producers’ of the cultural product (performers) and the ‘consumers’ of it (audiences); or to organise state-of-the-art production spaces, technical support, and other infrastructure that can sustain this economy. What we have instead are a few attempts that are more about ensuring the sustainability of individual practices and have low wider impact, but they are a good start. Of these, the work of four artistes is worth mentioning: dancer-choreographer Aditi Mangaldas, dancer-producer Anita Ratnam, contemporary dancer Surjit Nongmeikapam (Bonbon), and dancer-choreographer Parwati Dutta. Their work during the lockdown has included not just creative revivals of old works and the creating of new ones but also active engagement with patrons to ensure sustained interest in their art and financial contributions to it. Their initiatives could inspire bolder models for monetising the performing arts. Aditi Mangaldas, a first-generation performing artiste, is from a business background. With the team of artistes in her dance company, Drishtikon, she wanted to build a ‘creative component’ during the pandemic. While financially sustaining her team, she initiated a strategy that demanded discipline and immersion from them. “At 10.30 a.m. every day the artistes are there online with their dancing bells, and encouraged to re-imagine their aesthetics,” she says. Aditi also repackaged several old productions as films and marketed them to essentially international networks. This model, by skilfully weaving technology with art, promises to sustain a global market even in a post-pandemic future. Aditi also conducted inventive workshops and participated in other offline interactions as ways to support her organisation and the artistes associated with it, both economically and creatively. Anita Ratnam too comes from a business background and is a first-generation professional dancer. “My first experience of cultural economics was in the 1980s, when I was the only television producer to present the Festival of India in the U.S.,” she says. She was also inspired by her guru Adyar K. Lakshman, who acquired the backing of an affluent Tamil diaspora, especially Sri Lankan Tamils, in Australia and Canada. Anita has used the idea of the diaspora to identify potential audiences and artistes. Her study showed that viewers were young, and Indians plus NRIs. So the performances were a mixed bag of classical and contemporary. She used the idea of being confined at home to create themes like ‘Boxed’. Her recent series, ‘Andal’s Garden’, encouraged dancers from various genres worldwide to explore the same theme. Anita also offers hand-holding to dancers for technical aspects like camera and light angles and for aesthetic aspects like costumes and make-up for online shows. Such mentorship creates a larger base of performers and improves the quality of the product, thus making paid shows more feasible. Renewing connections Unlike Anita and Aditi, Surjit Nongmeikapam and Parwati Dutt are first-generation dancers from middle-class families. Instead of honing his skills in classical Manipuri dance, Surjit travelled to Bengaluru to learn Kathak and contemporary dance at Maya Rao’s Natya Institute of Kathak and Choreography. “The pandemic threw up challenges of survival. I reached out to several individuals and organisations for donations, many of them from my international circuit, to feed the performing artistes in my organisation, Nanchong Art Foundation,” says Surjit. He renewed connections with patrons and strengthened stakeholders to sustain his work and organisation. “I work with nine or ten creative professionals — dancers, writers, martial artists, musicians. The contemporary is not a recognised genre, but in the lockdown, I had opportunities to be a part of webinars and virtual festivals,” he says. Surjit’s last production before the lockdown was the 30-minute ‘1 Sq Ft’, a powerful narrative of human displacement, war and violence, which ironically echoed the crisis of migrant workers that would soon be enacted across the country. Surjit’s target audience is young, and he is conscious that his work might appeal more to the educated, urban and thinking consumer, but equally that could perhaps make his online sustainability that much smoother as well. Pandemic dynamics Parwati Dutta grew up in Bhopal but started her work in the completely unknown cultural terrain of Aurangabad in Maharashtra. “I built my institute, Mahagami Gurukul, from ground zero and also partnered with the Mahatma Gandhi Mission.” The pandemic motivated her to approach her patrons for financial help. “I understood the impact of my work when the people of Aurangabad eagerly supported my donation campaign for artistes and continued to be a part of my online talks on the arts. I focused on the pandemic’s psychological impact in my talks,” she says. Such was the influence on the community linked to Mahagami Gurukul that an engineer was inspired to create a dictionary on sculpture called Shilp Kosh, she says. Parwati also created an outreach programme in a rural area called Baagh Talaaw, near Aurangabad, with a few settlements of itinerant grazers. She also organised for citizen groups to interact with folk performers of the area, engaging both with their art forms and via survival kits. “Cultural economics is about investing in creating strong local patronage by building a sense of ownership. That is the way forward. I believe in creating the taste for art among audiences. Their support during the pandemic indicated their involvement in our institution and illustrated that they are part of our larger family,” says Parwati.  The writer is a Kathak exponent   and cultural critic.    The work includes not just creative revivals of old works and the creating of new ones but also engagement with patrons to ensure sustained interest in their art and financial contributions to it||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/shaping-a-cultural-economy/article33630919.ece
22 January 2021||January 22 2021 00:00 IST,||The master’s distinct touch||Kalidasa’s ‘Vikramorvaseeyam’ marked the finale of the 34th annual Koodiyattam mahotsavam, held from January 1 to 12. Directed by G. Venu, performer, scholar, writer, choreographer and the first non-Chakyar disciple of the late legend Ammannur Madhava Chakyar, the four-hour presentation was, among other things, a demonstration of the young talents groomed by the Ammannur Chachu Chakyar Smaraka Gurukulam in Irinjalakuda. Incidentally, it may be remembered that Koodiyattam is a contribution of the Chakyar community to the ancient Sanskrit theatre tradition in the country. But strangely they have always kept a cautious distance from Kalidasa, whose plays like Shakuntalam are popular across the globe. The Chakyars’ affinity is more to poet Bhasa. Venu himself has recorded his mentor Madhava Chakyar’s comments in this connection: “While Bhasa’s plays are meant for performance, Kalidasa’s are for reading only.” Chakyar would also narrate a story (myth?) of a Chakyar who lost his eyes as he strived to enact the verse Krishnasare dadachhakshuhu ( Shakuntalam ),  where the actor has to keep one eye on the black buck leaping fast in the front, and the other eye on king Dushyanta, who was getting his bow ready. Also, Madhava Chakyar believed that if the old masters had the possibility to present the play, they would have done it. True, a couple of attempts have been made by the veterans Mani Madhava Chakyar and Painkulam Rama Chakyar, but they have not survived. Venu was not prepared to accept this indifferent attitude towards Kalidasa. In 2002, he produced a full-fledged Shakuntalam under the banner of his institution, Natanakairali, and staged it across the globe to rave reviews. This was followed by Vikramorvaseeyam in 2004 and Sita Parityagam from Kalidasa’s Raghuvamsam in Nangiarkoothu in 2007. The story of Urvashi The mainstay of Vikramorvaseeyam is the love between the celestial dancer Urvashi and the valorous king Pururavas. The name of the play itself means ‘Urvashi won by valour’. On their return after a performance in the Kubera’s court, Urvashi and her companion Chitralekha are abducted by the demon Kesi. King Pururavas rescues them. The moment Urvashi sees the king, she is in love with him, but she has to return to her heavenly abode along with her companions. There, Sage Bharatha wants Urvashi and Chitralekha to enact the story of Lakshmi swayamvaram in front of the gods. Amrithamadhanam, a play of which the story is a part of, is fully enacted. Among the many precious things that came out of the ocean as it is churned is goddess Lakshmi (played by Urvashi) carrying a garland of blue lotuses. As the play progresses, she sets out to select a suitable husband from among the gods, but none of them impresses her. She utters the name of Pururavas instead of Purushothama, Vishnu’s name in the play. The slip occurs because of Urvashi’s love for Pururavas, which makes her forget the character she is portraying in the play. An enraged Bharatha curses Urvashi and expels her from Devaloka. In the last scene, from the soliloquy of Pururavas, it is evident that Urvashi is back on earth. The denouement depicts Urvashi joining Pururavas. Show of histrionics The play opened with the Sutradhara, played by Rajneesh Chakyar. His performance as the apsaras in Kubera’s court was captivating. It spoke of his histrionic skill that he could make the audience feel the presence of three artistes playing veena, mridangam and kanjira. Venu eschewed the conventional Nirvahanam (pre-story recital), and instead provided enough room for the histrionic potential of the actors. This was discernible in the role of Pururavas portrayed by Sooraj Nambiar. He narrates the circumstances that led to the birth of Urvashi from the thigh of sage Narayana. Looking at Urvashi, Pururavas can hardly believe this. For him, her gorgeous figure indicates that she was created by Kamadeva (Cupid). The description of Indra’s clever plans to disturb the penance of Narayana was portrayed vividly, noteworthy being the dance of the apsaras. Aesthetic movements Kapila Venu’s Urvashi will remain etched in the minds of the audience. Her movements were subtle and aesthetic, her appearance as goddess Lakshmi with alavattam (peacock feather fans) and venchamaram (yak tail) and kuthuvilakkus (lamps) ethereal. But soon her transformation into a damsel in distress following Bharatha’s curse became an embodiment of satvika abhinaya. Bharatha’s curse was presented as Nepathyam (voice-over from the green room). The technique of ‘moodi chollal’ was employed to avoid the character Chithraratha. The technique involves an actor, his body fully covered, rendering the verses of the character. Kalamandalam Rajiv, Kalamandalam Hariharan, Kalamandalam Narayanan and Kalamandalam Ravikumar were on the mizhavu and Kalanilayam Unnikrishnan and Moorkanad Dinesh Warrier on the edakka.  The writer and culture critic is a trained musician.   Venu was not prepared to accept this indifferent attitude towards Kalidasa. In 2002, he produced a full-fledged Shakuntalam under the banner of his institution, Natanakairali||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/the-masters-distinct-touch/article33630938.ece
22 January 2021||January 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Strictly traditional||True to his reputation as a musician who adheres steadfastly to tradition, Vijay Siva delivered a fine concert, with a repertoire of regular ragas delivered in his distinguished stentorian voice. A marked advantage he had for the concert was the company of veterans R.K. Shriramkumar on the violin, J. Vaidyanathan on the mridangam, and Karthick on the ghatam. The concert got off like a sixer on the first ball — no warm-up business — with a blast of Shanmukhapriya. A sloka made for the alapana, at the end of which rose Dikshitar’s ‘Siddhi Vinayakam anisham’. It was a gold-wire rendition, strictly traditional, no gimmickry, presented in a manner that would have made Dikshitar nod in approval. Choosing different lines for niraval and swaras was as far as Vijay Siva departed from tradition. The niraval was at the charanam ‘Bhadrapada masa’ and swaras were at the traditional point, ‘prasidha gana nayakam’. As is well-known, the word ‘prasidha’ is on ateeta eduppu , and fixing swaras there is seen as a display of the musician’s command over his art. Vijay Siva did it perfectly, with Shriramkumar having no difficulty matching the vocalist. On the heels of Shanmukhapriya came a neat Suddha Dhanyasi alapana, the kriti was Tyagaraja’s ‘Entha nerchina’. One doesn’t hear Kedaram often these days, so one sat up but Vijay Siva’s sketch could have been better. It was more like hearing Sankarabharanam embedded with signatures of Kedaram. The song was Dikshitar’s ‘Ananda natana prakasam’ (what else!) and the niraval and swaras were at ‘Sangeetha vadya vinoda’. Not that the singing was not good — only, it could have been better. Kalyani played a cameo, Gopalakrishna Bharati’s ‘Kanden kalitheerthaen’ came and went in a flash. The Saveri alapana was marked by micro-tonal beauty, with subtle nuances brought out superbly. The aural delight could have been enhanced with a more karvai-based approach, for the raga is best enjoyed slow. Regardless, it was a fine effort, answered very well by the violinist. Syama Sastri’s ‘Durusuga’ was the composition, with niraval and swaras at ‘Parama paavani’. Vijay Siva showed why he has a band of dedicated followers. Vaidyanathan and Karthick are among the best percussionists today and their thani lived up to their reputation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/strictly-traditional/article33630930.ece
22 January 2021||January 22 2021 00:00 IST,||The eternal romantic||The music world lost some of its grandeur in the passing away of Ustad Ghulam Mustafa Khan, a torchbearer of the Rampur Sahaswan gharana. He maintained the authentic flavour of his gharana with pride, conviction and commitment. In recognition of his service to the field of Hindustani music, he was honoured with three Padma awards, the Sangeet Natak Akademi Award and the Tagore Ratna. His versatility as a performer encompassed different areas: from khayal and tarana to tappa and thumri/dadra and ghazals. His creativity as a composer and compassion as a mentor endeared him to artistes across genres — classical, semi-classical and film music. He helped Lata Mangeshkar lend a classical touch to her vast repertoire and also mentored singers such as Asha Bhosle, Kamal Barot, Hariharan, Sonu Nigam and Shaan. Not to forget helping A.R. Rahman understand the richness of Hindustani music. It was rare to find the classical vocalists of his generation agree not only to compose music for films but also to sing. He performed for the popular Coke Studio when Rahman wanted to present his guru along with guitar and drums. The Yaman Bandish, ‘Aao Balma...’ with the ‘Firat ki’ (complicated) taan woven into it, is still possibly the ideal composition to groom a voice. Rich legacy Born in Badaun (Uttar Pradesh) on March 3, 1931, in a family of musicians in the illustrious lineage of the Rampur Sahaswan Gharana that boasts of names like Ustad Inayat Hussain Khan, Ustad Fida Hussain Khan, Ustad Mushtaq Hussain Khan and Ustad Nissar Hussain Khan, Ustad Ghulam Mustafa Khan was initiated into classical music by his father Ustad Wazir Khan. His mother was the daughter of Ustad Inayat Hussain Khan, who was the son-in-law and disciple of Ustad Haddu Khan, the pioneer of the Gwalior gharana. Thus, being trained under his grandfather Ustad Inayat Hussain Khan and Ustad Fida Hussain Khan, he imbibed the best of both gharanas. The long hours of riyaaz (practice) during childhood enabled him to render notes from the lower octave to the highest reaches of Ati Taar Saptak, meandering through three and a half octaves with ease. The splendour of Rampur Durbar, in fact, shines forth in the music of Rampur Sahaswan Gharana, an amalgamation of inputs from many gharanas. Since Ustad Inayat Khan learnt from Ustad Haddu Khan, significant features like the ‘tehraav’ (unhurried depth) of Gwalior seeped in automatically. When an indisposed Khan was once asked to perform by the Nawab, he famously told him that he might be the Nawab’s ghulam (slave) but his voice was not. Most musicians of Dilli Durbar took shelter under the Rampur Nawab after the dynasty was ruined, hence it saw the influence of musicians of Dilli and other gharanas who adorned the Delhi court. Musicians of Awadh like Kadar Piya and Sanad Piya brought the influence of Lucknow and styles like thumri, dadra and tappa. All these influences merged with the splendour of the Rampur durbar. One can clearly identify these significant features in the singing style of Ustad Ghulam Mustafa Khan. Alaap in Nom Tom like syllables, not just a ka a r , energetic singing, and a combination of melodic and rhythmic excellence defined his music. It was no wonder that he started performing across the globe and became a graded artiste of All India Radio (AIR) from a very young age. Once, responding to this writer’s query about his rare work on ‘Jaati-Gaan’ with Acharya K.C.D. Brihaspati, mentioned in Sharangdev’s Sangeet Ratnakar , he recalled with a hearty laugh how Acharya had spotted him for the project after listening to his performance in the National Programme of Music on AIR. “When I took a sapaat taan encompassing three-and-a-half octaves and stayed for a while on the komal rishabh, before reaching shadja, he noticed that I had an inclination towards the minutest srutis (the microtones). As I would be able to demonstrate and prove his point through my singing, Acharya asked me to assist him in this project.” Apart from classical concerts, Ustad Ghulam Mustafa Khan was also invited to sing for Marathi and Gujarati films. Mrinal Sen’s Bhuvan Shome was perhaps the first Hindi film he sang for and then for Pt. Vijay Raghav Rao in Badnaam Basti . He composed music for more than 70 documentaries of the Films Division. Interestingly, he also played the role of Baiju Bawra in the German documentary Rainmaker , for which he composed the music and sang as well. Garland of ragas As a composer/singer, he made waves with the jhoola song, ‘Jhoola kin, dara ri amraiyan...’ for Muzaffar Ali’s Umrao Jaan . Who can forget the melodious Raga-Mala (garland of ragas), from Bhairav to Bhairavi, in the film, showing Rekha’s journey from innocent teenager to captivating courtesan. Starting with the morning Bhairav composition, ‘Pratham dhar dhyan Shri Ganesh...’ to the mid-morning Thodi, ‘Ab mori naiya paar karo tum...’, the noon raag Shuddha Sarang, ‘Sagun bicharo bamhana...’ to the afternoon Bhimpalasi, ‘Biraj mein dhoom machai aaj’, the evening Yaman, ‘Darshan deho Shankar Mahadev...’ to the midnight Malkauns, ‘Pakrat bahiyaan...’ and concluding with the Bhairavi bandish, ‘Bansuri baaj rahi...’. An incorrigible romantic, his soulful ghazal compositions proved his love for Urdu poetry. He put it simply: “ Pahle ghazaliyaat ko dil se mehsoos karta hoon tab jaakar compose kar paata hoon, ho sakta hai yahi vajeh ho ! (I first feel the poetry from the depth of my heart, then try to compose it).  The author writes on Hindustani music.   Learning under the guidance of his grandfather Ustad Inayat Hussain Khan and Ustad Fida Hussain Khan helped Ustad Ghulam Mustafa Khan imbibe the best of both the gharanas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/the-eternal-romantic/article33630902.ece
22 January 2021||January 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Where only good music mattered||The world’s longest Hindustani music festival, Saptak, bravely went online last week. Featuring 34 concerts, spread over 13 days, the festival stood out for its laidback approach to the visuals. Unlike other festivals which insisted on uniformity and standardisation of presentation, down to the backdrop, quality levels of recording and sound, Saptak was remarkable in its “hands-off” decentralised broadcasts. Adding charm and an old-fashioned quaintness, one realised that to hear good music, one doesn’t really need the fancy settings and close-up shots. Founder of Saptak, sitarist Manju Mehta, said that the emphasis was only on the music. Not being limited to recording concerts in only a few cities, the musical offerings were rich and varied. There were concerts recorded all over — in San Francisco — Kala Ramnath, from Mumbai — Purbayan Chatterji, Rakesh Chaurasia and Rahul Sharma, and from Dewas, Bhuvanesh Komkali. Masterly renditions Among the most enjoyable concerts were Pt. Venkatesh Kumar’s inspired raag Lalit from Dharwar, and Pt. Ajoy Chakrabarty’s concert from Kolkata, which was truly elevating. He sang with unhurried enjoyment and demonstrated that a physical audience wasn’t really necessary to create good music. In Bengaluru, Dr. L. Subramaniam proved his music has a universal appeal and in a way transcends genres. It was not just his choice of ragas (Hansadhwani, Abhogi, Kalyani and Bihag), which were familiar to listeners, but also his masterly, rounded playing style with appropriate, sparing use of gamakas to embellish. From Phoenix in the U.S., Ustad Shahid Parvez Khan played one of his best concerts. During his expansive, meditative alap in Thodi, he expertly demonstrated how the sound of the note depends on where it’s produced from. This concert was different — the pleasing eight ‘bol jhala’ — unlike his usual, more difficult four ‘bol ulta jhala’ — displayed the perfect coordination between both hands. All three gats, unusually for him, were in teen taal. And in each he demonstrated different techniques. Despite the imperfect sound system, this was perfect music. Delightful performance It was a true pleasure to hear the seasoned but less-heard Kalpana Zokarkar from Indore. Trained primarily by her father, who was a disciple of Ustad Rajab Ali Khan, Kalpana’s performance was mature and polished. The concluding tappa in Khamach was a delight. Malini Awasthi from Lucknow sang authentic Banarasi thumris with unhurried charm. Vikas Babu, one of the increasingly rare exponents of shehnai, impressed with a simple yet effective raag Bhatiyar, then effortlessly transported one to a typical Banarasi mahaul (ambience) with his dhun. Ustad Shujaat Khan from New Delhi said ruefully,“I will try to pretend my audience is in front of me.” He succeeded partly as his raag Tilak Kamod was nostalgic. A welcome change While the galaxy of stars (including Dr. N. Rajam, Pt. Hari Prasad Chaurasia, Pt. Birju Maharaj, Pt. Rajan-Sajan Mishra, Ustad Rashid Khan, Pt. Vishwa Mohan Bhatt, Shubha Mudgal, and Kaushiki Chakrabarty) made their expected appearances, it was a welcome change to hear the veteran and erudite Pt. Satyasheel Deshpande and young Agra gharana vocalist Shadaj Iyer. However, some concert formats definitely did not make for great music. Alam Khan (from California) on the sarod, with his tabla accompanist Mayookh Bhaumik in Kolkata, listening to each other through headphones and playing was disconcerting, and the concert was lacklustre. Alam creditably started the concert with raag Durgeshwari, composed by his grandfather Ustad Allaudin Khan, but the spark was missing. The festival was dedicated to Pt. Jasraj, with Sanjeev Abhyankar from Pune opening the festival, but his concert content did not reflect any special link with his guru. It was also dedicated to the Banaras tabla maestro Pt. Samta Prasad (2021 is his centenary year). Appropriately, a tribute concert was performed by Banaras gharana exponents and uncle-nephew duo, Puran Maharaj and Shubh Maharaj. Tabla artiste Sanju Sahai’s emotional message from London encapsulated the unique Banarasi culture shared by musicians of an earlier age. Saptak’s Prafullbhai Patel said, “The audience was huge and we were able to reach out to more people from all over. Next year, we will consider holding hybrid concerts, subject to artistes’ consent.”  The Delhi-based author writes on Hindustani music and musicians.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/where-only-good-music-mattered/article33630944.ece
22 January 2021||January 22 2021 00:00 IST,||A treasury of tunes||Around 1983, vocalist Ananthalakshmi Sadagopan took her friend and composer Ambujam Krishna to meet vocalist Charumathi Ramachandran. There, they heard Charumathi’s husband, vocalist Trichur V. Ramachandran, sing the Narayaneeyam that he had set to tune. Ambujam appreciated the coincidence, as she was leaving for Guruvayur soon after. On her return, Ambujam gave Charumathi a composition to be tuned. That piece, ‘Om Namo Narayana,’ which she set to tune in raga Karnaranjani became very popular. Guru M.L. Vasanthakumari liked her pupil’s tune so much that she sang the song regularly in her concerts and featured it in recorded cassettes. Charumathi recently finished setting to tune 51 more of Ambujam Krishna’s Tamil compositions. Radha Parthasarathy, Ambujam Krishna’s daughter, explains that several of her mother’s compositions had been tuned while she was alive by Semmangudi Srinivasa Iyer, Musiri Subramania Iyer, Dr. S. Ramanathan, K.R. Kedaranathan, Ananthalakshmi Sadagopan and others. “There are 350 more that need to be set to tune. I am trying to get them done.” She handed over 51 pieces each to R. Vedavalli, T.N. Seshagopalan and Charumathi. They were carefully selected by Sujatha Vijayaraghavan, scholar and daughter of Ananthalakshmi Sadagopan. Besides spending a lot of time with Ambujam Krishna, Sujatha was also part of many of her mother’s interactions with the composer. She says, “Ambujam mami had written notes in the margin of some songs indicating who she wished them to be tuned by. I handed over to Charumathi the songs marked for her. Charu had also expressed a desire for thematic compositions, so I selected several on Krishna that touched different rasas — sringaram, karunyam, bhakti, vatsalyam etc.” Trichur V. Ramachandran has also tuned five pieces and daughter Shubasree Ramachandran, one, as a thillana in ragas Ahir Bhairav and Brindavani. Interesting line-up Of those set to tune by Charumathi, some notable ones in the kriti format are: ‘Konjikkonji’ in Kannadagaula, ‘Solai malai’ in Kamboji, ‘Venduvadhellam’ in Kalyani, ‘Mohana kuzhal’ in Mohanakalyani, ‘Karam kodutthu’ in Mohanam, ‘Asaindhu’ in Nasika Bhushani, ‘Thaleney’ in Abhogi, ‘Azhaitthal nee’ in Bhimplas and ‘Vandhadaindhen’ in Karnaranjani. She has set some as ragamalikas, including a Daru varnam — ‘Aadum azhagai’ featuring Khamas, Hindolam, etc.; a Pada varnam — ‘Inbam pozhindaye’ featuring Sankarabharanam, Purvikalyani, etc.; ‘Sudhandira bharatam’ featuring Ranjani, Chayaranjani, etc.; ‘Nalliraviniley’ in madhyama sruti featuring Pilu, Abhogi, etc; and ‘Kanna kanna’ in Maund, Ahiri, etc. Some other ragas she has used include Sringaramurthy, Kanakangi, Patdeep, Manjkhamaj, Behag, Andholika, Purnashadjam, Sunadavinodini, Hamsanandi, Neetimati, Bhujangini, Misra Sivaranjani, Natabhairavi, Saramati, Rageshri and Bageshri. She also created a new raga, Radhambujam, a janya (derivative) of Harikamboji. Charumathi also created chittaswaras for many songs, some extensive and some in ragamalikas. Suitable for dance Charumathi is proficient in music for dance and sees many of these compositions suitable for dance. She says, “The flow of language is astounding, reminiscent of Oothukkadu Venkata Kavi in the fast passages (madhyama kala sahitya) of some songs. Her pieces are, in my opinion, Tamizh Isai revival songs as they are in chaste but simple Tamil that can reach the masses.” Sujatha adds, “The songs are woven around the Vaishnavite philosophy with multiple layers of meaning, many allusions that might not be immediately obvious.” To disseminate the works, Radha Parthasarathy says the pieces will be posted on YouTube with notations. “My mother never wanted to promote her own songs. She always said if they are good, they will become known.”  The author writes on classical music and musicians.   The songs are woven around the Vaishnavite philosophy with multiple layers of meaning, many allusions that might not be immediately obvious Sujatha Vijayaraghavan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/a-treasury-of-tunes/article33630914.ece
22 January 2021||January 22 2021 00:00 IST,||In the harmony of notes||The 90-minute violin duet by Vittal Ramamurthy and V.V.S. Murari was proof of the fact that time is not a constraint if the musician has clarity about content. Ramamurthy and Murari hail from different schools, but they knew exactly what makes a concert work, given their long experience in accompanying several artistes of different genres. Flagging off their duet with the grand Dikshitar kriti ‘Mahaganaptim’ in Nattai, they softened the initial vigour with Syama Sastri’s Anandabhairavi composition ‘Marivere,’ giving ample importance to the beautiful chittaswaram and sahityam. Murari brought out the charm of Hamsanadham with a few subtle strokes, followed by the Tyagaraja kriti, ‘Bantureeti.’ Here the violinists pepped up the tempo with bright and brisk niraval and swara patterns on ‘Rama nama mane.’ The tempo was further brightened up with Dikshitar’s ‘Ramachandram bhavayami’ in Vasantha with its dazzling chittaswaram. Classic Kamboji The main raga pick was the classic Kamboji. The raga treatise was started by Vittal and selectively shared by Murari at different levels. Though the raga essay was not too elaborate, it was a good preface for Tyagaraja’s magnum opus ‘O Rangasayee.’ Probably it could be said that the time constraint prompted the duo to opt straight away for swaraprastara on ‘Bhooloka vaikuntham’ sans niraval. Nevertheless, both kizhkala swaras and the madhyama kala swaras carried ample weight owing to permutations and combinations by both the players. Patri Satish Kumar and V. Krishna were on the mridangam and ghatam, respectively, and they showed their prowess through the concert, with their tani avartanam especially producing fireworks. The concert concluded with two popular numbers — Papanasam Sivan’s emotion soaked ‘Enna thavam’ in Kapi and Lalgudi Jayaraman’s thillana in Maund. There was no domination or underplay. No showmanship. Both artistes demonstrated their camaraderie and musical understanding perfectly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/in-the-harmony-of-notes/article33630921.ece
22 January 2021||January 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Showing rich promise||The concerts by young singers are fresh and exciting these days. Krithika Natarajan’s all-Tamil concert for Kedaram was no exception. The grandeur of Tiruvarur Ramasamy Pillai’s ‘Jagadeeswari’ was well-savoured. The fast sancharas in the well-designed alapana added to the richness of the raga swarupa of Mohanam. On the violin, M. Vijay too offered an aesthetically radiant elucidation. Krithika commenced the kriti at the anupallavi, ‘Akamakizhndhun.’ The composer has used charming swaraksharas and included sahitya for chittaswaram. Through beautiful voice modulation in the swaraprastara, Krithika brought out the radiance of the raga in a focussed way. Always alert, Vijay’s violin support was constructive. Akshay Anantapadmanabhan’s mridangam accompaniment was an asset to the vocalist, with its subdued richness. The thani in which Sunil Kumar (kanjira) joined him was meticulously executed. Emotions well-captured One of Syama Sastri’s rare Tamil compositions, ‘Enneramum un namam’ was from the heart. If the Purvikalyani alapana was brief yet refined, the niraval and swaras at ‘Anbudan unnai naan’ brought out the emotional tints. Arunachala Kavi’s Rama Nataka kriti, ‘Yarendru raghavanai’ proved to be a springboard for Krithika’s classical instincts. The Yadukulakamboji rendition established a tranquil atmosphere. This composition is Lakshmana’s response to Sita when she asks him to go to Rama’s aid whose voice she has heard calling as he chased the illusory golden deer. A Tamil recital would be incomplete without a Muthu Thandavar composition and ‘Sevikka vendum ayya’ in Andolika came out beautifully. There were two kritis by Papanasam Sivan — ‘Ganapathiye karuna nidhiye’ (Karaharapriya) with swaras at pallavi and later, the Hindolam piece, ‘Nambi kettavar evarayya,’ after a short viruttham. Bharatiyar’s ‘Suttum vizhichudar thaan’ in Yamuna Kalyani was a neat rendition. Krithika’s opening piece, the Charukesi varnam, ‘Innum en manam ariyadha’ on Lord Krishna and the concluding thillana in Hamsanandi were compositions of her guru Lalgudi Jayaraman. With a melodious voice and captivating manodharma, Krithika can look forward to becoming a front-ranker.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/showing-rich-promise/article33630928.ece
22 January 2021||January 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Why pace is vital||Good classical flourishes and a lively flow that could grab instant attention were the highlights of K. Gayatri’s concert. A brisk Amritavarshini varnam at the start was a novelty. It is a composition of her guru, Suguna Purushottaman. Gayatri sang ‘Pavanatmaja’ (Dikshitar, Nattai), a kriti on Lord Anjaneya and swaras to wrap up. By this time, however, she had pressed the accelerator too much. She tempered the mood with a beautiful Begada raga alapana and the kriti ‘Neeverakula dhanamu’ (Tyagaraja, misra chapu), giving her the opportunity to showcase her depth. M. Rajeev was equal to the task, taking Begada to a different plane. Niraval at ‘Tyagaraja vara hridaya’ seemed to get stuck in the first speed, but was soon tweaked to bring the momentum back. Surfeit of sangatis Gayatri hustled again in ‘Manasavrta’ (Abhogi, Patnam Subramanya Iyer), presenting a song with many minute sangatis in a frenzy. The song deserved a slower gait. The Madhyamavati raga alapana had poise, both in Gayatri’s singing and in Rajeev’s playing. The latter added some nice touches with ‘ni’ and ‘sa’ varjyam (pa sa ni, for example) to break the standard line. ‘Palinchu Kamakshi pavani’ (Syama Sastri) was adeptly rendered in an engaging tempo. The niraval at ‘Jagamu kaapaadu’ picked an interesting spot. Gayatri will need to judge the optimal limits for niraval in terms of time versus incremental aesthetics; there is a point of diminishing returns. The swaras were intelligent and added to the weight of the piece. Melody is not Rajeev’s only forte. He played with a good balance of quality and quantity. Poongulam Subramaniam’s support was conducive to both Gayatri’s brisk style and the laya of the songs. Chandrasekara Sharma complemented well in a concert where all the artistes showed laya strength. Gayatri could have made better use of a relaxed singing style, but she was so purpose-led that she missed the trick of enjoying her music, which is often the best stimulant for artistic expression.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/why-pace-is-vital/article33630926.ece
22 January 2021||January 22 2021 00:00 IST,||The 50-jati challenge||Bharatanatyam dancer-choreographer Madurai R. Muralidaran will present the ‘50 Jati  Challenge,’ an online event featuring more than 125 dance students from around the world, who will perform for the India-Asia Book of Records. The event will be streamed via Zoom on January 31, 6.30 p.m. Muralidharan has composed the 50 jatis, choreographed and taught them to the students in three months. His senior student Deepa Mahadevan and his daughter, Kavya Muralidharan assisted him in the endeavour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/the-50-jati-challenge/article33630932.ece
22 January 2021||January 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Blend of kalari and yoga||Dancer Vyshnavie Sainath is conducting online kalari-yoga sessions for those in the age group of six to 68. Trained in yoga at Sivananda Yoga Ashram and Kalaripayattu at the Vallabhatta School of Kalari, Kerala, Vyshnavie has been organising these sessions for the past seven years. “Due to the pandemic and the pace at which things were changing, I had to come up with a module that suits the online platform,” says the young dancer. The live sessions will include both kalaripayattu and yoga to ensure a balance between fitness and performing art. Divided into two batches, sessions will be conducted five days a week. Course times: 7 a.m. and 6.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/blend-of-kalari-and-yoga/article33630934.ece
22 January 2021||January 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Learn Neelankanta Sivan kritis||Aspiring musicians who wish to learn the kritis of Neelakanta Sivan, senior vocalist Baby Sreeram will conduct a workshop on January 24 at 7 p.m. on Zoom. Today is the last day to register for the workshop. Log on to varaveena.com. This is the third online workshop to be hosted by the Varaveena School of Music in Irinjalakuda.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/learn-neelankanta-sivan-kritis/article33630896.ece
22 January 2021||January 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Kalki award for Nagaswaram vidwan||The Kalki Krishnamurthy Memorial Trust will present this year’s Kalki award to nagaswaram artiste Mylai M. Karthikeyan. The function, to be presided by senior musician S. Sowmya, will be held on January 26, 6 p.m., at Ragasudha Hall, Luz, Mylapore. The award function will be followed by Karthikeyan’s recital. The event will be webcast live on Parivadini Music YouTube Channel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/kalki-award-for-nagaswaram-vidwan/article33630899.ece
22 January 2021||January 22 2021 00:00 IST,||22fr-calendar||A three-month course on arts administration, designed for the Indian performing arts ecosystem, starts in February. The coursework comes with an additional one-month supervised internship with leading artistes and art organisations. Open to those above 18 years of age with an interest in managing the arts, the course will also provide scholarships to deserving candidates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/22fr-calendar/article33630904.ece
22 January 2021||January 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Two-day online dance festival||Guru  G.V. Ramani Natya Kala Foundation celebrates the ninth year of Margazhi festival on January 30 and 31, with dance and music performances. Each performance will run up to 60 minutes. The digital festival will begin with Meenakshi Srinivasan’s dance performance on January 30 followed by Leela Samson’s Spanda Dance Company. The performance of Sikkil Gurucharan with Renjith and Vijna will take place on Day 2. The festival will premiere at 6 p.m. Tickets are available at: https://www.tikkl.com/gvrnatyakalafoundation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/two-day-online-dance-festival/article33630908.ece
22 January 2021||New Delhi,||5,942 health workers vaccinated, 24 adverse events reported in Delhi||On the fourth day of vaccination in Delhi on Thursday, a total of 5,942 healthcare workers were vaccinated, which is the highest number so far. However, there were 24 adverse events following immunisation (AEFI), the Delhi government spokesperson said. The number of people vaccinated on Thursday was about 73.3% of the target of 8,100 for the day. On the first day of the vaccination on January 16, 4,319 healthcare workers were vaccinated. On Monday, the figure was 3,598 and it was 4,936 on Tuesday. Of the 24 AEFI on Thursday, 22 were “minor” cases while there were two cases of hospitalisation. Delhi uses both vaccines for COVID-19, Covaxin and Covishield, from the first day. Of the 24 AEFI, 22 were from using Covishield and two from Covaxin. While the 22 cases from using Covishield were minor, the two cases from Covaxin were hospitalised. There are a total of 81 vaccination sites in the city and each has a list of about 100 beneficiaries to be vaccinated every day. Initially, only healthcare workers, whose names were on the list, were allowed to get the vaccination. On Tuesday, the Central government allowed people who are not on the list, but have been registered on the CoWIN platform earlier, to be vaccinated. This is one of the major reasons for the increase in numbers, according to officials. Creating awareness “Today, 100 healthcare workers were vaccinated in our hospital. We have been counselling our staffers for the last two to three days. A 10-member team has been working on this and telling our staffers that the vaccine is safe and there are no problems,” Suresh Kumar, Medical Director of Lok Nayak Hospital told The Hindu . Multiple Delhi government officials said that they have directed heads of hospitals in their districts to request senior doctors to get the vaccine shots to motivate the staffers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/5942-health-workers-vaccinated-24-adverse-events-reported-in-delhi/article33631234.ece
22 January 2021||New Delhi,||After 25 years, HC acquits sales tax officer of taking Rs. 4,000 bribe||Twenty-five years after the CBI laid down an elaborate trap to catch a sales tax officer allegedly seeking Rs. 4,000 bribe, the Delhi High Court on Thursday acquitted the man saying that the agency has failed to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt. Justice Suresh Kumar Kait noted that the demand and acceptance of bribe can be proved beyond reasonable doubt only if there is recovery of the money, which is a direct evidence of bribery. “In the instant case, it is admitted by the CBI that there is no recovery from the appellant [the accused]. Consequently, demand and acceptance become doubtful,” Justice Kait said. The case stems from a complaint made by one Gulshan Kumar Sikri against the then Assistant Commissioner, Sale Tax Department, P.C. Mishra. An appeal case filed by Mr. Sikri, proprietor of Filtrex India, was pending adjudication before Mr. Mishra. It was alleged by the CBI that during the course of hearing of the appeal on February 28, 1996, Mr. Mishra allegedly demanded Rs. 4,000 as bribe for deciding the said appeal in Mr. Sikri’s favour. A trap was laid by the CBI official with the aid of electronic devices and with the help of public witnesses, who were required by the raiding officer for listening to the conversation between Mr. Mishra and Mr. Sikri. The CBI said the conversation that transpired between them was also recorded. It claimed that Mr. Sikri was directed to pay the bribe amount to his reader Ravi Bhatt, who was sitting in another room. Mr. Mishra contended that Mr. Sikri specifically deposed before the trial court that he did not demand any money. When the trial court desired to hear the conversation, the inspector did not produce anything, he said. CBI’s counsel later declared four prosecution witnesses in the case, including Mr. Sikri as hostile.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/after-25-years-hc-acquits-sales-tax-officer-of-taking-rs-4000-bribe/article33631226.ece
22 January 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi reports 227 new virus cases, 8 deaths||Delhi witnessed 227 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of cases in the city to 6,33,276, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Thursday. Also, eight more deaths have been reported in 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 10,782. A total of 81,550 tests was done in a day. Recoveries Of the total cases, 6,20,374 people have recovered and there are 2,120 active cases in Delhi, the bulletin stated. The positivity rate of COVID-19 cases was 0.28% on Thursday and the overall positivity till now is 6.24%, as per the bulletin. Containment zones There were 2,107 containment zones in Delhi as on Thursday. Out of the total 9,103 beds available for COVID-19 treatment in the national capital, 8,099 beds were vacant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-reports-227-new-virus-cases-8-deaths/article33631237.ece
22 January 2021||New Delhi,||HC raps authorities over dues to civic body workers||The Delhi High Court on Thursday pulled up the authorities for not paying salaries and pensions to employees of the civic bodies here, saying that the Delhi government and the municipal corporations “do not care about the poor employees and retired pensioners at all”. A Bench of Justice Vipin Sanghi and Justice Rekha Palli directed the Delhi government to transfer back to the civic bodies the amount recovered or adjusted from them against their outstanding loans within two weeks. “In our view, the deduction of loan made by the Delhi government in these circumstances is not called for, particularly when the recovery of loan by the civic bodies had been in consideration for the last over three years,” the High Court said. During the hearing, Justice Sanghi said: “I can’t tell how disgusted we are with all of you [Delhi government and civic bodies]. You are behaving completely irresponsibly and do not care about the poor employees and retired pensioners at all.” The court also wondered why the authorities would not pay the safai karamcharis . If they do not come for work from tomorrow, let us see how your houses and hospitals are cleaned then, the Bench remarked, adding: “We are ashamed of you and your leaders... the way you are behaving.” The court was hearing various petitions relating to non-payment of salaries of employees and pensioners by the three municipal corporations of Delhi.   The court also questioned as to how the Delhi government had money for huge advertisements in newspapers regularly during the pandemic and warned it of an inquiry and audit by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India. Ads during pandemic “How much have you spent on advertisements during the pandemic... we want to know. We will order an inquiry and order by the CAG,” it said. The court ordered the Delhi government to file an affidavit on the amount, which, according to it, is liable to be paid to the civic bodies. It also directed the corporations to file respective affidavits disclosing their expenditures since April 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-raps-authorities-over-dues-to-civic-body-workers/article33631229.ece
22 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man arrested for bid to kill woman in Delhi||A 26-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly trying to kill a woman in south-east Delhi’s Badarpur, the police said on Thursday. They said the man suspected that the woman and her family had poisoned his sister in 2018, leading to her death. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South East) R.P. Meena said that the accused has been identified as Shivam alias Shibbu, a resident of Moladband Extension. The police said that on January 16, they received an information that a woman had sustained a bullet injury. When they reached the spot, the complainant, identified as Pinki, said that she and her daughter were at home when Shibbu came and shot at her and fled.     Victim stable The woman told the police that Shibbu was under the impression that Pinki and her family were responsible for his sister’s death. The woman was rushed to a hospital where she is said to be stable. With the help of technical and human surveillance, Shibbu was arrested from Dhaula Kuan, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-arrested-for-bid-to-kill-woman-in-delhi/article33631230.ece
22 January 2021||New Delhi,||Man held for stealing jewellery worth Rs. 20 cr.||A 25-year-old electrician has been arrested for allegedly stealing gold jewellery worth Rs. 20 crore from his employer’s showroom in south-east Delhi’s Kalkaji, the police said on Thursday. To hide his identity, he wore a PPE kit and covered his face with a mask, the police said. The accused has been identified as Sheikh Nur Rahman, a resident of Hooghly district in West Bengal. On Wednesday, the manager of Anjali Jewellers, Arijit Chakraborty, informed the police about the burglary. The police rushed to the spot and found that most of the ornaments on the ground floor were missing and the locks of the drawers were broken. They found that the accused had entered from the third floor. CCTV footage of the showroom showed a person stealing the jewellery. Rahman was on leave on January 10. “He was traced to in Karol Bagh and nabbed. The stolen jewellery and Rs. 23,000 were recovered from him,” DCP (South-East) Rajendra Prasad Meena said. He told the police that he had been allegedly harassed by his colleagues and to teach them a lesson, he planned the theft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-held-for-stealing-jewellery-worth-rs-20-cr/article33631238.ece
22 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||CM bats for swift allotment of flats to slum dwellers||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday instructed officials to expeditiously allot the flats that have been constructed for the EWS and slum dwellers and to remove all obstacles in the allotment of land required for the construction of these flats. Mr. Kejriwal was chairing a meeting of the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board to review the status of the ongoing JJ cluster rehabilitation plan under the Mukhyamantri Awas Yojana. A total of 9,315 house inventory is in a ready-to-move condition for 14 identified JJ clusters. Apart from these, a total of 28,910 are being constructed for 73 identified JJ cluster, a DUSIB official said. On the other hand, the Delhi Congress alleged that with an eye on civic elections next year, the Centre and the State have begun a bogus exercise to survey the JJ clusters to fool the people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cm-bats-for-swift-allotment-of-flats-to-slum-dwellers/article33631227.ece
22 January 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi records ‘poor’ air quality: CPCB||The air quality of Delhi and Gurugram was in ‘poor’ category and Noida’s was in ‘very poor’ category on Thursday, said CPCB data. Delhi’s air quality is expected to improve in the coming days. “Poor category is forecast for Friday. Under the influence of western disturbance, winds are forecast to increase on Saturday. Marginal improvement in AQI is forecast for Saturday and Sunday, but it will remain within the ‘very poor’ category,” said SAFAR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-records-poor-air-quality-cpcb/article33631232.ece
22 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||DMRC Phase-IV tunnelling drive begins||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation began the first tunnelling drive on the upcoming Phase-IV network on a 1.4-km stretch between Vikaspuri and Krishna Park Extension on Thursday. The tunnelling began from Vikaspuri in continuation of the Magenta Line tunnel, which was constructed for the currently operational Botanical Garden-Janakpuri West corridor, officials said. DMRC spokesperson Anuj Dayal said: “Two parallel circular tunnels for up and down movement will be constructed on this stretch, which is part of the 2.2-km-long underground section from Janakpuri West to Keshopur. The lowering and assembling process of this 73-metre machine began in October last year.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dmrc-phase-iv-tunnelling-drive-begins/article33631239.ece
