23 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||No further concessions to offer, govt. tells protesting farmers||The negotiations between Central Ministers and farm unions came to a standstill on Friday with the government saying it had no further concessions to offer beyond the proposal to suspend the three contentious agricultural reform laws for 12 to 18 months. The unions rejected the proposal and reiterated their demand for the repeal of the laws. No date has been fixed for another meeting. At the end of a four-hour meeting, during which Ministers and union leaders were only in the same room for 20 minutes, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said the government had already presented its “best proposal”. Urging the unions to reconsider their stand, he said if they responded positively on Saturday, talks could resume. Union leaders put up a united face during the meeting, jointly conveying their rejection of the proposal. Later, however, some leaders said they were open for further deliberations, while others took a more hardline position, vowing to intensify their agitation. Tens of thousands of farmers have been camped on the borders of New Delhi for almost two months now, and thousands plan to enter the national capital for a tractor parade on Republic Day. Police officials have opposed the plan to hold the parade on the Outer Ring Road and presented an alternate proposal during discussions on Friday, which the farm unions will discuss on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-further-concessions-to-offer-govt-tells-protesting-farmers/article33640004.ece
23 January 2021||HUBBALLI,||Three youths go missing in canal||Three youths who reportedly fell into a canal on Friday while trying to escape from a bee attack are now feared dead. Meanwhile, search operations were suspended due to darkness. Those who have gone missing include the son and a relative of a municipal councillor from Hubballi. The incident occurred at Malaprabha Canal at Kiresur village near Hubballi when four youths and a teenaged girl were posing for a selfie. While one youth survived, the girl was rescued by shepherds. The other three went missing. The Hubballi Rural Police, along with Navalgund Police, launched search operations with the help of localites but suspended them as night fell.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/three-youths-go-missing-in-canal/article33640271.ece
23 January 2021||Patna,||Confidence for vaccination rising in Bihar||After days of lukewarm response from frontline health workers for COVID-19 vaccine jabs in Bihar, the turnout rose sharply on Thursday as the State Health Department started registration for the second phase of the vaccination drive. When the first phase of the drive began on January 16, 62% health workers and doctors turned up. On January 18, the figure dipped to 51.2%, and it fell further on January 19 as only 50.1% registered participants showed up at the 301 centres set up across the State. Out of the total 74,900 frontline health workers who were scheduled to take the vaccine, only 47,402 had turned up on the first three days in the first phase of the drive. On January 21, however, the figure rose and 54.6% of the registered beneficiaries turned up to get the shot across the State. The State Health Department also started registration of frontline workers on the Co-WIN digital platform for the second phase of the vaccination drive. “As many as 39,152 beneficiaries of various departments were registered by January 21 for the vaccination in the second phase,” said Patna-based civil surgeon Dr. Vibha Kumari Singh. The average turnout for vaccination across the four days was nearly 55%, said State health officials. But the names of around 800 healthcare workers, including some doctors in Patna, reportedly disappeared from the Co-WIN portal. “Some of our senior doctors had expressed willingness to take the vaccine shot and set an example to motivate younger doctors, nursing staff, paramedical staff and sanitation workers to take the vaccine, but the names of all the faculty members and college staff have gone missing from the portal,” said Dr. Binod Kumar Singh, Superintendent, Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH). Changes have been made in the software to allow the Health Department to take new beneficiaries in place of the absentees. “Training will be given for the new software and once the new method is implemented successfully, the turnout will increase,” said Manoj Kumar, Special Secretary, State Health Department. The new method is expected to begin from Saturday, he added. Till January 21, only 63,032 healthcare workers had been vaccinated in the State in the first phase, with 61,694 persons receiving Covishield and 1,238 receiving Covaxin shots out of 4.7 lakh registered beneficiaries. Leaders of different political parties have also come forward to take the vaccine. “MPs, MLAs and all leaders of our party are ready to get vaccinated,” said State Bharatiya Janata Party chief Sanjay Jaiswal. Opposition Congress and Rashtriya Janata Dal leaders too said that they would not hesitate to take the vaccine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/confidence-for-vaccination-rising-in-bihar/article33640145.ece
23 January 2021||Kolkata,||West Bengal Forest Minister resigns from Cabinet||West Bengal Forest Minister Rajib Banerjee on Friday resigned from the Cabinet. “I regret to inform you that I hereby tender my resignation from my office as Cabinet Minister being in charge of Forest Department today, i.e. on 22 January 2021,” said his resignation letter sent to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. Mr. Banerjee, MLA from Uluberia in Howrah district, also sent a resignation letter to Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar. Later in the day, he met the Governor at Raj Bhavan. Speaking to journalists after meeting the Governor, he thanked the Chief Minister for providing a platform to work for people, but expressed shock and dismay at being divested of the Irrigation Department about two and a half years ago. The Governor accepted the resignation of Mr. Banerjee and the charge of Forest Department would vest with the Chief Minister. Mr. Banerjee is the third to resign from the Council of Ministers in the past two months. Former Trinamool heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari, who held several portfolios, including Transport, resigned from the Cabinet in December 2020 and the party and joined the BJP. Former Indian cricketer and Sports Minister Laxmi Ratan Shukla resigned a few weeks ago. Mr. Banerjee has been going public with his differences with the party over the past few months. Not only was he absent from several Cabinet meetings but also called out against favouritism in the party. On January 16, he took to social media, saying he was going through a test of patience. He had told sources close to him that he would remain active in politics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/west-bengal-forest-minister-resigns-from-cabinet/article33640168.ece
23 January 2021||Kolkata,||West Bengal Forest Minister resigns from Cabinet||West Bengal Forest Minister Rajib Banerjee on Friday resigned from the Cabinet. “I regret to inform you that I hereby tender my resignation from my office as Cabinet Minister being in charge of Forest Department today, i.e. on 22 January 2021,” said his resignation letter sent to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. Mr. Banerjee, MLA from Uluberia in Howrah district, also sent a resignation letter to Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar. Later in the day, he met the Governor at Raj Bhavan. Speaking to journalists after meeting the Governor, he thanked the Chief Minister for providing a platform to work for people, but expressed shock and dismay at being divested of the Irrigation Department about two and a half years ago. The Governor accepted the resignation Mr. Banerjee and the charge of Forest Department would vest with the Chief Minister. Mr. Banerjee is the third to resign from the Council of Ministers in the past two months. Former Trinamool heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari, who held several portfolios, including Transport, resigned from the Cabinet in December 2020 and the party and joined the BJP. Former Indian cricketer and Sports Minister Laxmi Ratan Shukla resigned a few weeks ago. Mr. Banerjee has been going public with his differences with the party over the past few months. Not only was he absent from several Cabinet meetings but also called out against favouritism in the party. On January 16, he took to social media, saying he was going through a test of patience. He had told sources close to him that he would remain active in politics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/west-bengal-forest-minister-resigns-from-cabinet/article33640537.ece
23 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||SNGOU Bill passed with modifications||The Assembly on Friday passed the Sree Narayana Guru Open University Bill, 2021, after incorporating certain modifications that were reported by the Subject Committee on Education and others proposed by the legislators. The legislation is the last to be passed by the 14th Kerala Legislative Assembly. It also marked the culmination of the 22nd and final session of the House that commenced on January 8. Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel, who had tabled the Bill on January 18, allayed concerns raised by legislators on the validity of the certificates that will be issued by the Sree Narayana Guru Open University (SNGOU), especially in Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) nations. He said utmost care was being taken to prepare the syllabus of the academic programmes. The process of constituting committees for the purpose is in the final stages. Mr. Jaleel said innovative programmes that enabled students to specialise in two subjects, such as English and Journalism, at the same time would be offered by the university. Such courses would improve their job prospects. The university is also exploring the possibilities to enter into agreement with the Department of Factories and Boilers to offer a safety management course under the distance education mode. Mr. Jaleel said the university would offer science courses that would make it stand apart from other open universities. While tabling the Bill, the Minister said the university would have four regional centres, three of them in the Malabar region considering the greater proportion of students. These would come up in Pattambi, Kozhikode and Kannur. CM’s assurance Winding up the discussions, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said degree certificates issued by the university would be equivalent to those by any other university. Leader of Opposition Ramesh Chennithala, while expressing his support for the passage of the Bill, called for caution to ensure that the institution named after social reformer Sree Narayana Guru did not wade into controversies. Among the various changes mooted by the Subject Committee, an elected legislator and a student representative will be nominated to the Syndicate and Senate of the university. The age limit for Vice Chancellors (at the time of appointment) has been decreased from 65 to 60 years on the basis of the panel's recommendation. Besides, the Bill also did away with the proposed School of Business Studies and Public Policy, while the name of the School of Public Administration and Policy Studies has been modified as School of Public Administration and Policy Research.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sngou-bill-passed-with-modifications/article33640342.ece
23 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Cong. leaders spar at CWC meet, defer party polls till June||Amid sharp exchanges between senior leaders over internal polls, Friday’s virtual meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC) deferred the decision to elect a new party president until June, even as it adopted three resolutions including one demanding a Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC) probe into Republic TV promoter Arnab Goswami’s leaked WhatsApp chats. The other two resolutions were about backing the farmers’ organisations in their fight against the farm laws, and expressing gratitude to scientists for developing a COVID-19 vaccine in record time, asking for free vaccines for the under-privileged sections and appealing to the people to get immunised. However, the issue of holding organisational polls exposed the faultlines in the party with Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and senior leader Anand Sharma sparring over it and former party president Rahul Gandhi stressing on the need to “avoid using harsh words”. When Madhusudnan Mistry, who heads the party’s election panel suggested postponing the internal polls until May because of restrictions on large gathering due to COVID-19, Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad opposed the idea and wanted the polls to be held immediately. Multiple sources told The Hindu that Mr.  Azad demanded elections not just to the CWC but also to the Central Election Committee, which decides who gets to contest elections on a Congress ticket. He was backed by Anand Sharma and Mukul Wasnik — both members of the group of 23 dissenters (G-23) who had asked for a revamp of the party in a letter to party chief Sonia Gandhi last August — as well as former Finance Minister P. Chidambaram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cong-leaders-spar-at-cwc-meet-defer-party-polls-till-june/article33640002.ece
23 January 2021||BELAGAVI,||Urulu Seve in Belagavi in protest against MES agitation||Kannada activists carried out a Urulu Seve at the Rani Channamma Circle in Belagavi on Friday, in protest against Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti’s protest against the Kannada flag erected in front of the city corporation. They stopped vehicles and formed a human chain for some time at the traffic circle. The police dispersed them later. The police stopped three groups of Kannada activists from entering the city border at Hire Bagewadi as they wanted to join the protest at Rani Channamma Circle. Kannada activists said that some Marathi groups had put up a saffron flag, in front of the Sri Brahma Linga Tarun Mandal in Konewadi village. They accused the Marathi groups of misusing the saffron flag for narrow sectarian purposes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/urulu-seve-in-belagavi-in-protest-against-mes-agitation/article33640268.ece
23 January 2021||MANGALURU,||Nine students of pharmacy arrested on ragging charge||The Mangaluru Rural Police on Friday arrested nine students pursuing second and third year bachelor of pharmacy courses in a private college on the outskirts of the city on the charge of ragging. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar told reporters here on Friday that the ragging issue came to light when the victim student’s father called a senior police officer seeking help to get college fee refunded as his son was not inclined to continue studies there. On inquiry, it was revealed that Abhiraj from Kasargod of Kerala, who had joined first B.Pharma at Srinivas College of Pharmacy, Valachchil, was accosted by a few senior students on January 10 when he was on his way to the hostel from the college. The senior students asked him to cut his hair as well as moustache and one of them slapped the victim on his face. Again, on January 12, the accused reprimanded him for not following their direction and threatened to cut his hair and moustache the next day if he did not do so himself. Mr. Kumar said that, meanwhile, the accused students had also summoned the victim to their paying guest accommodation twice along with some of his batch-mates asking them to cut their hair. Senior students also assaulted the victims. When the victim returned home and told his parents that he was not interested in continuing his studies there, his worried parents made further inquiries with him and later contacted the police seeking help in getting their hostel and college fee refunded, the Commissioner said. He gave the names of the accused as Jishnu (20), P.V. Srikantha (20), Ashwath (20), Sayanth (22), Abhirath Rajiv (21), all third B.Pharma students, P. Rahul (21), Jishnu (20), Mukthar Ali (19) and K. Mohammed Razeem (20), all second B.Pharma students. Deputy Commissioners of Police Hariram Shankar and Vinay Gaonkar were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nine-students-arrested-on-ragging-charge/article33640026.ece
23 January 2021||Mumbai,||74,000 health workers vaccinated in State so far||As many as 74,000 health workers in Maharashtra have been administered the novel coronavirus vaccine till Friday evening since the beginning of the inoculation drive, a senior official said. Some of the districts, including Beed, Hingoli, Amravati, Wardha, Jalna and Osmanabad, have achieved 100% vaccination target so far, Dr. Pradeep Vyas, principal secretary of the Public Health Minister, said. The State has received vaccine doses of Covishield and Covaxin. “The State has completed inoculation of 74,000 health workers so far. Of them, 21,610 received their first dose on Friday at 282 centres. While most of the health workers were given Covishield vaccine, 318 others got Covaxin jab,” he said. These health workers will have to take the second mandatory dose of vaccine after a gap of four weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/74000-health-workers-vaccinated-in-state-so-far/article33640498.ece
23 January 2021||MANGALURU,||In-principle approval for plastic park||The Union Government has given in-principle approval for setting up a plastic park at Ganjimutt in Mangaluru. The Union Ministry of Chemicals and FertiliZers in a January 22 letter to the State government said that the Scheme Steering Committee in its 21st meeting held on January 20 under the chairmanship of Secretary, Chemicals and Fertilizers, decided to grant the in-principle approval. The approval given is valid for six months. The State government will have to submit a detailed project report to the Union government within that period for obtaining the final approval. The letter, to Gaurav Gupta, Additional Chief Secretary, Department of Commerce and Industries, said that plastic parks are very important for realising the goals of Make in India programme. Meanwhile, Nalin Kumar Kateel, Member of Parliament, Dakshina Kannada, said in a statement that the park will play a pivotal role in making Make in India programme of Prime Minister Narendra Modi a success. He thanked Union Minister for Chemicals and Fertilizers D.V. Sadananda Gowda and Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa for their role in getting the park for Mangaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/in-principle-approval-for-plastic-park/article33640480.ece
23 January 2021||Pune,||‘SII fire damage estimated at Rs. 1,000 cr.’||A day after a massive fire at vaccine manufacturing major Serum Institute of India (SII) Manjari facility in Pune claimed five lives, its Chief Executive Officer Adar Poonawalla on Friday said the extent of the damage was more than Rs. 1,000 crore. Mr. Poonawalla asserted that the supply of Covishield vaccine would remain unaffected. Addressing a joint press conference with Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, who was in the city to take stock of the situation, Mr. Poonawalla said: “The losses are mainly financial in that Rs. 1,000 crore worth of equipment and products were damaged by the fire. This was a brand new facility, which was to be used for the future production of BCG and Rotavirus vaccines. No actual vaccine was currently being produced there, so there was no damage to supplies.” The fire had no impact on the production or storage of Oxford-AstraZeneca Covishield vaccine, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sii-fire-damage-estimated-at-rs-1000-cr/article33640501.ece
23 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘No second attempt for UPSC aspirants’||The Union government’s law officer orally informed the Supreme Court on Friday that the Centre was “not agreeable” to giving Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) aspirants, whose preparations for the October 4 prelims were severely restricted due to the COVID-19 pandemic, a second crack at the exams for the elite civil services. Appearing before a Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar, Additional Solicitor General S.V. Raju said he received information late on January 21 about the government’s unwillingness.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-second-attempt-for-upsc-aspirants/article33640165.ece
23 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘No second attempt for UPSC aspirants’||The Union government’s law officer orally informed the Supreme Court on Friday that the Centre was “not agreeable” to giving Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) aspirants, whose preparations for the October 4 prelims were severely restricted due to the COVID-19 pandemic, a second crack at the exams for the elite civil services. Appearing before a Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar, Additional Solicitor General S.V. Raju said he received information late on January 21 about the government’s unwillingness.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-second-attempt-for-upsc-aspirants/article33640535.ece
23 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Court orders interim attachment of Yuvaraj Swamy’s properties worth nearly Rs. 90 crore||A city court on Friday ordered the interim attachment of 26 properties owned by Yuvaraj Swamy and his family members. These properties in Bengaluru, Hassan, and Mandya districts are valued at nearly Rs. 90 crore. Yuvaraj, 52, who claims to be an astrologer with close ties to several BJP leaders at the Centre, has been accused of cheating people of crores of rupees by promising them coveted government postings. His arrest in December 2020 for allegedly cheating a businessman of Rs. 1 crore opened a can of worms, and so far, the police have registered 14 cases against him. During a raid on his Bengaluru residence at the time of his arrest, the police seized cheques addressed to him worth Rs. 91 crore.  14 cases Public prosecutor B.S. Patil said he appeared on behalf of investigators in all the 14 cases against Yuvaraj and argued that the properties he and his family members had bought were proceeds of his crimes and hence it was important to attach them. “The court has issued an interim attachment order on all 26 properties we listed,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/city-court-orders-interim-attachment-of-yuvaraj-assets/article33640017.ece
23 January 2021||CUDDALORE,||Annamalai varsity suspends classes for first-year MBBS||Annamalai University on Friday announced the suspension of classes for first-year MBBS and BDS students until further orders, even as students of the medical and dental colleges of Rajah Muthiah Institute of Health Sciences continued their strike for the 43rd day. A university official said the management had asked post-graduate medical and dental students to report for work and send their representation to the government. It held talks with the students, but in vain. Doctors deputed “The university had no other option but to suspend the classes for the first-year students too, since the management feared they would face difficulties if they attended classes. The university has deputed faculty members and doctors to the Rajah Muthiah Medical College and Hospital (RMMCH) to attend to cases,” the official said. Undergraduate and postgraduate students of the medical and dental colleges continued their sit-in, holding up empty plates and raising slogans to protest against the closure of the mess. A spokesperson of the RMMCH Students Council said the college was the lone government institution in the State that had effected a three-fold increase in fees. Though the management had called for fresh recruitment to various posts stating that it was a government institution, the fees remained high, on a par with those of the self-financing colleges, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/annamalai-varsity-suspends-classes-for-first-year-mbbs/article33640461.ece
23 January 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,||Video of elephant being injured with burning object emerges, two arrested||A disturbing video recorded on a mobile device of people hurling an ignited bag on a 50-year-old elephant in the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) has surfaced through messaging applications. Nilgiris Collector J. Innocent Divya said the building, a portion of which was operating as a home-stay, would be sealed. She said the owners of the property were running the home-stay on the upper floor with four rooms. The elephant died a few days ago of the injuries. Forest Department officials said the video was recorded by a neighbour of the person who is seen throwing the object on the elephant. The objects gets stuck around its ear. The elephant runs off in pain to the forest. The elephant runs off in pain to the forest. The people watching the incident are heard shouting at the elephant, “Go, go into the forest and die.” The elephant, which had been injured since December, died on January 19, shortly after it was captured by the Forest Department in a last-ditch effort at treatment at Theppakadu Elephant Camp. The incident is said to have occurred at a private residence-cum-homestay in the buffer zone of the MTR. MTR officials said they arrested two persons identified as S. Prasath, 36, of Masinagudi, and M. Raymond Dean, 28, of Mavanallah. Forest Department officials are on the lookout for Raymond’s brother, Ricky Rayan, 31. Forest Department officials said Raymond Dean and Ricky Rayan were the owners of the property, while Prasath was the person seen in the video hurling the flaming object at the elephant. Conservationists in the Nilgiris have voiced dismay. “The elephant was known to enter human habitations very frequently,” one of them said. N. Mohanraj said the video made it clear that there was premeditation to injure or kill the elephant. “All the people responsible for the animal’s death need to be arrested. This is a tragic loss of life that could have easily been avoided,” he said. N. Sadiq Ali, founder of the Wildlife and Nature Conservation Trust (WNCT), said the incident was a reaction to the notification of the elephant corridor in the MTR buffer zone. “The notification of the corridor has further polarised the opinion of people, especially resort and home-stay owners, against the wildlife. “The MTR staff strength needs to be bolstered, while there should be cooperation between the Forest Department, the police and local NGOs to increase patrolling and prevent such problematic interactions,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/after-video-of-elephant-being-injured-by-burning-object-emerges-two-arrested/article33640075.ece
23 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||No second attempt for UPSC aspirants: govt.||The Union government’s law officer orally informed the Supreme Court on Friday that the Centre was “not agreeable” to giving Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) aspirants, whose preparations for the October 4 prelims were severely restricted due to the COVID-19 pandemic, a second crack at the exams for the elite civil services. Appearing before a Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar, Additional Solicitor General S.V. Raju said he received information late on January 21 about the government’s unwillingness. Hearing on Jan. 25 The court asked Mr. Raju to put the submission on record in an affidavit. The case is scheduled again for January 25. In previous hearings, the government had been telling the court that a decision to grant another chance for the UPSC aspirants was under active consideration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-second-attempt-for-upsc-aspirants/article33640020.ece
23 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||State challenges HC order on gram panchayat polls||The Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy government on Friday challenged in the Supreme Court an Andhra Pradesh High Court order allowing the State Election Commission to conduct local body elections in February, amid the COVID-19 vaccination drive. The High Court, on January 21, set aside its Single Judge Bench decision on January 11 to halt the election process for the time being. Seeking a stay of the January 21 order, the State government, through advocate Mahfooz A. Nazki, arraigned as respondent parties the State Election Commission (SEC) and N. Ramesh Kumar, Andhra Pradesh State Election Commissioner. The special leave petition said the SEC, led by Mr. Kumar, decided to hold the gram panchayat elections despite the vaccination drive and the spread of the virus. “The entire police force of the State is scheduled to be vaccinated with effect from the first week of February. This is when the elections are scheduled. In effect, the police will be required to (i) ensure that the entire police force is vaccinated; (ii) ensure that the elections are conducted; (ii) ensure storagwe and transport of the vaccine,” the petition said. Besides, the SEC had not consulted any health experts before giving the go-ahead for the polls. “Not only has the respondent rejected the concerns raised by the State [which were shared only after consulting the health experts of the State], a perusal of the material on record would reveal that no health experts have been consulted by the respondent to take such a decision,” the State government said, criticising the decision. ‘State not consulted’ The State submitted in the petition that even the mandate of the High Court to hold effective consultation with the State was ignored. “The directions passed by the High Court, the respondent was under a mandate to take into account the views of the petitioner/State government before taking any decision on holding of elections in the State... The petitioner has duly shared these concerns. However, the same have been summarily rejected,” the petition said. The State said it was in an “unfortunate position” to apprise the top court that the “only consideration that appears to have weighed with respondent No.2 (Mr. Kumar) to declare elections is that he is retiring in March 2021 and wishes to conduct the election before that”. “The fact that such election can put the vaccination drive into a disarray and endanger the lives of lakhs of citizens does not appear to have weighed with the respondent No.2... Any election at this stage would be ill-conceived,” the State said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ap-challenges-hc-order-to-hold-polls/article33639913.ece
23 January 2021||kolkata,||No volunteer forces in Bengal elections||Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora on Friday said that civic police volunteer force and green police volunteer force will not be involved in any election related work in West Bengal Assembly polls. Civic police and green police are a volunteer force raised by the State government on a contractual basis and helps the police in traffic and law and order management. “Several political parties have raised concern about something called civic police. We have not heard this word before… We have asked assurance from Chief Secretary, Home Secretary and Director General of Police that there shall be no civic police anywhere near any action related to the polling,” Mr Arora said. The Chief Election Commissioner set aside allegations raised by Bhartiya Janata Party that Rohingyas have been included in voter list and also rejected allegations by the Trinamool Congress that the Border Security Force (BSF) is intimidating people to vote for a particular party in the border areas. While Mr Arora said that there is no such evidence of Rohingya in the voter list he also added that he BSF is not involved in influencing anyone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-volunteer-forces-in-bengal-elections/article33640148.ece
23 January 2021||Rajulapudi SrinivasDENDULURU,||Another mysterious illness breaks out in W. Godavari||In yet another incidence of outbreak of mysterious disease in Komirepalli village in West Godavari district, 25 villagers were taken ill with epilepsy, convulsions, giddiness, fever and other symptoms on Friday. Patients were rushed to Eluru District Government Headquarters Hospital and to the local Primary Health Centres (PHCs) and Community Health Centres (CHCs). Following the directions of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, Health Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas, Chief Secretary Aditya Nath Das, Principal Seretary (Medical and Health) Anil Kumar Singhal, Commissioner Katamneni Bhaskar and other officers called on the patients at Komirepalli village and enquired about their health. Denduluru MLA K. Abbaiah Chowdary, Collector R. Mutyala Raju, Joint Collector Himanshu Shukla and other offiials explained to the Minister and Chief Secretary the medical aid being extended to the patients. The Minister said that a medical camp had been arranged in the village and medical teams deployed. Doctors were monitoring the situation in Komirepalli, he said. Mr. Das said the Medical and Health Department was prepared to tackle the situation and samples had been collected from patients. All steps were being taken to provide necessary treatment and restore normalcy in West Godavari district, he said. 700 cases reported About 700 persons were taken ill due to the unknown disease in the last one and a half months in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/yet-another-mysterious-disease-in-ap-village/article33639923.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Ready to get going||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ready-to-get-going/article33640147.ece
23 January 2021||Mumbai,||TRP case: former BARC CEO moves HC for bail||The Bombay High Court on Friday heard the bail plea filed by Partho Dasgupta, former chief executive officer and managing director of Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC), an accused in the Television Rating Point manipulation case. The matter will be heard on January 25. He was arrested from Pune on December 24, 2020, and is currently lodged at the Taloja Central Jail. On January 20, the City Civil and Sessions Court had rejected his bail and on January 4, the additional chief metropolitan magistrate had rejected his bail. Before the sessions court, special public prosecutor Shishir Hiray opposed his bail on the grounds that WhatsApp chats had been leaked in which there were conversations between him and the Prime Minister's Office, which showed that he was an influential person and could tamper with evidence and sway witnesses who were either former or current employees of BARC. The supplementary chargesheet filed by the police on January 11 mentioned that Mr. Dasgupta along with BARC’s chief operating officer Romil Ramgarhia conspired to rig the data of random sampling of 40 weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/trp-case-former-barc-ceo-moves-hc-for-bail/article33640502.ece
23 January 2021||MANGALURU,||Responsibility of colleges||Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar on Friday said that it was the responsibility of colleges to ensure no ragging takes place either inside or outside their campus. Colleges should form anti-ragging committees and conduct counselling sessions for junior students who normally would be wary of reporting ragging. Colleges cannot claim that ragging took place outside the campus, he said and cautioned them that he would initiate action against managements if they failed to perform their duty. In the instant case, the college management concerned responded saying that no complaint was made, Mr. Kumar said and added that such lame excuses were unacceptable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/responsibility-of-colleges/article33640481.ece
23 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Three artists withdraw plea against eviction||Three artists who had moved the Delhi High Court against the notices sent to them by the Union Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry to vacate government-allotted houses by December 31, 2020 withdrew their plea on Friday. They are hoping for a one-year extension. Mohiniyattam dancer Bharati Shivaji and Kuchipudi dancer Guru V. Jayarama Rao, who had been allotted government housing in 1987 under the eminent artists’ quota, were among the group of artists who had been issued eviction notices in October 2020. They, along with Mr. Rao’s wife, Kuchipudi dancer Banasri Rao, had moved the High Court in December and were given a stay on the eviction till Friday. ‘Extension assured’ Ms. Shivaji said the artists decided to withdraw their plea as they were “assured” they would be given a “one-year extension”. “We were compelled to file a plea at that time as we had no other option. Now, we are hoping for an extension on compassionate grounds. We have no intention of going against the government,” she said. The Cabinet Committee on Accommodation had on November 8, 2020 waived off the “damage charges” of Rs. 32.09 crore and regularised the allotment of homes to 27 artists as the allotment period had ended in 2014. The artists, including painter Jatin Das and Kathak dancer Pandit Birju Maharaj, were asked to vacate their government houses by December 31, 2020. The artists had been given the homes over the past five decades on the recommendation of the Culture Ministry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/three-artists-withdraw-plea-against-eviction/article33640164.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Taking precautions||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/taking-precautions/article33640505.ece
23 January 2021||Patna,||Offensive posts against Bihar Ministers may land you in jail||Bihar is set use the cyber crime law to deter individuals and organisations from making “offensive comments” against the government, its officials, Ministers, MPs and MLAs. “It has regularly been coming to light that certain persons and organisations have been making offensive comments through social media against the government, honourable Ministers, MPs, MLAs and government officials, which is against the prescribed law. For this act, it seems appropriate to take action against such organisations and individuals,” Nayyar Hasnain Khan, IGP, Economic Offences Wing, which handles cyber crime, said in a letter written on January 21 to all Principal Secretaries and Secretaries. “You all are requested to inform the Economic Offences Wing about any such act so that suitable legal action can be taken against those organisations/individuals after investigation,” it said. Rashtriya Janata Dal leader Tejashwi Yadav dared Chief Minister Nitish Kumar to send him to jail for “exposing the wrongdoings” of the government on social media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/offensive-posts-against-bihar-ministers-may-land-you-in-jail/article33640005.ece
23 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘No second attempt for UPSC aspirants’||The Union government’s law officer orally informed the Supreme Court on Friday that the Centre was “not agreeable” to giving Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) aspirants, whose preparations for the October 4 prelims were severely restricted due to the COVID-19 pandemic, a second crack at the exams for the elite civil services. Appearing before a Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar, Additional Solicitor General S.V. Raju said he received information late on January 21 about the government’s unwillingness.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-second-attempt-for-upsc-aspirants/article33640629.ece
23 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt.: no second attempt for UPSC aspirants||The Union government’s law officer orally informed the Supreme Court on Friday that the Centre was “not agreeable” to giving Union Public Services Commission (UPSC) aspirants, whose preparations for the October 4 prelims were severely restricted due to the COVID-19 pandemic, a second crack at the exams for the elite civil services. Appearing before a Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar, Additional Solicitor General S.V. Raju said he received information late on January 21 about the government’s unwillingness.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-no-second-attempt-for-upsc-aspirants/article33640000.ece
23 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||CBI books Cambridge Analytica, another firm||The Central Bureau of Investigation has booked Cambridge Analytica (U.K.) Limited and Global Science Research Limited (U.K.) for alleged illegal harvesting of personal data of about 5.62 lakh Indian users on Facebook through an application.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cbi-books-cambridge-analytica-another-firm/article33640166.ece
23 January 2021||Pune,||Mumbai nearby||Maharashtra on Thursday recorded 3,419 COVID-19 recoveries and 2,779 new cases as active cases dipped to 44,926, while the total case tally touched 20,03,657. Fifty more deaths took the toll to 50,684 and the total recoveries now stand at 19,06,827. The State’s recovery rate is 95.17% while the case fatality rate is 2.53%. Pune reported over 500 new cases to take its total case tally to 3,84,449. Three deaths saw the toll rise to 7,888. Mumbai city reported 483 new cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mumbai-nearby/article33640499.ece
23 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||CBI books Cambridge Analytica, another firm||The Central Bureau of Investigation has booked Cambridge Analytica (U.K.) Limited and Global Science Research Limited (U.K.) for alleged illegal harvesting of personal data of about 5.62 lakh Indian users on Facebook through an application.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cbi-books-cambridge-analytica-another-firm/article33640538.ece
23 January 2021||Hyderabad,||Court grants conditional bail to Akhila Priya||The VIth Additional Metropolitan Sessions Court in Secunderabad on Friday granted conditional bail to former Minister of Andhra Pradesh and TDP general secretary Bhuma Akhila Priya Reddy in connection with the kidnapping of businessman K. Praveen Rao and his two brothers. The court ordered that the former Allagadda MLA be released on bail executing a bond of Rs. 10,000 with two sureties. The other conditions are that she appear before Bowenapally Station House Officer on alternative Mondays between 11 a.m. and 12 noon starting from February 2 and cooperate with further investigation in the case. “The accused shall not threaten any of the victims and other witnesses in this case. The prosecution may seek cancellation of bail in case of breach of conditions,” the court said in the order copy. She was arrested and remanded to judicial custody by the Bowenpally police on January 6, and since then she was lodged in Chanchalguda women's prison. The former minister is likely to be released on Saturday. Meanwhile, the court dismissed the anticipatory bail petition of Ms. Akhila Priya’s husband M Bhargav Rao Naidu. Meanwhile, her brother’s Bhuma Jagat Vikhyat Reddy’s plea was posed for Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/conditional-bail-for-akhila-priya/article33640331.ece
23 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||CBI books Cambridge Analytica, another firm in data theft case||The Central Bureau of Investigation has booked Cambridge Analytica (U.K.) Limited and Global Science Research Limited (U.K.) for alleged illegal harvesting of personal data of about 5.62 lakh Indian users on Facebook through an application. The FIR names Global Science Research Limited (GSRL), represented by Dr. Aleksandr Kogan, and Cambridge Analytica, represented by Alexander Nix, as accused. It stems from a preliminary enquiry launched by the agency in July 2018 on a complaint from the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) following media reports alleging the illegal harvesting of personal data. MeitY had earlier sought details from Facebook and Cambridge Analytica about the alleged violations, the extent of leak of personal data of Indian users and their possible misuse by Cambridge Analytica for profiling and influencing elections in India. “Facebook reported that the data of potentially 5.62 lakh Indian users might have been illegally harvested,” said the FIR. Cambridge Analytica replied that it had received data from GSRL pertaining to U.S. citizens only. It did not respond to MeitY’s further correspondences. The Ministry then sought a legal opinion, based on which it referred the matter to the CBI. The CBI found that Dr. Kogan, founder and director of GSRL, had created an application that was named “thisisyourdigitallife.” As per Facebook’s platform policy, the app was authorised to collect certain specific data of users for academic and research purposes. It, however, illegally collected unauthorised data of users as well as their friends’ network on Facebook, as alleged. According to the FIR, the data were collected without the knowledge and consent of App users.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-books-cambridge-analytica-another-firm-in-data-theft-case/article33639952.ece
23 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Covaxin’s efficacy against U.K. strain not proven yet||Bharat Biotech’s COVID-19 vaccine candidate, Covaxin, can produce neutralising antibodies — a requirement to study its efficacy — against multiple coronavirus variants, but is yet to demonstrate efficacy against the variant ‘B.1.1.7’ or the ‘U.K. strain’ as the new virulent strain is commonly known. A report in the medical journal Lancet , published on Friday, underlines the need for “more extensive phase 2 and phase 3 trials” for “long-term safety assessments” of the vaccine. The study centres around establishing the safety and immune response generated by different doses of the vaccine in 375 volunteers. The authors of the study include scientists from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and Bharat Biotech. Covaxin and Covishield have been approved for emergency use in India. The former, though its efficacy was unknown, was approved because it relied on an established vaccine platform and — being a whole inactivated virus — was purported to be more effective against a wider family of coronavirus strains. So far, none of the available vaccine candidates approved anywhere in the world, have been shown to be better than others in protecting against a range of strains. Days after the company got approval from the DCGI, Chairman of Bharat Biotech Krishna Ella, told reporters at a press conference on January 4 that evidence of the potency of Covaxin against the U.K. strain would be furnished within a week. Though much of the data in the Lancet has already been reported in a pre-print and made public on December 15, Friday’s article has an update on the antibody response to three different kinds of coronavirus strains. Covaxin has been developed on a strain cultured by the ICMR-National Institute of Virology that contains a widespread mutation called D614G. This variant has been widespread in India for at least six months. When compared to two older strains, (sourced from those with travel history to Italy, Iran and China) there was a roughly similar kind of neutralising antibody (NAB) response. However, no data was furnished on how it reacted to more recent strains, such as B.1.1.7. “Because this is an interim report, we are not reporting any data on the persistence of vaccine-induced antibody responses or long-term safety outcomes. The analysis of safety outcomes requires more extensive phase 2 and 3 clinical trials,” say the authors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covaxins-efficacy-against-uk-strain-not-proven-yet/article33639938.ece
23 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC allows Kappan to see his mother on video call||The Supreme Court on Friday allowed a request made by the Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ) of its secretary Sidhique Kappan, detained in a jail in Uttar Pradesh, to see his sick 90-year-old mother via videoconference. A Bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde was assured by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, for Uttar Pradesh, that arrangements would be made. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, for the KUWJ, said Mr. Kappan’s mother had some time ago expressed her wish to see him before she fell into an unconscious state. In December, the U.P. government objected to a plea by the KUWJ to release Mr. Kappan. It described him as a “mastermind” with links to riots nationwide. He was detained in October by police while on his way with some others to visit Hathras, where a Dalit girl who was allegedly gang-raped had died. The State government, in an affidavit, had said Mr. Kappan and his other co accused were “mobilised towards” Hathras on the instructions of Md. Danish, an accused in the Delhi riots case. They were constantly in touch in Danish and Rauf Sherief, who is the general secretary of the student wing of PFI (Popular Front of India). Mr. Kappan and his co-accused were later booked under the UAPA (Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act) and offences under other criminal laws. The State alleged that Mr. Kappan was closely associated with PFI members, who were executive members of banned terrorist organisation SIMI (Students’ Islamic Movement of India).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-allows-kappan-to-see-his-mother-on-video-call/article33639926.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Delay in releasing vaccines is understandable’||After weeks of suspense, Brazil received the India-made Covishield vaccine on Friday, after the government decided to clear commercial exports to Brazil and Morocco. Thanking the government and the Serum Institute of India (SII), Brazilian Ambassador Andre Aranha Correa do Lago spoke of the challenges ahead for his country, which has the world’s second highest deaths from the coronavirus pandemic.  Two weeks after President Bolsonaro wrote to Prime Minister Modi, 2 million doses of Covishield vaccine from SII are finally reaching Brazil. What’s your reaction? These vaccines were ordered and paid for by Fiocruz, the federal institution that is going to be the producer of the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine in Brazil. It’s a public company, and so, unlike Pune’s SII, it started production much later, after the approvals came. As an interim arrangement, Fiocruz decided to order these 2 million vaccines for the beginning of the immunisation programme in Brazil that was originally scheduled for January 20. Apart from the letter you spoke of, our Health Ministers (Dr. Harshvardhan and General Eduardo Pazuello) spoke, and the Foreign Ministers (S. Jaishankar and Ernesto Araujo) spoke on two occasions (on January 16 and January 19), and in all our communications, we too had stressed the need for the vaccines by January 20. But President Bolsonaro very clearly stated that Brazil would not interfere with Indian vaccination needs. I think this is a very important point. Because Brazil, like India, knows how delicate these issues are in internal politics. Since our health regulator ANVISA had by then cleared two vaccines for emergency use: the AstraZeneca [vaccine] as well as [China’s] Sinovac, and [as] we had produced enough of Sinovac at the Butantan Institute, we decided to start with those. There was also some doubt about whether India would release the exports, given that our flight last week had not received permissions. Eventually once India cleared them, we dispatched the vaccines on an Emirates cargo plane, and are very grateful for that. Given that India and Brazil have a close partnership and they are both part of BRICS, was there some disappointment that India did not clear the exports sooner? There was some frustration that vaccines were not there before. But the reasons given by India were perfectly understandable because Brazil also would not export its vaccines before starting to vaccinate its own population. Do you expect more shipments from India in the future? Also, will Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin likely to receive ANVISA clearance? I understand Bharat Biotech have already asked for the approval of COVAX [Covaxin] at ANVISA, as some private groups would like to buy the vaccine. Much will depend on how long we will take to complete vaccinating people with the 6 million doses of Sinovac and now 2 million of Covishield that we have, and how many more would have been produced by then. Brazil is still discussing the role of private vaccination, and whether that is needed, given our national procurement. The Brazilian government went ahead with Chinese-developed Sinovac vaccinations despite questions about its efficacy… Well, there were some issues and questions. But let me tell you, in a very unique decision ANVISA decided to broadcast its decision process and the final analysis of all the vaccine candidates live on television, so people could see how transparent and unmanipulated the process was. The fact is, from a scientific point of view, the numbers that [Sinovac] presented were above the level of efficiency required. Despite that, Brazil’s entire response to the coronavirus has been criticised, right from the denial of the virus to President Bolsonaro’s criticism of vaccines and more than 200,000 deaths now. Should Brazil have reached out to India earlier? I think that would have been difficult because our State-owned institutes, Fiocruz and Butantan, could not have gone ahead with the production of vaccines earlier, without waiting for the approvals process. Those have taken time, naturally, and many countries have taken time approving vaccines. Given the unprecedented nature of the crisis, what has this entire vaccine process meant for India-Brazil ties? Well, I think that one of the biggest problems in our relations is that most Brazilians don’t see India as the country does today, and vice versa. And I believe that this case has shown very strongly to all of Brazil, which now knows that India is the largest producer of vaccines in the world, that India is an industrialised country, not only the romantic picture of many religions, Yoga etc., that most Brazilians know about. I think that it’s very important that India understands how much Brazil has advanced as well, and both must build a relationship based on a contemporary approach to each other. We are both advanced but developing countries that have the same challenges like the economic divide, the demographic and skill divide, etc. So, if we get together, it’s a total of 1.5 billion people, which have the same willingness and drive to make the life of all their populations better.  Brazil is still discussing the role of private vaccination, and whether that is needed, given our national procurement||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delay-in-releasing-vaccines-is-understandable/article33639934.ece
23 January 2021||Ghaziabad,||U.P.’s R-Day float to showcase Ayodhya||The Uttar Pradesh tableau in this year’s Republic Day parade will showcase Ayodhya’s cultural heritage and include a model of the Ram temple being built in the ancient city. An official release by the State government says the tableau mirrors “Ayodhya’s ancient cultural heritage, values and beauty”. In the first part of the tableau, Maharishi Valmiki has been shown composing the Ramayana . “In the middle part, Shri Ram Mandir, the epitome of Ayodhya’s cultural identity associated with mass sentiments and devotion, has been shown. The model of temple in itself generates the feeling of devotion and reverence,” the release said. The mural shows important socio-religious episodes from the Ramayana : the embracing of Nishadraj and eating of Shabri’s berry by Lord Ram; the salvation of Ahilya; ‘Kewat Samvad’; Hanuman bringing the sanjivani buti ; Jatayu-Ram Samvad; Ashok Vatika, and other scenes. “The forepart of the middle tableau shows Deepotsava of Ayodhya, in which millions of earthen lamps are lit,” the release said.  Sadhvi s and sant s (holy men and women) would walk on both sides of the tableau.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ups-r-day-float-to-showcase-ayodhya/article33639948.ece
23 January 2021||Hunasodu,||5 labourers killed in blast at stone quarry in Karnataka||Bodies of five labourers were recovered from a stone quarry at Hunasodu on the outskirts of Shivamogga city, where there was a high-intensity blast late on Thursday night. One more person is suspected to have died in the incident. A truck carrying explosives was blown to pieces, killing all the five workers at the site. What triggered the blast is not yet known, say officials. The intensity of the blast resulted in tremors being felt in a radius of several kilometres from the site. A high-level inquiry has been ordered into the incident and three persons have been taken into custody. S. Ravi, Inspector-General ofPolice, Eastern Range, said one more skull and back portion of a body had been found. “It is yet to be ascertained if it is another person,” he said, adding that the magnitude of the tragedy could have been worse if 14 others workers had not gone out for dinner at the time of the blast. Two of the five dead have been identified as Praveen and Manjunath, residents of Antaragange in Bhadravati taluk. The rest are said to be from a neighbouring State. Mr. Ravi said that the process of identifying the bodies was tough, given their condition. The intensity of the blast was so high that window panes of several houses were broken in Shivamogga city and many electronic gadgets were damaged. A few structures, including Shivamogga Institute of Medical Sciences, suffered minor damage. The tremors were initially thought to be caused by a minor quake. Parts of the truck that carried the explosive were found as far as 800 metres away from the site of the blast.  While two bodies were retrieved in the night, on Friday morning, two bomb squads (from Bengaluru and Mangaluru) traced three more bodies. Sources said that some bodies were beyond recognition given the intensity of the blast. Shivamogga Deputy Commissioner K.B. Shivakumar told the media that the retrieved bodies had been sent for post-mortem. “An expert team is collecting data on the explosives. Preliminary investigation suggests that it was a gel-like explosive. Further details would be known after completion of the investigation,” he said. The incident occurred in a licensed stone crusher located in a “safe zone”, the Deputy Commissioner said. The land belonged to one Avinash Kulkarni and he had given five acres of land on lease to one Sudhakar, who was conducting the mining in the quarry. Compensation Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has announced a relief of Rs. 5 lakh each to the affected families. The families of the workers from the neighbouring village have demanded compensation of Rs. 50 lakh each. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi were among those who tweeted condoling the death of workers. Minister for Mines and Geology Murugesh Nirani and RDPR Minister K.S. Eshwarappa visited the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/5-labourers-killed-in-blast-at-quarry-in-karnataka/article33639916.ece
23 January 2021||Kolkata,||Bengal Forest Minister quits Cabinet||West Bengal Forest Minister Rajib Banerjee on Friday resigned from the Cabinet. “I regret to inform you that I hereby tender my resignation from my office as Cabinet Minister being in charge of Forest Department on today, i.e on 22 January 2021,” said his resignation letter sent to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. Mr. Banerjee, MLA from Uluberia in Howrah district, also sent a resignation letter to Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar. Later in the day, he met the Governor at Raj Bhawan. Speaking to journalists after meeting the Governor. he thanked Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for providing a platform to work for people, but expressed shock and dismay at being divested of the Irrigation Department about two and a half years ago. The Governor accepted the resignation Mr. Banerjee and the charge of Forest Department would vest with the Chief Minister. Mr. Banerjee is the third to resign from the Council of Ministers in the past two months. Former Trinamool heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari, who held several portfolios, including Transport, resigned from the Cabinet in December 2020 and the party and joined the BJP. Former Indian cricketer and Sports Minister Laxmi Ratan Shukla resigned a few weeks ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bengal-forest-minister-quits-cabinet/article33639965.ece
23 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Kerala will protect labour rights within Central laws: Minister||The government will take all steps to protect labour rights in the State while standing within the ambit of the labour laws passed by the Centre, Labour Minister T.P. Ramakrishnan has said. Replying to questions in the Assembly, Mr. Ramakrishnan said the Labour Department had formed a law reforms committee to study all aspects of the labour codes introduced by the Centre. The panel would be headed by the Additional Labour Commissioner (Enforcement). Unions’ concerns The draft of the Kerala Code on Wages Rules was being examined by the government, Mr. Ramakrishnan said. The Kerala government shared the concerns and sentiments of trade unions in the country with regard to the codes. But at the same time, the State was also bound to implement laws passed by the Centre. Meanwhile, C. Divakaran of the Communist Party of India (CPI) said he did not understand the rationale behind the decision to frame the rules when the entire working class in the country wanted the contentious laws to be scrapped. Mr. Divakaran also wanted to know whether the State government would frame a legislation to counter the Central laws. “The working class is against the laws. They want the laws to be dumped in the Arabian Sea,” Mr. Divakaran said. ‘As a shield’ Mr. Ramakrishnan replied that the Left government in the State had, on several occasions, conveyed its concerns to the Centre. It would act as a “shield” to protect the interests of workers in the State, he said. The law reforms committee appointed in this context by the Labour Department was examining all aspects of the labour codes, Mr. Ramakrishnan said.  The working class is against the laws. They want the laws to be dumped in the Arabian Sea. C. Divakaran MLA||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-will-protect-labour-rights-within-central-laws-minister/article33640373.ece
23 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Myanmar, Mauritius and Seychelles receive Covishield||Large consignments of Covishield vaccine doses were flown in special Indian aircraft to Seychelles, Mauritius and Myanmar on Friday. The shipments of the vaccine manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII) in Pune is part of the Vaccine Maitri diplomacy that the Ministry of External Affairs said will also cover Africa which is in need of affordable COVID-19 vaccine doses. “Today, consignments of 15 lakh doses for Myanmar, 1 lakh doses to Mauritius and 50,000 doses to Seychelles are being airlifted,” said Official Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava who reiterated that there is “interest in many countries in accessing vaccines from India.” “(Vaccine) Supplies as grant assistance to Sri Lanka and Afghanistan will be undertaken after receiving confirmation of regulatory clearances from these two countries. “Contractual supplies are also being undertaken to Saudi Arabia, Africa, Brazil, Morocco...,” said Mr. Srivastava.  In the first round of supplies, special flights have already carried large consignments of the Covishield vaccine doses to Bhutan, the Maldives, Bangladesh and Nepal during January 20-21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/myanmar-mauritius-and-seychelles-receive-covishield/article33639940.ece
23 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Perarivalan pardon plea to be considered in a week, says SC||An altered order of the Supreme Court on Friday recorded that Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit will consider a plea for pardon filed by Rajiv Gandhi assassination case convict A.G. Perarivalan within a week. A January 21 order by a Bench led by Justice L. Nageswara Rao had recorded Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, on behalf of Governor Purohit, as stating that Perarivalan’s plea would be considered within four weeks. In fact, Mr. Mehta clearly stated during the January 21 court hearing that the Governor would consider the pardon plea in the “next three or four days” and not a month, unlike what the order said. On Friday, Perarivalan’s lawyers, senior advocate Gopal Sankaranarayanan, advocate Prabu Ramasubramanian and K. Paari Vendhan, made an urgent mention before Justice Rao’s Bench about the variation in what Mr. Mehta actually stated in court and what was ultimately recorded in the January 21 order. This led the court to change its January 21 order on Friday. The latest order records that “the Solicitor General submitted that the application filed by the petitioner [Perarivalan] under Article 161 of the Constitution of India shall be considered within a period of one week from today”. The court also advanced the next date of hearing by two weeks. The January 21 order had posted the case after four weeks. Confusion prevailed on Thursday after the court’s order was published in the Supreme Court website late in the night.    Mr. Ramasubramanian said the Bench, when the case was mentioned on Friday morning, agreed to make the necessary changes in its order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/perarivalan-pardon-plea-to-be-considered-in-a-week-says-sc/article33639946.ece
23 January 2021||New Delhi,||Two Sri Lankan nationals held in major anti-drug operation||A major operation of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) culminated in the arrest of two Sri Lankan nationals, who were allegedly key players of an international drug trafficking syndicate having links in Pakistan, Afghanistan, Iran, Sri Lanka, Maldives and Australia. M.M.M. Nawas and Mohamed Afnas had been operating from Chennai under assumed identities. “They were controlling mid-sea pick-up and delivery of narcotic drugs from Pakistani and Iranian vessels,” said NCB spokesperson, K.P.S. Malhotra. They had fled Sri Lanka following a crackdown by the enforcement agencies there. “Both Nawas and Afnas hold important positions in the multinational heroin smuggling syndicate. It is also believed that there is an Interpol Red Notice issued by the Sri Lankan government against Nawas,” said Mr. Malhotra. Acting on an NCB tip-off on the syndicate, the Sri Lankan authorities recently seized 100 kg of heroin. On November 26 last, the NCB, in a joint operation with the Indian Coast Guard, detained a Sri Lankan fishing vessel, named Shenaya Duwa, in the territorial waters of India near the Tuticorin Port and seized 96 kg of heroin and 18 kg of methamphetamine. Five pistols and magazines were also found with the vessel’s crew. “Six crew members, all Sri Lankan nationals, were arrested in this connection and they are in judicial custody now,” said the NCB officer, adding that Nawas and Afnas were arrested following a two-month-long probe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-sri-lankan-nationals-held-in-major-anti-drug-operation/article33639967.ece
23 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||India proposes to expand research, tourism in the Arctic||India has unveiled a new draft ‘Arctic’ policy that, among other things, commits to expanding scientific research, “sustainable tourism” and mineral oil and gas exploration in the Arctic region. The draft policy is open to public comments until January 26 and has been prepared after deliberations among several ministries. India expects the Goa-based National Centre for Polar and Ocean Research to lead scientific research and act as a nodal body to coordinate among various scientific bodies to promote domestic scientific research capacities by expanding “earth sciences, biological sciences, geosciences, climate change and space related programmes, dove-tailed with Arctic imperatives in Indian Universities.” Other objectives of the policy include “...putting in place Arctic related programmes for mineral/oil and gas exploration in petroleum research institutes and encouraging tourism and hospitality sectors in building specialised capacities and awareness to engage with Arctic enterprises,” according to the says the document available online atwww.arcticpolicy.nic.in. “Arctic research will help India’s scientific community to study melting rates of the third pole — the Himalayan glaciers, which are endowed with the largest freshwater reserves in the world outside the geographic poles,” the document notes. India launched its first scientific expedition to the Arctic in 2007.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-proposes-to-expand-research-tourism-in-the-arctic/article33639956.ece
23 January 2021||Kochi,||Tribal taboo haunts Kerala couple||It has been close to two decades now that Chellapan and his family have been relegated to nomadic life after being ‘banished’ from his tribal colony. Belonging to the Muthuvan tribe, he married his maternal cousin, which is prohibited as per the social custom of the community. He and his wife Yasodha were soon ostracised from the Adichilthotty tribal colony in Athirappilly panchayat in the Edamalayar forest range, straddling Ernakulam and Thrissur districts. Since then the couple have been wandering around the banks of the Edamalayar reservoir eking out a living mostly through fishing. Their two sons, boarding at a tribal hostel at Vazhachal, come to stay with them during holidays in a hut perched atop a rock facing the reservoir. “We have been trying to get the family accepted back into the colony. While the residents are largely open to it since it happened so long back, the tribal chief and the panchayat member concerned, maternal relatives of Chellapan, are still not willing to forgive,” says Nithin P.S., forest range officer, Edamalayar. The family is vulnerable to wild animals and their makeshift hut had been knocked down by elephants many times. They also have to row a country raft nearly 30 km to reach the nearest town of Vadattupara to sell fish and buy things. Benefits denied “Being ostracised without permanent address means they also do not possess any document, including Aadhaar or ration card, validating their existence while stripping them of all government benefits. The Forest Department tries to help him by roping him as watcher,” says Jaffar V.I., secretary, Vana Samrakshana Samiti, Adichilthotty tribal colony. The plight of the family came to light earlier this month when the State Human Rights Commission took a suo motu case and Chairman Antony Dominic directed the authorities to submit a report within four weeks. Neither Chellappan nor the panchayat member could be reached as they were beyond the network range.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tribal-taboo-haunts-kerala-couple/article33639995.ece
23 January 2021||HYDERABAD,||Court stops man from pronouncing talaq||The Family Court in Hyderabad directed a respondent not to pronounce second or third divorce or talaq until further orders, after his wife approached the court seeking its intervention. Principal Judge, Family Court-Cum-Additional Chief Judge P. Laxmi Sarada was dealing with the original petition filed by Amtul Mukashhaf against spouse and respondent Syed Yousuf. The petitioner’s counsel Syed Mounis Jafer Abidi contended that as per a memorandum of compromise between the two parties in 2013, the respondent had assured that he would look after the petitioner, and both parties would take steps to protect their marriage. However, divorce by means of talaq-e-bayen was pronounced. In the interim injunction, the court held that the welfare of the children of the couple as well as the interest and right of a wife were involved in the said case. The court also observed that “if the respondent proceeds with his attempts, the very purpose of filing of this case is defeated resulting in permanent break up in marital ties. As such necessary restraint orders are to be given dispensing urgent notice.” The court directed the respondent to appear before it and submit explanations to the contentions of the petitioner. Mr. Abidi said, “The court, having regard to the fact that if the respondent proceeds with the further pronouncement, would lead to a permanent break up of marriage granted interim injunction, so as to protect the institution of marriage by giving a chance to the respondent for giving an explanation.”  If the respondent proceeds with his attempts, the very purpose of filing of this case is defeated resulting in permanent break up in marital ties. As such necessary restraint orders are to be given dispensing urgent notice. Family court||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/court-stops-man-from-pronouncing-talaq/article33639924.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,||SII fire damage estimated at Rs. 1,000 crore: Poonawalla||A day after a massive fire at vaccine manufacturing major Serum Institute of India’s (SII) Manjari facility in Pune claimed five lives, its chief executive officer Adar Poonawalla on Friday said the extent of the damage was more than Rs. 1,000 crore. Mr. Poonawalla asserted that the supply of Covishield vaccine would remain unaffected. Addressing a joint press conference with Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, who was in the city to take stock of the situation, Mr. Poonawalla said: “The losses are mainly financial in that Rs. 1,000 crore worth of equipment and products were damaged by the fire. This was a brand new facility, which was to be used for the future production of BCG and Rotavirus vaccines. No actual vaccine was currently being produced there, so there was no damage to supplies.” The fire had no impact on the production or storage of the Oxford-AstraZeneca Covishield vaccine owing to multiple storage facilities, he reiterated. Mr. Thackeray visited the accident spot, accompanied by his son and Minister Aaditya Thackeray, as well as Mr. Poonawalla and Dr. Cyrus S. Poonawalla, chairman and managing director, SII, and top officials from the Pune district administration. Five labourers were charred to death in the fire that broke out on the fourth and fifth floors of the building under construction in the Special Economic Zone (SEZ) in Manjri. While the precise cause remains unclear as yet, it is speculated that an electrical fault during welding work led to the blaze, which was later aggravated by large quantities of inflammable material on the floor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sii-fire-damage-estimated-at-rs-1000-crore-poonawalla/article33639942.ece
23 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Scientists cleared vaccine, says PM||Trashing politics over Coronavirus vaccines and trying to allay fears, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said the call on launching them was taken by scientists. In an interaction via video conferencing with health workers in his Lok Sabha constituency Varanasi, Mr. Modi referred indirectly to criticism over the emergency-use clearance given to Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin. Mr. Modi said currently the world’s largest vaccination programme is going on in our country. ‘India is self-reliant’ “India is completely self-reliant when it comes to COVID-19 vaccine and is also helping many countries. Today, the effort is to ensure that vaccines reach every corner of the country at a rapid pace,” said Mr. Modi adding that the purpose of the interaction is to enquire about the arrangements and issue, if any, about the vaccination drive. Stating that the feedback from Varanasi will help in understanding the situation elsewhere also, the Prime Minister expressed the country’s gratitude to the scientists, healthcare and frontline workers and complemented Corona warriors for their contribution towards creating awareness about the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/scientists-cleared-vaccine-says-pm/article33639935.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,||IISc. develops Anveshak for ‘smart’ video tracking||Machine learning models scour through feeds from thousands of cameras set up in many cities across the world for specific purposes, such as tracking a stolen car. These models cannot work by themselves, and have to run on a software platform. But existing platforms usually do not offer much flexibility to modify the model as the situation changes, or test new models over the same camera network. Researchers at the Indian Institute of Science (IISc.) have developed a software platform from which, the institute says, apps and algorithms can intelligently track and analyse video feeds from cameras spread across cities, which in turn would prove to be useful not only for tracking missing persons or objects, but also for “smart city” initiatives such as automated traffic control. Yogesh Simmhan, Associate Professor in the Department of Computational and Data Sciences (CDS), and his team developed ‘ Anveshak’, which not only runs these tracking models efficiently, but also plugs in advanced computer vision tools and intelligently adjust different parameters, such as a camera network’s search radius, in real time, an IISc. release said.  ‘Anveshak’ can be used to track an object across a 1,000-camera network. A key feature of the platform is that it allows a tracking model or algorithm to focus only on feeds from certain cameras along an expected route, and tune out other feeds. It can also automatically increase or decrease the search radius or “spotlight” based on the object’s last known position. The platform enables the tracking to continue uninterrupted even if the resources - the type and number of computers that analyse the feeds - are limited, the release said. “In 2019, as part of a winning entry for the IEEE TCSC SCALE Challenge Award, Simmhan’s lab showed how Anveshak could potentially be used to control traffic signals and automatically open up “green routes” for ambulances to move faster. The platform used a machine learning model to track an ambulance on a simulated Bengaluru road network with about 4,000 cameras. It also employed a ‘spotlight tracking algorithm’ to automatically restrict which feeds needed to be analysed based on where the ambulance was expected to go,” the release explained. The researchers are working on incorporating privacy restrictions within the platform, as well as ways to use Anveshak to track multiple objects at the same time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/iisc-develops-anveshak-for-smart-video-tracking/article33640022.ece
23 January 2021||Tezpur,||‘Atmanirbhar Bharat pervades every sphere’||Invoking the young Indian cricket team’s remarkable victory in Australia and the country’s fight against COVID-19, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday the spirit of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ pervaded all spheres and had become a part of everyday lives of people. Mr. Modi said the fight against COVID-19 made the slogan of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ not only a part of popular vocabulary but also encapsulated the nation’s dreams, hopes, its motivation and determination to deal with the crisis. Addressing the 18th convocation of Tezpur University, Mr. Modi said, “We should overcome fear of failure. Our COVID-19 management showed where there is resolve and resilience, resources come naturally. And today the world’s largest vaccination programme is under way in India.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/atmanirbhar-bharat-pervades-every-sphere/article33639932.ece
23 January 2021||KOCHI,||High Court rejects habeas corpus plea||The Kerala High Court has rejected a habeas corpus petition moved by a 52-year-old man, who alleged that the parents of a woman, with whom he had a spiritual live-in relationship for the last two-and-a-half years, was detaining her. The petitioner argued that he was not seeking a directive to allow the woman live with her, but to let her free. SC stance He had moved the Supreme Court against the order of the same Bench, which considered the case earlier. The apex court had referred the case back to the Kerala High Court. Rejecting the plea, the High Court held that the woman was incapable of taking a decision for herself. Refusal to talk Though the court sought the permission of the woman to summon a psychiatrist or a psycho-analyst to talk to her to assess her mental state, she adamantly refused to talk to anybody. It was in these circumstances that the court found no reason to remove the woman from the custody of the parents who, it thought were best equipped to deal with her present situation, the judgement said. The antecedents of the petitioner were not such as to trust him with the custody of a the woman on a mere statement that she was being tutored by the petitioner in spirituality, the court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/high-court-rejects-habeas-corpus-plea/article33640372.ece
23 January 2021||Hyderabad,||Three more arrested in loan app case||Three people, including director of an app-based instant loan company, were arrested by Pet-Basheerabad police on Friday in connection with the ‘forced killing’ of a 36-year-old private employee on January 2. The accused have been identified as — 28-year-old Hemanth Kumar Jha, director of Flash Cash Pvt Ltd, Gurugram, 28-year-old V. Manjunath, HR manager at Juss IT Technologies Pvt Ltd., Bengaluru, and 25-year-old Abdul Lauk, manager-cum-team leader of TGHY Trust Rock Pvt. Ltd, Bengaluru. The companies operated Rupee Plus, Kush Cash, Money More and Cashmap apps. Directors of Juss IT Ashwin and Sandeep and one Kalsang Tenzing from Bhutan of TGHY Trust Rock are at large, Balanagar DCP P.V. Padmaja said on Friday. She said that the victim — Chandra Mohan — borrowed money from more 11 instant loan apps and repaid over Rs. 2 lakh. However when the telecallers of those companies were harassing him to pay extra money he resorted to the extreme step at his residence. During the course of investigation, police found that the apps from which Chandra Mohan borrowed loans were operated from different parts of the country, including Delhi and Bengaluru. Special teams were formed and three people were taken into custody. Explaining the modus operandi, Ms. Padmaja said that the accused advanced small amounts as loan through different apps and recovered the money by harassing and blackmailing the borrowers. She said that the accused Hemanth developed the apps with the help of one Michael of China and operated the firm from Gurugram to maintain the database of the customers. Similarly, Manjunath and Abdul Lauk who worked for two different companies in Bengaluru developed their own apps and ‘looted’ people, the officer said. Police froze over Rs. 65 lakh in seven bank accounts, and seized two laptops and five mobiles from their possession.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/police-arrest-three-more-persons-in-instant-loan-app-case/article33640309.ece
23 January 2021||Hyderabad,||Hyderabad Literary Festival kicks off||It was poet Gulzar who did the honours by inaugurating the 11th edition of Hyderabad Literary Festival on Friday evening. “I thought I will not be able to go see Hyderabad, roam near the Charminar and where women’s bangles are sold. Enjoy the flavour of Deccani language. But you have kept alive the festival,” said Gulzar, sitting in his drawing room, inaugurating the all-digital literary fest. “Hyderabad is the land of Muhammad Quli Qutb Shah, the first Sahib-e-Diwan of Deccani, which is considered the precursor of Urdu language. I accepted the invitation out of curiosity and thought about how I will be able to work with this new format. I am learning from this experience,” he said. “We are a nation of so many languages. Every language is a complete nation by itself, and carries its own nuance of culture. Circles within circles but our languages and culture keep us bound to each other,” said Gulzar, as he switched between, Hindustani, English and Hindi. “I always dreamt of having one literary festival where all the Indian languages could be put together so that we hear the poets reciting in their own language. We tried but it didn’t happen in physical format but with the digital medium that looks very much possible. We must meet and see each other to hear voices, in their own language. To hear the music of that language,” he said during the inaugural.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hyderabad-literary-festival-kicks-off/article33639918.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,||No further concessions, govt. tells farmers||Mr. Tomar accused outside “forces” of prolonging the protest for their own motives, saying that a resolution was not possible if the sanctity of the agitation was lost. “These laws are in the interest of farmers, but out of respect for the unions and the protest, we have put forth one proposal after another to amend the laws. Now we have given them our best proposal — to suspend the laws for one to one-and-a-half years while a committee is set up to resolve their issues,” he told journalists after the meeting. “This is now simply an ego issue with this government. If they can suspend the laws for one-and-a-half years, why don’t they repeal it and hold consultations and then re-enact it after one and a half years?” asked Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh leader Abhimanyu Kohar. However, Mr. Kohar added that the union leadership may hold further discussions on the Centre’s proposal again on Saturday. The leader of one of the 15 Punjab unions that voted against outright rejection of the Centre’s proposal on Thursday also advocated for further discussions. “I feel we should bargain for a three-year suspension, and an ordinance on MSP. But there is no question of separate negotiation with the government. We will ultimately stand by whatever the unions decide together,” said the leader, who did not want to be named. One of the reasons that farm unions decided to reject the government’s proposal is that they received legal advice that the Central government has no power to stay or suspend a law passed by Parliament, according to All India Kisan Sabha leader P. Krishnaprasad. The Centre’s proposal “is a violation and encroachment over the powers of Parliament and cannot be sustained legally,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-further-concessions-govt-tells-farmers/article33639927.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Congress leaders spar at meet, defer party polls||Senior leader Ambika Soni, however, asked if the move would involve changing the party constitution. While both Mr Sharma and Mr Wasnik explained that the current constitution allows the party to do so, sources said, Rajasthan Chief Minister (CM) Ashok Gehlot jumped right into the debate. Mr Gehlot, claimed sources, asked about the standing [ haisiyat ] of those demanding internal polls, their faith in the Congress leadership, asking whether arch rival BJP helds such elections and the hurry to hold elections at a time when the BJP was destabilising elected Congress governments. Hitting back, Mr. Sharma expressed hurt at Mr Gehlot questioning their intent, recalled his association of 47 years with the Rajasthan CM and asserted that “the CWC was not a forum to use intemperate language’. Ms Sonia tried to calm tempers by telling Mr Sharma that the Rajasthan Chief Minister had not named anyone and didn’t mean him. Speaking after the two leaders, Mr. Gandhi said he “understood the differing viewpoints and asserted that only elections can end the debate”. “Rahul ji said that hard words should not have been used and this meeting should have focussed only on farmers,” a CWC member said. A.K. Antony, Harish Rawat, Randeep Surjewala and Avinash Pande were the other CWC members who did not endorse the idea of an elected CEC. Trying to downplay internal differences, general secretary (organisation) K.C. Venugopal told reporters: “There is no dispute for conducting organisation election; everybody is for organisation elections.” The CWC also discussed about the party’s preparedness for these Assembly polls, said a leader. In her opening remarks to the CWC, Congress chief Sonia Gandhi touched upon all the issues that were adopted as resolutions and accused the government of “shocking insensitivity towards farmers” and a “deafening silence” over the leaked WhatsApp chats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-leaders-spar-at-meet-defer-party-polls/article33639928.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Posts against Ministers may land you in jail||On social media, Mr. Yadav said, “As many as 60 scams happened during Nitish Kumar’s regime. Nitish Kumar is Bhishm Pitamah of corruption, patron of hardened criminals and weak head of an illegal and immoral government.” RJD leader and party spokesperson Mrityunjay Tiwari said, “This government has become intolerant towards criticism by the media and other people. It’s an arbitrary move and a sign of nervousness, and we’ll oppose such a move.” State Congress leader Prem Chandra Mishra stated that the “order reflects how much the NDA government is scared of criticism by people. It is like a Tughlaqui [dictatorial] farman [order] to suppress questions raised against the government”. Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader Awadhesh Kumar said, “the Nitish Kumar government is using cybercrime rules to hide corruption charges and also to gag those who raise questions on it”. NDA leaders, however, welcomed the government move, saying: “It is necessary to legally curb those who use offensive and defamatory languages against the government, public representatives and officials and it will in no way gag the freedom of expression.” However, later, the State police said that “constructive criticism is welcome and only those posts which spread rumours and use offensive and defamatory languages would be targeted”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/posts-against-ministers-may-land-you-in-jail/article33639929.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,||No second attempt for UPSC aspirants: govt.||Appearing before a Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar, Additional Solicitor General S.V. Raju said he received information late on January 21 about the government’s unwillingness. The court asked Mr. Raju to put the submission on record in an affidavit. The case is scheduled again for January 25. In previous hearings, the government had been telling the court that a decision to grant another chance for the UPSC aspirants was under active consideration. The petition was filed by several who had appeared in the prelims on October 4, 2020. They had sought another shot at the exams in view of the “innumerable, inevitable circumstances suffered by them due to the pandemic, which prevailed in the entire country during the crucial period of their preparation and even on the date of examination”. They said some of them were even rendering services as corona warriors, while others were dealing with infection in the family, physical and mental trauma and even lack of minimal proper infrastructure to prepare for the exams and loss of income, making it difficult to even survive during the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-second-attempt-for-upsc-aspirants-govt/article33639930.ece
23 January 2021||GURUGRAM,||‘Death of health worker not due to vaccine’||A 56-year-old woman health worker, who was administered the COVID-19 vaccine on January 16, died in her sleep here on Friday. Chief Medical Officer, Gurugram, Virender Yadav said the preliminary report of Adverse Event Following Immunisation (AEFI) committee could not directly relate the death to vaccine. Rajwanti, posted as lady health visitor at Bhangrola Primary Health Care centre was declared brought dead at Medanta Hospital around 7 a.m. Her husband Lal Singh Saroha told presspersons that Rajwanti was doing fine and did not show any adverse signs after taking the vaccine. “The autopsy is done, but no definite cause of death found. Her viscera has been sent for chemical examination. The probable cause of death is cardiac arrest,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/death-of-health-worker-not-due-to-vaccine/article33639996.ece
23 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Co-WIN dry run revealed several software glitches||There were at least 13 kinds of glitches that were identified during dry runs of the Co-WIN vaccine management application. These were listed out in a presentation on Friday to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Health by K. VijayRaghavan, Principal Scientific Advisor to the government. Co-WIN is the backbone of the government’s drive to vaccinate 30 million healthcare workers and frontline beneficiaries in the first phase. These snags include the absence of a mechanism to record reasons if a beneficiary wasn’t vaccinated, delays in the SMS delivery to beneficiaries, the weblink that allowed adverse events to be reported not working and the software module being unable to account for the vials returned after a session was completed. Of the 13 “issues” identified, 12 have been resolved, according to a copy of the presentation viewed by The Hindu . Dr. VijayRaghavan referenced data from the NITI-Ayog and the Health Ministry for the presentation. So far, 1.2 million beneficiaries have been vaccinated with either Covishield or Covaxin in 24,397 sessions, or about half of what should have been ideally targeted since the vaccination drive began last Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/co-win-dry-run-revealed-several-software-glitches/article33639936.ece
23 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||3 artists withdraw plea against eviction notices||Three artists who had moved the Delhi High Court against the notices sent to them by the Union Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry to vacate their government-allotted houses by December 31, 2020 on Friday withdrew their plea, hoping for a one-year extension. Mohiniyattam dancer Bharti Shivaji and Kuchipudi dancer Guru V. Jayarama Rao, who had been allotted government housing in 1987 under the eminent artists’ quota, were among the group of artists who had been issued eviction notices in October 2020. They, along with Mr. Rao’s wife, Kuchipudi dancer Banasri Rao, had moved the High Court in December and were given a stay on the eviction till Friday. Ms. Shivaji said the artists decided to withdraw their plea as they were “assured” they would be given a “one-year extension”. “We were compelled to file a plea at that time as we had no other option. Now, we are hoping to be given an extension on compassionate grounds. We have no intention of going against the government,” she said. The Cabinet Committee on Accommodation had on November 8, 2020, waived off the “damage charges” of Rs. 32.09 crore and regularised the allotment of homes to 27 artists as the allotment period had ended in 2014. The artists had been given the homes on the recommendation of the Culture Ministry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/3-withdraw-plea-against-notice-to-vacate-houses/article33639949.ece
23 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Navy to highlight operations of 1971 war||The Navy proved its mettle as a credible force to reckon with in the 1971 war, proving its combat efficiency. Hence the Navy’s tableau at the Republic Day parade aims to showcase its role during the 1971 Indo-Pak war, said Vice Admiral S.N. Ghormade, Controller of Personnel Services. This coincides with the golden jubilee celebrations of the 1971 Liberation War of Bangladesh being observed as ‘Swarnim Vijay Varsh ’ . Coinciding with the celebrations, a tri-service contingent of the Bangladesh armed forces is taking part in the parade on Rajpath this year. “The forward part of the tableau showcases the attack on the Karachi harbour by missile boats. The attacks were undertaken as part of Operation Trident on December 3 and 4 night and Operation Python on December 8 and 9 night,” Vice Admiral Ghormade said. The tableau depicts a missile boat firing the missile and also the route taken by the attacking units during both the operations as track charts on its sides.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/navy-to-highlight-operations-of-1971-war/article33639954.ece
23 January 2021||LUCKNOW,||BJP only party without dynasty politics: Nadda||There are 1,500 political parties in the country, both national and regional, but the BJP is the only party where a person from an ordinary background can rise to become the Prime Minister of the country, national party president J.P. Nadda said on Friday. Addressing a district booth-level meeting on his visit to the Uttar Pradesh capital, Mr. Nadda accused all other parties of promoting dynasty. “All parties are in the grip of parivarvad (dynasticism). No party is spared. The father will hand over the baton to the son,” Mr. Nadda said. The BJP is the only party, he said, where a person from an ordinary family can become the Prime Minister, Defence Minister, Home Minister or President of India. Or the Chief Minister of U.P., he said in a reference to CM Yogi Adityanath. Mr. Nadda’s visit to Lucknow assumes significance as it comes at a time when speculation is rife about a possible portfolio allocation to Arvind Kumar Sharma, an IAS officer who worked closely with PM Narendra Modi in Gujarat and Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-only-party-without-dynasty-politics-nadda/article33639958.ece
23 January 2021||Kolkata,||Volunteer forces won’t be involved in Bengal polls||Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora on Friday said that civic police volunteer force and green police volunteer force will not be involved in any election related work in West Bengal Assembly polls. Civic police and green police are a volunteer force raised by the State government on a contractual basis and helps the police in traffic and law and order management. “Several political parties have raised concern about something called civic police. We have not heard this word before… We have asked assurance from Chief Secretary, Home Secretary and Director General of Police that there shall be no civic police anywhere near any action related to the polling,” Mr Arora said. No motorbike rallies He also added that the Commission will formally pass an order that there will no motorbike rallies in the State during the elections. Motorbike rallies have often been accused by political parties and people of targeting political opponents. Speaking to media persons after holding meeting with representatives of political parties and senior officials of the State government the Chief Election Commissioner said most parties raised concerns about the law-and-order situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/volunteer-forces-wont-be-involved-in-bengal-polls/article33639959.ece
23 January 2021||JAIPUR,||Sarpanches oppose new system for release of funds||The Sarpanches of village panchayats in Rajasthan have taken exception to the State government’s decision to discontinue the direct transfer of money to the panchayat bodies and introduce a new arrangement for release of funds for development works in the rural areas through personal deposit (PD) accounts. Sarpanches in several districts submitted memorandums to the Collectors and MLAs and boycotted the work of panchayats on Thursday. A delegation led by Sarpanch Sangh president Banshidhar Garhwal submitted a memorandum to the Jaipur Collector, while affirming that the new arrangement would divest over 11,300 panchayat heads of their powers. The loss of interest amount on the bank deposits earlier made for the panchayat bodies has been raised as one of the important points of objection by Sarpanches. Mr. Garhwal said since the panchayats did not have their own sources of income, they depended on the interest income for carrying out the works sanctioned in the Gram Sabha meetings. “The transfer of funds to PD accounts will abolish financial autonomy of village panchayats. We will be required to get sanction for each work, which will involve time and energy and affect the development,” Mr. Garhwal said. The State government wanted to weaken the panchayats, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sarpanches-oppose-new-system-for-release-of-funds/article33640170.ece
23 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Din in Council: Panel submits interim report||The interim report of the House committee that went into the turn of events on December 15 in the Legislative Council, when pandemonium prevailed, was submitted to Chairman K. Prathapchandra Shetty here on Friday. The 84-page report was submitted by senior member and committee chairman Marithibbe Gowda. The other members of the committee are B.K. Hariprasad and R.B. Thimmapur. BJP members A.H. Vishwanath and S.V. Sankanur opted out of the committee soon after it was constituted by the Chairman. “It was not possible to submit the full report within 20 days and that is the reason the interim report is being submitted,” Mr. Gowda said. The committee held five meetings. The committee took the version of the Council secretary and marshals who were present on that day. The committee also felt that it was necessary to scan through the CCTV camera managed by Public Works Department and video clippings of private channels that recorded the proceedings. The purported suicide note left behind by the late Deputy Chairman S.L. Dharme Gowda, who was at the centre of the controversy and is believed to have been hurt over the developments, has been sought from the Home Department. The fight over the no-confidence motion moved against the Chairman had taken an ugly turn on December 15 as Dharme Gowda, who was in the Chair, was physically dragged out by Congress members while BJP members tried to pull him back. Pandemonium prevailed and the Chairman was prevented from entering the House.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chaos-in-council-committee-submits-interim-report/article33640025.ece
23 January 2021||HYDERABAD,||Election for Hyderabad Mayor, deputy on February 11||The State Election Commission has notified the schedule for the administration of oath of office to the newly-elected ward members of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) as also the special meeting for the election of Mayor and Deputy Mayor. Both the oath-taking and election of Mayor and Deputy Mayor are scheduled to be held on February 11. In the notification issued on Friday, State Election Commissioner C. Parthasarathi has also directed the Election Authority and Commissioner of GHMC to authorise one of the district collectors having jurisdiction over any area comprised in GHMC to conduct the election to the offices of Mayor and Deputy Mayor, in accordance with Rule 3 of Telangana Municipal Corporations Rules, 2005. Notice for calling for the special meeting for holding election to the offices of Mayor and Deputy Mayor by the District Collector authorised by the Election Authority would be issued on or before February 2. The notice would be given to all the newly-elected ward members of GHMC. Mr. Parthasarathi stated that administration of oath to the directly elected ward members would be taken up at 11 a.m. and the special meeting for the election of Mayor and Deputy Mayor would be held at 12.30 p.m. on February 11. In case the election is not held on February 11 for any reason, it shall be held on the next day, the SEC stated. The term of the present council of GHMC expires on February 10. The SEC has notified the election of the new ward members by publishing their names in the gazette notification on January 16. Results of the December 1, 2020 elections to GHMC were declared on December 4 and 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/election-for-hyderabad-mayor-deputy-on-february-11/article33639914.ece
23 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala House rejects CAG’s findings||The Assembly on Friday rejected the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG)’s finding that Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) had acted unconstitutionally by floating masala bonds to raise funds for the State's development from foreign financial markets. The House voted predictably along party lines to pass a resolution moved by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan seeking the rejection of the adverse remarks related to KIIFB in the CAG's State Finance Audit report ended 2019 fiscal. The Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) voted against the resolution. Bharatiya Janata Party's sole legislator O. Rajagopal also threw in his lot with the Opposition. The CAG had tabled the contentious report in the House on January 19. CM flays CAG Mr. Vijayan damned the CAG for imperilling Kerala's developmental aspirations. The CAG had attempted to chip away at the hard-won trustworthiness of KIIFB, a body corporate created by legislation, in the financial world. The CAG's remarks were unfounded, unprofessional, politically prejudiced and patently inimical to the State's development. The resolution sparked off a nearly three-hour heated debate characterised by across-the-aisle verbal duels and caustic comments. Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac said the CAG had "erroneously concluded" that KIIFB's off-budget and non-governmental borrowings violated the constitution's seventh schedule and infringed on the Centre's financial prerogatives. Dr. Isaac implored the Opposition to realise that the State's development pegged at Rs. 60,000 crore was at stake. The CAG's remarks hung like a sword of Damocles over KIIFB's financial credibility and borrowing power. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said the Assembly should not pass any resolution that undermined the CAG's constitutional role. The KIIFB relied on the State's revenue stream, including motor vehicle tax and other levies, to settle its "rapidly mounting and outsize" debts. Hence, the CAG was well within its right to audit the institution. Finally, voters have to pick up the tab for KIIFB's "un-audited" borrowings. The government had repeatedly stonewalled the CAG from examining KIIFB accounts in entirety. It had something to hide, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-assembly-rejects-cags-findings/article33639921.ece
23 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||MLA censured for remarks against nun||The Kerala Assembly on Friday censured MLA P.C. George for making disparaging remarks against a nun, who was a victim of rape. Mr. George of the Kerala Janapaksham (Secular) had made the derogatory comment against the backdrop of the rape case against Bishop Franco Mulakkal. The Privileges and Ethics Committee weighed the remark and registered severe disapproval. The committee said lawmakers should serve as an example to society. They should conduct themselves with the utmost decorum in action and speech. Mr. George said he wholeheartedly accepted the Assembly’s reprimand and stood corrected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mla-censured-for-remarks-against-nun/article33639922.ece
23 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Yediyurappa reshuffles berths again||Under pressure from within the Cabinet, Karnataka Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa again reshuffled portfolios on Friday, just a day after he allotted berths to the newly inducted Ministers. Nagaraju (MTB), who was unhappy with the Excise Department allotted to him, has now been allotted Municipal Administration and Directorate of Sugar from Industries and Commerce Department, earlier allotted to R. Shankar. K. Gopalaiah, who was upset at being divested of the Food and Civil Supplies Department, has now been made the new Excise Minister. Mr. Shankar has now been allotted Horticulture and Sericulture Departments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/yediyurappa-reshuffles-berths-again/article33639931.ece
23 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Labour codes to be depicted in tableau||The Union Labour and Employment Ministry’s tableau for the Republic Day parade will depict the recent labour reforms brought by the government, a Ministry statement said on Friday. The theme of the tableau is “respect for hard work and equal rights for all,” it said. “The tableau art portrays the transformation that will come into the life of organised and unorganised workers after the implementation of the recent labour codes,” the statement said. Passed by Parliament in 2020 and 2019, the four labour codes have amalgamated 29 Central labour laws .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/labour-codes-to-be-depicted-in-tableau/article33639944.ece
23 January 2021||Kolkata,||Bally MLA expelled||Cracking the whip against dissenting party leaders, the Trinamool Congress on Friday expelled Baishali Dalmiya, MLA from the Bally Assembly constituency in Howrah district and daughter of well-known cricket administrator Jagmohan Dalmiya. Ms. Dalmiya said the party will have to specify what anti-party activities she has been accused of. The MLA said she was spared the task of tendering her resignation and would expose the Trinamool’s corruption. She came out in support of Forest Minister Rajib Banerjee, who has resigned. The decision to expel the Bally MLA was taken at a disciplinary committee of the Trinamool Congress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bally-mla-expelled/article33639960.ece
23 January 2021||Idukki,||Five arrested for killing leopard, eating its meat||Forest Department officials arrested five persons here on Friday on charge of trapping and killing a leopard and eating its meat. Mankulam DFO Suhaib said the incident occurred on Wednesday morning. The accused are Mankulam residents Vinod P.K., 45; V.P. Kuriakose, 74; C.S. Binu, 50; Sali Kunjappan, 54; and Vincent, 50. They had set a trap in a private land near the forest at Munipara, Mankulam. The male leopard, around 6 years old, was trapped on Wednesday morning. They took the animal to Vinod’s house, killed it, and cooked the meat, Mr. Suhaib said. The teeth and skin were found inside the house. “We arrested them following a tip-off,” he said. Vinod had set the trap and Kuriakose helped him, he added. The other accused joined them in eating the meat. 10 kg meat recovered Mankulam range officer V.B. Udaya Suryan led the team and arrested all within four hours of receiving the information. The officials recovered nearly 10 kg of meat from the house, said Mr. Suhaib.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/five-arrested-for-killing-leopard-eating-its-meat/article33639993.ece
23 January 2021||New Delhi,||Crimes against persons with disabilities: group wants NCRB to maintain data||A group of over 90 disability rights organisations, activists and academics has written to Union Home Minister Amit Shah, urging that the National Crime Records Bureau maintain data of the violent crimes committed against persons with disabilities. The group said it was “dismayed by the fact that despite the large number of reported cases of sexual assaults on disabled girls/women, the NCRB does not maintain disaggregated data on such violence, as a separate category”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/crimes-against-persons-with-disabilities-group-wants-ncrb-to-maintain-data/article33639950.ece
23 January 2021||New Delhi,||Z plus security cover for Ranjan Gogoi||The Ministry of Home Affairs has accorded Z plus security cover to former Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi. Justice Gogoi is currently a Rajya Sabha member. He has been provided all-India security cover of the Central Reserve Police Force personnel, a senior government official said. About 8-10 CRPF commandos will be deployed in his personal security detail round the clock. The CRPF has a VIP security unit that provides personal security cover to 62 other individuals, including Home Minister Amit Shah||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/z-plus-security-cover-for-ranjan-gogoi/article33639963.ece
23 January 2021||Lucknow,||6, including 3 policemen, held on charge of looting jewellers in U.P||Police in Uttar Pradesh’s Gorakhpur district are set to slap the National Security Act (NSA) against a police sub-inspector who, along with two constables, a ‘journalist’ and two others, was arrested on charge of looting jewellery traders under the garb of checking. Looted cash, gold and silver worth Rs. 35 lakh were recovered from them. S-I Dharmendra Yadav, constables Mahendra Yadav and Santosh Yadav, driver Devendra Yadav, the ‘journalist’ and their informant Shailesh Yadav and a property dealer Durgesh Agrahari, who provided inputs to the S-I about the movements of the traders, were arrested by the police on Thursday. The six were arrested a day after two jewellery traders were looted by men in police uniform in the Gorakhpur Cantonment area. The accused were involved in two looting incidents, including the one on Wednesday, and around Rs. 19 lakh in cash and Rs. 16 lakh worth gold and silver were recovered from them, Gorakhpur SSP Jogendra Kumar said. The accused confessed to another crime, added the SSP. On December 29 last, in Gorakhpur district’s Shahpur area, the accused pretended to be Customs officers and looted four kg. silver from a trader. The S-I and the two constables were posted in the Puranibasti police station in Basti district, said the police. While the accused would be booked under the Gangsters Act, the S-I would face the NSA, the SSP stated. The Gorakhpur police has written to IG Basti for the dismissal of the three policemen. In a statement, the U.P. police said the two jewellers from Maharajganj were in a parked bus at the Gorakhpur Cantonment bus station on January 20 when the S-I and the two constables summoned them and robbed them of the cash and gold.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/6-including-3-policemen-held-on-charge-of-looting-jewellers-in-up/article33639997.ece
23 January 2021||B. Tilak Chandar,TAMIL NADU||High Court seeks suggestions from IIT-Madras||Taking note of the issue raised by a petitioner on how electricity transmission lines should be designed so as to not disturb agricultural lands or render large tracts of agricultural fields uncultivable, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has asked a copy of the petition to be forwarded to the Indian Institute of Technology – Madras, so that it can come out with suggestions. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice M.M. Sundresh directed that the petition be forwarded to the Head of Electrical and Mechanical Departments, IIT – Madras, and sought a report by the next hearing date on February 15. The points that have been raised could be considered in the report, the court said. The petition was filed by Nethaji who had challenged the passing of the transmission lines over agricultural fields from Virudhunagar to Coimbatore for a power project. The petitioner said that the electromagnetic emission from the transmission lines might have an adverse effect on crop production and human health. Compensation issue He also raised the issue of compensation to be paid. The judges observed that it was expected that the State or the authorities concerned would take the lines of least resistance while choosing the routes of the transmission lines. Towers could be set up on agricultural lands, but the route should be planned so that there was least displacement of farmers or disturbance to the agricultural fields while keeping the costs of transmission also in mind. It was not unknown for transmission lines to take a detour at times from straight lines so as to leave fertile lands. After the petitioner suggested that transmission lines could be carried underground, the court said the idea appeared to be far-fetched. It could involve huge expenses and in any event for such transmission lines to be carried underground, there might be even more disruption in the agricultural activities undertaken, unless the jack pushing method or boring method on a limited scale could be resorted to upon a scientific study.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-seeks-suggestions-from-iit-madras/article33640231.ece
23 January 2021||Bengaluru,TAMIL NADU||Sasikala is now stable and conscious, says hospital||The condition of late Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s aide V.K. Sasikala, who tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday, is stable. She was shifted to the COVID-19 ICU at the Victoria Hospital from the Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospital on Thursday. Doctors at the Victoria Hosptial said she was conscious and well oriented. Although she has breathing issues, she is maintaining 98% oxygen saturation on a five-litre non-rebreather mask (NRBM), it said. Sources said although she wanted to be shifted to Manipal Hospitals for further treatment, she was denied permission from the authorities concerned. She was hospitalised on Wednesday evening, owing to fever, breathlessness and cough, and was diagnosed with severe acute respiratory illness (SARI). ‘Suggestive of infection’ Although her initial COVID-19 test result returned negative, a repeat RT-PCR test and TRUNAT were done after her CT thorax scan showed features suggestive of severe respiratory infection. The results of the samples then returned positive for COVID-19. She was moved from Victoria Hospital’s ICU to the COVID-19 block ICU at the Trauma and Emergency Care Centre (TECC), the designated COVID-19 facility on the hospital premises, on Thursday night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sasikala-is-now-stable-and-conscious-says-hospital/article33640080.ece
23 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Dense fog envelops city||Chennaiites woke up to dense fog on Friday morning with visibility falling below 50 m in several places, particularly around Meenambakkam, according to the Meteorological Department. Visibility improved only after 8.30 a.m. Officials of the Meteorological Department said a combination of factors led to the dense fog that blanketed most parts of the city. B. Amudha, scientist in-charge of the Aviation Meteorological Office, Meenambakkam, said visibility dropped below 50 m between 5.30 a.m. and 8.30 a.m. over the Chennai airport. It improved to 2 km around 9 a.m. Clear skies and calm winds that prevailed on Thursday night led to the formation of dense fog. “The outgoing radiation emitted by earth escapes faster because of clear skies. The earth’s surface cools off and the moisture content in lower atmospheric levels due to high relative humidity became favourable for formation of dense fog,” said Ms. Amudha. Long wave radiation would not get trapped if there were winds. The relative humidity was close to 100% around 5.30 a.m. over Meenambakkam and it was 97% around 9 a.m. on Friday. This led to an increase in minimum temperature to 24 degrees Celsius at Nungambakkam and Meenambakkam. The Meteorological Department has predicted light rain in one or two places in interior Tamil Nadu on Friday and dry weather to continue over the rest of the State. In the 24 hours ending 8.30 a.m. Friday, Sankarapuram and Kadavanur in Kallakurichi district received 2 cm rain. Chennai will experience partly cloudy sky with mist in some areas during the early morning hours till the weekend. Flights disrupted The fog also threw flight schedules out of gear at Chennai airport. Several departures and arrival flights were disrupted for a few hours. Officials of Airports Authority of India (AAI) said that from 6.45 a.m. onwards, visibility became very poor and six flights arriving from various destinations, including Delhi and Kolkata, were diverted to Bengaluru. Many departing flights to places including Hyderabad, Delhi, Bengaluru, and Kolkata were delayed. Only after 9 a.m., arrivals and landing resumed at the airport gradually, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dense-fog-envelops-city/article33640098.ece
23 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State logs 574 fresh infections, even as eight more persons die||As many as 574 persons tested positive for COVID-19 and eight more persons died of the infection on Friday. Of the fresh cases, Chennai reported 155, followed by Chengalpattu with 58 and Coimbatore with 55. There were 32 cases in Tiruvallur, 30 in Madurai and 29 in Tiruppur. Among the remaining districts, Perambalur had no new case, while 21 districts saw under 10 cases each. Six returnees — two each from Bihar and West Bengal and one each from Jharkhand and Andhra Pradesh — were among those who tested positive. The State now accounts for 8,33,585 cases. Of the eight deceased (six deaths in private hospitals and two in government facilities), four persons died in Chennai and one each in Chengalpattu, Coimbatore, Ranipet and Vellore. Till date, 12,307 persons have succumbed to the infection. All the eight were aged over 60. Among them was a 61-year-old man from Chennai, who had diabetes and systemic hypertension. He was admitted to a private hospital on January 21 with complaints of fever, cough and difficulty in breathing for 10 days. He tested positive for COVID-19 on the same day. He died the next day due to COVID-19 pneumonia. An 83-year-old man from Coimbatore, with systemic hypertension, was admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College and ESI Hospital on January 17. He died on January 20 due to COVID-19 pneumonia and acute respiratory distress syndrome. A total of 5,073 persons are currently under treatment in the State. This includes 1,790 in Chennai, 514 in Coimbatore and 378 in Chengalpattu. Perambalur accounts for just one active case. Another 689 persons were discharged, taking the total figure to 8,16,205. A total of 62,152 samples were tested in the last 24 hours, taking the total figure to 1,55,14,693. One more private laboratory — Vivek Laboratories at the Guru Hospital, in Madurai — has been approved for COVID-19 testing. With this, the State now has 253 testing facilities — 68 government facilities and 185 private laboratories. Vaccination update Another 8,704 persons received COVID-19 vaccines on the seventh day of inoculation on Friday. Till date, a total of 51,651 healthcare providers/workers have been immunised in the State. At the 166 centres, Covishield was administered to 8,544 persons, against a capacity to vaccinate 16,700. A total of 160 persons received Covaxin, in the six centres where it is being administered. So far, 50,584 persons have received Covishield vaccines and 1,067 Covaxin, according to a daily report issued by the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-logs-574-fresh-infections-even-as-eight-more-persons-die/article33640091.ece
23 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC extends order for 50% toll collection on highway till Mar. 11||The Madras High Court on Friday extended till March 11 its interim order directing National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to collect only 50% of toll at two plazas situated between the “poorly maintained” Maduravoyal-Ranipet section of National Highway-48. Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and A.A. Nakkiran extended the order after NHAI reported to the court that only patch works could be done for the present and the entire stretch could not be re-laid since the works for converting it from a four to six lane highway was to begin shortly. Observing that the condition of the highway was pathetic with the patch work peeling off frequently due to heavy vehicular traffic, the judges said the lives of the road users were being put to risk also because of absence of proper lighting facility, medians and sign boards. The Bench pointed out that the existing four lane highway was laid between 2004 and 2007. Since then, the highway was being maintained till date only through shoddy patchworks by citing commencement of six-lane conversion work which was yet to see the light of the day. A premier agency such as NHAI was expected to lay and maintain highways in accordance with Indian Road Congress standards, the judges said and expressed displeasure over the way in which the Maduravoyal-Ranipet section of NH-48 was being maintained. “It would be a wonder if one travels in the highway during night hours and reaches his/her destination alive. The condition is so horrible,” the senior judge in the Bench told NHAI counsel G. Karthikeyan and asked him to take a drive on the highway.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-extends-order-for-50-toll-collection-on-highway-till-mar-11/article33640626.ece
23 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||ECR residents ask Corpn. to put off roadworks||Residents along the East Coast Road want the roadworks in their areas to be postponed until drinking water connections are provided by the Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (CMWSSB). People in Kottivakkam, Palavakkam and Perungudi, which were brought under the Greater Chennai Corporation limits, have been waiting for piped water supply and an underground drainage network for many years now. The Federation of East Coast Road Residents’ Welfare Associations recently represented to the Corporation asking the civic body to coordinate with the CMWSSB before taking up the roadworks. “Our areas still lack basic infrastructure even many years after they were merged with the GCC. We are managing with packaged drinking water and borewells,” said Kazura Gardens Residents Welfare Association vice-president Srilakshmi Mohan Rao. Similar is the situation in Palavakkam, where the pipeline work was completed after much delay due to various issues such as finding a site for the water tank. N. Kesavan, general secretary of the Federation of ECR Residents’ Welfare Associations, said to avoid road cutting, the Corporation should take up work after the water and drainage connections were given. “We have been waiting for blacktop roads for a decade now. We would be forced to use the damaged stretch if work is not postponed. Priority must be given to water supply and drainage connections to be provided to avoid the waste of funds,” he said. CMWSSB plans camps CMWSSB officials said they were preparing to conduct camps for giving water connections. “We have completed trial commissioning of the network. We may have to wait for six months to get permission for road cutting if the roads are laid and the project would be delayed,” said an official. A population of nearly 1.25 lakh would be provided nearly 18.82 million litres a day of water in three localities. Nearly 9,700 water supply connections are set to be given in 767 streets under the Rs. 92-crore project. Work on a sewer network at Perungudi had been completed, the officials added. Corporation Deputy Commissioner (Works) Meghanath Reddy said a coordination meeting had been held with CMWSSB officials. The civic body would start relaying roads in these areas only after the water board submits the list of roads where water connection works had been completed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ecr-residents-ask-corpn-to-put-off-roadworks/article33640104.ece
23 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM opens two parks, police quarters||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Friday unveiled several infrastructure projects across the State through video conference meetings from the Secretariat here. Mr. Palaniswami unveiled the Senganthal Park on Avvai Shanmugam Salai and a Heritage Park on Washermenpet in Chennai set up by the Horticulture Department. Mr. Palaniswami also unveiled 150 new houses for police personnel in Erode district and buildings for the Police Department. He unveiled a hostel for law students in Vellore district. Transport (Home) Department buildings at Palani in Dindigul district and at Sulur in Coimbatore district were among the other facilities he inaugurated. Ministers Dindigul C. Sreenivasan, K.A. Sengottaiyan, D. Jayakumar, C.Ve. Shanmugam, K.P. Anbazhagan, K.C. Karuppanan and M.R. Vijayabhaskar, Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam, and Director-General of Police J.K. Tripathy were present. Samsung CEO meets CM Samsung's Southwest Asia president and CEO Ken Kang called on the Chief Minister at the Secretariat here on Friday. An official release termed it a courtesy call. Industries Minister M.C. Sampath and Industries Secretary N. Muruganandam were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-opens-two-parks-police-quarters/article33640100.ece
23 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||States lack legislative ability to reserve medical seats: Centre||The Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has questioned the legislative competence of State governments to enact laws which provide horizontal reservation to government school students in medical admissions every year. The Ministry has also said that any such horizontal reservation would “undo the reform of merit-based admission” implemented across the country through the introduction of the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) for admission in medical courses. The submissions were made in a counter affidavit filed before the Madras High Court in response to a plea to implement the Puducherry Cabinet’s decision to provide 10% horizontal reservation to government school students in medical admissions. Subulakshmi, a Class 12 student, had filed the writ petition through senior counsel P. Wilson. She sought a direction to the Centre to approve the Cabinet’s decision since Lieutenant Governor (L-G) Kiran Bedi had referred the issue to the Union Home Ministry. In the affidavit filed before Justice B. Pugalendhi, the Home Ministry said the L-G’s reference was taken up for inter-ministerial consultation. The views of the Union Health Ministry as well as the Department of Personnel and Training were solicited. On December 10, 2020, the Health Ministry replied that though the subject ‘medical education’ falls under the concurrent list under the Constitution, ‘determination of minimum standards in institutions for higher education’ fell under the Union list. Therefore, any legislation passed by a State government with regard to medical admissions would be subject to Centre’s power to determine minimum standards, the Ministry said. It also pointed out that NEET was implemented since 2016 to “introduce merit in medical education”. The judge adjourned the case for further hearing to February 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/states-lack-legislative-ability-to-reserve-medical-seats-centre/article33640247.ece
23 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Transgender person starts mobile tea shop in Chennai||The COVID-19 pandemic may have snatched acting and other earning opportunities from L. Preetisha, a 33-year-old transgender person, but she did not get bogged down. She has now opened a mobile tea shop to earn a living and also to provide employment to others in the community. A resident of Virugambakkam, Ms. Preetisha is currently pursuing a programme in theatre and drama from the Tamil Nadu Open University. Theatre artist Prior to the pandemic, she was an acting trainer and has acted in movies such as Pambu Sattai , Veeraiyan , Vellai Yannai and Ayngaran and has worked with actors such as Keerthi Suresh and Samuthirakani. She was also a theatre artist. Along with her husband G. Premkumaran, a transman, she started a tea shop in Virugambakkam and they worked as food delivery agents as well. “During COVID-19 everything fell apart and we had to close the tea shop too. I used to earn around Rs. 25,000 per month through acting and all these business ventures,” she said. With her funds drying up, she has now started a mobile tea shop called Magizham fresh shop with help from the Born2Win Social Welfare Trust. “Recently, I took tea in a flask and sold it in Koyambedu and I earned a decent amount. This inspired me to start a tea shop in an autorickshaw. The initiative was launched by director Samuthirakanni recently,” she explained. “Ms. Preetisha has also given employment to two transgender people in the shop. This is a great gesture,” said C. Swetha, founder, Born2Win Trust. Coffee, different types of tea and also snacks are sold at the mobile tea shops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/transgender-person-starts-mobile-tea-shop-in-chennai/article33640623.ece
23 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Make inauguration of Jaya’s mausoleum a success: CM||Chief Minister and AIADMK co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Friday reiterated his call to party cadre to make the inauguration of the mausoleum for former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa on the Marina, scheduled for January 27, a success. He was speaking at a meeting of Ministers and secretaries of district units of the ruling AIADMK at the party headquarters. Preparations for the Assembly election were also discussed. Deputy Chief Minister and party coordinator O. Panneerselvam, deputy coordinators K.P. Munusamy and R. Vaithilingam and chairman of the party presidium E. Madhusudanan were among those who attended. Asked about reports of Mr. Palaniswami urging party colleagues not to have any ties with Jayalalithaa’s aide V.K. Sasikala or the DMK camp, Forest Minister and Dindigul (west) district secretary Dindigul C. Sreenivasan told The Hindu that during his visit to New Delhi, the Chief Minster had “openly and clearly” stated his position on the ‘Sasikala factor’. “There is nothing more to add to it. The day’s meeting was essentially about his call to us to ensure that the next week’s event is a grand success,” the Minster said.  During his visit to New Delhi, the Chief Minster has openly and clearly stated his position on the Sasikala factor Dindigul C. Sreenivasan Forest Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/make-inauguration-of-jayas-mausoleum-a-success-cm/article33640088.ece
23 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Parents, students to visit schools to fill up declaration forms, pay exam fees||Students of Class 10 and 12 will be asked to go to their schools to fill up the declaration forms and pay the fees for the 2020-21 public examinations. The government has issued a standard operating procedure for collecting the forms and the exam fees from students of Classes 10, 11 and 12 so as to prepare a nominal roll. Schools will assign time slots for not more than 20 students/parents per hour. The Chief Educational Officers and the District Educational Officers have been instructed to ensure compliance with the standard operating procedure. Students/parents from containment zones and undergoing quarantine because of travel shall be asked to go to schools to hand in the forms and pay the fees after they go through the quarantine period or the containment zone is declared normal. The schools must draw boxes on the ground to ensure physical distance. Students and parents must wear masks while entering the schools. School staff members involved in the work must wear masks and gloves. Before the work starts daily, the school premises and furniture, hand rails, doors and windows should be disinfected. Soap and running water should be provided for hand wash. Hand sanitisers should also be provided. All parents, students, teachers and personnel should be subjected to thermal screening at the entrance. They shall enter the premises only after cleaning their hands with soap. The handling staff should disinfect their hands after receiving the forms. Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam has said the headmasters and principals shall be responsible for adherence to the guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/parents-students-to-visit-schools-to-fill-up-declaration-forms-pay-exam-fees/article33640112.ece
23 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Health Minister gets vaccinated||Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar on Friday received a Covaxin jab at the vaccination centre in the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH), to build confidence among doctors, nurses and healthcare workers. “I received the vaccine not as a Minister, but as a doctor and a member of the Indian Medical Association, to boost confidence among my fellow doctors, nurses and front-line workers of the Health Department. There should be no hesitancy to take the vaccines,” he told reporters. Till date, the State has received 10,45,000 doses of Covishield and 20,000 doses of Covaxin. On Friday, 1,69,920 more doses of Covaxin arrived in Chennai. “With this, the total doses of Covaxin received by the State stands at 1,89,920,” he added. The Minister said the State had 28 lakh syringes ready. The vaccines are administered at 166 centres across the State. As of Thursday, 42,947 healthcare professionals/workers have been vaccinated in the State. Asked why he preferred Covaxin, the Minister said, “It is an indigenous product. So far, only 907 persons have taken it in the State. It is apt to take the vaccine that has fewer takers, to build confidence among healthcare workers and the public.” On how the State was performing with respect to the vaccination drive, he said, “There are always rumours when vaccination is initially taken up. This creates hesitancy. This is why the dean of RGGGH, the president of the Tamil Nadu Government Doctors’ Association, the Vice-Chancellor of the Tamil Nadu MGR Medical University and I took the vaccines.” He stressed the need to avoid spreading rumours. “Be confident. Be a hero, and take the vaccine,” he said. Asked about a school student in Salem testing positive for COVID-19, the Minister said: “We have done studies on COVID-19 and how it affects various age groups. It affected mainly those aged over 60. There is no need to be scared.” On Food Minister R. Kamaraj’s health condition, he said doctors at MGM Healthcare, where he was admitted, and a team of doctors from RGGGH were monitoring him. “His condition is stable,” he said. E. Theranirajan, dean of RGGGH, was present. Ex-Minister’s letter Former Health Minister H.V. Hande, who got inoculated at the Government Kilpauk Medical College (KMC) Hospital, recently, urged people not to hesitate when their turn came to get vaccinated. “I am 94 years old and received the vaccine not just for my own safety, but also as a civic duty, because the only way to defeat the virus is by more people getting vaccinated,” he wrote in a letter. He said he experienced no side-effects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/health-minister-gets-vaccinated/article33640078.ece
23 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Marine foods firm defrauded banks of Rs. 225 crore: CBI||The Central Bureau of Investigation has registered a case against a city-based marine foods firm on charges of defrauding five banks, including Indian Overseas Bank and the State Bank of India, of Rs. 225.15 crore after availing itself of credit facilities. Authorised by the SBI, IDBI, ICICI and the Central Bank of India, Indian Overseas Bank led the consortium in lodging a complaint with the Economic Offences Branch of the CBI. It stated that M.s Oceanic Edibles International Limited (OEIL) and its directors Joseb Raj Arockiasamy, Vimalla Joseb, Arockiasamy James Walter and Arockiasamy Dominic Savio availed themselves of credit facilities. Loan amount diverted The accused persons fraudulently submitted forged/false bills and falsified the books of accounts to get loans. After availing the credit facilities, they diverted the loan amount to their own accounts/third party accounts and overseas payments without doing any genuine business as claimed. The securities hypothecated to the banks were not available. OEIL was initially engaged in the business of shrimp hatchery and then established units for processing/marketing vegetables, fruits, and marine products at Marakkanam, near Chennai. The complainant bank said a suspicious transaction was observed during the period of demonetisation since the company had not deposited any amount between November 8, 2016, and December 30, 2016, which raised doubts about the genuineness of the cash balance in the books of the firm. While the company claimed that all records, including the book of accounts, had been lost in the 2015 floods, forensic auditors who visited the company’s office located at Wellington Estate, Egmore, were informed that electrical installations on the premises were safe and were not affected since power supply had been cut in advance. Untenable “It is believed that they had been forewarned by the TNEB and in turn they have advised the building occupants of power stoppage. Hence the contention of the subject company that all of M/s OEIL’s records including book of accounts had been lost is untenable since there appears to be no basis,” IOB said in the complaint.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/marine-foods-firm-defrauded-banks-of-rs-225-crore-cbi/article33640109.ece
23 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||High Court issues notice to Udhayanidhi||The Madras High Court on Friday issued notices returnable by January 29 to DMK youth wing leader Udhayanidhi Stalin and Kalaignar TV on a defamation suit preferred by Deputy Speaker Pollachi V. Jayaraman for having linked his name with the Pollachi serial sexual assault and blackmailing case. Justice R. Pongiappan told plaintiff’s counsel S.R. Rajagopal that the plea for an injunction restraining the DMK leader from making defamatory imputations in future could be considered only after hearing the latter. He permitted counsel to serve a private notice and decided to hear the case after a week. During the hearing, the judge wondered whether such defamation suits must be entertained as they might encourage more such suits, especially when campaigning for the upcoming Assembly poll has already begun. Almost all politicians were making only wild allegations against each other, the judge said. However, Mr. Rajagopal convinced the judge that the plaintiff must be allowed to resort to a common legal remedy since his image had been deliberately maligned by linking his name with a case being probed by the CBI. The DMK leader had indulged in character assassination, he claimed. In a complaint filed through his counsel on record B. Arvind Srevatsa, the Deputy Speaker stated that he had absolutely no connection with the case and the charges levelled against him by the DMK youth wing leader in a speech made at Manachanallur in Tiruchi on January 7 were false, baseless, misleading and defamatory. Stating that Kalaignar TV had uploaded the speech on its YouTube channel, the plaintiff sought a direction to the DMK leader and the television channel management to jointly pay him Rs. 1 crore as damages. He also sought a permanent injunction restraining the defendant from making such defamatory speeches in the future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madras-high-court-issues-notice-to-udhayanidhi-stalin-kalaignar-tv/article33640115.ece
23 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man murders father-in-law||An 82-year-old man was murdered by his son-in-law in the Villivakkam police station limits following a quarrel over property. The police said the victim, P. Jagannathan, was living in 46th Street, Sidco Nagar, Villivakkam. Four years ago, his daughter Hemamalini, her husband P. Kumar, 52, and their children moved into Jagannathan’s house. Kumar had been pressuring Jagannathan to transfer a property in Varaharapudur, Vellore district, to his name. On Thursday night, the two quarrelled over the issue and in a fit of rage, Kumar allegedly pushed Jagannathan down and slit his throat with a knife. Jagannathan died on the spot. Ms. Hemamalini, who witnessed this, shouted for help. Neighbours rushed to the house and alerted the police.  Based on a complaint by Ms. Hemamalini, the police arrested Kumar and recovered a knife from him. The accused was lodged in prison after being produced before a court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-murders-father-in-law/article33640093.ece
23 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Water tanker owners plan agitation||The Chennai Metrowater Tanker Lorry Contractors’ Association has proposed to go on strike from January 25, seeking the pending work order to be issued and an increase in rates. At present, nearly 650 tankers are operated, including those on payment. However, the quantum of water supply through tankers has reduced in the past few months. Of 830 million litres of water supplied daily in the city, nearly 32 mld is supplied through tankers, including to added areas. The association said the tanker owners had been plying on extension since August last year. Association president P.S. Sundaram said tenders were called in August last to hire tankers for water supply. However, lorry owners were still waiting for fresh work orders. “In 2017, we had agreed to the low rates due to competition from a higher number of lorries. We continued to operate during the drought and the pandemic despite the loss and the completion of the three-year contract period,” he said. The association had represented to the Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board seeking work orders to be issued immediately. Association secretary S. Kesavaram said: “The water board must allow us to ply for new rates fixed at Rs. 450 for a 6,000 litre capacity vehicle and Rs. 555 for a 9,000 litre vehicle and Rs. 685 for a 16,000 litre vehicle.” Lorry owners had purchased about 60 new vehicles as per the norms and were facing steep losses in the absence of a new work order, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-tanker-owners-plan-agitation/article33640094.ece
23 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two held in T. Nagar for betting over match||Two persons were arrested in T. Nagar on Friday for betting on cricket matches. Following a tip-off to the Deputy Commissioner of Police, Anna Nagar, a special team was constituted to trace the accused. The team of plainclothesmen acted as decoys and rounded up Jeetu alias Jeetendar, 28, and Suresh Jain, 37, in T. Nagar. Club raided Meanwhile, 20 persons were arrested for gambling at a recreation club. Following a tip-off, a special team from the Nolambur police station raided a club in Mogappair West and found some people playing cards by placing bets. According to the police, P. Selvam, 30, of Saligramam; K. Kannappan, 50, of Nesapakkam; S. Anbalagan, 50, of St. Thomas Mount; N. Ramesh, 50, of Thiruverkadu; and 16 others were booked under the Gambling Act. All of them were released on bail. The police seized Rs. 25,000 in cash and playing cards from them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-in-t-nagar-for-betting-over-match/article33640095.ece
23 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||L&T emerges on top in Metro phase II tenders||Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. (CMRL) opened tenders on Friday for building tunnels and viaducts in three stretches, in which Larsen and Toubro has emerged on top with the lowest bids. With an outlay of Rs. 61,843 crore, Metro Rail’s phase II work involves a combination of elevated and underground stretches on Madhavaram-SIPCOT, Light House-Poonamallee and Madhavaram-Sholinganallur stretches. CMRL divided the work and floated tenders section by section. One of the biggest contracts in phase II is building tunnels for the 21-km Madhavaram-Taramani (a part of the Madhavaram to SIPCOT corridor) stretch. This was split and floated as two tenders — Madhavaram to Kellys (9 km) and Kellys to Taramani Road Junction (12 km). For both these contracts, L&T emerged on top with the lowest bid of Rs. 1,998 crore for the Madhavaram-Kellys stretch and Rs. 2,385 crore for Kellys-Taramani Road Junction stretch. According to CMRL sources, though L&T quoted the lowest rate, the company is likely to get the tunnelling contract for either of the two stretches. “We do not want one contractor to dominate the project,” said a CMRL official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lt-emerges-on-top-in-metro-phase-ii-tenders/article33640105.ece
23 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. will take a call on holding gram sabha meets on Jan. 26: AAG||The Madras High Court was on Friday informed that the State government would take an appropriate decision on the conduct of gram sabha meetings across the State on January 26 in accordance with the Tamil Nadu Grama Sabha (Quorum and Procedure for Convening and Conducting of Meetings) Rules of 1998. The First Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy took note of the submission made by Additional Advocate General (AAG) S.R. Rajagopal, and adjourned by three weeks the writ petitions filed by the DMK and Makkal Needhi Maiam. The petitions were filed last year when the gram sabha meetings scheduled to be held on October 2 were cancelled, citing the threat of COVID-19. Claiming that the meetings were essential for local governance, the two parties had approached the court, seeking a direction to the government to conduct the meetings. Appearing on behalf of the State, the AAG sought two weeks more to file a counter affidavit. However, advocate Vijayan Subramanian, who was representing the MNM, insisted on hearing the case before January 26 and feared that the government might not allow the gram sabha to be conducted even on the Republic Day as mandated under the rules. Though the Tamil Nadu Panchayat Act of 1994 requires gram sabha meetings to be conducted at least twice a year, the executive instructions issued by the government state that they would be conducted on January 26, May 1, August 15 and October 2. Therefore, the government was duty-bound to conduct the meet on Thursday, he said. In reply, the AAG said the government would take an appropriate call on the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-will-take-a-call-on-holding-gram-sabha-meets-on-jan-26-aag/article33640118.ece
23 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Withdraw affidavit in reservation case’||Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K.S. Alagiri urged the Centre to withdraw its affidavit before the Madras HC questioning the legislative competence of State governments to enact laws that provide horizontal reservation to government school students in medical admissions every year. The Centre was responding to a plea to implement the Puducherry Cabinet’s decision on 10% horizontal reservation to government school students in medical admissions. Mr. Alagiri said the Centre’s arguments would affect opportunities for students from poor backgrounds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/alagiris-plea-to-centre/article33640116.ece
23 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vaiko condemns killing of four fishermen||Strongly condemning the death of four fishermen from Tamil Nadu in an alleged attack by Sri Lankan Navy, Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (MDMK) founder Vaiko on Friday announced that his party would stage a protest over the incident on January 25. “In the past 35 years, the Sri Lankan Navy has killed over 800 fishermen from Tamil Nadu. The Sinhalese government is not bothered about the Indian government,” said Mr. Vaiko, who is also a Rajya Sabha MP, in a statement. The protest, which is to be held on January 25 from 11 a.m., would be against the Sri Lankan government and also the BJP government at the Centre. Mr. Vaiko said the BJP-led government was encouraging the Sri Lankan government. Four fishermen from Pudukkottai who set out for fishing allegedly died in an attack by the Sri Lankan Navy, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaiko-condemns-killing-of-four-fishermen/article33640117.ece
23 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Centre will probe fishermen’s death’||The Central government would investigate the alleged sinking of an Indian boat in the Palk Strait in which four fishermen from Tamil Nadu were killed, State BJP president L. Murugan said on Friday. The Centre would also probe if the sinking of the boat after colliding with a Sri Lankan Naval ship killing the four fishermen from Tamil Nadu was caused deliberately, Mr. Murugan added. Expressing his condolences to the families of the four fishermen, Mr. Murugan said the Indian government had already registered its strong protest over the incident and added that the Tamil Nadu government had extended a compensation of Rs. 10 lakh and a government job [or government-related] each to the affected families.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/government-will-probe-fishermens-death/article33640230.ece
23 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC: don’t use crackers directly on elephants||The Madras High Court on Thursday directed the Forest Department not to use firecrackers on elephants to chase them back into forests, since there is always a chance of the pachyderms getting injured due to them. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy issued the direction in a case filed by the People for Cattle in India, complaining about the treatment meted out to elephant Makhna, which strayed into Coimbatore from Kerala, last year. The petitioner’s counsel, Kaushik N. Sharma, told the court that Makhna from Kerala had entered into the forest area in Coimbatore last August, after suffering severe injuries in its mouth due to the accidental biting of a coconut or a fruit laden with explosives. Accusing Forest officials of not darting the elephant and providing necessary medical treatments to it, he said the animal was chased into the forests by throwing crackers and it eventually died at Marapallam, in Kerala, on September 9. He wanted standard operating procedures (SOP) to be laid down by the Forest Department, for the treatment of injured elephants, in the future. On the other hand, Additional Government Pleader (Forests) S. Prabhu told the court that an SOP was already in place to treat such animals. Denying all charges levelled by the petitioner, the AGP said the SOP was followed scrupulously in the case of Makhna, and the animal was monitored from August 27 to September 6. It was also provided food and medicines, but it could not consume them due to injuries in its mouth. In a fit of rage, the pachyderm started moving into human habitations. When it was about to damage a gas cylinder and injure itself more, Forest officials used the traditional method of bursting crackers to chase it back into the forest, the AGP said. Though an SOP was in place, at times officials must be given the latitude to take other measures too, as per the ground situation, he said. Accepting his plea, the judges closed the case with a direction to the Department to follow the SOP with the latitude. They said officials could take measures, on a case-to-case basis. In so far as the use of crackers was concerned, the judges said they should not be used directly on animals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-dont-use-crackers-directly-on-elephants/article33640086.ece
23 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kattupalli port: fishermen move HC seeking public hearing at project site||The Madras High Court on Friday sought the response of Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board to a petition about the public hearing venue for the Rs. 53,000-crore expansion project to be taken up at Kattupalli port. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy ordered notice, returnable in two weeks, to industrialist Gautam Adani-owned Marine Infrastructure Developer Private Limited (MIDPL), which operates the port in Tiruvallur district and had decided to go for expansion of its handling capacity by over 12 times. P. Ethiraj, 51, president of an association of traditional fishermen in Tiruvallur district, had filed the public interest litigation petition stating that the public hearing must be conducted either at the project site or in close proximity so that maximum number of local residents could participate and express their concerns. He objected to the venue being fixed 20 km away in Minjur. When the judges pointed out that the public hearing was scheduled to be held on Friday, the petitioner’s counsel told the court that it had been postponed. He said the plan to conduct the public hearing at Minjur would defeat the purpose since women and the elderly might not be able to travel to the venue. “While 20 km might not appear to be a long distance if one were to travel on highways and in cars, Kattupalli is a village with limited transport services and bad roads. Expecting thousands to travel to Minjur if they want to participate in public hearing is illegal and contrary to the mandate of the law,” the counsel said. Highlighting the seriousness of the issue, the petitioner, in his affidavit, said that the proposed expansion of the port would affect seaside villages of Koraikuppam, Vairavankuppam, Arangankuppam, Tirumalai Nagar, Sembasipallikuppam, Lighthouse Kuppam and Goonankuppam. Therefore, it was essential to have an effective public hearing. “The erosion, I have been advised, will breach the narrow strip of sand separating Pulicat lagoon from the Bay of Bengal. When this happens, the Bay and the Lagoon will merge and this will threaten other inhabited portions like Sattankuppam, Edamani and Pasaiyavaram. The Pulicat bird sanctuary and lagoon will be severely affected,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kattupalli-plea-in-hc-over-venue-of-hearing/article33640102.ece
23 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||SBI donates ambulance||The Chennai circle of the State Bank of India (SBI) has donated an ambulance to Kanchi Kamakoti CHILDS Trust Hospital as part of its corporate social responsibility initiative. Challa Sreenivasulu Setty, managing director, SBI, handed over the vehicle to Chandra Mohan, chief executive officer, and S. Balasubramanian, medical director, of the hospital. B. Sankar, chief general manager, Chennai circle, SBI, and Muralidharan, CGM, corporate centre, SBI, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sbi-donates-ambulance/article33640096.ece
23 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC stays women’s panel order||The Madras High Court on Thursday stayed the order of the Tamil Nadu State Commission for Women directing the Loyola College Society to pay Rs. 64.3 lakh to a former woman employee who levelled sexual harassment charges against a former principal. Justice Abdul Quddhose granted the interim stay and ordered notices, returnable by February 11, to the Commission, the Director of Collegiate Education and the complainant on the writ petition filed by the rector and vice-president of the college society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-stays-womens-panel-order/article33640101.ece
23 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Varsity sets up centre on MGR’s legacy||The University of Madras has set up Dr. MGR Social Research Centre to mark the birth anniversary of the former Chief Minister. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami inaugurated it through video conference. The centre has been set up with a grant of Rs. 5 crore. Interest accruing from the grant would be used to do research, said S.S. Sundaram, director of the centre. Minister K.P. Anbalagan, High Education Secretary Apoorva, and Vice-Chancellor S. Gowri were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/varsity-sets-up-centre-on-mgrs-legacy/article33640106.ece
23 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Release Perarivalan immediately: Kamal Haasan||Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan on Friday sought the release of Perarivalan, a life convict in the former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi assassination case. In a statement in Chennai, he said that enough time had passed to release Perarivalan. Long wait “There is no point in waiting any more. Do it immediately. He has experienced more than enough punishment,” he said. Condemning the death of four fishermen from Tamil Nadu in Palk Strait, he said, “The government should take necessary steps to ensure that the fishermen can fish in waters where they have traditionally done it.” Mr. Haasan was discharged from Sri Ramachandra Medical Centre on Friday after he underwent a surgery on his right leg.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/release-perarivalan-says-kamal-haasan/article33640110.ece
23 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK slams Palaniswami ads, moves EC||The DMK on Friday moved the Election Commission of India (ECI) seeking a direction to restrain the AIADMK from using government funds for publishing advertisements in the media to promote its co-coordinator and Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu Edappadi K. Palaniswami. In a letter to Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora, DMK organisation secretary R.S. Bharathi accused the ruling AIADMK of putting out advertisements in visual and print media and spending Rs. 1,000 crore at the cost of the State exchequer, thus going against the Constitutional mandate of the State. Terming the advertisements “megalomania at the cost of tax payers’ money”, Mr. Bharathi said they not only give an undue advantage to the party in power but also deny a level-playing field to all registered political parties. “Further, a message is given to the public that the government is supporting the candidature of Mr. Edappadi K. Palaniswami as Chief Minister,” he said in the complaint. Mr. Bharathi said due to this, the fairness of the election would be affected and that the actions of the ruling AIADMK in promoting their leader at the cost of State resources runs against the orders of the Delhi High Court and the Election Commission of India. Pointing out that the State was already under heavy debt, he said such advertisements were “unreasonable, illogical, whimsical, fanciful, illegal and highly arbitrary” and demanded that the AIADMK be restrained from utilising government funds for advertisements. He also said a thorough inquiry for violation of the directions of the ECI must be conducted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-flays-aiadmk-over-palaniswami-ads-moves-ec/article33640113.ece
23 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Centre will investigate fishermen’s death’||The Central government will investigate the alleged sinking of an Indian boat in Palk Strait in which four fishermen from Tamil Nadu were killed, State BJP president L Murugan said on Friday. It would probe if the sinking of the boat after colliding with a Sri Lankan Naval ship was killing four fishermen from Tamil Nadu was caused deliberately. Expressing his condolences to the families of the four fishermen, he said the Indian government had registered its strong protest and the State government had promised a relief of Rs. 10 lakh and a government job (or government related) each to the affected families. Ramanathapuram Presenting a cheque of Rs. 10 lakh each issued from the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund to the families of four fishermen here on Friday, Collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver said that the State government would also take steps to bring back the bodies from Sri Lanka. The Collector visited the houses of the four fishermen - Mesiya, son of Anthony Raj, Nagaraj, son of Vellaichami of Vattamvalasai, Senthil Kumar, son of Selvam of Thathanendal and Samson Darwin, son of Nixon Darwin of Mandapam Refugee Camp. The four fishermen, who had obtained tokens on January 18, had ventured into the sea for fishing. They should have returned to the shores on January 19. However, they did not return.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centre-will-investigate-fishermens-death/article33640217.ece
23 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Pallava era monuments to go to Rajpath||The Pallava era monuments at Mamallapuram, where the informal summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping took place in October 2019, will be among the highlights at the Republic Day parade in New Delhi. The replicas of the Shore Temple, Arjuna’s Penance and Nakula Sahadeva Ratha will form part of Tamil Nadu’s tableau, which was finalised after eight rounds of selection by the Defence Ministry. Four Bharatanatyam dancers will perform to Subramania Bharathi’s song ‘ Parukulle Nalla Nadu’, to be played on the nagaswaram. There will be four musicians — two on nagaswaram and two on thavil — on both sides of the tableau, an official told The Hindu.  The official said the major challenge while creating the tableau was to fashion something new that would look ancient. “We had to use clay but ensure that it looked eroded with the passage of time. A negative mould was taken and fibre glass was used. It was given a coat of paint to ensure that it resembled the monuments,” he said. Of the 32 tableaux that will be paraded on the Rajpath, 16 belong to various States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pallava-era-monuments-to-go-to-rajpath/article33640092.ece
23 January 2021||CHENNAI/ THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Project near Big Temple opposed||Heritage enthusiasts have opposed digging the ground for the construction of a new building near the Big Temple, Thanjavur, and want the ongoing work near the heritage structure to be halted immediately. They said the civic authorities, under the smart city project, are constructing a mall and a parking lot near the moat of the temple which may cause danger to the base of the heritage structure. Workers have been digging in the old Thiruvalluvar theatre complex which is near Big Temple. But as per the norms and guidance for the preservation of heritage buildings in India, it is mandatory to get permission from the Archaeological Department which was not done in this case, said heritage enthusiasts. S.Udhaya Shankar, president of Great Cholas Historical Research Group, said, ‘after digging up the earth, we could see basements over red granite rocks. This might be the outer fort wall of the moat built during the reign of Cholas. So immediate action needs to be taken to stop the work which may overshadow our rich heritage. Proper research of the area should be done by the Archaeological Department. The Great Cholas Historical research group has sent mail to Collector and ASI officials to take immediate action. G.Deivanayagam, former professor and founder of Department of Architecture, Tamil University, said, ‘the digging was done by heavy machinery. The entire Thanjavur fort area is a heritage zone. So there should not be any new construction. Preservation and restoration is only allowed. The building work may even affect the Big Temple as its balance may be affected by digging deep near the temple. Proper awareness should be created among all involved in the work. A ‘smart city’ need not stand on the ruins of our rich heritage which is the main identity of Thanjavur.’ M.Rajendran, retired IAS officer and historian, said a rare variety of red granite stones were used for the basement of the temple. That should not be damaged by the digging. As per regulations of archaeological authority, no digging or construction is allowed within a 100 metre distance from any heritage structure. For instance, an arch commemorating the diamond jubilee of Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly was planned to be constructed close to the entrance of Fort St George, but it was later relocated beyond the prohibited zone. Moreover, the Big Temple is one of ancient monuments declared by UNESCO and it is a non-combat zone even if there is war." A senior official of ASI said notice has been issued to the Commissioner of Thanjavur Municipal Corporation asking to stop the work. While conceding that the heritage of Thanjavur needs to be preserved, a section of local residents, however, said infrastructure development was also important as much of the economic activity revolves around tourism potential of the town. As far as remodelling of Thiruvalluvar Theatre Complex was concerned, the proposed parking lot and the mall would definitely reduce the pressure on the tourists vehicle parking lot that exists right opposite to the UNESCO structure and help relocate roadside vendors occupying the platforms in the vicinity of the Big Temple complex, they said. N.T.Balasundaram, a businessman, observed that it would be apt to insist on compliance of ASI regulations instead of opposing the project totally. Since the footfall at the Big Temple had increased considerably even during the weekdays after the recent consecration, V.Jeevakumar, a social activist, said that shifting of four-wheeler parking to a different site not far away from the Big Temple would ease the traffic congestion on the temple road. (With inputs from V.Venkatasubramanian)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/project-near-big-temple-opposed/article33640224.ece
23 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Industries place various demands before CM||Industry associations submitted their demands to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami at an interaction he had with the heads of the associations here on Friday. The Joint Council of Industrial Associations of Coimbatore sought single window clearance online for industries that want to get building plan approval. The 6 % interest subvention provided to MSMEs should be extended and collateral free loans up to Rs. 3 crore through the Tamil Nadu Industrial Investment Corporation. It also sought 25 % capital subsidy for MSMEs in six select sectors, including automobiles, textiles, pumpsets and solar energy. Domestic workers The Council said the government should come out with a scheme to identify and train domestic workers in the State. The Southern India Mills' Association's Cotton Development and Research Association (SIMA - CDRA) has sought allocation of Rs. 15 crore in the coming budget to develop cotton cultivation in the State. While the textile mills in Tamil Nadu consume nearly 170 lakh bales of cotton every year, the State grows just about six lakh bales. Only this year, the production in the State touched 10 lakh bales of cotton. The government should allocate funds to raise the production to 35 lakh bales a year. ‘Remove cess’ SIMA said the State government should remove the market committee cess on cotton as the MSME textile mills buy cotton in small quantities depending on their requirement. The cess adds to the cost of the raw material. The Association had submitted a memorandum to former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa on removal of market committee cess on waste cotton and she had assured to take necessary measures. However, the cess continues. SIMA appealed to the Chief Minister to remove the cess on cotton and waste cotton. The Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Tiny Enterprises (TACT), which has micro units as its members, has sought housing facilities for the thousands of migrant workers who are employed in the industries here. Welfare board sought It also said the government should develop multi-storeyed industrial estates for the micro units. The State government should constitute a welfare board for micro units, the association said. The Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Coimbatore, appealed to the Chief Minister to expedite land acquisition for Coimbatore airport expansion and to take steps for better air connectivity for Coimbatore. Coimbatore should be included in the BASA ( Bilateral Air Services Agreement ) to get better international flight connectivity, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/industries-place-various-demands-before-cm/article33640143.ece
23 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||NEP provides plenty of opportunities for students: Union Minister||The New Education Policy-2020 provided plenty of opportunities to students and also helped them face real-life situations, Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank said while addressing online the gathering at the 32nd graduation day at the Avinashilingam Institute for Home Science and Higher Education for Women on Friday. A release from the institution said the policy helped the students choose not only the content and duration of study but also prepared them to face real-life situations. NIRF ranking Recalling the contribution of the university’s founder and former education minister T.S. Avinashilingam Chettiar towards education and nation-building, the Minister appreciated the management for the steps it was taking towards educating women. He said the university had done well to get a good NAAC score and bag a good NIRF ranking. That the university also had the first place in the Atal Ranking of Institutions on Innovation Achievement showed the quality of education it offered. India, he said, had overcome challenges in education during the COVID-19 lockdown period by resorting to all available means to help students learn. This was because of the importance the country attached to education and appreciated the steps the university had taken to offer online courses and webinars during the lockdown, the release said. The university Chancellor S.P. Thyagarajan conferred Mr. Pokhriyal with honorary degree of doctor of letters after UGC nominee in the Board of Management P. Veera Somaiah read the citation. Managing Trustee of the Avinashilingam Education Trust T.S.K. Meenakshi Sundaram, Mr. Thyagarajan, and Vice-Chancellor Premavathy Vijayan were present at the convocation that saw the institution confer 2,506 degrees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nep-provides-plenty-of-opportunities-for-students-union-minister/article33640142.ece
23 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||T.N. now a power surplus State: Chief Minister||Tamil Nadu is now a power surplus State and industries do not face power cuts, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said here on Friday. Addressing the representatives of industrial associations, the Chief Minister said agriculture and industry are the eyes of a country. The State government has focused on both these sectors. Even during the pandemic, the State has attracted Rs. 60,000 crore investment in industries. Tamil Nadu is a preferred destination for industrial investment as it has no law and order problems. The State government has ensured there are no law and order problems, he said. The State government has provided uninterrupted power supply to industries and there are no power cuts. Tamil Nadu is now a power surplus State. Measures are on to develop the western bypass road in Coimbatore. Minister S.P. Velumani has taken several steps to ensure infrastructure development in Coimbatore, he said. Seeks support Seeking support to the present government in the Assembly elections, Mr. Palaniswami assured action on the demands of the industries. Speaking at the meeting, Minister for Municipal Administration and Rural Development S.P. Velumani said the Chief Minister is instrumental for projects, starting from basic amenities to industrial growth, in Coimbatore district. The Chief Minister has met the needs of the district, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadu-is-now-a-power-surplus-state-chief-minister/article33640108.ece
23 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Vigil stepped up around Madukkarai as leopard attacks goats, dog||The Forest Department stepped up vigil around Madukkarai near here after a leopard attacked four goats and one pet dog in the early hours of Thursday. Cage placed Officials said on Friday that one cage and two camera traps were placed in Ettimadai beat within Madukkarai forest range of the Coimbatore Forest Division. Estimated to be around eight years old, the leopard has remained elusive for nearly six months -- the cage was first placed in July 2020, but did not result in the leopard’s capture. At around 2.10 a.m. on Thursday, R. Srinivasan, a resident of Gandhi Nagar in Madukkarai, found the leopard attacking his pet dog and it escaped by jumping over the compound wall upon his arrival. Two hours later, at around 4.35 a.m., the leopard entered a goat shed attached to the residence of P. Gnanaprakash in Madukkarai and attacked four goats before escaping. While three goats died, one survived the attack, according to the officials. The leopard has been sporadically visiting the residential areas close to a reserve forest in the Ettimadai beat for the past six months, the officials said. It usually does not visit the same location twice, making it difficult for the officials to capture. Monitoring A team of 15 officials including foresters and anti-poaching watchers led by Madukkarai forest range officer B. Srinivasan are monitoring the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vigil-stepped-up-around-madukkarai-as-leopard-attacks-goats-dog/article33640127.ece
23 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Special voter enrolment camp for differently abled persons||The district administration would hold special camps for persons with disability to register as voters, said a release. The administration would hold the camps from January 21 to 31 at all taluk offices and at the east and central zone offices of the Coimbatore Corporation. The differently abled could also register as voters by visitingwww.nsvp.inor using the ‘PwD’ android application.  Nature of disability Those differently abled persons who had already registered as voters could use the website or android application to know the details of registration and record the nature of their disability,the release said. The registration of details regarding the disability would help the administration provide the right kind of assistance they would require to exercise their franchise. And, it would also help the Election Commission of India to provide postal voting facility to such persons provided they had registered with differently abled status, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-voter-enrolment-camp-for-differently-abled-persons/article33640132.ece
23 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown on January 25||In view of the proposed maintenance work at Sellappampalayam sub-station on Monday (January 25),there will be no power supply from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. in the following areas: Sellappampalayam, Moopripalayam one part, Alampalayam one part, Ponndandampalayam, Thattampudur, Mappillaigound Kuttai and Pothiyampalayam one part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown-on-january-25/article33640129.ece
23 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||DMK alliance will win Assembly polls: CPI (M)||The DMK-led alliance in the State will register a total win in the Assembly elections the way it did during the Parliamentary elections, Polit Bureau member of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) G. Ramakrishnan said here on Friday. Mr. Ramakrishnan said people were unhappy with the AIADMK and the BJP governments. These parties would try to bribe voters to win the Assembly elections. But they would not be able to do so. That was why they lost in the Parliamentary elections, he said. The farmers' protest in New Delhi against the farm laws would be remembered always. It was because of the united fight of the farmers that the Central government offered to suspend the implementation of the laws for 18 months. But the farmers had rejected the proposal and sought the repeal of all the three laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-alliance-will-win-assembly-polls-cpi-m/article33640144.ece
23 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man held for grandfather’s murder||A 40-year-old man allegedly murdered his grandfather at their house near Pilloor Dam on Thursday.  Police said that the man was mentally unstable. The deceased was identified as K. Mannan (85), who belonged to Scheduled Tribes community. Mannan and his grandson were living in a house at Veerakal Parali near the dam. On Thursday evening, the accused allegedly demanded beedi from his grandfather, who refused it. Irked, he attacked the elderly man with a wooden log and a piece of rock. The man died on the spot. The Pilloor Dam police have registered a case. The accused was sent to a rehabilitation centre in Coimbatore on Friday.  Minor arrested under POCSO Act The All Women Police (East) on Thursday arrested a 17-year-old boy on charges of sexual assaulting a 13-year-old girl. Police sources said that the boy and girl were traced to Pudukkottai on Wednesday.   The boy was booked under Sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. He was sent to the Juvenile Observation Home in Coimbatore, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-for-grandfathers-murder/article33640135.ece
23 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK violating court order on banners: MLA||Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam MLA N. Karthik has accused the AIADMK of violating court orders by erecting banners and cut-outs to welcome Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami. In a release on Friday, Mr. Karthik said to welcome the Chief Minister, the AIADMK had encroached upon pavements and pedestrian pathways by erecting banners, which was in violation of court orders. There were more than 500 banners, a few of them giant-sized, and to erect those the ruling party had dug roads. The death of a motorist in 2017 and the electrocution of a worker while erecting a pole to hoist AIADMK flags seemed to have had no impact on the party, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-violating-court-order-on-banners-mla/article33640124.ece
23 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Minor arrested under POCSO Act||The All Women Police (East) on Thursday arrested a 17-year-old boy on charges of sexual assaulting a 13-year-old girl. Police sources said that the boy and girl were traced at Pudukkottai on Wednesday. The boy was booked under Sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and was sent to the Juvenile Observation Home in Coimbatore, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minor-arrested-under-pocso-act/article33640261.ece
23 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Sudden showers in Coimbatore city||The city received sudden showers on Friday morning. However, the clouds cleared in the later part of the day. Sources in the Agro Climate Research Centre in the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University said the Friday morning rain was unusual. The 15 to 30 minute rainfall was around 5.2mm. This was part of the winter showers in January and February as the North East Monsoon season ended on January 19. The average rainfall for the two-month season was 14mm. Dry weather would prevail for the next few days with the day temperature touching 31 degree Celsius and night temperature 22 degree Celsius.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sudden-showers-in-city/article33640131.ece
23 January 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Spread of hyacinth in River Cauvery a concern||The vast spread of hyacinth in River Cauvery near Karungalpalayam is a concern for authorities as it disrupts the flow of water and also get caught in the turbines at the Bhavani Kattalai Power Plant-II affecting power generation. The entire water spread area near the Cauvery Bridge connecting Erode and Namakkal district is covered with the invasive and free-floating aquatic plant presenting a green cover in the area. The barrage is located across the river while the powerhouse is located between Vendipalayam and Odapalli in Namakkal district, generating 30 MW. Since the weeds get caught in the turbines, workers frequently remove hyacinth manually for many years now. “Hyacinth slows down the velocity of water near the barrage,” said a Tangedco official who pointed out the difficulty in removing the hyacinth regularly. Officials face the hyacinth problem for over six months a year when water is released from Mettur Dam for irrigation and also during the rainy season when the water flow is high. Though water from River Cauvery is not used for carrying out irrigation in the district, fishing is carried out in the river at many places and fishermen also complain of hyacinth damaging their nets. A fisherman at Parisalthurai said due to the spread of hyacinth, they were unable to catch fish at those spots and it affected their livelihood. “We need a permanent solution to weed out the species,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/spread-of-hyacinth-in-river-cauvery-a-concern/article33640249.ece
23 January 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Initial assessment of students begins at government schools||The initial learning level assessments of students of Class 10 and Plus-Two began at all the government schools in the district on Friday. Of the total 403 schools, assessments through online at the hitech labs began at 186 government schools in batches of 20 students. There are 14,094 Class X and 9,122 Class XII students in these schools and the students began taking up the tests in all major subjects. Teachers said 120 multiple-choice questions from all the subjects were given and students had to select the correct answers online. They said Class XII students were given video lessons during the COVID-19 pandemic, while Class X students watched the lessons broadcast on Kalvi TV regularly. “All the students were wearing masks and personal distancing norms were followed during the assessments,” said a monitoring member at the District Educational Office. Officials said the assessment was to check the knowledge they gained from the subjects when they studied from home. Marks would not be considered and assessment was to check the level of preparedness, said the officials. After two days of general counselling to students, teaching of lessons began in all the schools and the syllabus was expected to be completed on time, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/initial-assessment-of-students-begins-at-government-schools/article33640255.ece
23 January 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Mega job mela on February 6 at Gobichettipalayam||The District Employment and Career Guidance Centre will conduct a mega job fair at Gobi Arts and Science College on February 6 in which over 200 leading private companies will participate to fill over 10,000 vacancies. A release from Collector C. Kathiravan said the companies would be recruiting candidates for various posts and interested persons should register atwww.tnprivatejobs.tn.gov. in. Registration He said registration with Tamil Nadu Skill Development Corporation, registration for getting jobs in foreign countries, counselling for entrepreneurs who wished to start their own units through District Industries Centre and various loans available from banks would also be done on the occasion. Interested persons can register and participate in the camp along with copies of resume, educational qualification certificates, Aadhaar card and necessary documents on February 6. Venue changed The earlier venue for the mela, Muthu Mahal, was changed to the college due to administrative reasons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mega-job-mela-on-february-6-at-gobichettipalayam/article33640253.ece
23 January 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Construction workers asked to collect free dhotis, saris today||Construction workers in the district who have registered with the welfare board till December 31, 2020, and pensioners in the sector have been asked to collect free dhotis and saris for the Pongal festival at the five centres in the district on Saturday. Pongal hampers A release from Collector C. Kathiravan said since workers in the construction sector were affected due to COVID-19 pandemic, the State government announced distribution of free dhotis and saris to them and also the Pongal gift hampers to pensioners in the sector. The release said hampers were distributed to the pensioners while distribution of free dhotis and saris had begun in the district on January 21 and would end on January 23. Centres Free dhotis and saris ccould be received from the Office of the Assistant Commissioner (Labour), near Government I.T.I, Chennimalai Road, Municipal Middle School, Bhavani East, Bhavani, Golden Jubilee Primary School, Market Road, Gobichettipalayam, Office of the Assistant Inspector (Labour), 445, Near Balaji Weigh Bridge, Kottu Veerampalayam, Sathyamangalam and at Office of the Assistant Inspector (Labour), Om Sakthi Kovil Street, Bhavani Main Road, Perundurai. The workers could collect the items by producing their original identity card at the nearest centres and the pensioners with their pension card.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/construction-workers-asked-to-collect-free-dhotis-saris-today/article33640250.ece
23 January 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||‘People are eagerly waiting for Rahul Gandhi’s visit’||Senior Congress leader and former Union Minister E.V.K.S. Elangovan has said that people in the State are angry with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and are eagerly waiting for the visit of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi to the State. Addressing the media here on Friday, he said that under the BJP-rule, there was no economic development and the problems of the farmers were not resolved. They continued to protest braving the cold in Delhi. Traders and manufacturers were severely affected by the implementation of Goods and Service Taxes (GST) and the dissatisfied people were waiting for Mr. Rahul’s visit. Asked about the Supreme Court saying that the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case of convict A.G. Perarivalan was “extraordinary”, Mr. Elangovan said the party had no objection to any decision taken by the Supreme Court in the issue. Detailing the schedule of Mr. Rahul Gandhi’s visit to the district on January 24, he said Mr. Rahul would be given reception at Uthukuli at 10.30 a.m. and at Perundurai at 11 a.m. He would garland the statues of Mahatma Gandhi on the Corporation office premises, statue of E.V.K. Sampath and former Chief Ministers at Panneerselvam Park and address the gathering at noon. At 12.30 p.m., Mr. Rahul would garland the statue of freedom fighter Dheeran Chinnamalai at Odanilai in Arachalur and would interact with weavers and leave for Kangeyam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/people-are-eagerly-waiting-for-rahul-gandhis-visit/article33640262.ece
23 January 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Gutka worth Rs. 68 lakh seized||Banned gutka items worth Rs. 68 lakh that was smuggled in a lorry from Karnataka to Palladam was seized by the police at the Bannari check post on Friday. The maize-laden lorry, driven by Kandaraj (38) of Kollegal in Chamrajanagar along with cleaner Ramesh (30) of The Nilgiris, was from Hanur in Chamrajanagar district to Palladam. Based on a tip-off, the Sathyamangalam police intercepted the lorry. When the police removed the gunny bags containing maize, they found bags and boxes containing gutka. The lorry and the crew were taken to the police station. The seized gutka is over 8.5 tonnes worth Rs. 68 lakh. A case has been registered and an inquiry is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gutka-worth-rs-68-lakh-seized/article33640252.ece
23 January 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Special camp for differently-abled||A special camp is being held for enrolment in the electoral roll for the differently-abled persons who had completed 18 years as on January 1, 2021. A release from Collector C. Kathiravan said eligible persons could submit forms with necessary documents at all the Tahsildar offices and at the District Differently Abled Welfare Office till January 31. The release said persons who could not submit forms in person could provide their details in the WhatsApp number 94999 33475.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-camp-for-differently-abled/article33640256.ece
23 January 2021||HOSUR,TAMIL NADU||Burglar alarm at Muthoot Finance was dysfunctional, says SP||Muthoot Finance, the non-banking finance company has been constantly in the news for reports of robbery in its various offices across the country. In the wake of the robbery here on Friday, a few anxious customers gathered outside the firm for information on their valuables. The latest incident has raised questions over the security at non banking finance firms (NBFCs) that hold valuable assets of the borrowers, especially the rural poor. In 2015, Bank of Baroda at Kundarapalli panchayat here in Krishnagiri was robbed of 6,000 sovereigns of gold jewellery in a midnight heist. This forced the police to hold consultations with nationalised and private banks to step up safety measures, including placement of CCTVs, burglar alarms, appointment of security guards and shuttering of ATMs in rural areas by 9 p.m. However, NBFCs such as Muthoot Finance had escaped scrutiny. Friday’s robbery has also red-flagged the lack of safety protocols including the absence of a burglar alarm in the office. According to Superintendent of Police Bandi Gangadar, there was a dysfunctional burglar alarm. “They operate within the regulations of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), but the necessary safety protocols to safeguard the mortgaged property are not there. Ideally, a burglar alarm would also be linked to the local police station,” Mr. Gangadar said. Even as Muthoot Finance has made inroads into rural areas, becoming a ready lender against gold for the poor, the recurrent reports of burglary have come to threaten the meagre gold assets of the poor kept in the custody of the financier. While the RBI laid guidelines for asset protection of NBFCs in terms of financial prudence, the lack of safety infrastructure in their various branches exposes them to easy burglaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/burglar-alarm-at-muthoot-finance-was-dysfunctional-says-sp/article33640258.ece
23 January 2021||HOSUR,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 7 cr. worth gold stolen from Muthoot Finance||Muthoot Finance, a private gold loan financing firm, was robbed of over 25 kg (25,091 g) of gold, worth around Rs. 7 crore, at gun-point by a six-member gang, in Hosur on Friday. Around Rs. 96,000 in cash was also stolen from its offices. Six masked men, wearing helmets, entered the finance company at 9.30 a.m. soon after the office opened for business on Friday. According to the police, the men first beat up the security guard and took him inside, where five other staff members and three customers were present. The manager and the four staff members in the office were attacked at gun-point, before the office lockers were looted. Superintendent of Police Bandi Gangadar visited the scene of crime, and is holding an inquiry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gold-worth-rs-7-cr-stolen-from-muthoot-finance/article33640076.ece
23 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Two police stations get new buildings||New buildings for two more police stations — Keeraithurai and S.S. Colony — in Madurai city were inaugurated on Friday. Chief Minister, Edappadi K. Palaniswami, opened them through videoconferencing from Chennai. The police stations that were functioning from rented buildings have got own buildings. The cost of each of the police station building is Rs. 158.37 lakh. While Keeraithurai police station has come up on 19.45 cents of land, the S.S. Colony police station has been built on 11.47 cents. Both the police stations have got two-storey buildings. While Keeraithurai station has got a built up area of 7,293 square feet, the other police station has got a built up area of 7,140 square feet. Deputy Commissioners of Police, R. Shiva Prasad (Law and Order), K. Palanikumar (Crime), K. Sugumaran (Traffic) and M. Baskaran (Headquarters) lit the lamp to mark the inauguration of the new buildings. The city police have taken effort to find land for construction of buildings for Teppakulam and Karimedu police stations, said Mr. Baskaran. Engineers from Tamil Nadu Police Housing Corporation, S. Jayakumar (Superintending Engineer), P. Nakeeran (Executive Engineer) and S. Venkatachalam (Assistant Executive Engineer), were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-police-stations-get-new-buildings/article33640464.ece
23 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Bad roads greet residents||The recent rains have exposed the poor and abysmal condition of roads in the city, complain city residents. Many arterial roads, junctions and interior roads are riddled with potholes and craters. S. Kannan, an auto rickshaw driver, says accidents occur everyday at the Kalavasal junction which has large craters. "The two-wheeler riders often fall down whenever they encounter these large craters. When two-wheeler riders try to avoid the craters, they often clash with the vehicles coming from behind, leading to accidents," he says. The ongoing road projects in the core city around Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple have caused severe inconvenience to road users. Many roads that have been dug up for the project have been left open, proving to be danger pits for the road users. Nitesh Kothari, a trader on Muthiah Pillai Lane near Thirumalai Nayak Palace, says that hundreds of vehicles travel every day on the streets in the core city that are highly damaged. "Since, 'smart road' work is under way on the Masi Streets, vehicle users used to travel on adjacent lanes to reach their destination. But, all these adjacent lanes are highly damaged. Hence, vehicle users take a long route to reach their destinations," he says. Mr. Kothari says that pits that were dug up on Muthiah Pillai Lane by Madurai Corporation officials for laying drinking water pipelines were left open. "The residents took the initiative to cover up the excavated portions of the road," he adds. M. Lokesh, a shopkeeper near Meenakshi Sundareswarar temple, says that a brief spell of rains leaves the streets around the temple inundated. "The water stagnation issue has worsened only after the commencement of smart city projects. U.T. Vassan, senior consultant, Joints and Sports Injury Centre, Meenakshi Mission Hospital and Research Centre, says that regularly commuting on two-wheelers in the bad roads of the city can place severe stress on the cervical spine. "This can lead to chronic back pain" he says. City Engineer S. Arasu says that laying patchwork for potholes and craters is underway across the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bad-roads-greet-residents/article33640466.ece
23 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Officials take road safety oath||Transport Department officials organised an oath-taking event on road safety at Regional Transport Offices and Motor Vehicle Inspector Offices across the district on Friday as part of the Road Safety Month. N. Selvam, Regional Transport Officer (North and Central), and S. Singaravelu, Regional Transport Officer (South), took the oath at their respective offices. Similarly, the event was held at the Motor Vehicle Inspector Offices at Tirumangalam, Usilampatti, Vadipatti and Melur. Around 2,000 persons, including those who had come to the Regional Transport Offices and Motor Vehicle Inspector Offices to obtain licence, register their new vehicles, and for other works also took the oath. Traffic rules like wearing seatbelt while driving cars, not boarding a moving bus, wearing helmet while driving two-wheelers, and not driving vehicles after consuming alcohol were highlighted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/officials-take-road-safety-oath/article33640232.ece
23 January 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Centre’s gazette notification challenged in HC||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday ordered notice to the Centre and the State on a public interest litigation petition that challenged the gazette notification issued in 2020 by the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change notifying 0-3 km around Kanniyakumari Wildlife Sanctuary as an eco-sensitive zone. A Division Bench of Justices M.M. Sundresh and S. Ananthi ordered notice on the petition filed by P. Lalaji, representing Black Rock Hill Planters Association, Kanniyakumari district. He complained that the draft notification was not made available in Tamil as per norms. He said in a public meeting convened in this regard the local people opposed further restriction on the use of the land as it would affect their livelihood. Restrictions had already been imposed on the basis of existing reserve forest, private forest, coastal zone, wildlife sanctuary, bird sanctuary and Kalakkad-Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve buffer zone. The boundary of Kanniyakumari Reserve Forest had been clearly marked. There was no encroachment by the local people and if there were any further restrictions they would cause considerable inconvenience to them. The affected lands were classified as ryotwari patta where the plantation and non-plantation agriculture was done, he said. The opposition raised in this regard had to be considered by the authorities concerned, he said and sought quashing of the gazette notification.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centres-gazette-notification-challenged-in-high-court/article33640462.ece
23 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||WhatsApp message brings immediate help to patient at GRH||A message passed on Whatsapp helped to provide timely help for a patient who was admitted to Government Rajaji Nagar (GRH) on Friday. Kannan, a resident of Paramakudi from Ramanathapuram district who was admitted to GRH, was in urgent need for A +ve blood on Friday afternoon. He was accompanied by his sister, who called out for help to seek blood donors. At that time social activists Anand Raj and S. Karthik, who was present at the hospital, helped Mr. Kannan to get A +ve blood from the blood bank of the GRH. But, the blood bank officials had instructed that the relatives of Mr. Kannan must donate blood in return. At that time, Kumaravel, a youth from Puliyankulam village, had come to GRH to visit a patient in the nearby bed. After hearing about this news, he spread information on Whatsapp group seeking blood donors. Immediately, around 10 volunteers came and blood was collected from three persons. "All these people had come forward to donate blood without any expectation," said Mr. Anand Raj.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/whatsapp-message-brings-immediate-help-to-patient-at-grh/article33640235.ece
23 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Guidelines sought to form special police teams||The Madurai Bench of Madras High Court on Friday ordered notice in a public interest litigation petition that sought a direction to the State to abolish Special Police Teams that were functioning as on date and to frame guidelines for the constitution of such teams by fixing responsibilities, duties and liabilities on the special team. A Division Bench of Justices M.M. Sundresh and S. Ananthi ordered notice in the petition filed by advocate S. Muruga Ganesan, from Madurai, member of the Pattali Makkal Katchi. He alleged that a party member Sakthivel was assaulted last year by a special police team in the name of inquiry after they had thought that he was an aid of a history sheeter. He said Sakthivel had to be admitted to the Government Rajaji Hospital. Though a complaint was lodged with the Commissioner of Police, no action has been taken so far and no inquiry has been initiated into the incident, he said. The petitioner said that he and his team had carried out a research and they found out that 75 % of the police strength in each and every station was formed as a special team and the remaining were under tremendous pressure to execute the routine work. Due to mounting pressure they were unable to avail leave, he said. He said that there were no guidelines or procedures from the functioning of the special police teams. In order to avoid such incidents, guidelines and procedures have to be framed and till then the Special Teams functioning as on date must be abolished, he said. He also sought a direction to the police to take appropriate action against those involved in the assault on the party member.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/guidelines-sought-to-form-special-police-teams/article33640468.ece
23 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Petition closed||The Madurai Bench of Madras High Court closed a petition that sought a direction to authorities to regulate the functioning of autorickshaws in Madurai and take appropriate action against those violating traffic rules. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice M.M. Sundresh took cognisance of the status report filed by the State that showed that adequate instructions were given to the authorities in all the districts to consider the imposition of either suspension or cancellation as against fine. “Though a larger issue arises for giving a permanent solution, we are closing the writ petition, in view of the status report filed. We shall examine the larger issue in an appropriate case”, the judges said and closed the petition filed by activist Traffic Ramasamy. He had sought a direction to take stringent action against the autorickshaw drivers for violating traffic rules.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/petition-closed/article33640467.ece
23 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Armed gang attacks mason, robs him||A four-member gang robbed Rs. 700 from a mason after inflicting cut injury on his head at Vadipatti on Wednesday night. The police said M. Saravanan (27) of Sholavandan was waiting on the Dindigul highway near a hotel to return home after work at around 9.30 p.m. The armed gang that came on two motorbikes, approached him and threatened him to part with valuables. However, as he resisted, one of them hit on his head with a knife and caused bleeding injuries. Even as he lost balance, they snatched Rs. 700 from him and fled the scene. The police said that the accused were wearing helmets. Vadipatti police are investigating. Meanwhile in another incident on the same day on the same road, an unidentified accused had snatched two sovereigns of gold chain at Pasumpon Nagar at Sholavandan. D. Kalrani, who has a tender coconut shop at Sholavandan bus stop, was returning home with her daughter-in-law, the bike-borne accused who came from behind yanked her gold chain and escaped at around 6.30 p.m. The Sholavandan police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/armed-gang-attacks-mason-robs-him/article33640469.ece
23 January 2021||NEW DELHI,TAMIL NADU||SC to consider T.N. plea to expunge remarks in Vedanta ruling||The Supreme Court on Friday agreed to consider a plea by the Tamil Nadu government and the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board to expunge certain “unwarranted” remarks made by the Madras High Court about them in its judgment rejecting permission to Vedanta to re-open its Sterlite copper smelting plant in Thoothukudi. The plant was sealed by the State government on May 28, 2018, owing to environmental concerns. A Bench, led by Justice Rohinton F. Nariman, issued notice on the petition filed by the State through its Additional Advocate-General Balaji Srinivasan. “The remarks are of a wide and sweeping nature, and encompass within their ambit not just officials and offices who were in any matter associated in regulating Vedanta’s copper smelter but the entire Pollution Control Board... Similarly, no specific officer of the State has been identified, nor have the remarks been confined to any specific local authority,” the petition said. The petition was tagged with the main appeal filed by Vedanta against the August 2020 judgment of the High Court. The court reiterated that the main appeal would be heard later. On December 2 last year, the Bench declined a proposal made by Vedanta to operate the closed plant for 30 days under the supervision of an expert committee appointed by the court. The company had mooted the idea so that the court could ascertain whether the plant was complying with pollution control norms. Vedanta had said its plant met 36% of India’s copper needs and it was not in public interest to keep it closed. The Tamil Nadu government had argued that the proposal was only a “ruse to open” a plant which had been a polluting one for over 20 years. Slag was dumped all over Thoothukudi at 11 places. Senior advocate A.M. Singhvi, for Vedanta, had said the plant, established in 1995, was upgraded periodically with the best technologies available. Its overall asset value was Rs. 3,630 crore. The factory employed 4,000 people directly and another 20,000 indirectly. Its contribution to the Central government exchequer had been Rs. 2,559 crore. Besides, the plant had accounted for 7% of the traffic to the Thoothukudi port. The closure had resulted in India becoming a net importer of refined copper after 18 years, Mr. Singhvi had said. Senior advocate Colin Gonsalves, for the local residents, had termed the plant a “persistent polluter and a chronic defaulter”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sc-to-consider-tn-plea-to-expunge-remarks-in-vedanta-ruling/article33640140.ece
23 January 2021||Palani,TAMIL NADU||Flag hoisted at Palani temple for Thai Poosam||Marking the commencement of the week-long Thai Poosam festival, the holy flag was hoisted at the famous Periyanayaki Amman Temple here on Friday. The celebrations, which would usually draw close to a million devotees from far and near and from overseas, witnessed less crowd due to restrictions and guidelines in place following the covid-19 pandemic. According to HR&CE officials, 25,000 devotees would be permitted for darshan of the presiding deity through the winch and rope car daily. The devotees should have reservations done online. The highlight of the Thai Poosam celebrations would be the celestial wedding on January 27 at 7.30 p.m. Public holiday With the State government having announced January 27 as a public holiday, devotees have expressed happiness and the crowd was expected to be more on that day. Though there was no exact count on the padayatris coming towards the shrine from various destinations, the police officers have appealed to them to avoid walking during night time. Various people have been offering food to the padayatris enroute at mandahapadis. The temple authorities have been distributing face masks and sanitizers to devotees. The police have installed special towers in at least 12 different locations for effective crowd management. The Thai Poosam celebrations would conclude on January 31. The TNSTC has made elaborate arrangements to operate special buses from many southern and central districts to the shrine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/flag-hoisted-at-palani-temple-for-thai-poosam/article33640226.ece
23 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||BJP looking for a breakthrough in U.T.||The Bharatiya Janata Party expects a few party representatives to get elected to the Legislative Assembly this year. After its only poll win in the 2001 Assembly elections when A. M. Krishnamoorthy won from Reddiarpalayam, victory has remained elusive for its candidates in the recent elections. In fact, the party has fared so poorly that in the last polls only one nominee of the party was able to secure deposit. However, things have changed after the last elections. The direct appointment of three leaders as nominated legislators by the Centre had sparked enthusiasm among the workers as they feel the Union Territory is under the radar of the party’s expansion programmes across the country. Since the appointment of the nominated legislators, the party had undergone several organisational changes with the appointment of booth-level office-bearers, roping in workers from other parties and regularly holding mass campaigns against the ruling Congress. “We are aiming for a reasonable presence in the coming Assembly. You have seen workers of other parties join the party in the last few months but in the coming days you will see leaders of other parties accepting BJP membership,” said a senior leader of the party. BJP in-charge Nirmal Kumar Surana has been making frequent visits to the Union Territory, the latest on Friday, to participate in agitations against the Congress government and discuss organisational matters. Detailed strategy The party has drawn up a detailed strategy for the polls. According to an insider, in the absence of mass leaders, the party was trying to accommodate popular leaders, including those from ruling Congress. As far as alliance for the polls is concerned, the party leader said the pact was almost sealed with the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam but a final call was pending on having a larger alliance that included the principal Opposition party All India N. R. Congress. Contest 12 seats The reason, he said, the party wanted to contest in at least 12 of the 30 seats and bargaining for such a large number would be difficult if it included AINRC. Also, the AINRC had made known its stand clear about having an alliance with the BJP, he said. “We will wait for a few more days. Everything will shape up by the end of this month or by early February,” he added. Party president J. P Nadda is expected to reach Puducherry on January 29 and hold a public rally the next day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-looking-for-a-breakthrough-in-ut/article33640566.ece
23 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Traffic goes haywire due to BJP protest in Puducherry||In the absence of any alternate traffic arrangement or the presence of adequate police forces, the gathering of a large number of BJP cadre to protest against the Congress government caused inconvenience to vehicle users at Indira Gandhi Square. Traffic went haywire at the busy junction on Friday with party workers standing in the middle of the road raising slogans against the Congress government and burning the manifesto of the ruling party to protest against the non-implementation of poll promises. With just a handful of constabulary to regulate vehicle movement, traffic came to a standstill at the junction. Vehicular movement got affected for more than 30 minutes till the agitation ended. Protesters burn materials “Either the police should have made prior arrangements or adequate force should have been deployed to regulate traffic movement. It is baffling to see people burning materials on the road,” said an employee of a nearby bank. Traffic movement was chaotic during the peak time, he added, urging the police to take effective steps during such protests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traffic-goes-haywire-at-indira-gandhi-square/article33640569.ece
23 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Cases drop to 22, no deaths reported in Puducherry||Puducherry added 22 new COVID-19 cases to its overall tally while 27 patients were discharged after they recovered on Friday. No deaths were reported in the Union Territory. The new cases were identified during the testing of 3,342 samples. Puducherry accounted for 12 cases, Mahe eight and Karaikal one. Yanam reported a solitary case after over a week. The test positivity rate was 0.65%, case fatality rate 1.66% and recovery rate 97.58%. The tally is 643 deaths, 294 active cases, a total of 38,794 cases and 37,857 recovered patients. The Health Department has so far tested an estimated 5.50 lakh samples and over 5.07 lakh returned negative. Five fresh cases Cuddalore district reported five fresh cases of COVID-19 on Friday, taking the district’s tally to 24,873. While 24,544 persons have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 28. In Villupuram district, six persons tested positive, taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 15,143. Kallakurichi district reported four positive cases, taking the overall count to 10,866.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cases-drop-to-22-in-puducherry/article33640572.ece
23 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Awareness drive on road safety begins||A month-long awareness drive on road safety kicked off with a two-wheeler rally across the city to emphasise the importance of wearing helmets. Ashok Kumar, Transport Secretary, flagged off the rally taken out by staff of the Transport Department, automobile dealers, bus operators and driving school owners. All the two-wheeler riders were sporting helmets. Transport Commissioner A.S. Sivakumar was among those present. The rally started on Beach Road and passed by Sivaji Statue, Rajiv Gandhi statue, Indira Gandhi Square, the New Bus Stand and Anna Statue before returning to Gandhi Thidal on the beach.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/awareness-drive-on-road-safety-begins/article33640571.ece
23 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry govt. to raise Rs. 250cr.||The government proposes to sell four year dated securities in the form of stock to the public by auction to raise Rs. 250 crore. The auction would be held by the Reserve Bank of India, Mumbai Office (Fort) on Monday, a notification from Shurbir Singh, Finance Secretary said. Interested persons, firms, corporate bodies, institutions, Provident Fund Trusts, Regional Rural Banks and Cooperative Banks can electronically submit a single consolidated non-competitive bid on the RBI’s core banking portal (E-Kuber) on January 25 between 10.30 a.m. and 11 a.m. The competitive bid can also be submitted in the electronic format between 10.30 a.m. and 11.30 a.m. the same day. The result of the auction will be available the same day on the RBI site. The stocks will qualify for ready forward facility, notification said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-government-to-raise-rs-250-crore/article33640263.ece
23 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Counselling for spot admission today||The Pondicherry University Community College has scheduled spot admission counselling for admission to stray vacancies in various UG/Vocational/Diploma courses for Saturday at 10 a.m. Those eligible candidates seeking admission who have not applied earlier online and now desire so may participate in the admission counselling. Candidates are advised to visit the college website pucc.edu.in for details regarding course-wise vacancy, eligibility criteria, fees, norms and guidelines for counselling, the university said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/counselling-for-spot-admission-today/article33640563.ece
23 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘Meeting with President likely next month’||Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Friday said the Rashtrapati Bhavan has communicated to him that the President would not be able to meet the delegation led by him due to prior engagements for the Republic Day celebrations. “We hope to meet the President in the first week of next month. The same delegation will meet the President, seeking the recall of Lt Governor,” he told The Hindu over phone. The Chief Minister, Minister for Social Welfare M. Kandasamy and Minister for Power R. Kamalakannan had gone to Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/meeting-with-president-likely-next-month/article33640567.ece
23 January 2021||Rajapalayam,TAMIL NADU||Youth dies after getting injection for fever||A 23-year-old man, M. Mukesh, who went to the Cooperative Hospital at Dhalavaipuram for cold and fever, died a few minutes after he was administered an injection on Thursday night. Police said that the resident of A.K.G. Nagar had gone to the hospital around 8 p.m. After he developed nausea and started vomiting on administration of the injection, he was rushed to the Government Hospital here. However, he was declared brought dead. Dhalavaipuram police have registered a case. The body was handed over to the family members on Friday after a post-mortem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-dies-after-getting-injection-for-fever/article33640236.ece
23 January 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Sethu Samudram project will be revived, says Kanimozhi||DMK MP and senior leader M. K. Kanimozhi said that the Sethu Samudram project would be revived if the DMK came back to power. Speaking to reporters at a senior party functionary's residence here on Friday, she said that not only the Sethu Samudram, but any other project that was good for the people, would be revived. The AIADMK and the BJP at the Centre should have completed the project. “Just because, it was conceived when the DMK and the then UPA were in power, the present rulers have given it a burial. The noon meal scheme was established by Kamaraj in Tamil Nadu. When Karunanidhi came to power, he not only enhanced the scheme, but also took it up for more students and across the State”, Ms. Kanimozhi said. Parties may and go, but the schemes and projects, implemented for the benefit of the people should continue, she said. At the ‘makkal sabhai’, she said that the DMK would come to power and M. K. Stalin, at the helm, would give the best governance to the people, she said. Desalination plant She further added that though the desalination plant in Ramanathapuram district was established during Karunanidhi’s regime, the subsequent government had miserably failed and the poor upkeep had led to the project going useless. “Kindly be patient for about 100 days, the DMK will ensure both livelihoods and revive projects which were dumped by the AIADMK,” she added. Advertisements in media She charged that the government had emptied the coffers by taking huge loans and giving full page advertisements in newspapers and the electronic media claiming that Tamil Nadu was on top of the table in achievements. The government and the Collectors in the districts were not giving Old Age Pensions to new applicants as they claimed that there was no money, but the AIADMK government has been spending crores of rupees on advertisements. “But misleading the people through cheap means will not work this time”, she cautioned. Starting her campaign from Kannirajapuram, where she met a delegation of workers from the palm sector, she interacted with womenfolk at Sayalkudi, Melachevvanur, Mudukalathur, Paramakudi and addressed a public meeting at Chatrakudi. She also met a delegation of weavers, brick kiln workers and self-help-group members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sethu-samudram-project-will-be-revived-kanimozhi/article33640240.ece
23 January 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Assessment of crop damage in Ramanathapuram under way||The district, which normally received 48.50 mm rainfall in January, had received 247.30 mm till January 20, said TN Agriculture Director V. Dakshinamoorthy here on Friday. Speaking to reporters, he said that the unseasonal rainfall had damaged the crops and also resulted inundation in many areas. After inspecting a few spots in R S Mangalam, Nainarkoil and other panchayats, accompanied by District Collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver and other officials, he said that the district had raised paddy and other crops in about 87,000 hectares. Assessement on the damages was under way by the field officers. He hoped to get the survey completed by January 29 and submit reports to the government after which the exact relief would be made known. Many farmers claimed that they had lost all the crop and pleaded to be given Rs. 30,000 as compensation per acre. Mr. Dakshinamoorthy said that he would take it up with the government. In many villages, the farmers said that the crops, which were ready for harvest were completely submerged under water. “There is no way, we can drain the water and the paddy has submerged totally”, the farmers said. At a review meeting held at the Collectorate, Mr. Dakshinamoorthy held discussions with officials concerned on the assessment made so far on paddy, millets, cotton and other crops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/assessment-of-crop-damage-in-ramanathapuram-under-way/article33640228.ece
23 January 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 10 lakh given to kin of fishermen from CM’s Public Relief Fund||Presenting a cheque of Rs. 10 lakh each issued from the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund to the families of four fishermen here on Friday, Collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver said that the State government would also take steps to bring back the bodies from Sri Lanka. The Collector, accompanied by MLA M Manikandan visited the houses of the four fishermen - Mesiya son of Anthony Raj, Nagaraj son of Vellaichami of Vattamvalasai, Senthil Kumar son of Selvam of Thathanendal and Samson Darwin son of Nixon Darwin of Mandapam Refugee Camp. The four fishermen, who had obtained tokens on January 18, had ventured into the sea for fishing. They should have returned to the shores on January 19. However, initially, there were reports that they were missing. When about six fishermen went in search of them, they got information that the four fishermen had died and the Sri Lankan Navy personnel had retrieved the bodies. They had also charged that the fishermen’s mechanised boat had damaged a surveillance ship of the Lankan Navy. Condemning the deaths of the four fishermen as brutal murder, fishermen association leader S. R. Sesu Raja has demanded the Centre and State governments to register criminal cases against the Sri Lankan Navy personnel. He urged the governments to bring back the bodies to Tamil Nadu and conduct a postmortem in the presence of government doctors. Members belonging to the fishermen association also staged an agitation at Thangachimadam demanding compensation and job for the legal heirs of the four fishermen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-10-lakh-given-to-kin-of-fishermen-from-cms-public-relief-fund/article33640238.ece
23 January 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Centre in touch with Sri Lanka: Union Minister||Giriraj Singh, Union Minister for Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying, who held discussions with Collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver and other officials from the Fisheries and Animal Husbandry Departments, here on Friday told reporters that the Centre was in touch with the counterparts in Sri Lanka and soon the modalities would be made known on the bringing of the four bodies here. The Minister interacted with the fishermen leaders and representatives about the situation and expressed grief over the demise of the four fishermen. Earlier in Manamadurai, the Minister said the aim of the Central government was to increase a family’s income to a minimum of Rs. 20,000 through seaweed business. He was speaking after visiting the seaweed processing unit of Aqua Agri, a private company, at Manamadurai. He said that the Prime Minister had introduced several schemes to improve the income of fishermen community. He said that currently around 6,000 tonnes of seaweed from Manamadurai is used for producing food products and medicines. By increasing it to 6 lakh tonnes more job opportunities can be created. Currently, natural fertiliser is being produced from seaweed. In Punjab, farmers who cultivate paddy and wheat, use chemical fertilisers. The use of chemical fertilisers increase the risk of cancer. Hence, there is a need to promote natural fertiliser manufactured from seaweed, he added. District Collector P. Madhusudhan Reddy was also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centre-in-touch-with-sri-lanka-union-minister/article33640241.ece
23 January 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Salem Town Police Station ranked the best in State||The Salem Town Police Station has been ranked the best in Tamil Nadu for the year 2019. Following audits in various levels, the station scored 5,558 marks in the assessment. According to police officials, stations across the State were being assessed on about 20-25 areas and the Salem Town Police Station with Inspector B. Kumar scored top marks in the State. Senior police officials assessed and conducted audits at the Station. Police officials here said the station was assessed in areas such as computerisation of files and cases, crime detection, arrests in POCSO cases, arrests and prevention of sale of prohibition items such as lottery tickets, drugs, conviction in cases, road safety, speedy disposal of cases, proper maintenance of records and others. The officials said there would be negative marks as well if any official at the station had faced suspension or any disciplinary action. Deputy Police Commissioner M. Chandrashekaran said the station had performed well in various areas and its success would inspire other stations here. The Inspector of the Station is expected to be receive the trophy and certificates from the Chief Minister during Republic Day ceremony.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-town-police-station-ranked-the-best-in-state/article33640260.ece
23 January 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||A trusty sewing machine and the will to serve||After nearly a lifetime of hard work and taking care of her family, no one would have grudged Saroja some well-deserved time off during the pandemic. But that is not her style. At 81, A. Saroja did not want any change in her hectic routine — to keep herself engaged, she stitched masks and distributed them to the needy for free. The wrinkles of age on her face are not a true reflection of the challenges that Saroja has overcome. She trusted her sewing machine that has been with her for nearly six decades and set to work. A helping hand “Many people, poor people, from the neighbourhood would visit me to get some stitching work done, and they would cover their face with saris while I had a mask to cover my face. That was when I decided to stitch masks and distribute them for free,” Ms. Saroja said. “Initially, we distributed about 1,000 food packets to the needy in the locality and we used to distribute ‘kabasura kudineer’ too. But we stopped after the government introduced restrictions on food distribution. I’m someone who needs to keep myself engaged, I need to keep working,” she says. “That’s when I took up stitching of masks for the needy.” She has stitched and distributed over 5,000 masks, and continues making them even today. Ms. Saroja was born near Mettur in the 1940s, and was married at the age of 13. Her husband A. Angamuthu worked for the Railways and retired as a goods guard. He died in 1997. She lost two of her eight children — her third and seventh daughters — to different health conditions. A constant It was the sewing machine that stood her in good stead. Her brother bought it for her in the 1960s, and it has accompanied her wherever the family travelled. Though it now has a motor attached, she still prefers the leg pedal. Though she is 81, Ms. Saroja does not need a pair of spectacles to thread the needle; her family says she remains free from any lifestyle disease. A. Vasantha, her eldest daughter, recalls, “Even during my childhood days, my mother used to spend hours stitching on the machine. Before she got the machine, she used to work on the ‘charkha’. Her son Natarajan’s wife N. Poonkudi says Ms. Saroja does not like snacks or sweets from shops and chooses to make them at home. She says no scrap or discarded cloth is left at home now that all have been converted into masks. A big proponent of education, Ms. Saroja says, “It is the only immovable asset.” She tells youngsters to help the needy in whatever way possible.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-trusty-sewing-machine-and-the-will-to-serve/article33640084.ece
23 January 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Fishermen at Thoothukudi harbour strike work||Fishermen of Thoothukudi Fishing Harbour struck work on Friday in protest against allowing three mechanized boats to leave the harbour following unsavoury incidents. When owners of the three mechanised boats, operating from Thoothukudi Fishing Harbour, decided to shift their boats to their native place at Tharuvaikulam near here where a fishing habour has been established by the government, a section of the Thoothukudi-based 245 mechanised boat owners opposed it, saying that “it would create problems”. Against this backdrop, owners of the three mechanised boats shifted their boats to Tharuvaikulam recently. Opposing it, a group of fishermen, who struck work on Friday, staged a demonstration in front of the Office of Joint Director of Fisheries and said the boats should not be allowed to use trawl nets. After submitting a petition to JD, Fisheries (In-Charge) Deepa, they left the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fishermen-strike-work/article33640242.ece
23 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||50 fresh cases in central region||The central districts on Friday recorded 50 fresh cases of COVID-19. The region recorded no COVID-related death, according to the bulletin released by the Department of Health and Family Welfare. All districts in the region reported less than 15 fresh cases. Tiruchi reported 13 fresh COVID-19 cases for the viral infection. Among the patients were isolated asymptomatic cases, senior health officials in the region said. “The total active cases in the district are less than 80. We are witnessing a gradual decrease,” they said. Four patients who had been undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital were discharged after recovering from the viral infection. Nagapattinam reported 10 cases while Tiruvarur reported eight. In Thanjavur, seven fresh cases were reported while both Karur and Ariyalur reported an equal number of cases with five patients testing positive. Among them were local index cases and patients with symptoms of Influenza-Like Illnesses and Severe Acute Respiratory Illnesses. Among the patients who tested positive in Karur were inter-district travellers from Chennai. In Pudukottai, two fresh cases were reported, while in Perambalur, no fresh case was reported for another consecutive day. Meanwhile, a total of 221 throat swabs were lifted from people with COVID-19 symptoms and primary contacts and sent to the microbiology laboratory for processing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/50-fresh-cases-in-central-region/article33640212.ece
23 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Survey on to finalise location for excavation||The State Department of Archaeology has commenced a field survey to identify potential locations for excavation at Gangaikondacholapuram-Maligaimedu and surrounding villages in Ariyalur district. The survey comes in the wake of the decision of the department to launch excavations at seven more sites in the State. Excavations would be carried out in Keeladi and surrounding areas in Sivaganga district, Adichanallur and surrounding areas, Sivakalai and surrounding areas and Korkai and surrounding areas in Thoothukudi district, Kodumanal in Erode district, Mayiladumparai in Krishnagiri district as well as Gangaikondacholapuram and Maligaimedu in Ariyalur district, T.Udayachandran, Principal Secretary and Commissioner of the Department, had said recently. According to sources, the excavations are likely to commence simultaneously at all the seven sites next month and the projects are to be inaugurated by Chief Minister Edappadi K.Palaniswami. Ahead of the commencement of the excavation, a three-member team of the department, comprising R.Sivanandam, Deputy Director, and M.Prabakaran and K.Bagyalakshmi, Archaeological Officers, arrived at Gangaikondacholapuram on Thursday to begin the survey to identify the potential locations for excavation. On Friday, an agency authorised by the Institute of Remote Sensing of the Anna University joined the officials with drone and thermal cameras to conduct the survey. Experts from Central University of Tamil Nadu would join the team on Saturday with ground penetrating radar system to take up more investigations. “The exercise will go on till Sunday or Monday. Based on the report of the teams, we will finalise the exact location to carry out the excavation,” Mr.Sivanandam said. He pointed out that excavations had been done at the site on smaller scale on six occasions previously when portions of the Rajendra Chola’s palace were unearthed. “We are now looking to take up exploration on a larger scale to find out more about the palace, the city and its streets, water management system etc.,” Mr.Sivanandam said. Gangaikondacholapuram was established by King Rajendra Chola I (1012-1044 CE) after his victorious expedition up to the Gangetic plains. Excavations conducted earlier at Maligaimedu had revealed the remains of a royal palace. Antiques and other items found in the excavations are on display at a museum at Gangaikondacholapuram. Mr.Sivanandam indicated that the study would not be confined to the palace, but also cover nearby areas such as the Ayudhakalam to look for possible remains of iron implements and Meikavalputhur to trace the habitat of bodyguards. “We will also try and find out whether there was any paleochannel from the Kollidam to Cholagangam (a massive lake built by Rajendra Chola),” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/survey-on-to-finalise-location-for-excavation/article33640222.ece
23 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination drive for railway workers||The COVID-19 vaccination drive for railway health care workers of Tiruchi commenced at the Divisional Railway Hospital at Ponmalai here on Thursday. The vaccine was administered to the Chief Medical Superintendent R. Soundararajan and 69 workers like doctors, nurses, paramedical staff, housekeeping attendants and pharmacists. The hospital here has been nominated as the COVID-19 vaccination centre for railway employees. It has been provided with 20 vials - each containing 10 doses of the vaccine. A total of 409 workers have been identified in the city. The vaccine would be administered only to those who express their willingness. An anaesthetist and a physician have been kept on a standby with one ventilator as a precautionary measure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-drive-for-railway-workers/article33640213.ece
23 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Woman found dead||T. Rajeswari, 23, wife of Thavasi, 27, was found dead at her house at Sengulathan Koil Street in Thillai Nagar police station limits here on Friday. The couple have a four-year-old male child and a two-and-half-year-old female kid. She was found dead by her mother Kaliammal, who found the house of her daughter bolted from outside. Thavasi, who worked as a parotta master in an eatery, had loved Rajeswari and married her but the couple had some problem for some time. The body was sent to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital for post mortem. The police have registered a case of suspicious death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-found-dead/article33640216.ece
23 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||19 bus passengers injured||Nineteen passengers were injured after a tourist bus, carrying a group of 37 persons on a pilgrimage from Hosur to Tirunallar, overturned near Gunaseelam on Friday. The driver apparently lost control at a turning and the vehicle plunged into a small dry canal and overturned. The injured passengers were taken to the government hospitals at Musiri and Srirangam for treatment. The Vathalai Police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/19-bus-passengers-injured/article33640215.ece
23 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Survey of birds to be taken up||Forest Department officials in association with 30 volunteers of Act for Butterflies will conduct a survey of birds and butterflies on Saturday and Sunday in the four ranges of Tiruchi, Thuvarankurichi, Manapparai and Thuraiyur in the district, District Forest Officer D. Sujatha said. Two teams would carry out the survey in each range besides in the Tropical Butterfly Conservatory at Srirangam, says Mohan Prasath, founder, Act for Butterflies. The teams would cover wetlands, reserve forests, scrub jungles, lakes and other areas armed with binoculars and cameras. It would be a dawn to dusk exercise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/survey-of-birds-to-be-taken-up/article33640214.ece
23 January 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 5 lakh compensation for woman who died during delivery at PHC||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has directed the Tamil Nadu Government to give a compensation of Rs. 5 lakh to a man whose wife and her male child died during delivery conducted at an upgraded Primary Health Centre (PHC). When Suresh of Nambithoppu near Thirukkurunkudi in the district took his pregnant wife Akhila, 26, to the upgraded PHC at Thirukkurungudi after she developed labour pain at around 3.45 p.m. on June 8, 2019, they found there was no doctor. Hence nurse Bindhu Metilda and ANM Udhayasooriyan examined the woman. As Akhila suffered ecessive bleeding she breathed her last around 8.15 p.m. Block Medical Officer Kalaiarasi and Assistant Surgeon Jenifer, who examined Akhila, declared her and the baby dead. The bodies were sent for a post-mortem even as the relatives alleged medical negligence and protested demanding action against the doctors, nurse and others in the PHC for “miserably failing to save the young mother and the baby”. They also submitted petition to the Collector seeking action against the “erring personnel of the PHC” and due compensation. After the incident was reported in the media, the SHRC called for a detailed report from Health Secretary and the Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, Chennai, who directed the Deputy Director of Health Services, Tirunelveli, to conduct an inquiry and submit a report. Subsequently, the District Comprehensive Emergency Obstetric and Newborn Care Committee, comprising six medical officers conducted an inquiry and submitted a report while the Special Maternal Death Audit Committee also submitted a separate inquiry report. Based on these reports, Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine submitted a report to the SHRC. In the report, Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine admitted that there was a failure to recognize the “obstructed labour” on time by Mr. Udhayasooriyan, ANM, PHC, Thirukkurunkudi, who conducted the delivery along with Ms. Bindhu Metilda, nurse. Moreover, neither Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine nor the Deputy Director of Health Services, Tirunelveli, had pinpointed in their reports the person responsible for the death of Akhila and the newborn baby. And, the reason for the death of the mother and the son was also not cited in the report. Dr. Kalaiarasi maintained that she had gone for a meeting convened by the Deputy Director of Health Services, Tirunelveli, on that day and she received information about Akhila only after she gave birth to the baby and succumbed to bleeding. SHRC member D. Jayachandran said Assistant Surgeon Jenifer who should have been available on call between 4 p.m. and 9 p.m., had failed to attend Akhila while the staff nurse, the ANM and the village health nurse cannot be held responsible for the death. The doctors arrived at the PHC only around 8.15 p.m. and found the mother and the baby were dead. “It proves the medical negligence of Block Medical Officer Kalaiarasi and Assistant Surgeon Jenifer. Hence, the Tamil Nadu Government, on behalf of Dr. Kalaiarasi and Dr. Jenifer should give a compensation of Rs. 5 lakh to Suresh, husband of Akhila and take disciplinary action against the erring doctors for medical negligence. Besides providing proper training to everyone in the primary health centres in handling pregnant women and conducting deliveries, the Department of Public Health should ensure quality medical care in the PHCs,” Mr. Jayachandran said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-5-lakh-compensation-for-woman-who-died-during-delivery-at-phc/article33640229.ece
23 January 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Tirunelveli sees unprecedented rainfall this January||The district, which enjoyed unexpected and unseasonal rainfall in January this year, has received unprecedented rainfall during this period. Though the district’s western parts close to the Western Ghats and the catchment areas of the major reservoirs such as Manimuthar and Papanasam dams would get significant rainfall during southwest monsoon, the northeast monsoon between October and December decides the fate of district’s agriculture activities and the productivity. When the northeast monsoon, after belied southwest monsoon this year, started only in November instead of mid-October, the farmers were quite disappointed and more than 60% of the paddy farmers did not start the preliminary works like raising nursery as they feared that the northeast monsoon too would let them down this year. Only after the rains started in November and gathered some momentum towards the end of the month, paddy growers in Ambasamudram and Cheranmahadevi areas raised nurseries with the hope that the water available in the dams would bail them out. More farmers joined them in December as the areas close to the Western Ghats got drenched at regular intervals in the last month of the calendar year. Similarly, only farmers having their ranches close to the Tamirabharani watercourse and near the systemized irrigation tanks in Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi districts decided to cultivate paddy even as water level in the Papanasam Dam reached 142 feet against its maximum capacity of 143 feet towards end of December. The New Year brought good rainfall in Papanasam dam area by recording 95 mm rainfall on January 1. Consequently, the water managers had to open the floodgates of the reservoir that has already reached the maximum capacity. After moderate rainfall in the range of 30 mm or 40 mm was recorded till January 10, the downpour ensured decent influx of water into the Papanasam and Manimuthar Dams. The unprecedented precipitation that started in from January 11 redefined the rainfall pattern of Tirunelveli this year. After recording the rainfall of 185 mm on January 13, the Papanasam Dam was blessed with 178 mm rainfall within the next 24 hours. Similarly, Manimuthar Dam, where the water level was steadily raising after the decent rainfall since January 1, had the precipitation of 165 mm on January 13 and 162 mm in January 14 to reach its maximum capacity of 118 feet. Even as both the major dams were overflowing, the dams of Tenkasi district, especially Gadana and Ramanadhi too reached the maximum capacity. As four dams overflowed simultaneously on the day of ‘Pongal’, the Tamirbharani was in spate and the officials - right from the Collector to the Village Administrative Officers - were on the streets to shift the people from vulnerable areas to the relief centres. And, this meticulous exercise ensured no rain-related fatality in the district. In January alone this year, Papanasam Dam has recorded the rainfall of 723 mm between January 1 and 22 while Manimuthar had the precipitation of 638.40 mm during this period. Rainfall in the district between January 1 and 22 (in mm; in brackets rainfall in January 2020): Papanasam – 723 (28), Manimuthar Dam – 638.40 (19.80), Ambasamudram – 444.50 (32.50), Cheranmahadevi – 296.80 (10), Palayamkottai – 208 (4), Tirunelveli – 170 (2), Radhapuram – 161 (Nil) and Nanguneri – 157 (Nil).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tirunelveli-sees-unprecedented-rainfall-this-january/article33640617.ece
23 January 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||NDA will retain power in T.N., says BJP||BJP national secretary in-charge of Tamil Nadu C.T. Ravi on Friday expressed confidence that the AIADMK-led NDA would retain power in the State after the Assembly elections. Addressing journalists in Tirunelveli, he said the BJP was according highest priority to the Assembly polls in Tamil Nadu. Development works to the tune of Rs. 5.10 lakh crore were going on with the Central funding. Claiming that the BJP was strong enough to field candidates in all 234 Assembly constituencies, he said the party had categorised the constituencies from ‘A’ to ‘C’, based on its winning prospects with ‘C’ category denoting ‘weak’. “While BJP has decent number of ‘A’ category segments where the party’s success is guaranteed, we have to work hard to strengthen the party in the ‘B’ category,” said Mr. Ravi who refused to name the ‘A’ category constituencies. Asked if the release of V. K. Sasikala, former aide of late AIADMK leader Jayalalithaa from prison would have any impact on the political alliance in Tamil Nadu, he said: “Wait and see”. BJP state president L. Murugan said the party, which was strengthening its booth committees, had set a target of enrolling 10 lakh members within the next 100 days. While party national president J. P. Nadda would come to Madurai on January 30 to discuss poll preparations, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh would participate in the BJP’s youth wing conference to be held in Salem on February 6. BJP women’s wing conference would be organised at Rameswaram on February 14, he said. Addressing a meeting of party cadres, Mr. Murugan hinted that the BJP would field its candidate in Tirunelveli Assembly constituency. “Our candidate should get elected from Tirunelveli to the Assembly,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nda-will-retain-power-in-tamil-nadu-says-bjp/article33640244.ece
23 January 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||NDA will retain power in Tamil Nadu: C.T. Ravi||BJP national secretary in-charge of Tamil Nadu, C.T. Ravi, on Friday expressed confidence that the AIADMK-led NDA will retain power in the State after the Assembly election. Addressing journalists in Tirunelveli, he said the BJP was according highest priority to the upcoming Assembly election in Tamil Nadu. Development works to the tune of Rs. 5.10 lakh crore were being carried out with Central funding, he said. Claiming that the BJP was strong enough to field candidates in all the 234 Assembly constituencies, he said the party had categorised the constituencies from ‘A’ to ‘C’ based on its winning prospects, with ‘C’ denoting ‘weak’ prospects. “While BJP has a decent number of ‘A’ category segments where the party’s success is guaranteed, we have to work hard to strengthen the party in the ‘B’ category,” said Mr. Ravi, while refusing to name the ‘A’-category constituencies. Asked if the release of V.K. Sasikala, former aide of late AIADMK leader Jayalalithaa, from prison would have any impact on the political alliance in Tamil Nadu, he said, “Wait and see”. BJP state president L. Murugan said the party, which was strengthening its booth committees, had set a target of enrolling 10 lakh members within the next 100 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nda-will-retain-power-in-tamil-nadu-c-t-ravi/article33640267.ece
23 January 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Farmers on hunger strike meet Sub-Collector||The farmers who are on a hunger strike demanding adequate release of water in the Vellakoil branch canal under the Parambikulam-Aliyar Project (PAP) met Dharapuram Sub-Collector Pavankumar G. Giriyappanavar to submit their grievances. P. Velusamy, member of PAP-Vellakoil Branch Canal Water Protection Committee that organised the protest, said that the hunger strike by 25 farmers entered the fourth day on Friday as their demands were not accepted during the meeting. The Committee also attempted to take out a rally in Kangeyam, but were prevented by the police, Mr. Velusamy said. The protest began on Tuesday alleging that the Public Works Department was releasing water into the branch canal for only three days a month, as against the 14 days mentioned in the Parambikulam-Aliyar Project (Regulation of Water Supply) Rules. The water being released is insufficient for 48,000 acres in Kangeyam and Vellakoil Blocks, they claimed. On Thursday, BJP State president of Agricultural Wing G.K. Nagaraj visited the farmers at the protest site. Mr. Giriyappanavar told The Hindu on Friday that the officials from the District Administration and the PWD were discussing on resolving the issues faced by the farmers. “We are optimistic that they will drop the protest and help us in sorting out their grievances,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-on-hunger-strike-meet-sub-collector/article33640133.ece
23 January 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||‘Tamers must undergo COVID-19 test 72 hours before jallikattu’||The tamers participating in the Alagumalai jallikattu on January 31 must undergo COVID-19 test 72 hours before the day of the event as only those who test negative will be allowed to participate, said Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan on Friday. He chaired a coordination committee meeting in the presence of Superintendent of Police Disha Mittal at the Collectorate. In a press release, Mr. Vijayakarthikeyan said that personal distancing norms must be ensured at the galleries and other locations where the spectators tend to crowd to watch the sport. Apart from the tamers, all officials involved in the event as well as its organisers must submit COVID-19 negative certificate. The number of tamers must not exceed 300 and they must be registered a week prior to the event. Similarly, the bulls and its owners must also register. The Alagumalai Jallikattu Bulls Welfare Association, which organises the event, will be responsible to ensure that no performance enhancing drugs or irritants are given to the bulls. The organisers must also ensure that the tamers only hold the hump of the bulls and not the horns, tails or legs, which would lead to their disqualification. CCTV cameras must be fixed at the bull holding area and collection area, the release said. Officials from the Animal Husbandry Department must ensure the bulls do not have mutilated ears or fractured tails. The bulls must be allowed to rest for 20 minutes before they are brought to the arena. The PWD entrusted with setting up the galleries for the spectators must ensure setting up of double barricading and emergency exits, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jallikattu-arrangements-discussed/article33640125.ece
23 January 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore records 14 new cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 20,634 with 14 new cases reported on Friday. While a total of 20,161 have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 126. The district's death toll is 347. In Ranipet district, three cases were reported positive taking the tally to 16,064. In Tirupattur district, the total number of positive cases stood at 7,546 with three new cases on Friday. In Tiruvannamalai district, eight new cases were reported, taking the total number of cases to 19,323. Out of this, 19,004 persons have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 36.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-records-14-new-cases/article33640624.ece
23 January 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 1.08 cr. compensation given to 953 farmers in Virudhunagar district||Compensation to the tune of Rs. 1.08 crore to 953 farmers whose crops were damaged on 548.043 hectares of land due to Cyclone Burevi has been disbursed in Virudhunagar district, said Collector R. Kannan. Speaking at the virtual farmers’ grievances redressal meeting held on Friday, Mr. Kannan, said that the Department of Agriculture had given Rs. 24.75 lakh to 246 farmers who had lost their crops on 129.755 hectares. Similarly, the Department of Horticulture, had given a compensation of Rs. 83.65 lakh to 707 farmers for damages to crops in over 48.288 hectares. Joint Director (Agriculture), S. Uthandaraman, clarified that the compensation had come from Disaster Management Fund and the compensation for the insured crops would come later. Besides, assessment of crops that has been damaged due to northeast monsoon was under way. Village administrative officers have been asked not to reject any of the applications seeking compensation, the Collector said. Meanwhile, Tamilaga Vivasayigal Sangam leader N. A. Ramachandra Raja, said that special camps for assessment of damaged crops should be extended as lot of farmers were unaware of the three-day camp held across the district. He also wanted the Collector to order diversion of sugarcane to other sugar factories in the State as Dharani Sugar Mill at Vasudevanallur has not commenced crushing. However, the officials clarified that the crushing would start at Dharani Sugar Mill by March first week. The farmers also sought conduct of the grievances redressal meeting at the Collectorate as usual instead of virtual meet. They pointed out that all other activities, including political meetings have been permitted. District Revenue Officer R. Mangalaramasubramanian, Personal Assistance (Agriculture) to Collector Sankar S. Narayanan, Joint Registrar (Cooperative), Dilipkumar, Joint Director (Animal Husbandry), Arunachalakani, were among those who took part in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-108-cr-compensation-given-to-953-farmers-in-virudhunagar-district/article33640243.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||One death, 55 cases in Coimbatore||The 55 fresh COVID-19 cases reported in Coimbatore district on Friday took the overall tally to 53,918. The district reported one death. An 83-year-old man undergoing treatment for the viral disease died at the ESI Hospital and the district’s toll rose to 666. According to the Health Department, there are as many as 514 active cases in the district. A total of 68 patients were on Friday discharged from various treatment centres. On Friday, 997 frontline workers were vaccinated across Coimbatore district, the Health Department said. Tiruppur district reported 29 fresh cases, and the overall tally rose to 17,668. No deaths were reported in the district. As many as 17,279 patients have recovered and 169 were active cases. On Friday, 40 persons were discharged from various treatment centres. The Health Department said that 353 frontline workers were vaccinated in Tiruppur district on Friday. The Nilgiris Two persons tested positive for COVID-19 in the Nilgiris on Friday. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stood at 8,137. Forty-nine persons are under treatment in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-death-55-cases-in-coimbatore/article33640134.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Erode reports 9 COVID-19 cases||Erode district reported nine new COVID-19 cases, taking the district’s tally to 14,168. While 22 persons were discharged, 124 persons continue to be under treatment. Sale district saw 12 cases of which 11 cases were indigenous. One patient returned from Namakkal. A teacher handling middle classes at the Government Girls Higher Secondary School in Kottai here tested positive. However, authorities said the teacher did not take classes for students and was at school only for administrative purposes. Seven teachers, who were in contact with the patient, had been advised to be in quarantine. In Namakkal, 12 cases were reported, two patients returned from Karaikal and Salem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-reports-9-covid-19-cases/article33640251.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Video of elephant emerges, two arrested||The video shows the elephant running into the forest, howling in pain. The people watching the incident are heard shouting, “Go. Go into the forest and die.” The elephant, which was injured in December, died on January 19, shortly after it was captured by the Forest Department in a last-ditch effort at treatment at the Theppakadu Elephant Camp. The incident is said to have occurred at a private residence-cum-homestay in the buffer zone of the MTR. Officials said they arrested two persons, identified as S. Prasath, 36, of Masinagudi, and M. Raymond Dean, 28, of Mavanallah. Forest Department officials are on the lookout for Raymond’s brother, Ricky Rayan, 31. Forest Department officials said Dean and Rayan were the owners of the property, while Prasath was the person seen in the video hurling the flaming object at the elephant. Conservationists in the Nilgiris have voiced dismay. “The elephant was known to enter human habitations very frequently,” one of them said. N. Mohanraj, a conservationist, said the video made it clear there was premeditation to injure or kill the elephant. “All the people responsible for the animal’s death need to be arrested. This is a tragic loss of life that could have easily been avoided.” N. Sadiq Ali, founder of the Wildlife and Nature Conservation Trust, said the incident was a reaction to the notification of the elephant corridor in the MTR buffer zone. “The notification has further polarised the opinion of people, especially resort and homestay owners, against wildlife. The MTR staff strength needs to be bolstered, while there should be cooperation between the Forest Department, the police and local NGOs to increase patrolling and prevent such interactions,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2-held-after-video-of-attack-on-elephant-emerges/article33640081.ece
23 January 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Murdered over property||A farmer was killed, the police said, by his relatives over a long-standing property dispute in Loni-Khurd village near Indi in Vijayapura district on Friday. Machchendra Patagar (55) was hacked to death by a group of people in his farm. He was dead before his neighbours could reach the spot and shift him to hospital. A case has been registered in the Indi Police Station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/murdered-over-property-dispute/article33640276.ece
23 January 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||R-Day celebrations||Sanskar Bharti will celebrate Republic Day and Makara Sankranti at the IMER Auditorium in Belagavi at 6.30 p.m. on Sunday. Rajesh Kumar Maurya, director of Sambra Airport, will speak. Pandit Rajprabhu Dhotre, Hindustani Classical singer, will perform. Students will compete in a patriotic song singing competition. Marathi play, Mol Swatantrache, will be staged. Women will distribute home-made Sankranti sweets. Entry is free, said a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/r-day-celebrations/article33640275.ece
23 January 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Over 100 vaccinated||A COVID-19 vaccination drive was carried out at SBG Ayurvedic Medical College and Hospital in Belagavi on Friday. Over 100 frontline COVID warriors were vaccinated on the college campus. S.B. Ghatage, president of the college committee, District Health Officer Shashikant Munyal, B.N. Tukkar, DSO, principal S.V. Gaddihallishetti, vice-principal Adivesh Arakeri, and teachers and staff were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/over-100-vaccinated/article33640277.ece
23 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Students forced to travel long distances to attend classes||First-year students pursuing undergraduate and postgraduate programmes, particularly those from rural areas, are finding it difficult to attend classes on campus as hostels run by the Minorities Department and the Backward Classes Welfare Department (BCWD) have yet to call for applications. Ever since physical classes for intermediate semesters began on January 16, many students have been spending over two hours travelling to their colleges as they do not have alternative accommodation nearby. “With all this travelling to and from the campus, we are missing the first lectures,” said a student. Others are continuing with online classes until applications for hostels open. A first-year student enrolled in the postgraduate centre at Vijayanagara Sri Krishnadevaraya University, Ballari, pointed out that he had to travel 140 km every day from his village in Kushtagi taluk to the PG centre. “I have to leave home as early as 6 a.m. to get to the college on time. It is risky travelling such long distances during the pandemic. I do not want to put my health at risk. At the same time, I want to attend classes. How can colleges and varsities reopen without hostels opening up for first-year students?” he asked. Another student, who wants to apply to a BCM hostel and studies at the Dakshina Bharat Hindi Prachar Sabha’s Law College, Koppal, said that the pandemic had acted as an impediment to those who want to pursuehigher education. “Many students will be forced to drop out if hostel facility is not provided at the earliest,” he said. Amaresh Kadaga, State president, Students’ Federation of India, said that this was a hardship faced by students across the State. The federation has raised the issue with the authorities, urging them to admit first-year students into hostels immediately. “If the departments do not act quickly, we will carry out a State-wide agitation,” he said. A senior official of the Higher Education Department said that while hostels run by the Social Welfare Department were admitting students, those run by minorities and BCWD were yet to open admissions to their hostels. “We will pursue the matter with the departments and ensure that students are admitted at the earliest,” the official said.  If the departments do not act quickly, we will carry out a State-wide agitation: Amaresh Kadaga, State President, Students’ Federation of India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/students-forced-to-travel-long-distances-to-attend-classes/article33640041.ece
23 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Surya Kiran and Sarang to be the highlight||The integrated air display of Surya Kiran and Sarang of Indian Air Force (IAF) will be the highlight of the 13th Aero India show, which starts on February 3, at Yelahanka air force base. The event is the first global air show during the COVID-19 pandemic. The combination of Surya Kiran’s BAE Hawk Mk 132 and Sarang’s Advanced Light Helicopter Dhruv will be seen for the first time. This edition is expected to see reduced participation in both air display and static display in comparison with earlier editions. “The two teams so far have performed individually. The coming together of IAF’s two aerobatic teams will be the highlight of this year’s air show,” Air Commodore Shailendra Sood, Air Officer-Commanding of the Yelahanka Training Command, said on Friday. The normal five-day event has been reduced to three days, with public not being allowed. In all, about 42 aircraft would be taking part in the flying display, which include Dakota, Light Combat Aircraft (LCA) and Su-30Mk1 besides MI-17, Light Combat Helicopter, Embraer and C-17 Globemaster, the military transport aircraft. “The Chinook helicopter is also likely to be part of the air display,” Air Commodore Sood said. ‘Situation is dynamic’ So far, confirmation has come for 63 aircraft to be displayed in the static area. “In both flying display and static display, the number of aircraft participating will be known by the end of the month. It is a dynamic situation. So far, for the flying display 11 foreign aircraft have registered,” he added. The newly inducted Rafael will be part of the inaugural fly past. A senior officer said, “Because of the COVID-19 fears, situation is very fluid. Some companies had come forward but have not confirmed. A clear situation will emerge by next week.” The participation has been capped to 15,000 visitors to the exhibition area and 3,000 people to the air display area owing to COVID-19 restrictions As part of the security drill, the State government will prohibit flying of drones in a 100-km radius of the venue. The Indian Air Force will deploy 2 AN-32 and 2 MI-17 helicopters for casualty evacuation, and Su-30Mk1 and MI-17 helicopters as part of a three-tier air security cover.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/surya-kiran-and-sarang-to-be-the-highlight/article33640029.ece
23 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Study reveals no cardiac involvement post-COVID-19||Although there are concerns about patients developing issues post-COVID-19, including heart problems, a study involving 280 recovered healthcare workers at the State-run Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research has revealed that none of them had any cardiac problem. Institute director C.N. Manjunath told The Hindu that the 280 patients, half of whom are female employees, were evaluated through ECG, Echo, X-Ray Chest and Cardiac MRI. “There was no cardiac involvement in any one of them,” he said. The age of the 280 patients varied from 23 years to 60 years. While 30 are doctors, the rest are staff nurses, technicians, ward helpers, security and housekeeping staff. Although none of them had any pre-existing cardiac issues, 15% had hypertension and diabetes. According to some European studies, the cardiac involvement assessed by MRI scan is around 70% in acute phase but it is microscopic with no clinical symptoms. But even in those patients, heart function by echocardiography is normal. Although COVID-19 infection primarily affects the lung, it can also involve the heart, blood vessels, and brain with a cascading effect on the kidney. During acute phase of the infection, 10%-20% can have heart involvement in the form of heart attack, heart muscle involvement (Myocarditis) and fluid collection around the heart (Pericardial Effusion), heart failure and abnormality in the form of slow heart rate or fast heart rate. There is a tendency of clot formation in the arteries of the heart and the lung, the doctor explained. “In those who have recovered from COVID-19, less than 3% face a risk of a heart attack since it is brought about by clotting of blood in the arteries of the heart. Such a problem occurs in those who had severe COVID-19 infection with low oxygen saturation and those who were treated in an ICU. We are glad that none of the 280 evaluated had any cardiac involvement,” Dr. Manjunath said. However, among those who do not have any pre-existing heart disease, cardiac morbidity and mortality is less when compared to those who have pre-existing heart diseases, he said. Recovered patients who are likely to develop cardiac manifestations can be predicted by a D-dimer blood test. If the D-dimer values are very high, patients should be carefully monitored and blood thinning medicines should be given as prophylaxis. Also, the condition of pre-existing heart failure patients can worsen with COVID-19 infection. Such patients need aggressive treatment, Dr. Manjunath added.  In those who have recovered from COVID-19, less than 3% face a risk of a heart attack since it is brought about by clotting of blood in the arteries of the heart. Such a problem occurs in those who had severe COVID-19 infection with low oxygen saturation and those who were treated in an ICU C.N. Manjunath, Director, Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/study-reveals-no-cardiac-involvement-post-covid-19/article33640032.ece
23 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Displaced families protest at Slum Board||A day after their hutments were razed, the displaced residents of Krishnappa Garden staged a protest outside the Slum Board office on Friday. Protesters demanded that the Board provide alternative land or housing facilities. They have submitted a memorandum to the authorities. K. Mariyappa from the Bhoomi Vasati Hakku Vanchitara Horata Samiti said, “The authorities displaced families who have been living in the slum for over 30 years. They are living on the road now. Despite the day-long protest, they did not receive any assurance from officials.” Most of the affected families are daily wage labourers. According to Slum Board officials, 313 families were rehabilitated five years ago after a survey. “They are now living in Marathahalli. Those who are protesting now are new entrants to the slum. Some of these residents built new makeshift sheds in the slum and others are living in rented accommodation. As per the records placed before the district administration and the government, we have allotted residential apartments in accordance with the survey. These details were placed before courts,” said an official. He added that the decision to provide alternative land or rehabilitation facilities has to be taken at the level of the government. “The slum is being cleared as per the directions of the district administration.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/displaced-families-protest-at-slum-board/article33640037.ece
23 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Government scales down assessment patterns||Keeping in mind the academic days lost on account of the pandemic, the Department of Public Instruction has decided to scale down the assessment pattern for school students. It has been reduced by nearly half for all grades except class ten. The Department of State Educational Research and Training (DSERT) has chalked out an assessment plan for the 2020-21 academic year, which will be applicable for students in State syllabus schools. This includes students in government, aided and unaided schools. According to a circular issued on Thursday, students from classes one to five will only have one formative assessment in the third week of February and one summative assessment. Students from classes six to nine will be assessed on the basis of two formative assessments and one summative assessment. While formative assessments have to be held in February and April, the summative assessment can be held in the last week of May. In previous academic years, students of all classes used to have four formative and two summative assessments. As the number of assessments has reduced, DSERT has said that the scores have to be doubled. Class ten students will have to complete two formative assessments, which includes four projects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/government-scales-down-assessment-patterns/article33640039.ece
23 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Chief Minister reshuffles portfolios again to douse dissatisfaction||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, under pressure from Ministers disgruntled over portfolios they were allotted, on Friday again reshuffled some berths, a day after he assigned them to the newly inducted Ministers. With key defectors such as N. Nagaraju (MTB), K. Gopalaiah, and K. Sudhakar being upset, the Chief Minister had tasked Ministers Basavaraj Bommai and R. Ashok to pacify them. While some berths were changed, there has been no relief to Dr. Sudhakar, who openly expressed his displeasure on Friday about the Medical Education Department being taken away. Mr. Nagaraju, who was unhappy with the Excise Department allotted to him, has now been given Municipal Administration and Directorate of Sugar, earlier allotted to R. Shankar. Mr. Gopalaiah, who was upset at being divested of the Food and Civil Supplies Department and unhappy over the relatively low profile Horticulture and Sericulture departments allotted to him, has now been made the Excise Minister. Mr. Shankar has been allotted Horticulture and Sericulture departments. Mr. Shankar, upset at the change of portfolios in just a day, met the Chief Minister on Friday evening. “The Chief Minister has said he would consider giving me the portfolio of my choice at a later stage. He has promised to make me district in-charge Minister of Haveri,” he said. Mr. Yediyurappa has given away another low-key portfolio he held — Planning, Programme Monitoring and Statistics — and allotted it to K.C. Narayana Gowda, who had to give up Haj and Wakf to J.C. Madhuswamy. Arvind Limbavali has been given the additional charge of Kannada and Culture Department, allotted to Mr. Madhuswamy on Thursday, apart from the Forest Department. Mr. Madhuswamy has instead been given the additional charge of Haj and Wakf, apart from Medical Education. He is reportedly upset over being divested of Law and Parliamentary Affairs and Minor Irrigation departments. Speaking to mediapersons in Mysuru on Friday, however, he said he had now reconciled to his new assignment. “Medical Education is a bigger department than Minor Irrigation that I held,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/chief-minister-reshuffles-portfolios-again-to-douse-dissatisfaction/article33640054.ece
23 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Doddarange Gowda to preside over sahitya sammelana||Poet and writer Doddarange Gowda, 75, will preside over the 86th Kannada Sahitya Sammelana to be held in Haveri from February 26 to 28. The executive committee of Kannada Sahitya Parishat (KSP), the organiser, unanimously chose Dr. Gowda to be president of the upcoming sammelana on Friday. “His was a unanimous choice. Other names under consideration were Go.Ru. Channabasappa, K.S. Bhagavan, Veena Shanteshwar and B.A. Vivek Rai,” said Manu Baligar, president, KSP. Dr. Gowda, from Tumakuru district, studied Kannada Literature at Bangalore University and taught Kannada for over three decades in the city. He has brought out 48 poetry collections, six ballets and 29 anthologies of critical essays and travelogues, among other works. His main area of work has been folk literature. He has also worked in Kannada films as a lyricist and dialogue writer and won three State film awards for lyrics. He was nominated to Karnataka Legislative Council by the BJP in 2008 and he has been a vocal supporter of the party. He was awarded the Padma Shri in 2018. Speaking to The Hindu, Dr. Gowda said he would, in the presidential address, speak about the urgent need to retain a Kannada environment at homes and in schools. “A craze for English is making our children unrooted. I propose we teach children English only from Class V and give primacy to Kannada. Our education system needs to be overhauled and our texts updated,” he said, adding he would assert the State’s rights over Belagavi and Karwar in light of the recent border dispute. “I am a folk song collector and travel to remote villages in the State. Many villages even today do not have roads and any basic amenities. There is regional disparity. Social justice and humanity needs to drive the Kannada world,” he said, adding that he would flag these issues too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/doddarange-gowda-to-preside-over-sahitya-sammelana/article33640062.ece
23 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||More Covaxin vials coming to State today||Karnataka will receive another 1,46,240 doses of Covaxin on Saturday, said Health Minister K Sudhakar on Friday. In the first phase, the State had received 20,000 doses and they were used for vaccination in Hassan, Chikkamagaluru, Shivamogga, Chamarajnagar, Davangere and Ballari. Speaking to presspersons, the Minister said although adverse events following immunisation have been reported in some districts, there has been no casualty post vaccination. “So far, Covishield has been administered to 1,77,022 healthcare workers and Covaxin to 1,774 people. Over 3.5% of those vaccinated have developed some minor adverse events,” he said. A total of 8,47,908 people have registered for vaccination in the first phase. Of these, 3,27,201 are government health warriors and 4,45,389 are private health warriors, said the Minister. “We have a big challenge of vaccinating 1.5 crore to 2 crore people in the State,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/more-covaxin-vials-coming-to-state-today/article33640033.ece
23 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Extra caution in the light of 2019 mishap||The Indian Air Force and State government have made elaborate arrangements to prevent a repeat of the fire mishap in the parking area during the previous edition in which around 300 cars were gutted. The grass will be completely removed this time, and the ground will be levelled. Markings will be done for parking slots. CCTV cameras will be fixed to cover the entire parking area. A fire audit has been conducted by the Fire Services Department. The IAF will deploy two helicopters with Bambi baskets to cater to any fire emergency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/extra-caution-in-the-light-of-2019-mishap/article33640030.ece
23 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Decide in 3 months on pleas to ban crackers: HC||The High Court of Karnataka on Friday directed the State government to take appropriate decision within three months on the pleas made by petitioners for imposing a complete ban on the sale and use of firecrackers in the State. A Division Bench comprising Justice B.V. Nagarathna and Justice M.G. Uma issued the direction while disposing of the PIL petitions filed by A.S. Vishnu Bharath of Bengaluru and Samarpana, a social and cultural organisation. Referring to apex court judgments on bursting of crackers, including the one that deals with firecrackers and religious rights, and noise and air pollution, the Bench said the government would have to take a decision on the petitioners’ plea for banning firecrackers by taking note of the apex court’s judgments and directions issued by the National Green Tribunal. Citizens’ health Though the Bench observed that protecting the health of citizens had become more important after encountering the COVID-19 pandemic, it said the High Court under the Article 226 of the Constitution cannot pass orders banning firecrackers as the powers to make such a decision vest with the government.  Green firecrackers The petitions were filed in November 2020 seeking a complete ban on crackers and the court on November 13 specifically directed the government to strictly ensure that only ‘green firecrackers’, that come with the distinct, green logo of CSIR–NEERI and PESO, and a quick response (QR) code on their packaging are sold across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/decide-in-3-months-on-pleas-to-ban-crackers-karnataka-hc/article33640024.ece
23 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||FIR against Jayanagar MLA||The police have filed an FIR against Jayanagar MLA Sowmya Reddy booking her under Sections 323 and 353 of the Indian Penal Code for allegedly assaulting and obstructing a public servant from discharging her duty. She had allegedly pushed a police constable during a recent Congress-led protest at Freedom Park against the new farm laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fir-against-jayanagar-mla/article33640038.ece
23 January 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Farmers to take out parade on R-Day||Farmers from across the State will congregate in Bengaluru on Republic Day to express solidarity with those who have been agitating in New Delhi seeking repeal of the three new farm laws. Addressing presspersons in Dharwad on Thursday, the former chairman of State Agriculture Commission Prakash Kammaradi and farmer leader Badagalpura Nagendra said that as many as 34 pro farmer and pro labour organisations had extended support to the agitating farmers. While the farmers from Haryana and Punjab accompanied by farmers of other States would hold a tractor rally on Republic Day in New Delhi, farmers from all districts of the State would march to Bengaluru and take out a parade in solidarity with the agitating farmers in Delhi, they said. Mr. Prakash said that deliberate attempts were being made to project the farmers agitation as that of the farmers of two States only. But reality was that farmers from South India too had opposed the new farm laws and want them to be repealed, he said. Mr. Nagendra said that now the protest to be held under the aegis of Samyukta Horata Karnataka would highlight the adverse effects of the laws on the farm sector and how they would push the farmers to distress in the long run. President of Samaj Parivartana Samudaya S.R. Hiremath and Chamaras Malipatil of the Raita Sangha said that the Union government had been apathetic towards the genuine issues raised by farmers and it should at least now repeal the laws instead of just keeping them suspended for 18 months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmers-to-take-out-parade-on-r-day/article33640274.ece
23 January 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Dance festival to mark silver jubilee of Natyanjali in Hubballi tomorrow||A day-long dance festival along with presentation of Ravi Datar Award will mark the 25th anniversary of classical dance school Natyanjali Nritya Kendra in Hubballi on Sunday. Addressing presspersons here on Friday, president of the Nritya Kendra Pradeep Bhat said that performing artiste, director and musician K. Chandrashekhar Navada would be honoured with the Ravi Datar Award at 4.30 p.m. on Sunday. The award carries a cash prize of Rs. 10,000 and a citation. This apart, the Ravi Datar Puraskar would be conferred on upcoming artistes Shivangi U.S. and Siri Kini, he said. Danseuse Sahana Bhat said that in the day-long event, two dance dramas, Sarutide Srushti and Shiva Parvati, would be presented by senior students of the dance school. Sarutide Srushti with an environment conservation theme would be presented by a group of 35 senior students of the school. The other dance drama Shiva Parvati narrating the tale of Dakshyani Dahana to Girija Kalyana would be presented by herself, guest artiste Madhuchandra M.R. and a group of 40 senior students at 6 p.m., Ms. Bhat said and added that the 25th anniversary celebrations would begin with dance performances from students of the school at 10.30 a.m. at Sawai Gandharva Hall in Hubballi. Mr. Pradeep Bhat said that all steps would be taken to ensure adherence to COVID-19 guidelines during the programme. Secretary of Hubballi-Dharwad Havyaka Sangha Sudarshan Hemadri, orthopaedic surgeon Siddeshwar Katkol, president of Niramaya Foundation Mallikarjun Balikai and Assistant Director of Youth Empowerment and Sports Prakash M. Sarashetty will be the guests for the award ceremony.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dance-festival-to-mark-silver-jubilee-of-natyanjali-in-hubballi-tomorrow/article33640281.ece
23 January 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Exception taken to delay in issuing record of rights to Annigeri Ashraya beneficiaries||Taking exception to the delay in issuing record of rights to beneficiaries of Ashraya houses at Annigeri in Dharwad district, former Navalgund MLA N.H. Konaraddi has set a deadline for the authorities to take requisite measures to provide justice to them. Mr. Konaraddi, accompanied by Janata Dal (S) members, submitted a memorandum to the Additional Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad on Thursday urging him to take measures to issue record of rights by February 1, failing which, according to him, he would be forced to take the path of agitation along with the general public. Mr. Konaraddi said that during his tenure as MLA from Navalgund 18.26 acres of land in the town municipal council limits of Annigeri was purchased for development of a residential layout for allotment to shelterless people. Subsequently, a total of 650 beneficiaries were shortlisted under the scheme by the Ashraya Committee headed by him, he said. However, now the municipal council was not issuing record of rights to the beneficiaries and unnecessary notices were being served on them, he said and added that the list of beneficiaries once prepared could not be annulled as per law. “Any such move to cancel the earlier allotment would mean injustice to the poor people. I will urge the town municipal council to immediately withdraw the notice and issue record of rights to the beneficiaries,” he said. A memorandum was submitted to the Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad seeking immediate steps for issue of record of rights in December last. However, nothing had been done so far and if the officials failed to take steps to issue the record of rights by February 1, a protest would be staged seeking record of rights, he said. Mr. Konaraddi was accompanied by party office-bearer Viranna Niralagi and the former councillor Raju Ambore and others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/exception-taken-to-delay-in-issuing-record-of-rights-to-annigeri-ashraya-beneficiaries/article33640283.ece
23 January 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||JD(S) leader Koravi to join BJP||Two-time municipal councillor and JD(S) leader RajannaKoravi, who had contested unsuccessfully against former Chief Minister Jagadish Shettar in the Assembly elections, on Friday announced his decision to join the BJP, saying that there was a “suffocating atmosphere” in the JD(S). He said he was leaving the party with a heavy heart. Addressing presspersons along with the State president ofJD(S) Farmers Youth Wing, Naganagouda V. Gadigeppagoudar, and others, Mr. Koravi, who has been associated with the Janata Dal since his student days, said leaving the party with which he had spent 31 years was not an easy decision. “But I am forced to take this decision because of the behaviour of the State leaders, who are least bothered about the party leaders and workers from North Karnataka and are focussing only on the Old Mysore region,” he said. Mr. Rajanna said that as a regional party, the JD(S) had failed to grow across the State and had remained restricted to few districts. “Being a member of the Janata Parivar right from the days of my father Moorusavirappa, who too was elected twice to the municipal council, I have worked hard for building the party. But there has not been much positive response from the State leaders. I raised the issue seeking remedial measures, but there was no positive response. Even when our party was in power, the workers from the region were not recognised or rewarded for their selfless work. All these developments have pained me.” Terming former Minister Basavaraj Horatti his “guru”, he said several leaders, including Mr. Horatti, had tried to convince him to remain with the party, but he was not in a position to change his decision now. “I will be joining the BJP along with my team of leaders and workers in the presence of Union Minister Pralhad Joshi, Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar and others on Saturday at a public function. Around 10,000 people are expected to participate,” he said. He said he wanted to be in a party where he was allowed to work for the people. On whether he would be allowed to work and be recognised in a party when there already several leaders waiting to be rewarded, Mr. Rajanna said he was going to the BJP with a positive mindset. To a query, he said his “guru” Mr. Horatti, who had stood with the party with commitment, too had not been recognised and rewarded for his work and was even denied ministership under the coalition government. But he said he was “too small a person” to comment on Mr. Horatti’s next political moves. To another query, he said he had lost all hope of improvement in the JD(S) as the State leaders were focussing only on Old Mysore region and were not bothered about the other regions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jds-leader-koravi-to-join-bjp/article33640286.ece
23 January 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Academy to offer free coaching for poor youths taking competitive exams||Shanti Sagar Navalli Academy, which will start functioning on the premises of Digambar Jain Boarding in Hubballi on Sunday, will offer free coaching to poor students and youths for competitive examinations, chairman of the academy and Jain leader Datta (Madhav) Dorle said here on Friday. Addressing presspersons along with vice-chariman P.S. Dharaneppanavar, chairman of Digambar Jain Boarding Mahaveer Danolli and other office-bearers here on Friday, Mr. Datta Dorle said that the academy was open to students and youths from all communities and coaching for competitive examinations in various streams would be offered at a nominal fee. “However, with the help of our donors we will be offering free coaching and boarding to deserving and poor candidates. Our objective is to provide advanced coaching at a nominal fee,” he said. He said that initially the academy would be functioning on the Digambar Jain Boarding premises and subsequently it would be shifted to Sattur near Dharwad, where a coaching centre would be built at a total cost of Rs. 5.5 crore. Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs Pralhad Joshi would formally inaugurate the academy and its website, while MLA Arvind Bellad would inaugurate the coaching centre classrooms. MLA Abhay Patil would release a souvenir. President of Dakshin Bharat Jain Sabha, Sangli, Raosaheb Patil would preside over the function, he said. Coordinator Sunil Kumar said that the coaching centre would offer various programmes for nominal fees ranging between Rs. 2,000 and Rs. 8,000 (for a six months course) and various donors had also come forward to provide free coaching to deserving poor candidates. Joint Secretary of the academy Umesh Baligar said that the academy would help students of the region as it would offer expert coaching in a place nearer to them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/academy-to-offer-free-coaching-for-poor-youths-taking-competitive-exams/article33640282.ece
23 January 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||CBI resumes questioning of Kulkarni, others||A day after the High Court of Karnataka, Dharwad Bench, rejected the plea petition of Congress leader and former Minister Vinay Kulkarni, the sleuths of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) have resumed interrogation of the close aides of the former Minister and others connected with the case of the murder of zilla panchayat member Yogeeshgouda Goudar. On Friday, several persons connected with the case, including close aide and main accused in the case Basavaraj Muttagi, personal assistant of the former Minister Vinay Prashanth Kekare, Vishwanath Yendigeri and the woman public prosecutor were summoned by the CBI sleuths and interrogated. With the High Court hearing the bail petition, the CBI had paused the interrogation. The CBI’s questioning of the public prosecutor is in the wake of a letter to the Home Secretary by Gurunathagouda, elder brother of the slain zilla panchayat member. Mr. Gurunathagouda had reportedly complained that the public prosecutor was non-cooperative with the victim’s family. He had alleged that using his influence as a Minister, Mr. Kulkarni had got the woman public prosecutor transferred to Dharwad. On Friday, she was questioned for over an hour by the sleuths. Sources said that Basavaraj Muttagi, Prashanth Kekare, and Vishwanath Yendigeri were questioned separately for few hours as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cbi-resumes-questioning-of-kulkarni-others/article33640513.ece
23 January 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Kulkarni in judicial custody till February 4||The CBI special court on Fridayextended the judicial custody of former Minister and Congress leader Vinay Kulkarni, arrested in connection with the murder of zilla panchayat member Yogeeshgouda Goudar, till February 4. The court also extended the judicial custody of Chandrashekar Indi alias Chandu mama, uncle of Kulkarni, till February 4. Chandrashekar is lodged in Dharwad Central Prison, while Kulkarni is lodged in Hindalaga Jail in Belagavi. CBI questioning Meanwhile, the sleuths of the CBI have resumed interrogation of the close aides of the former Minister and others connected with the murder case. On Friday, several persons, including close aide and main accused in the case Basavaraj Muttagi, personal assistant of the former Minister Vinay Prashanth Kekare, Vishwanath Yendigeri and the woman public prosecutor were summoned by the CBI sleuths and interrogated. With the High Court hearing the bail petition, the CBI had paused the interrogation. The CBI’s questioning of the public prosecutor is in the wake of a letter to the Home Secretary by Gurunathagouda, elder brother of the slain ZP member. Mr. Gurunathagouda had reportedly complained that the public prosecutor was non-cooperative with the victim’s family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kulkarni-in-judicial-custody-till-february-4/article33640287.ece
23 January 2021||Hunasodu (Shivamogga),KARNATAKA||Many questions remain||The blast at the quarry site at Hunasodu, near Shivamogga, that claimed five lives on Thursday night, has left many questions that a high-level investigation has to find answers for. Shivamogga district administration has maintained that the blast occurred in a licensed stone crushing unit. It is, however, not clear if the licence holder had clearance to stock explosives in a large scale and conduct blasts. K.S. Eshwarappa, Minister in charge of the district, and senior officers of the district, said that government would probe illegalities, if any. No record of workers? Till late in the evening on Friday, there was no official confirmation from the administration about the identity of the deceased. Officers told the media that investigation was still on, which indicated that those running the quarry did not maintain records of workers they hired on different shifts. The magnitude of the blast clearly showed that the quarry owner had brought huge quantity of explosives to the site, which is very close to residential areas of Shivamogga city. According to officers “about 10 or 12 people” were working at the site and only five were on the night shift. However, nobody at the site had any idea where the remaining workers were on Friday. The local villagers said that the employer had taken them to a “safe place”. Though the Deputy Commissioner said the crushing unit was located in a “safe zone”, environmentalists find fault with the government for allowing quarry activities close to residential localities. “The quarry is hardly a couple of kilometres away from the city. Moreover, two major reservoirs are also close by. When people in the neighbouring districts also have experienced tremors because of the blast, imagine the risk the people are exposed to,” said Shashi Sampalli, an environmentalist. Opposition leaders blamed the administration’s “negligence” for the incident. The former MLA K.B. Prasanna Kumar blamed Mr. Eshwarappa for the incident. “He is not allowing officers to act as per the law,” he said, suggesting that vested political interests were at play. He sought to know how a truck with explosives could pass through several check-posts and reach the site. The former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy said politically influential people, cutting across parties, were involved in illegal quarrying and there should be a systemic change. “Honest officers are threatened and not allowed to legally regulate them,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/many-questions-remain/article33640058.ece
23 January 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Students stage protest in Kalaburagi||Criticising the State government over the delay in the release of scholarship, students of various colleges under the banner of All India Democratic Students Organisation (AIDSO) staged a protest outside the Deputy Commissioner’s office here on Friday. AIDSO district secretary Erranna Isab and district vice-president Sneha Kattimani stated that the BJP-led State government is adopting delaying tactics in inviting scholarship applications from students. Though colleges have been opened, residential hostels still remain shut. This has caused a lot of inconvenience for students hailing from distant places, they said and demanded that the government immediately resume the admission process in residential hostels. Mr. Isab also expressed displeasure over irregular and inadequate bus services on rural routes. The Road Transport Corporation was issuing students bus pass for only five months and was collecting fare for 10 months, he said. He also demanded that the government fill vacant posts in all colleges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/students-stage-protest-in-kalaburagi/article33640279.ece
23 January 2021||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||There is no dissatisfaction over Cabinet reshuffle, says Vijayendra||Bharatiya Janata Party State vice-president B.Y. Vijayendra on Friday said Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa would address the issue of regional imbalance in the Cabinet. Addressing presspersons here, Mr. Vijayendra claimed that there was no resentment among Ministers over the Cabinet reshuffle exercise. When asked about several Ministers abstaining from the Cabinet meeting on Thursday, Mr. Vijayendra said they had remained absent because of personal reasons. He reiterated that there was no “dissatisfaction or any differences” over the Cabinet expansion and allocation of portfolios, but also said it was difficult to make everyone happy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/there-is-no-dissatisfaction-over-cabinet-reshuffle-says-vijayendra/article33640284.ece
23 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Residents rue problems caused by three fishmeal factories||If you happen to ride a motorcycle or bicycle or walk from Mukka to Sasihithlu, the international surfing event venue to the North of Mangaluru, you may get a shower bath even before landing at the beach. But, you have to have a bath before doing anything else as it would be pungent water getting sprinkled from three fishmeal factories on Mukka-Sasihithlu Road. This is just one of the nuisances being caused by the factories listed out by the residents, including fishermen, from the locality. According to Sqn. Ldr. (Retd.) P.R.P. Shetty, a resident of the area, the fishmeal factories have turned out to be a menace for the dwellers. Right from functioning round-the-clock emitting pungent smell to using decayed fish as raw material, from letting out untreated water directly into the sea to causing the spread of fishmeal powder in the surroundings, the factories have become a nightmare for the residents, he said. The road leads to the famous Sasihithlu Beach where the international surfing event is held. The district administration too is developing the beach as a tourism attraction, Sqn. Ldr. Shetty pointed out. Though this nuisance has been brought to the notice of the district administration, nothing has been done, he regretted. President of Sasihithlu Fishermen Cooperative Society Shobendra Sasihithlu told The Hindu the factories start letting out thick smoke with pungent smell after 9 p.m. every day thereby robbing residents of their sleep. Mukka and Sasihithlu are residential areas where these factories should not have been allowed to function. Besides, the factories procure waste and decayed fish from far-off places that cause stench in the entire locality. Fishermen had no issues if they used fresh fish as raw material. Waste water from fish transporting vehicles was let out onto roads thus endangering the safety of road users. The factories also let out untreated waste water directly on the seashore thus affecting catch, Mr. Sasihithlu said. While fishermen had launched several protests earlier, divide and rule policy adopted by fishmeal factories has affected their unity. Fishermen have no issue with the factories if they function strictly in accordance with air and water pollution norms during day time, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/residents-rue-problems-caused-by-three-fishmeal-factories/article33640485.ece
23 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Demand for merger of all four RTCs reiterated||The KSRTC Staff and Workers Federation on Thursday reiterated its demand for merging all four State road transport corporations (RTCs) into one and urged the government to extend its complete support for the continued existence of the RTCs. Federation president H.V. Ananthasubba Rao told reporters here that the government should allocate Rs. 1,000 crore in the annual Budget for RTCs and pay salaries to the employees. The government should exempt the RTCs from the payment of motor vehicle taxes, while also obtaining exemption for RTC buses from payment of highway toll. Mr. Rao urged the government to halve the duties on diesel bought by the RTCs and also periodically reimburse the cost incurred by RTCs towards student concessional passes and other social obligations. The other major demand of the federation was to settle the Charter of Demands submitted by it towards wage revision. The unilateral wage revision effected by the government, Mr. Rao said, ended by December 2019 and employees were eligible for wage revision from January 2020. The government, gave a go-by to the negotiated wage settlement that was in vogue since 1958, from 1996, when it broke the single corporation into four. Thus, the government began announcing meagre wage revisions unilaterally, Mr. Rao said. The wage revision should be based on the award passed by the Bengaluru Industrial Tribunal on August 29, 2017, in the industrial dispute referred to it by the government in 2005 in ID No. 148/2005. Though the tribunal directed the government to increase wages by 20%, the government obtained a stay from the High Court of Karnataka. If the government had honoured the tribunal’s order, there would not have been any dissatisfaction among workers. Mr. Rao said that the government should also rescind its order of May 5, 2020, freezing dearness allowance for RTC employees from January 2020, as it was against the Memorandum of Settlement of 1989. The federation demanded a medical scheme similar to the ESI scheme. It wanted the government to facilitate inter-RTC transfer and give full attendance to employees due to cancellation of services because of the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/demand-for-merger-of-all-four-rtcs-reiterated/article33640493.ece
23 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Police arrest seven, seize ganja coming from Telangana||The City Crime Branch (CCB) on Thursday arrested seven persons and seized over 44 kg of ganja being transported into the city worth around Rs. 9.75 lakh from them. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar told reporters here on Friday that the CCB conducted a raid in Ullal and Konaje police limits based on a tip-off that huge quantity of ganja was being transported into the city from Telangana through Bidar. The raid resulted in the arrest of five persons initially and confiscation of about 40 kg ganja. Subsequent investigation led to the arrest of two more persons and recovery of 4.63 kg of ganja. Mr. Kumar gave the names of the first five arrested as Azeez alias Abdul Azeez alias Poker Azeez (44), Mohiddin Hafiz alias Abhi (34), both residents of Naringana in Bantwal taluk, Vittal Chawan (35), Sakru Naik Tanda, Sangareddy district in Telangana, Sanjeev Kumar Chawan (34), Sevanagar Tanda, Bhalki, Bidar district, and Kallappa (40), Dande Kosam village, Bhalki, Bidar. Two cars with Maharashtra registration plate, 40 kg ganja and seven mobile phones were seized from them. Subsequently, the Ullal Police arrested Mohammed Hafiz alias Appi (23), resident of Naringana, and Sandeep, Gurunagar, Gurupura, and recovered 4.63 ganja from them. The seized items were worth Rs. 23 lakh, he added. Azeez was facing three ganja peddling cases in Konaje Police limits and one each in Kavoor and Ullal police limits. Mohiddin Hafiz was facing six cases in all, three in Konaje, one each in Surathkal, Ullal and Kankanady Town police limits. He was also previously convicted in one case in Konaje Police limits. While Sanjeev Kumar Chawan and Kallappa were facing ganja peddling cases in Andhra Pradesh, Vittal Chawan was facing a murder case in Andhra Pradesh, the commissioner said. Mr. Kumar said that the accused had planned to sell ganja in retail in Mangaluru and Kasaragod of Kerala through local peddlers. The police will take up an in-depth probe to unearth the racket. Deputy Commissioners of Police Hariram Shankar and Vinay Gaonkar supervised the raids conducted by teams led by Assistant Commissioner of Police (South) Ranjith Kumar Bandaru and comprising CCB Police Inspector Mahesh Prasad, Konaje Police Inspector Prakash Devadiga, Ullal Police Inspector Sandeep and CCB Sub-Inspectors of Police B. Rajendra and T.R. Pradeep and others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/seven-with-ganja-from-ts-held-in-mangaluru/article33640293.ece
23 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Marina at Malpe-Padukare only if it is feasible, says MLA||K. Raghupathi Bhat, MLA for Udupi, has said that the administration is not in a hurry to build the proposed marina at Malpe-Padukare and a decision will be taken after receiving a feasibility report from the Central Water and Power Research Station (CWPRS) in Pune. Karnataka Coastal Development Authority, which mooted the proposal, recently received consent from the institution that was under the Union Ministry of Jal Shakthi. The CWPRS would conduct the feasibility study in five phases with regard to wave tranquillity, shoreline changes and other parameters at an estimated cost of Rs. 80 lakh. The project was proposed near Dariya Bahadurgad landmass off Malpe-Padukare beach. Responding to opposition from local fishermen to the project, Mr. Bhat said if the study finds the project feasible, the administration wouldhold discussions with them before going ahead with it. The project would be implemented through private participation at an estimated cost of Rs. 800 crore only if it does not affect the local communities, he added. Authority chairperson Mattar Rathnakar Hegde said that Rs. 1 crore was earmarked for the feasibility study. Reiterating that the authority would go ahead with the project only if it was found feasible, he said that the project, if implemented, would be a game-changer in the tourism sector. There is only one marina in Kochi, Kerala, and Udupi would be the second if the project is found feasible on the western coast.Mr. Bhat dismissed fishermen’s apprehension that large foreign cruise vessels would berth at the marina and said that only yachts and sailing boats would be there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/marina-at-malpe-padukare-only-if-it-is-feasible-says-mla/article33640491.ece
23 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Advanced multi-light technology endoscope services launched||Pro-Chancellor of Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE) H.S. Ballal inaugurated Advanced Multi-Light Technology Endoscope (LCI) and daycare endoscopic services at Kasturba Hospital in Manipal on Thursday. Speaking on the occasion, Dr. Ballal said that the new technology would help doctors identify rare diseases and provide the best in care treatment for patients. The daycare service, under which a patient can be discharged the same day, will help reduce treatment time. Shiran Shetty, professor and head, Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, said that the new LCI technology would help detect early lesions such as cancer, polyp, ulcer, pylori infection. This image enhanced endoscope can identify lesion without biopsy, which will be beneficial. The small bowel enteroscopy helps identify and treat diseases of the small intestine such as ulcers, bleed, polyp, and stricture. Medical Superintendent of the hospital Avinash Shetty said that the daycare endoscopic services, including therapeutic procedures, enables a patient to receive treatment without being admitted to hospital. Many complex procedures such as endoscopic ultrasound, ERCP, colonoscopic and upper GI endoscopic therapeutic procedures will be done on daycare basis. Patients can come directly to the scope suite and get discharged by evening. “This will benefit many people who can avail themselves of endoscopic services as needed on a daycare basis and it will be cost-effective,”he said. Pro Vice-Chancellor P.L.N.G. Rao, Dean of KMC Sharath Kumar Rao, and Chief Operating Officer of the hospital C.G. Muthana were present, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/advanced-multi-light-technology-endoscope-services-launched/article33640495.ece
23 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Factories given March deadline to set things right||Mangaluru City Corporation on Sunday said that the district administration has given March 2021 as deadline to fishmeal factories to comply with all statutory norms. Area Councillor (Surathkal West) Shobha Rajesh told The Hindu that the Deputy Commissioner recently held a meeting with all the concerned and asked the factories to completely stop all the civic nuisance by March this year. Otherwise, the Deputy Commissiner has warned that action will be taken against them, according to Ms. Rajesh. Corporation Commissioner Akshy Sridhar said that following repeated complaints, senior officials of the district administration recently visited the area and took stock of the situation. Following this, the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board issued the deadline. Meanwhile, representatives of fishmeal factories told reporters here on Saturday that the factories would install bio-filters and scrubbers that reduce the foul smell, before the deadline given by the district administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/factories-given-march-deadline-to-set-things-right/article33640483.ece
23 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||55% success for vaccination drive in DK||The vaccination drive against COVID-19 achieved 55.07% success in Dakshina Kannada on Friday. Of the 4,616 persons registered for vaccination in 53 sites, only 2,542 turned up. However, at three sites of K.S. Hegde Hospital, all 300 persons who had registered received the shot. At two sites of Father Muller Hospital, there was 100% achievement as all 200 persons got themselves vaccinated. Udupi district recorded 52% achievement, with 2,657 of the 5,078 registered persons getting the jab.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/55-success-for-vaccination-drive-in-dk/article33640496.ece
23 January 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||AIDSO members stage protest||Activists belonging to All India Students Democratic Organisation (AIDSO) staged a demonstration in the city on Friday to highlight the delay in release of students’ scholarship, lack of amenities in hostels, issues related to bus pass etc. The students said though the offline classes have commenced and students have been instructed to attend the same, not all hostels have reopened are fully equipped to accommodate the students. The AIDSO said the release of scholarship has been delayed and this was adding to their hardship and urged the authorities to release it. The application forms for renewing their stay in the hostels too have not been distributed which was causing anxiety among them and hence the AIDSO sought the issue to be redressed immediately. The students also raised issues related to bus pass and said though they had paid the fee for 10 months, the validity of passes issued at present is only for the next five months and hence wanted the anomaly to be redressed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/aidso-members-stage-protest/article33640507.ece
23 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Houses with RWH to get discount in water bill||The Mysuru City Corporation has announced 10 per cent discount in water bill if rainwater harvesting systems are installed in households. The consumers would be getting a rebate on the actual bill if they submit details of rainwater harvesting to the MCC authorities in the prescribed format. The MCC’s move has been aimed at encouraging the residents to opt for harvesting rainwater for improving the groundwater table besides minimising dependence on the water supplied by it. The discount is applicable not only to domestic connections but also to non-domestic, commercial and industrial connections. The rebate is applicable to those who have already installed the system. Those who don’t have the system can install it if they wish to get the rebate every month from February 1 onwards, the MCC said in a release. However, the MCC clarified that the rebate is valid on the water consumed and the discount doesn’t apply to the UGD cess collected in the bill. The eligible consumers are supposed to get the rainwater systems certified (authenticating their functioning and harvesting) from the executive engineer of the MCC once a year so as to get the rebate every year without any break. The consumers wishing to get the discount can submit application with relevant documents to the office of Vani Vilas Water Works at Yadavagiri by downloading the application format from http://www.mysurucity. mrc.gov.in/en/forms Rainwater harvesting in Mysuru has not gained traction due to lack of enthusiasm among the local bodies, including the MCC and MUDA, to promote the idea which conserves water for summer and helps in replenishing the water table. Theme park Projects concerning rainwater harvesting had been proposed in the previous budgets but none took off as promised. The MCC had also proposed a project – a theme park for spreading awareness and encouraging residents to build rainwater harvesting systems at the time of construction – which too did not take off. As per the plan, the theme park had been proposed to be a one-stop destination for the people to get to know about rainwater harvesting, how it can be installed and so on. The MCC had planned to seek CSR funds for developing the theme park.  Consumers would be getting a rebate on the actual bill if they submit details of rainwater harvesting to the MCC authorities in the prescribed format.  Aim is improving the groundwater table besides minimising dependence on the water supplied by MCC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/houses-with-rwh-to-get-discount-in-water-bill/article33640508.ece
23 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘Mysuru Tribals’ brand name may be promoted||The products developed by tribals belonging to Mysuru district may soon get a countrywide market under the brand name of “Mysuru Tribals” with the district administration appealing to the Tribal Cooperative Marketing Development Federation of India (TRIFED) to promote a marketing platform. Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri on Friday met TRIFED Managing Director Praveer Krishna here for the purpose. The meeting discussed providing better price to the products developed by the tribals from the district by establishing a market link. Ms. Sindhuri said products of tribals living at Pakshirajapura in Hunsur taluk require an ideal market. The tribals need training and their products require trade status. Ms Sindhuri suggested exhibition and marketing of products at least once in three months in the district. She told the district officials to prepare an action plan for the marketing of products of tribals from Nagapura near Nagarahole and Pakshirajapura. Speaking at the meeting, Krishna, senior IAS officer, said a technical team from TRIFED would be deputed shortly to Mysuru for preparing a technical report on the promoting and marketing of tribal products and the report would be submitted to the district administration in the next 15 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysuru-tribals-brand-name-may-be-promoted/article33640512.ece
23 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||All hostels to open to full capacity||For the first time after a gap of nearly eight months, all 17 hostels of the University of Mysore will resume services in full capacity with the resumption of offline classes for first-year PG students from January 29. Though the hostels were reopened following resumption of classes for second-year PGand intermediate semesters recently, they would be running in their full capacity with the addition of students to the campuses in Mysuru. Vice-Chancellor G. Hemantha Kumar said Mysuru campus has 15 hostels and there is one each in Mandya and Chamarajanagar campuses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/all-hostels-to-open-to-full-capacity/article33640509.ece
23 January 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Rly. track, infrastructure inspected||The broad gauge line of Talaguppa-Birur section of Mysuru Division of South Western Railway was inspected by SWR General Manager A.K. Singh on Friday. A release said the focus of the annual inspection was on the operational safety of the section. Major and minor stations including Talaguppa, Sagara Jambagaru, Arsalu, Shivamogga Town, and Birur were inspected after which there as a review of the performance of the Division. The team inspected sanitation, water supply, waiting rooms, refreshment rooms, retiring rooms, booking offices, Running Room, Route Relay Interlocking cabins, crew lobby etc at the railway stations besides railway quarters. Mr. Singh also inspected the Malgudi Museum at Arsalu, Railway Hospital and dispensaries apart from points and crossings at yards, Level Crossing (LC) gates, railway curves, major and minor railway bridges along the railway line and railway colonies at some locations. During the course of the inspection, a holiday home was also inaugurated at Talaguppa. In line with railways’ commitment to expand green cover across railway environment and enhancement of cleanliness levels, Sujata Singh, President, SWRWWO, inaugurated Buddha Park at Talaguppa Railway Colony. A children’s park at Sagara Jambagaru was also inaugurated, the release added. B.Y. Raghavendra, MP, Shivamogga, met Mr. Singh and discussed issues related to development of Talaguppa, Sagara, and Arasalu stations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rly-track-infrastructure-inspected/article33640511.ece
23 January 2021||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||It was a sound we had ‘never heard before’, say residents||“It felt as though someone violently pushed me out of the bed,” said Meenakshi Bai of Kallu Gunguru village, who is still to recover from her experience late on Thursday night. A massive explosion at a quarry in the neighbouring Hunasodu village, about 500 metres away, has left five labourers dead. “I could not even speak for a long time... Walls of my house have developed cracks  and the roof tiles shattered,” said the 65-year-old. She lives alone in the house, while her son’s family stays close by. Though she has lived here for the last 50 years, this is the first time she has heard such a huge sound. “Blasts do occur in the quarry, but I had never heard anything of this magnitude,” she said. Her son Kishor Naik, who had slept on the terrace, got up as he heard the first blast, a relatively mild one. “Within a few seconds, there was a huge blast, something I have never heard in my lifetime,” he said. A flash of fire, followed by thick clouds of dust and smoke engulfed the whole area. “We could not breathe for some time. The air was clear only an hour later,” he said. Windows and tiles of his house too have been damaged. Lakshmi Bai, a local resident, said, “We all ran out of the house, with no knowledge of what was happening.” Looking for parts The magnitude of the explosion was so high that parts of the truck, in which explosive material was kept, were strewn as far away as 800 m from the site of the blast. Hundreds of people, who had gathered near the spot on Friday, were seen hunting for vehicle parts, trying to identify broken and mangled remains. Devaraj of Gajanur, who had come to the spot out of curiosity, said his place was about 25 km away from the blast site, but he heard the sound as if it happened close to his place. “All people in our village ran out of their houses as they heard the sound. We all thought it was an earthquake,” he said. Krishna, a cable operator at Vidya Nagar in Shivamogga, said transmitters were damaged owing to the blast. “I had to repair the gadgets and restore transmission as there was pressure from the public who wanted to watch news and understand what had happened,” he said. No damage to dams The blast site is hardly three or four kilometres away from the outskirts of Shivamogga city. Two major reservoirs of the district — Tunga dam at Gajanur and Bhadra reservoir near Tarikere — are within a radius of 30 km from the site. Many had expressed fears that the blast could have impacted the reservoirs. Shivamogga Deputy Commissioner K.B. Shivakumar, however, said officials had examined the dams and no damage was noticed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/it-was-a-sound-we-had-never-heard-before-say-residents/article33640057.ece
23 January 2021||Special Correspondent,KARNATAKA||Offline classes for first year PG students from January 29||After resuming offline classes for the students of intermediate semesters for both PG and UG from January 19, the University of Mysore on Friday announced the restart of offline classes for the first-year postgraduate students from January 29. And it hopes to complete the curriculum of the first semester of the first-year PG course by March since nearly 40 per cent of the syllabus had already been covered in online teaching. Vice-Chancellor G. Hemantha Kumar told The Hindu that the University is fully prepared to restart the offline classes for the first-year PG students on Manasagangotri campus and also in its three PG centres at Hassan, Mandya and Chamarajanagar, taking all precautions and complying with the standard operating procedures (SOPs). He said the University has given another chance to those wishing to take admissions to the PG courses under the Scheme ‘B’ with some seats remaining vacant. Admissions under Scheme ‘A’ have been done and admissions are available only in Scheme ‘B’ which has a different fee structure. Claiming that the classes that resumed for the students of intermediate semesters had recorded an average of 70-80 per cent attendance, the Vice-Chancellor expressed confidence of attracting 100 per cent attendance soon besides hoping for good attendance in classes of the first-year PG courses. “Some departments have recorded 100 per cent attendance in classes of intermediate semesters,” said Prof. Kumar, adding that students are willing to attend classes besides attending the sessions for clearing their doubts of classes done in online mode. Yuvaraja’s and Maharaja’s Colleges, the two constituent colleges of the University, have also attracted good attendance since their reopening, he said, adding that online classes will continue until the students’ turn-up to offline classes in full strength. Prof. Kumar said the State government has given a free hand to the Universities to conduct the offline classes as per their requirements. “If at all there is a difference of 10-15 days in the schedule, the University will make it up and ensure that the schedule won’t affect the academic year of 2022 for which the admissions may start in October.” The VC said the University is hoping to conduct the examination for second year PG students in February-end and in March-end for first year PG students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/offline-classes-for-first-year-pg-students-from-january-29/article33640510.ece
23 January 2021||Staff Reporter,KARNATAKA||Police summon Hampana for Modi remark||The Mandya police have summoned and questioned writer Hampa Nagarajaiah, 86, popularly known as Hampana, over the critical remarks he made about Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s handling of the farmers’ protests. The police were acting on a complaint lodged by an RSS activist. A group of writers and retired judges have issued a statement calling this ‘an attack on freedom of expression’, even as the Congress has demanded that Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa apologise to the scholar. Dr. Nagarajaiah, inaugurating the Taluk Sahitya Sammelana in Mandya on January 17, had criticised the PM on the handling of the farmers’ protest at the Delhi border. RSS activist Ravi lodged a complaint against the writer at Mandya West Police Station, prompting the police to summon Dr. Nagarajaiah to Mandya. “In no way was my statement derogatory. As a citizen of this country, I do have a right to be critical of the government and that is no crime. At this age, the police insisted I go to Mandya and face the inquiry over frivolous charges and that has pained me. This is an attack on freedom of expression,” Dr. Nagarajaiah said. His daughter H.N. Arati said the family had also received a few uncivil calls objecting her father’s statement. Venkatesh, sub-inspector, Mandya West Police, refused to divulge details. “Whenever there is a petition against someone, it is our duty to seek their explanation, which we have done. We have booked no case against the writer,” he told The Hindu.   A group of citizens - writers including Baragur Ramachandrappa, G. Ramakirshna, Raghunandana and retired jurists V. Gopala Gowda, Nagamohan Das and A. J. Sadashiva - have written an open letter criticising the police move. Action regretted Meanwhile, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar and Parashurama K., Superintendent of Police, Mandya, are learnt to have called the scholar and regretted the police action. “The Minister and the SP said police at the lower rung had acted in haste and they regretted it,” Dr. Nagarajaiah said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-summon-hampana-for-modi-remark/article33640063.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||VTU gets HC nod for offline semester exams||The Karnataka High Court on Friday gave the green signal to the Visvesvaraya Technological University to conduct semester-end exams in offline mode for over 2 lakh students in the State. The High Court directed the VTU to ensure that Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) is strictly adhered to while conducting exams, commencing on February 8. The exams are being conducted from Semesters 1 to 7 in engineering colleges affiliated to VTU. Justice R. Devdas passed the order while disposing of petitions filed by Shreyas P.S. and 119 other students, several of them non-Karnataka students. The petitioners had sought a direction to the VTU to hold exams online since many are required to come to Karnataka for the exams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vtu-gets-hc-nod-for-offline-semester-exams/article33640027.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Five bodies recovered from blast site||While two bodies were retrieved in the night, on Friday morning, two bomb squads traced three more bodies. Sources said that some bodies were beyond recognition given the intensity of the blast. Shivamogga Deputy Commissioner K.B. Shivakumar told the media that the retrieved bodies had been sent for post-mortem. “An expert team is collecting data on the explosives. Preliminary investigation suggests that it was a gel-like explosive,” he said. The incident occurred in a licensed stone crusher located in a “safe zone”, the Deputy Commissioner said. The land belonged to one Avinash Kulkarni and he had given five acres of land on lease to one Sudhakar, who was conducting the mining in the quarry. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has announced a relief of Rs. 5 lakh each to the affected families. The families of the workers from the neighbouring village have demanded compensation of Rs. 50 lakh each. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi were among those who tweeted condoling the death of workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/five-bodies-recovered-from-blast-site/article33640060.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Sudhakar meets CM||Health Minister K. Sudhakar on Friday met Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to persuade him that it is better if Medical Education portfolio also remains with him in the light of the COVID-19 vaccination drive. He was divested of the portfolio in the recent cabinet reshuffle. “We managed better control over COVID-19 as there was excellent coordination between the two departments as one person handled them. Now, we have started vaccination, which is our final weapon against the disease. If the same coordination continues, we can achieve good coverage. Administrative issues should not be a hurdle in the vaccination drive,” he told The Hindu . He claimed that the Chief Minister was convinced and has assured him that he will rework the portfolios and give Medical Education back soon. “The Chief Minister asked me to assume that I have both the portfolios and function as I was doing earlier,” he said.  The Chief Minister asked me to assume that I have both the portfolios and function as I was doing earlier K. Sudhakar, Health Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sudhakar-meets-cm/article33640034.ece
23 January 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Kandiyoor bypass road is getting ready||The construction of the Kandiyoor bypass road is nearing completion. According to Mavelikara MLA R. Rajesh, 90% of the project has been completed and it will be opened to traffic in the second week of February.  Panacea to traffic woes The Kandiyoor bypass was proposed several years ago as a panacea to traffic snarls in Mavelikara town. The foundation of the project was laid in 2006. However, the project made hardly any progress in the following years. In 2012, the project was put back on track but the contractor left soon, resulting in further delay. Later the government re-tendered the project and the work was awarded for Rs. 3.75 crore. Due to the shortage of gravel and floods, the work got disrupted several times. “The bypass project work has entered the final phase. After several years of waiting, we hope to open the road to traffic next month,” Mr. Rajesh said. The bypass road, which commences from western side of the Mavelikara municipal bus stand, passes through Manakkad Puncha before reaching the eastern side of the Kandiyoor temple. The road with a length of just over one km has a total width of eight metres including a 5.5-metre carriage way. According to officials, once the Kandiyoor bypass is completed, vehicles heading towards Mannar, Thiruvalla and Chennithala could pass without moving through the busy Mitchel junction. The Mitchel junction is one of the busiest in the town and during peak hours, there are traffic snarls there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kandiyoor-bypass-road-is-getting-ready/article33640436.ece
23 January 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Post cover made of coir and coconut products launched||The Postal Department on Friday released a special postal cover made of coir and other coconut products. It was launched by Pradipta Kumar Bisoi, secretary, Department of Posts, and chairman, Postal Services Board, by handing over a cover to Kerala Circle Chief Postmaster General V. Rajarajan in a function held at the Vembanad Kayal branch post office here. Officials said that the special cover was made of 35% coir and various other coconut products. It also contains newspaper and cotton waste. The paper needed for making the cover was manufactured by the Central Coir Research Institute of the Coir Board. Central Region postmaster general Mariamma Thomas, Central Region postal services director Archana Gopinath, and others attended the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/post-cover-made-of-coir-and-coconut-products-launched/article33640434.ece
23 January 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Ray of hope for tribal farmers||The Tribal Department is evolving a project ‘Haritha Reshmi’ in Idukki and Wayanad districts to encourage traditional farming in the tribal settlements. The aim is also to provide a sustainable income to the tribal communities. In Idukki, the project is being implemented in Devikulam taluk where a large number of tribespeople live inside the forest areas. The Tribal Department plans to select people from the tribal communities to include in the project. Seeds Seeds and farming equipment will be provided to them. If the project is found successful, it will be extended to other districts. According to an official of the Tribal Department, ‘Haritha Reshmi’ is a long-term project and as part of it, a survey will be conducted among the tribal communities to collect the details of the farmers there. The survey will focus on the items of farming, the land details, farming equipment, and the time of sowing the seeds, he said.  Farm methods ‘Haritha Resmi’ aimed at continuing with the same farm methods by the tribespeople while augmenting the production level and enhancing their income. The tribal farmers, in addition to support, will also be given a remuneration for the farming works they take up. This is to encourage sustainability and livelihood among the tribal communities, he says. A regular income will help farmers economically as well as protect the traditional system of farming. The farm products of the tribespeople will be marketed to give the option of quality produce from the forests to the buyers. Normally, the tribespeople find it difficult to market the produce. The situation is often that farm produce from remote areas that are brought to the market face reprisals like low prices. The ‘Haritha Reshmi’ will work as a link between the tribal farmers and the buyers. Tribal Development Officer Santhosh Kumar S. says the project will be implemented in association with the Tribal Department and Center for Management Development. As part of it, seeds and fertilizers will be given to select farmers. First phase In the first phase, assistance to 1,000 farmers in Idukki will be given. The project will be implemented in Vattavada, Marayur, Adimali, Munnar and Devikulam in Devikulam taluk. The first tribal panchayat at Edamalakkudy will also be included in the project soon, he says.  The Tribal Department plans to select people from the tribal communities to be included in the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ray-of-hope-for-tribal-farmers/article33640361.ece
23 January 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Revised voters’ list published in Wayanad||In the revised voters’ list for the Assembly polls in Wayanad district which has been published, women voters outnumber men. The total electorate in the district is 6,07,068. The voters’ list shows that there are 2,99,063 men and 3,08,005 women voters in the district. As many as 845 NRI voters and 1,042 service voters are also included in the list. The largest number of voters are in Sulthan Bathery Assembly constituency with 1,06,544 voters, and the lowest in Mananthavady Assembly constituency with 95,268. There are 97,251 voters in Kalpetta constituency, according to the list.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/revised-voters-list-published-in-wayanad/article33640346.ece
23 January 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Rights panel orders compensation for kin of snakebite victim||The Kerala State Human Rights Commission on Friday directed the Education and Health Department Secretaries to provide a sum of Rs. 5 lakh as compensation to the family of Shehala Sherin, a Class 5 student who died following snakebite in her classroom at the Government Sarvajana Higher Secondary School in Sulthan Bathery on November 20, 2019. P. Mohanadas, member of the commission, directed the Health and Education Department authorities to take disciplinary action against the school authorities and the medical officer who had treated the girl after the snakebite. Completion of probe It directed the District Police Chief to complete the investigation by a police officer not below the rank of DySP and submit the final report before the court concerned in a time-bound manner. A medical board should take a final decision in a month regarding legal action to be taken against the medical officer, the fourth accused in the case, said the commission. The argument of the Health Department that the board was yet to be constituted due to the outbreak of COVID-19 was a grave mistake on the part of senior health officials, added the commission. The Wayanad District Collector informed the commission that prima facie there was serious fault on the part of the school authorities in connection with the student’s death. The commission issued the directives on the basis of a complaint submitted by a group of activists including U.A. Ajal Samajith, Sreejith Perumana, Mujeeb Rahman, Madasami and Rahim Pandalam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rights-panel-orders-compensation-for-kin-of-snakebite-victim/article33640359.ece
23 January 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Worker dies as earth caves in||A 53-year-old man died when earth caved in on him while he was working on the construction of a concrete wall at Ayiramkolly near Ambalavayal in the district on Friday morning. Radhakrishnan of Mullukolly at Thattyad near Ambalavayal was removing mud to construct a concrete wall along with some workers on a private plantation when the earth caved in at around 11 a.m., said the police. Radhakrishnan was buried in the mud, while the others escaped. He was declared dead at a hospital. The Ambalavayal police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/worker-dies-as-earth-caves-in/article33640358.ece
23 January 2021||Kannur,KERALA||LDF wins Thillankeri division||The LDF candidate defeated the UDF nominee in the election held in the Thillankeri division of the district panchayat on Friday. The election in the division was postponed following the death of the then UDF candidate, Georgekutti Irumbukuzhi, during the local body elections recently. LDF candidate and CPI(M) district committee member, Benoy Kurian, won the seat with a majority of 6,980 votes. He defeated Linta James of the UDF. A total of 64.45 per cent of the voters cast their votes. Of the total 32,356 votes polled, Mr. Kurian received 18,687 votes while Ms. James managed to garner 11,707 votes, followed by K. Jayaprakash of the BJP, who got 1,333 votes. Thillankeri is currently the sitting seat of the UDF and the defeat is a huge setback to the front which was expecting a win here. Lead in local bodies The LDF took the lead in all the panchayats. This is the first time the LDF has taken the lead in Ayyankunnu panchayat, a UDF stronghold. With this win, the total strength of the LDF has gone up in the district panchayat to 17 out of 24 seats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-wins-thillankeri-division/article33640350.ece
23 January 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Protest by Dalits against land acquisition crosses 1,000 days||Tears trickled down the face of K. Prakashan, a resident of Thuruthi, as he narrated the events that unfolded a few days ago when the police assaulted and arrested him and others when they objected to the survey of their colony by government officials to acquire the land for development of the National Highway. Mr. Prakashan is one among the several people of the Scheduled Caste community, who have been on a protest for over 1,000 days now against the acquisition of their lands. The residents of the colony have been demanding realignment of the plan, which would otherwise uproot them from their ancestral land where they have been living for centuries and demolish their Sri Poothiyil Bhagavathy temple, which is over 400 years old. Twenty-five families belonging to the Dalit community here allege that the authorities had fixed the present alignment purposely to skirt around the properties of influential and wealthy people from acquisition. Mr. Prakashan said that most of the residents from the community were very poor and they did menial jobs for a living. The proposed alignment, which was the third one by the development authority as part of the NH expansion, would evict all the Dalits living here. Over 8 acres of land would be acquired if they went ahead with it, they said. Two earlier alignments, which were made in 2016, did not propose any curve and would not have affected the people and property. However, the third one, which was planned after the LDF government came to power, was fixed in such a way that it went right through the colony, he said. K. Nishil Kumar, converner, National Highway Action Committee, said that the proposed alignment from Keecheri to Valappattinam would pass through wetlands and had four curves. One of the curves was deliberately planned to go through the 500-metre stretch from Velappuram to Thuruthi through the Dalit colony, he said. “The people here are not against development, but they have been demanding straightening this curve, which would save them from being uprooted from their land where they have been living for centuries,” he said. The land mafia and people with vested interests had a role in changing the alignment and there was forcible eviction from the colony with a larger and ulterior motive, he alleged. Mr. Kumar said that the documents submitted by the NH authorities to the court pointed to the intervention of “VIPs” and influential people to change the previous alignment. He said the existing alignment would destroy a large extent of wetlands. As per the previous plans, the bypass would have been completed by widening the present National Highway. Even the Commission for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, which inspected the site, had found that the present alignment was formed in a curved and zig-zag manner. The commission opined that the NH authorities must examine the issue and find a suitable alignment. The Pappinissery grama panchayat had also stated in its report that sufficient land was available for acquisition and that the alignment could be fixed in a straight line, which would not affect the colony. Despite this, all the pleas to realign the plan had fallen on deaf ears, he said, adding that they had taken up the issue with the Green Tribunal. However, the recent police action against the protesters has instilled fear in the families here. “We have resolved most of the issues here and convinced the people,” said District Collector T.V. Subhash. He said that was apprehension in the mind of the people. However, after listening to their grievances and issues, they had been given better offer and compensation, to which they had now agreed, he said. Besides, all the formalities had been carried out, including issue of notification and as per rules and now they could not object to the process, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/protest-by-dalits-against-land-acquisition-crosses-1000-days/article33640360.ece
23 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Fresh mobility plan for Greater Kochi on cards||The first meeting of the Kochi Metropolitan Transport Authority (KMTA) held on Friday under the chairmanship of Minister for Transport A.K. Saseendran has decided to opt for a fresh Comprehensive Mobility Plan (CMP) for Greater Kochi area, rationalise bus routes, hasten work on the walkway-cum-non-motorised road corridor linking Ernakulam North and South railway stations and develop a common app to integrate different modes of public transport in the region. It was also decided to extend KMTA’s jurisdiction to areas which fall under the Greater Cochin Development Authority (GCDA) and the Goshree Islands Development Authority (GIDA), to form committees for public transport operators, traffic integration, integrated land use and town planning, urban freight movement and a city transport advisory committee. The other decisions taken by the authority — the first of its kind in India to have legal backing, and was constituted in November 2020 — include laying of ground work to permit the entry of private buses from Vypeen into the city, to have tie-ups with all bodies that have been active in the field of traffic reforms, to finalise a parking policy and regulate parking and to install direction boards wherever required. EoI to be invited All these decisions will be implemented on a priority basis during the ensuing six-month period, said Jafar Malik, CEO of KMTA, who made a presentation. A decision to opt for a fresh CMP was taken since members said that revising the CMP (that was readied in 2015) would be inadequate. Expression of Interest (EoI) would be invited from agencies which have expertise in readying CMP. This would smoothen the process of implementing a whole lot of reforms, including smart parking. The work to realise a North-South Corridor is already under way as part of Mobilise Your City programme. KMTA will coordinate with agencies concerned to acquire land and related aspects, he said. Common app Studies would be done on establishing first and last-mile connectivity, a rapid transit and suburban rail system to decongest the Greater Kochi area. In addition, a common app will be developed under the Kochi open mobility network, if need be with the help of bodies like Deccan Foundation so that commuters and providers of all public transport systems like metro rail, buses, autorickshaw, taxi cars and ferries can rely on it, rather than download numerous apps. Aimed at tackling inadequate manpower, it was decided that personnel will be deputed to the agency on a working arrangement, till the Finance Department gives the sanction to recruit personnel. Fund sought Friday’s meeting also saw KMTA demand Rs. 1.40 crore to create its website and for activities like awareness programmes. Mayor Anilkumar said that the Kochi Corporation must be taken into confidence while rolling out traffic and other reforms. The others who participated (most of them online) include Principal Secretary, Transport, K.R. Jyotilal, urban transport expert O.P. Agarwal and representatives of Planning Board, MVD, traffic police, Finance Department and Town Planning Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fresh-mobility-plan-for-greater-kochi-on-cards/article33640379.ece
23 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Biomining of Brahmapuram legacy waste to cost Rs. 54 crore||The consortium that qualified the technical bid for the rehabilitation of legacy (old) waste lying at the Brahmapuram yard of the Kochi Corporation has quoted Rs. 54.9 crore for the proposed work. The financial bid submitted by the consortium of Zonta Infratech Pvt. Ltd and Bauer GmbH, Germany, has been placed before the civic body for follow-up action. About one lakh cubic metres of old waste has to be biomined from the dump site within nine months after awarding the work, according to the request for proposal invited by the Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation (KSIDC) responsible for engaging private players for waste management in the State. Survey The corporation has to justify the rate quoted by the consortium and assess the exact quantity of the legacy waste in consultation with the State Pollution Control Board. The corporation has requested the National Institute of Technology, Calicut, to carry out a survey to assess the quantity of waste. The survey is expected to take at least two weeks, according to a report filed by Chief Secretary Vishwas Mehta before the Principal Bench of the National Green Tribunal in New Delhi in the case related to the non-compliance of Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016, in the State. Treatment plant The Local Self-Government Department and the Kochi Corporation will be responsible for ensuring that the firm completes the work within the stipulated time frame. The selected firm will have to biomine the existing legacy waste and recover the entire area, including the land allotted to the Indian Medical Association, for the development of a biomedical treatment plant. It should ensure recovery of the land by cutting and levelling it to the maximum possible extent, aimed at getting a relatively flat land after biomining. The successful bidder has to scientifically process the old garbage as per the guidelines specified in the SWM Rules 2016.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/biomining-of-legacy-waste-to-cost-rs-54-cr/article33640367.ece
23 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Erratic water supply irks city residents||Water supply has been erratic in some parts of the city, with issues in pipelines that have yet to be fixed. Cherian George, a resident of Kadavanthra, said that there had been no supply since January 15. “We have been relying on water tankers that cost around Rs. 840 for 2,000 litres. Water would usually be pumped to the area once in two days,” Mr. Cherian said. Suja Lonappan, councillor representing Kadavanthra, said that she had been receiving complaints from residents around Vinoba Nagar, Bund Road and near the Padam bus stop. “Pumping of water has not been happening for long enough in the past 20 days. Uninterrupted pumping for around 30 hours will be necessary to get water to all areas in the division,” she said. A Kerala Water Authority (KWA) official said that work had been done in the first week of January on a large pipeline that carries water pumped from both the Thammanam and Perumanoor pump houses to some parts of Kadavanthra. “The attempt was to increase the supply to these areas. Instead, supply was disrupted. The issue will be identified properly and rectified on Saturday,” he said. Perennial issue In Edakochi, water shortage is a perennial issue, said Jeeja Tenson, councillor representing Edakochi North. In the Ittithara and Kannangattu areas, both scarcity and salinity of the little water that is supplied to over a hundred families is a problem, she said. For over a month now, residents have been relying on tankers since saline water is supplied through the pipes, said Rixon, a resident of Kannangattu. K.K. Raju, another resident who lives in one of the bylanes, said that large vehicles like water tankers cannot enter the small lanes in the area, and residents would have to walk some distance to get their supply of water for a day or two.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/erratic-water-supply-irks-city-residents/article33640385.ece
23 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||LDF wrests Kalamassery ward||The United Democratic Front (UDF) will continue to rule the Kalamassery Municipality with a wafer-thin majority despite facing a shocking defeat in the election held for ward 37 on Friday. The results took the tally of Left Democratic Front (LDF) in the council to 20 while the UDF will retain power with 21 seats. Rafeeq Marakkar, the Independent candidate of the LDF, defeated V.S. Sameel of the Muslim League by 64 votes. Mr. Rafeeq won 308 votes while Sameel secured 244 votes. Shibu Siddique, an Independent who had enjoyed the support of the ‘A’ group in the Congress, bagged 207 votes that helped the LDF increase its seat share in the council. The local leadership of the Muslim League blamed the infighting in the Congress for the defeat of its candidate. The party has asked the Congress to initiate action against those responsible for the poll debacle. The election to this ward was postponed following the death of a candidate. The Muslim League had refused to heed to the demand by a leader of the ‘A’ group of the Congress to support his candidature for the ward. The UDF and the LDF had 20 members each at the start of the newly formed council. The Bharatiya Janata Party had won one seat in the election held for 41 of the 42 wards. The UDF’s strength shot up to 21 after K.H. Subair, a Muslim League rebel, left the Left camp and joined the front after two weeks. He was given the post of chairperson of the Standing Committee on Education, Arts and Sports as part of the compromise formula. The victory of its Independent candidate in ward 37 has fuelled the LDF’s hopes of wresting control of the council as it remains confident of regaining the support of the rebels in the Congress and Muslim League in the coming weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-wrests-kalamassery-ward/article33640378.ece
23 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||High Court seeks report on missing drain slabs, lack of footpaths||Taking note of the lack of footpaths in the city and drains that did not have covering slabs, the Kerala High Court as asked its amici curiae to inspect the major city roads. Passing the order, Justice Devan Ramachandran noted that at PNVM Junction, there were two huge openings in the drain, which could injure or even kill a pedestrian who fell into it. Footpaths were completely missing on the street from Lissie Junction to Kaloor junction, forcing pedestrians to walk on the main road. On the eastern side at Kaloor junction, the drain had been kept open, the court observed. The judge noted that road safety did not mean the safety of motorists alone but that of of all citizens who used it, especially pedestrians. The importance of safe and sufficient pedestrian paths could not be lost sight of, the judge said. The court asked the senior government pleader and the standing counsel for the corporation to report on the steps taken by the agency to address the issues. On the reference made by Vinod Bhatt, one of the amici curiae, that streetlights on various roads including Salim Rajan Bridge and the stretch of the highway from Edappally to Kaloor were most often not lit, the court asked the counsel for the corporation to obtain instructions on the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/high-court-seeks-report-on-missing-drain-slabs-lack-of-footpaths/article33640381.ece
23 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Identifying competent agencies a challenge||The risks involved and the low calorific value of the municipal solid waste generated in the State remain as challenges in identifying competent agencies for implementing Waste-to-Energy (WTE) projects, according to the government. Stating that there are only limited players in the sector, the authorities pointed out that the feedback received from prospective bidders revealed that the element of risk associated with WTE sector is much high compared to infrastructure development projects in other sectors. Hurdles in the collection and segregation of waste continue to be another challenge. As per the tender, the participating local bodies are responsible for the primary collection of solid waste from households and other establishments within the project cluster. Waste from primary sources will be deposited in bins being provided by the firm chosen at secondary collection points. It is responsible for the secondary collection from secondary collection points, transportation to the processing facility and the scientific processing of solid waste as per rules. The majority of the players in the sector are not in a position to take the responsibility of collection and transportation of waste. The scope of collection and transportation also impacted the total project cost as the project is based on the design-build-finance-operate-transfer mode. The bidders informed that the success of waste-to-energy projects depends on the characteristics of municipal solid waste in the State. The generation of power mainly depends on the calorific value of the waste. The firms or consortium are under the impression that the calorific value of municipal solid waste in the State is quite less compared to other States in the country. Though the tender provides a commitment from the government side for the supply of minimum quantity of waste, bidders feel that the quantity required is not available for the viable operation of the plant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/identifying-competent-agencies-a-challenge/article33640375.ece
23 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Panel orders emergency review of child care institutes||Stung by the criticism levelled against a child care institute (CCI) in the wake of the sudden death of a 14-year-old mentally challenged girl inmate earlier this month, the Child Welfare Committee (CWC) has ordered an emergency review of all CCIs in the district. The girl allegedly collapsed and died at the institute on January 11 following which the victim’s family took out a protest march to the CWC office at Thrikkakara with her dead body alleging institutional apathy. The girl was moved into the institute about two years ago after being allegedly abused sexually by her father and his friend. “We have asked the District Child Protection Unit (DCPU) to conduct an emergency review of all CCIs in the wake of the incident. A circular has also been issued asking all institutions to extend immediate medical support to inmates who complain of any physical, mental, or emotional unease besides counselling and psychiatric care, if needed,” said Bitty K. Joseph, chairperson, CWC. The district has 95 CCIs registered under the Juvenile Justice Act, of which 71 are operational now. “A five-member team comprising a representative of CWC, a social worker, a child protection officer, a psychiatrist, and a doctor will inspect the institutes in the coming days,” said Sini K.S., District Child Protection Officer. Clean chit given Meanwhile, an internal probe ordered by the CWC following the incident has absolved the CCI concerned of any deliberate negligence leading to the death of the inmate. The girl was under homoeo treatment since she was found to be allergic to allopathy after she developed a fever about a week before her death. She was being treated in a homoeo clinic in the neighbourhood and was about to be taken for an X-ray when she reportedly collapsed and died in the institute, which has been operating for the past 17 years. The CWC also aims at leveraging technology to maintain real-time interaction with CCIs with a WhatsApp group comprising all CCIs and representatives of the CWC and the DCPU being a major tool. “We have been constantly in touch with CCIs over the group and they have been asked to immediately report any unusual developments, including health-related issues of inmates that threaten to go beyond control” said Ms. Joseph.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cwc-orders-emergency-review-of-child-care-institutes-in-district/article33640386.ece
23 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Thrikkakara Chairperson, four councillors test positive||Ernakulam recorded 1,018 new COVID-19 cases and 1,005 recoveries on Friday. In Thrikkakara, 41 people tested positive. The Chairperson of the Thrikkakara municipality, four councillors and two members of the office staff have tested positive for the virus, said P. S. Shibu, Secretary of the municipality. The municipality office continues to function after it was disinfected, but with fewer staff since those were in direct contact with the infected persons have been advised to remain in quarantine. Kanjoor recorded 33 new cases, Kalamassery 32 and Thuravoor 30. A total of 24,965 people remain in quarantine. The active case load stands at 11,080. As many as 8,566 people are recovering at home. For testing, 6,613 samples were sent on Friday. 1,367 vaccinated At 14 centres in the district, 1,367 health workers took the Covishield vaccine on Friday. The figure has increased from 1,039 on Thursday and 701 on Tuesday. While 165 people took the vaccine at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kalamassery, 180 people took it at the MOSC Medical College Hospital, and 100 people each took the vaccine at the Angamaly taluk hospital and Mar Baselios Medical Mission Hospital. Four minor adverse events following immunisation were reported on Tuesday, involving giddiness or pain, said M.G. Sivadas, nodal officer for vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thrikkakara-chairperson-four-councillors-test-positive/article33640374.ece
23 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Where youngsters dice with death||The drowning of a 12-year-old in a public pond in south Eroor had an air of inevitability considering the number of lives claimed by that particular waterbody every year owing to the misplaced adventurism of ignorant youngsters. The latest tragedy comes hardly a year after another teenager from Udayamperoor had drowned in the pond on March 13 last year. Like in the latest incident, he had also come with a friend and ventured into the water to swim and on both occasions, the friends on the banks were left helpless spectators and emotionally scarred forever. The pond was one of the 15 waterbodies where the Thripunithura Fire and Rescue Services had put up warning boards a couple of years ago against swimming though it now remains overturned, probably by some young visitors. “At least one death is reported from there every year and last year the victim had entered the water in spite of that warning board. Often the victims are teenagers from other places and they ignore explicit warnings by local residents,” said Shaji K, Station Officer, Thripunithura Fire and Rescue Services. Five drownings were reported from the Thripunithura fire station limits last year alone and except for two fishing-related deaths, all three were reported in ponds with warning boards. That the station does not have a diving team makes the rescue efforts that much hard. Rakesh Pai, CPI(M) local committee secretary and convener of the development committee of ward 41 of Thripunithura Municipality in which the pond is located, said that youngsters turning up in groups to swim is a common sight. “The pond, though alongside the road, is flanked by a cemetery on one side and a temple on the other leaving it mostly deserted, especially during afternoon hours. We try to send back youngsters whenever we notice them and often many of them don’t take it well and they even return with an even bigger group to threaten and abuse us. It is also a late-night hideout for youngsters using drugs,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/where-youngsters-dice-with-death/article33640387.ece
23 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||16 officers complete aeronautical course||A total of 16 officers comprising eight from Indian Navy, two from Coast Guard and six officers from the Bangladesh Navy, Vietnam Navy and Mauritius Police Force passed out from the Naval Institute of Aeronautical Technology on completion of Air Engineering and Air Electrical Officers Specialisation course (Aeronautical Engineers) on Friday. Their passing-out parade was reviewed byRear Admiral Deepak Bansal, Admiral Superintendent of Naval Ship Repair Yard (Kochi). The officers underwent 52 weeks of intensive training in advanced aeronautical subjects, and practical training on various types of aircraft operated by the Indian Navy and Coast Guard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/16-officers-complete-aeronautical-course/article33640364.ece
23 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||CIAL pays 27% dividend||The Cochin International Airport Limited (CIAL) has handed over Rs. 33.49 crore as the share of its profits made during 2019-2020 to the State government. The MD of CIAL, V.J. Kurian, handed over a cheque to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. The government has 32.42% share in CIAL. The company had made profit of Rs. 204 crore in the last fiscal and its director board decided to give out 27% of the profit, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cial-pays-27-dividend/article33640380.ece
23 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Protest against cycle track||The demarcation of space on the busy Park Avenue Road for a cycle track does not augur well for commuters on the corridor, the Ernakulam Vikasana Samithi has said. K.S. Dileep Kumar, chairman of the samithi, said that over 90% of the land on either side of the stretch was owned by government agencies. A dedicated cycle track could have been created by acquiring a portion of the land. The ongoing work by CSML was aimed at “hoodwinking” members of a Central team which would arrive in the city later this month, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/protest-against-cycle-track/article33640383.ece
23 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Minister’s assurance on Vaduthala land||The State government will proceed with the process to give ownership rights over poramboke land to 63 residents of Shanmugapuram in Vaduthala, Revenue Minister E. Chandrasekharan said in response to a submission made by T. J. Vinod, MLA, in the Legislative Assembly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ministers-assurance-on-vaduthala-land/article33640384.ece
23 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||SNC hands over Air Evacuation Pod to Lakshadweep||The Southern Naval Command on Friday handed over an indigenously-built Air Evacuation Pod (AEP) to the Lakshadweep administration for safe aerial transportation of COVID-19 patients. No risk The equipment is a fully sealed capsule weighing 32 kg using aluminium, nitrite rubber and perspex with breathing facilities, which will eliminate the risk of infection during air evacuation of patients from islands to mainland for treatment. The equipment was handed over to Kadeeshabi AM, Deputy Collector, Agatti, by a representative of the Navy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/snc-hands-over-air-evacuation-pod-to-lakshadweep/article33640362.ece
23 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Dairy start-up with a mission||A dairy start-up incubated under the Kerala Startup Mission has come up with an online platform that delivers fresh milk. The online platform, www.greengeofarms.com, began delivery three months ago. Using glass bottle to supply milk is in line with the mission of Green Kochi, according to its CEO Jithin George. The product reaches the consumers within three hours of milking.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dairy-start-up-with-a-mission/article33640382.ece
23 January 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Eravipuram ROB to be a reality soon||Eravipuram railway overbridge (ROB), a long-pending demand of the residents, will soon be a reality with Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan inaugurating the construction on Saturday. The bridge coming up over level cross number 547 at Kavalpura Junction will be completed with Rs. 37.14 crore sanctioned by Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB). “Eravipuram residents have been demanding the bridge for more than 50 years now. Roads and Bridges Development Corporation of Kerala (RBDCK) will be the implementing agency of the project and Rs. 9.69 crore from the total budget was set aside for land acquisition. The entire expense will be borne by the State government without any financial support from the Railways,” said Eravipuram MLA M. Naushad. Rail India Technical and Economic Service Limited is the consultancy of the project and the construction period is 12 months. The 412-meter-long and 10.05-meter-wide Eravipuram ROB with a two-lane road and footpath will have the pier, pier cap, and girder in steel. “The project was included in 2016 Budget and it also got sanction the same year. The Budget and plan prepared by RBDCK was approved in 2017 February and Rs. 37.38 crore was sanctioned from the KIIFB. The procedures for land acquisition were initiated in October 2019,” he said. Land acquired One acre and 30 cents of land was acquired from 88 landlords and the procedures were completed in 2020 June. According to Mr. Naushad, Railways had included the project in 2012-13 works programme and its general arrangement drawing (GAD) was approved on April 17, 2013. “The State had approved the changes in alignment recommended by the Railways and the matter was communicated to the authorities. Since it is a project included in the works programme and the State is bearing the whole expense, it requires only in-principle approval and we have obtained that,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/eravipuram-rob-to-be-a-reality-soon/article33640422.ece
23 January 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Applications invited for post of guest instructor||Government ITI, Elamadu, has invited applications for the post of guest instructor in Computer Hardware and Network Maintenance Trade. NTC in the trade concerned and three years of experience or NAC with one year experience is the qualification required. Interested persons can appear for an interview with original certificates on January 27 at 11 a.m. For details, contact 0474-2671715.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/applications-invited-for-post-of-guest-instructor/article33640423.ece
23 January 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||UDF wins in two wards in Kollam||The United Democratic Front (UDF) emerged victorious in Ward no. 5 and 13 of Panmana panchayat where bypolls were held following the death of candidates. While Anilkumar of the UDF polled 745 votes against the 674 votes secured by LDF’s Parameswaran in Chola ward, UDF’s A.M. Naufel bagged 1,014 votes against J. Anil’s 678 votes in Parambimukku ward. Both the wards were sitting seats of the LDF. Currently, the UDF is the ruling front of the panchayat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-wins-in-two-wards-in-kollam/article33640431.ece
23 January 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Man nabbed for supplying drugs to schoolchildren||District Anti-Narcotic Special Action Force (DANSAF) on Friday arrested 36-year-old Navaz, a resident of Thevalakkara, for selling banned narcotic substances to school students in Chavara, Thekkumbhagam. The arrest was made by the DANSAF team and Thekkumbhagam Sub Inspector Sujtathan Pillai following a tip-off received by District Police Chief T .Narayanan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-nabbed-for-supplying-drugs-to-schoolchildren/article33640430.ece
23 January 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Medical camp organised at Alappad||Alappad grama panchayat, Azheekkal FHC, Kadalora Jagratha Samithi, and Karunagapally Janamaithri police jointly organised a medical camp in Alappad to address post-COVID-19 health issues. Grama panchayt president Ullas Kumar inaugurated the camp and member Praseetha Kumari presided over the function. Block panchayat member Shirley delivered the keynote address while medical officer Mercy Williams, Karunagapally Station House Officer Manjulal, and health inspector Sreekumar, also attended the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/medical-camp-organised-at-alappad/article33640424.ece
23 January 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Two killed, 18 injured as bus rams two-wheeler||Two persons were killed and 18 others sustained injuries when a speeding KSRTC bus rammed a two-wheeler near Perunthuruthy in Changanassery on Friday. The accident took place around 4.30 p.m when the bus, proceeding to Pathanamthitta from Changanassery, lost control while negotiating a curve, hit the two-wheeler from behind, and rammed a building nearby. The police are yet to identify the deceased. The injured were rushed to hospitals in and around Thiruvalla. Traffic along the Thiruvalla-Changanassery route faced partial disruptions for about half an hour following the accident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-killed-18-injured-as-bus-rams-two-wheeler/article33640437.ece
23 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Six-laning work: NHAI waiting for govt. to hand over land||Work on six-laning the 40.8-km-long Azhiyur-Vengalam section of National Highway 66 in Kozhikode district will begin when the State government hands over land acquired for the Rs. 1,838-crore project. Adani Enterprises Limited (AEL) had won the multi-crore highway project from the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) on January 12. The project granted under the Hybrid Annuity Model (HAM) is part of the Bharatmala Pariyojana of the Centre. The contract for the purpose will be signed within a month. NHAI project director Nirmal Manohar Zade said the government had mostly acquired the required land for widening the highway. The Centre had deposited the compensation package of Rs. 663 crore under the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act to property owners whose land had been acquired for the project. The work would commence once the State government handed over the acquired land, said Mr. Zade. As per the agreement, the project was expected to be completed within two years, he added. A Special Deputy Collector (Land Acquisition) had worked out the compensation package after fixing the price of land and buildings. The process of remitting the compensation to the owners of land, especially in Vadakara and Koyilandy taluks, is being done. Notices have already served on landowners. The process of acquisition in some sections was still progressing, said sources. Meanwhile, work on the 2.10-km stretch between Moorad bridge and Palolipalam had begun as it was a standalone project, said Mr. Zade. In October, Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari had laid the foundation stone for the Kozhikode-Palolipalam-Moorad Bridge six-lane road project at the cost of Rs. 210.21 crore. Bypass project However, the proposed Kozhikode Bypass widening project is still hanging fire. The six-laning of the 28.4-km stretch from Vengalam to Idimuzhikkal is expected to solve traffic problems on the national highway. The total cost has been estimated to be Rs. 1,853.42 crore. The cost escalated from Rs. 1,710 crore when the project was awarded to a Hyderabad-based company in April 2018. Incidentally, the cost of the project was pegged at Rs. 1,450 crore when it was conceived in 2016. The company, Krishna Mohan Construction Private Limited, which secured the contract had failed to secure a bank guarantee of Rs. 85.50 crore. Had the construction work started as per schedule, the project would have been completed in May last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/six-laning-work-nhai-waiting-for-govt-to-hand-over-land/article33640345.ece
23 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Fire dept. to enlist women as home guards||The Fire and Rescue Services Department in Kozhikode will soon come up with a list of women who are eligible to work as home guards and assist the local police and the fire service wing in various roles. Efforts are on to reserve 30% of the total vacancies for women in the service, that is now dominated by men. At present, there are 399 home guards in Kozhikode district, who assist the police in traffic management and crowd control. The sanctioned strength for the district is 400, which may be increased further. Fresh appointments will be made on the completion of tenure of the already recruited staff. Fire and Rescue Services Department officials said a list of 100 eligible women who had retired from various uniformed services such as the police and the Armed Forces would be prepared in the first phase. Applications may be submitted to the District Fire Office till February 12. Only physically fit candidates between 35 and 65 years of age will be recruited to the post. The selection process will be completed by the end of February. Women who wish to join the service will have to prove their physical fitness by completing 100-metre run in 18 seconds and three-km walk in 30 minutes apart from a few other field tests. It will be monitored by a district-level panel comprising police higher-ups, Sainik Welfare Board functionaries and Fire Service Department officials. The department plans to make use of the service of women home guards for traffic control during peak hours. They will be also assisting the local police in implementing various woman and child development programmes and community services. The selected candidates will be eligible for a daily wage of Rs. 765. Though there are about 3,000 home guards across the State at the present, there are no women in the service. The Department came up with the move after some of the women who had retired from uniformed services tendered their request before the authorities to give them a chance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fire-dept-to-enlist-women-as-home-guards/article33640355.ece
23 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||NIA arrests youth for Maoist links||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has arrested a suspect Vijith Vijayan, 26, a resident of Wayanad district, in connection with the Kozhikode Maoist case. An official statement said here on Friday that Vijith was arrested on Thursday on the charges of radicalising and recruiting two other suspects Alan Shuhaib and Thaha Fazal into proscribed Communist Party of India (Maoist) [CPI(Maoist)]. He was produced before the Special NIA Court, Ernakulam, and sent to judicial custody. The NIA said that incriminating materials, including documents and various digital devices, were seized during a search conducted in his house in Kozhikode on May last. The scrutiny of the data retrieved forensically from the seized digital devices had also yielded details pertaining to the unlawful and terrorist activities of CPI(Maoist) cadres. The case was originally registered on November 1 at Pantheerankavu police station in Kozhikode against them and also a third suspect C.P. Usman. Alan and Thaha were arrested with documents and propaganda material supporting CPI(Maoist), while they were conducting a party meeting with Usman who had managed to escape from the scene.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nia-arrests-youth-for-maoist-links/article33640459.ece
23 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||CPI(M) likely to field its own candidate in Elathur||Signalling that the party will adopt a realpolitik stand in seat-sharing process in the Assembly polls, the CPI(M) has refused to offer any standing committee chairperson post to its minor partner the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) in the Kozhikode district panchayat. In the elections held to posts of standing committee chairpersons, NCP district president Mukkom Mohammed, who is also incidentally the convener of the CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front (LDF), was not considered. The CPI (M) district leadership had adopted the same stand when it came to sharing the electoral pie in the Kozhikode corporation council earlier. Mr. Mohammed had won from the Ulliyeri division on the LDF platform. In the 27-member council, the Left front has 18 representatives. Last time, Mr. Mohammed was a chairperson of one of the standing committees in the district panchayat. The CPI(M) district leadership said that the post of chairperson was denied to the NCP considering the fact that the party would possibly leave the LDF if its Central leadership decided so. Tenure sharing However, the party decided to share the tenure of one of the chairpersons (Standing Committee on Education) between the Communist Party of India (CPI) and the Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD). In the polls held to the posts of standing committee chairpersons on Monday, Mr. Mohammed also was conspicuous by his absence. Mr. Mohammed said he stayed away as he had to attend a party meeting in Thiruvananthapuram. Already, a section of the CPI(M) leaders has mooted fielding the party’s candidate in Elathur Assembly segment from where NCP leader A.K. Saseendran contested and won in 2011 and 2016 elections. Elathur segment, carved out from other segments after delimitation a decade ago, is one of the CPI(M) bastions in the district. ‘No clear base’ The CPI (M) leadership also believes that the NCP has no clear base in the district. Besides, the vote share of Mr. Saseendran had also declined in the last Assembly elections. Sharing a sure seat to constituents with no credible foundation would weaken the party’s vote base, it said. In the Lok Sabha polls held in 2019, Congress leader M.K. Raghavan was ahead of his CPI(M) rival A. Pradeepkumar in the segment. However, in the recently concluded local body polls, the LDF secured 74,798 votes while the UDF got 64,132 votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-likely-to-field-its-own-candidate-in-elathur/article33640343.ece
23 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||A passion for farmer-friendly innovations||He retired as sales tax officer in 2008. But, that was not the end of his career. Prakasan Thattari, the winner of the State government’s latest Innovator Award, finds joy in designing innovative and cost-effective technologies. Wonder Climber, a manually operated arecanut plucker, which he designed in just four years after his retirement, won him the latest recognition, endorsing his passion for farmer-friendly innovations. The 66-year-old also succeeded in developing improvised models of his product with the insecticide sprayer finding a good market among farmers. “I have already sold over 3,000 machines to various buyers in Kerala and other States. There are 12 more innovative products on the anvil of which eight may get patent soon,” said Mr. Prakasan, who maintains an exclusive workshop, Prakatech, to nurture his passion, at Mayanad. The latest product from his kitty getting ready for trial is a coconut de-husking machine, he added. Though Prakasan had earlier been felicitated by the Kerala State Council for Science, Technology and Environment and the Peruvannamoozhi-based Krishi Vigyan Kendra for his inventions, it was the first time that a prestigious State award came to him. He said the honour would be an inspiration for emerging rural innovators. Interestingly, Prakasan is getting enquires about his products even from foreign countries. Many are ready to buy the patented products if he is willing to export them. However, technicalities pertaining to export and his unfamiliarity with the procedures discouraged him from giving it a try. “It will be great if the government comes up with support for rural innovators and explore the export potential of innovations. People like us have no experience or knowledge to handle such areas,” said Mr. Prakasan. “There were enquiries from Thailand, Canada, and Australia for the wonder climber, but I was really helpless to explore the option,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-passion-for-farmer-friendly-innovations/article33640352.ece
23 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||NCP issue: Pawar cancels visit to State||Amid wrangling between two factions in the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) over shifting coalition loyalties, party president Sharad Pawar, who was scheduled to meet the State leaders cancelled his Kerala visit on Saturday for taking part in Bal Thackeray's birth anniversary event in Mumbai. Sources said that Mr. Pawar had deputed senior leader Praful Patel next week to chalk out a formula even as the two factions led by Mani C. Kappan, MLA, and Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran held a series of tactical exercises in the last fortnight. The Central leadership, after parleying with several leaders, including State president T.P. Peethambaran, is likely to toe the line of the official faction to walk out of the CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) if it fails to honour the policy of fielding winners of constituents from their sitting seat. The decision of the CPI(M) to favour its nascent constituent, Jose K. Mani faction for the Pala Assembly segment, overriding the claims of Mr. Kappan, a seat he had captured in a by-election in September 2019 and the hankering of Mr. Saseendran to contest again while remaining in the LDF had resulted in the tussle between the two coteries in the party. The development comes as Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala who is to embark on a ‘Kerala Yatra’ from Kasaragod next week made overtures of electoral alliance to the NCP for the coming Assembly polls. Power struggle The NCP Central leadership feels that the bitter power struggle between the two factions and the overzealous publicity on the issue have dented the image and backfired on the party. It also perceived that the dismal performance of Mr. Saseendran as Transport Minister and he remaining as a perennial contender in every other polls did not entitle him to run again for an Assembly seat. Incidentally, Mr. Peethambaran also lashed out against Mr. Saseenrdan for holding a caucus of those leaders owing allegiance to him ahead of now called off meeting which Mr. Pawar was to participate at Nedumbassery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ncp-issue-pawar-cancels-visit-to-state/article33640445.ece
23 January 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Usman Koya dead||Kozhikode District Congress Committee vice president E.V. Usman Koya, 78, died at his residence in the city on Friday. Mr. Koya, who had a distinguished presence in the social, cultural, and political spheres of Kozhikode, had been the chairman of Kozhikode Pourasamithi, treasurer of Kerala Heart Care Society, president of the Kazi Foundation, Mappila Song Lovers, and Kuttichira Yuva Bhavana. Earlier, he had also held the post of vice president of the Kozhikode District Football Association, president of Francis Road Residents’ Association, co-ordination advisor of Thekkepuram Residents and vice chairman of Citizens’ Intellectual, Educational, Social and Cultural Organisation, which is popularly known by its short nomenclature (CIESCO) Senior Citizens Forum.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/usman-koya-dead/article33640354.ece
23 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Hunt on for members of poaching gang||The Forest department has identified five suspected poachers, who managed to escape during a surprise inspection conducted by its special squad at Kallanpullu near Poovaranthodu on Thursday. Special squad members from the Thamarassery range office said the escapees were found involved in various criminal cases registered by the local police apart from the poaching attempts. “We have taken up the incident very seriously as the gang attacked the Forest squads using three trained guard dogs. There was even a trained Rottweiler dog, which chased the squad,” said a senior Forest department official. The squad members managed to escape as there was a fence in the area and it was the first time that such a planned attack was made, he said. During the surprise raid, the squad had recovered three country-made guns, gunpowder and many other sharp weapons used for hunting wild animals. The squad reached the spot following a tip-off from some local residents. On seeing the squad, the gang escaped from the area after letting loose their guard dogs. Though flash raids were conducted in various suspected hideouts, the squad could not track them. Officials said they had already informed various Forest range offices and police stations about the incident and the details of the suspects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hunt-on-for-members-of-poaching-gang/article33640356.ece
23 January 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Fee slashed||The entrance fee for elders at the Kappad beach has been reduced from Rs. 50 to Rs. 25. The revised tariff announced by the District Tourism Promotion Council will come into effect on Saturday. For the children, the revised fee is Rs. 10. There were protests by local residents against the entranced fee after the completion of the beach beautification work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fee-slashed/article33640349.ece
23 January 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Church jubilee||The silver jubilee celebrations of Rev. Dr. Robert Hermon Memorial CSI Church at Tirur will begin on Sunday. Bishop of Malabar Diocese, Royce Manoj Victor, will inaugurate the celebrations. He will also lead a Holy Communion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/church-jubilee/article33640348.ece
23 January 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Quarry ordered to stop functioning||Subcollector of Ottappalam Arjun Pandian has ordered to stop the functioning of a granite quarry at Ananganmala, Varode, near Ottappalam. It is the second time that Mr. Pandian has ordered the stopping of quarry activities at Ananganmala. The second order was issued on Thursday after conducting a hearing of all the parties concerned. The quarry owner had secured a stay on the Sub Collector’s order from the High Court. The Kerala Sastra Sahitya Parishad (KSSP) had complained against the functioning of the quarry, raising environmental and ecological concerns. Reports sought Mr. Pandian said the quarry was functioning in an ecologically sensitive area. He has asked different departments to study the impact of the quarry and submit their reports. The District Environmental Impact Assessment Authority and the geology department will conduct a study about the potential threat being posed by quarrying on Ananganmala. The Public Works Department will submit a report on the impact of quarrying on housing in neighbouring areas. The Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) will examine if the quarry is harmful for the Anganwadi functioning in the area.  Before February 10 The SC Development Officer and the Forest Range Officer too will submit their reports. Mr. Pandian said the reports should be submitted at the court before February 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/quarry-ordered-to-stop-functioning/article33640368.ece
23 January 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||SCD claims student’s life||Sickle cell disease (SCD) has claimed the life of a student at Attappady. Deepa, 17, student of Government Vocational Higher Secondary School, Agali, succumbed to the disease on Thursday. The girl from the Maranatty hamlet at Sholayur was admitted to Government Tribal Speciality Hospital, Kottathara, on Wednesday. When her condition aggravated, she was shifted to EMS Cooperative Hospital, Perinthalmanna, on Thursday. She died on the way to the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/scd-claims-students-life/article33640371.ece
23 January 2021||Pathanamthitta,KERALA||Pathanamthitta reports 624 cases||As many as 624 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Friday. Of the fresh cases, 598 persons contracted the virus through local contact and among these, the contact source of 36 cases are yet to be identified. Among the local bodies, Adoor reported 62 cases, followed by Pandalam with 28 cases. The disease claimed four more lives in the district and the victims were identified as a 78-year-old man from Thottapuzhassery, a 72-year-old man from Vadasserikkara, a 73-year-old woman from Ezhamkulam, and a 74-year-old man from Murinjakallu. With 338 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 5,605 active cases. Kottayam As many as 581 persons tested positive in Kottayam on Friday. Of the fresh cases, 576 persons including a health worker contracted the virus through local contact. The fresh cases also included 49 children and 106 persons aged above 60. With 86 cases, Kottayam municipality led the tally, followed by Mundakkayam and Ettumanur with 17 cases. With 900 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 6,145 active cases. Kollam The district reported 573 new COVID-19 cases and 290 recoveries on Friday. Those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 included one NRI, 566 contact cases, one person with no known source, and five health workers. The district currently has 12,105 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 6,87,138. While 1,314 persons completed home quarantine on Friday, the Health Department has traced 1,56,088 primary and 13,850 secondary contacts of the patients. Alappuzha The district reported 409 COVID-19 cases on Friday. It also recorded one COVID-19-related death. Of the fresh cases, 398 patients contracted the disease through local transmission, while the source of infection of two other persons remains unknown. Five people who came from abroad, three from other States, and one health staff also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Meanwhile, 387 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district tested negative. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district stands at 4,285.  (With inputs from Kottayam, Pathanamthitta, and Alappuzha bureaus)   Kottayam records 900 recoveries during the day, 387 people test negative in Alappuzha||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pathanamthitta-reports-624-cases/article33640426.ece
23 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Cong. sees CPI(M) move to engineer defections||The Congress has reportedly moved to counter an “organised move” on the part of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] to engineer defections from the party to score a propaganda victory over the United Democratic Front (UDF) ahead of the Assembly polls. The party is also eyeing the dissensions in the Left Democratic Front (LDF) with intense political intent. The Congress leadership has opened negotiations with party veteran K.V. Thomas, who had threatened to jump ship. The CPI(M) had pointedly stated it was not opposed to accommodating Mr. Thomas. Press meet called off In Kochi, Mr. Thomas told reporters that he was meeting the Congress leadership soon and cancelled the press conference he had scheduled for Saturday. The Congress also seemed poised to set in motion a process that will hopefully jump-start the arguably torpid organisational apparatus into an electoral battle machine. Former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy will chair the first meeting of the newly formed election management and strategy committee (EMSC) on Saturday. The All India Congress Committee (AICC) had tapped Mr. Chandy to head the EMSC given his protracted innings in State politics and long-standing bonds with social organisations and community leaders. Collective leadership However, the AICC has insisted on collective leadership during the election campaign. It has pointedly not named any person as the potential leader of the Congress Legislative Party (CLP) to fend off the possibility of an intra-party power struggle in the run-up to the polls. Moreover, the AICC wants the State unit to preserve unity amongst the rank and file and discourage personality politics-oriented factionalism. Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president Mullappally Ramachandran will preside over the meeting. Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala, UDF convener M.M. Hassan and AICC general secretaries K.C. Venugopal and Tariq Anwar will attend the meeting. The deliberations are close door. The attendees are likely to hammer out a template for candidate selection. The AICC had reportedly frowned on the custom of apportioning Assembly seats to competing party factions. Instead, it has insisted that the party allocate seats only to candidates who stood a good chance of securing a win at the hustings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cong-sees-cpim-move-to-engineer-defections/article33640452.ece
23 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Smart card to buy a host of facilities||City residents will be able to access several services, including transport and parking facilities, with a smart card if a plan under the city Corporation’s Smart City projects becomes a reality. The ‘My Smart Tvm Card,’ an integrated, contactless payment card, is expected to be rolled out as part of the project. With this smart card, residents will be able to pay for a host of services from e-autorickshaws to online payments of water bills and smart parking and payment for electronic vehicle charging stations. Other services proposed to be integrated into the system include payments related to the Corporation, Motor Vehicle Department or Police Department, tourism fee collection, and fee for e-governance services. “The Smart City Thiruvananthapuram Limited has now issued a call for tenders for a banking partner for the smart card project. We need to hold discussions with all the departments for integrating their services with this smart card. Integrating even supermarkets and other shops into the smart card is also under consideration,” said an official handling Smart City projects in the city Corporation. Major cities across the world have smart travel cards, pre-loaded with money, which allows the public to access all kinds of transport. The banking partner is expected to develop, operate and maintain card management systems to cover the card procurement, card personalisation, issuance, dispatch and delivery at various touch-points such as bus terminals and parking slots. Top-up points Card-dispensing touch points will be set up at least in 25 locations, which will also serve as top-up points for the card. The top-up can also be done through online, mobile platform, QR code, customer care facilities and bank offices. Point of sales machines or utility payment touch points will be set up near parking stations and inside buses and autorickshaws so that the citizens can seamlessly make payments. The system will be integrated to the ICCC (Integrated Command Control Centre) and TSCCC (Traffic Safety Command Control Centre), which are coming up as part of the Smart City project.  Discussions will be held with govt. departments to integrate their services with card||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/smart-card-to-buy-a-host-of-facilities/article33640597.ece
23 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Global meet to focus on new-age skills||Policymakers, industry leaders, and domain experts participating in the Kerala Looks Ahead (KLA) conference from February 1 will deliberate on the potential of the State to emerge as India’s skilled labour hub, especially in the post-pandemic scenario, and suggest a roadmap that would accelerate the process of skill development in the State. The three-day event, organised by the Kerala State Planning Board, will highlight the vital role of skill training and upgradation in promoting economic growth, particularly in the context of new-age technologies. “Kerala’s skilled professional workers have been the choice of employers both in India and outside. This needs to be effectively leveraged as the global manufacturing sector becomes more automated and knowledge-intensive,” said Planning Board Vice Chairperson V.K. Ramachandran. Crucial advantage “Kerala’s strength in school and higher education makes it better equipped than most other States to deal with the new challenge,” he added. “This calls for the highest levels of training for the youth of Kerala with an emphasis on technical and vocational education, so that they can participate in the structural transformation of the State’s economy,” a press note quoting Mr. Ramachandran said. Venu V., Member Secretary, Planning Board, said the COVID-19 pandemic and the evolving situation had caused disruptions in some sectors, but new opportunities and requirements emerging in significant areas were also evident. “Certain sectors such as IT-enabled services, transport, banking and insurance, construction, healthcare and medical equipment, food processing, tourism and hospitality have significant employment possibilities in the State,” he said, adding that continuous re-skilling programmes were also required. Prominent participants Nobel laureate economist Joseph Stiglitz and Soumya Swaminathan, Chief Scientist with World Health Organisation (WHO), are scheduled to address the meet on the inaugural day on February 1. The session on February 2 will deliberate on the State’s role in developing an integrated skill development policy framework and systems. It will also delve into labour market information systems and technical and vocational education. KLA will have eight other sectoral sessions covering agriculture, modern industrial possibilities; higher education (including international academic collaboration); tourism; IT; e-governance; local governments; and federalism and development financing.  IT-enabled services, transport, banking, tourism healthcare, and construction have good job options in the State||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/global-meet-to-focus-on-new-age-skill-training/article33640432.ece
23 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Poll results spring a few surprises||The results of the elections in seven local body wards, declared by the State Election Commission on Friday, held a few surprises. The United Democratic Front (UDF) won four wards and the Left  Democratic Front (LDF) two, while an Independent won one ward. The UDF candidate’s victory in the Pullazhi ward of the Thrissur Corporation put the LDF on a sticky wicket. The LDF is ruling the civic body with Congress rebel M.K. Varghese as Mayor. But with the victory of UDF candidate K. Ramanadhan on Friday, both fronts now have 24 seats each, weakening the LDF’s hold on the 55-seat corporation. Mr. Varghese said he planned to continue as LDF Mayor. In the Thillankeri division of the Kannur district panchayat, the UDF suffered a setback when the result was out on Friday. The UDF lost its sitting seat to Benoy Kurian of the LDF, who beat Linta James of the UDF by a margin of 6,980 votes. At Kalamassery The UDF will continue to rule the Kalamassery municipality, but its majority has been reduced to one seat with the LDF-backed Independent Rafeeq Marakkar winning Ward 37 by defeating V.S. Sameel of the IUML. The UDF has 21 seats and the LDF 20 in the municipality. UDF candidates A.M. Noufal and Anil Kumar won the elections held to the Parambimukku and Chola wards in the Panmana grama panchayat, Kollam. Rohith M. Pillai of the LDF won in the PHC ward of the Chettikulangara grama panchayat in Alappuzha. Vasanthi Vijayan of the UDF won in the Thathoorpoyil ward of the Mavoor grama panchayat, Kozhikode. The elections to the seven wards were held on Thursday following a postponement due to the deaths of candidates. The votes were counted on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/poll-results-spring-a-few-surprises/article33640456.ece
23 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CM promises measures to prevent drowning deaths||The government has adopted a slew of measures to prevent deaths due to drowning, which include a decision to introduce swimming in the school curriculum, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. Replying to a submission by C. Divakaran of the Communist Party of India, Mr. Vijayan said the government intended to make sure that all children in the State received swimming training. As many as 3,150 school students had already undergone preliminary training in swimming. The Directorate of General Education and the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) had been directed to include swimming in the curriculum, Mr. Vijayan said. The Fire and Rescue Services had introduced a ‘safety beat’ mechanism to prevent deaths due to drowning and equip society to tackle water-related emergencies, Mr. Vijayan said. The topic came up in the Assembly with Mr. Divakaran pointing out that the death of actor Anil Nedumangad in December had once again brought the issue to the forefront. He said, on an average, Kerala reported three drownings daily. He said 60% of the victims were below the age of 30. Drownings stood second to road accidents in claiming lives. In 2019 alone, Kerala reported 1,490 deaths due to drowning. The legislator wanted the government to special mark bathing ghats and ensure the services of lifeguards wherever necessary. He also sought a memorial to Anil Nedumangad .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-promises-measures-to-prevent-drowning-deaths/article33640608.ece
23 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||6,753 new cases, test positivity rate high at 11.63%||Kerala’s COVID-19 graph climbed further with the State reporting 6,753 new cases on Friday when 58,057 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. Test positivity rate climbed to 11.63% on the day. The cumulative case burden of the State has risen to 8,77,282 cases. With 6,108 persons testing negative, the cumulative recoveries reported in the State has crossed eight lakh and now stands at 8,03,094. The addition of 19 new deaths over the past one week to the official list of COVID fatalities on Friday has taken the State’s toll to 3,564. Thiruvananthapuram reported seven of these deaths, Kozhikode five, Thrissur and Malappuram two each while Alappuzha, Kottayam and Palakkad reported one death each. The number of critically ill COVID patients is also on the rise and stood at 810 on Friday. Of the new cases, in 72 cases the Health Department has reported a history of travel outside the State while 6,681 are locally acquired infections. Amongst the locally acquired infections, in 510 cases the source of infection remains untraced while the number of health-care workers who acquired the infection is 62 Among the districts, Ernakulam continues to top with 1,018 cases, while Kozhikode reported 740 cases, Pathanamthitta 624, Malappuram 582, Kottayam 581, Kollam 573, Thrissur 547, Thiruvananthapuram 515, Alappuzha 409, Kannur 312, Palakkad 284, Wayanad 255, Idukki 246, and Kasaragod 67.  U.K. variant The U.K. variant has been found in the sample of one more person. The variant was detected in the sample of a person in Kannur, which has been sent for genomic analysis to CSIR-IGIB in New Delhi. With this, the virus variant has been detected in 10 persons in the State. A total of 68 persons who reached the State from the U.K. have so far tested COVID-19 positive. Of these, 41 have recovered. The results of more samples sent for genomic analysis are awaited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/6753-new-cases-test-positivity-rate-high-at-1163/article33640447.ece
23 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Opposition walks out, raises spectre of violence in Kannur||The Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) Opposition walked out of the Assembly on Friday after raising the spectre of potential political violence in north Kerala in the run-up to the Assembly elections in April. The Opposition boycotted the proceedings after Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan declined to allow an adjournment motion moved by Sunny Joseph of the Congress to discuss the volatile situation in Kannur district. Oppn. charge Mr. Joseph said Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] workers had openly declared that they would assassinate Congress and Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) workers in Mayyil panchayat following a tense stand-off between members of the opposing parties in the locality. The CPI(M) had captured the threats on a mobile phone camera and posted it on social media to deter their political opponents. Speaker’s ruling Mr. Sreeramakrishnan refused to give leave to adjourn the business of the House to discuss the motion. He said the issue was too parochial for the consideration of the Assembly. Subsequently, Opposition members led by Anwar Sadat of the IUML and Eldos Kunnapally of the Congress staged a protest in the well of the House. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan offered shade and support to the party's assassins. The CPI(M) under Mr. Vijayan had repeatedly used physical elimination of opponents as a political tool to silence dissenters. The murder of Revolutionary Marxist Party (RMP) leader T.P. Chandrasekharan was a case in point. Mr. Chennithala said the State had witnessed more than 35 political murders after Mr. Vijayan assumed office. The CPI(M) used its time in government to systematically target political opponents and systematically ensnare many in false cases.  Chennithala’s charge The party attempted to terrorise people in subjugation in places it had no political traction. Mr. Vijayan had lorded over criminalisation of Kerala society. He had given free rein to gold smugglers to use his office for their illegal purposes. The CPI(M) had spend crores from the public exchequer to provide legal aid to its death squads.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/opposition-walks-out-raises-spectre-of-violence-in-kannur/article33640451.ece
23 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||At 515 new cases, capital sees a surge||The district continued to witness an upward trend in COVID-19 cases with 515 cases being recorded on Friday, marking the first time since December 2 when the daily caseload crossed 500. Sparking fears of yet another spike, as many as 1,764 cases have been reported in Thiruvananthapuram since January 19. 272 recoveries While 272 persons recovered from the illness, the number of active cases stood at 3,926. The death toll also continued to rise, reaching 712 as on Friday. Barring a few imported cases, almost all cases have been attributed to local transmission. Two health care workers are among those who tested positive. The district administration placed 1,759 persons under quarantine on the day.  A total of 980 health care workers were administered the COVID-19 vaccine in 12 centres in the district on the day. They were inoculated at General Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram (100), KIMS Health Care (98), District Hospital, Nedumangad (76), Sree Gokulam Medical College (100), NIMS Medicity (98), Parassala taluk hospital (78), Thiruvananthapuram Medical College Hospital (74), Government Women and Children’s Hospital, Thycaud (76), Varkala taluk hospital (51), Aruvikkara primary health centre (81), Neyyattinkara government hospital (64) and Chirayinkeezhu taluk hospital (84).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/at-515-new-cases-capital-sees-a-surge/article33640596.ece
23 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Gallery to display Ravi Varma’s works||An art gallery showcasing the inimitable works of Raja Ravi Varma, who was instrumental in drawing the attention of the world to Indian art, will be ready in the State capital by May this year. The 10,056 sq ft, air-conditioned gallery in two floors is coming up alongside the Sree Chitra Art Gallery on Napier Museum campus. Construction is progressing at a brisk pace, the government said on Friday.  43 paintings Promising to be a veritable treat for art lovers, the museum will have on display 43 paintings by Ravi Varma now kept at the Sree Chitra Art Gallery and works by the Ravi Varma School of Arts.  The project has been undertaken by the Kerala Museums. In all, there will be 150 paintings at the gallery which is being constructed at a cost of Rs. 9 crore. Architecturally, the building will complement other structures on the sprawling Museum campus and it will have a convention facility in addition to the exhibition hall. The gallery is also intended to ensure the scientific conservation of Ravi Varma’s works, the government said.  10,056-sq ft air-conditioned gallery in two floors is coming up on Napier Museum campus||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gallery-to-display-ravi-varmas-works/article33640365.ece
23 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Guru spread communal harmony: Venkaiah||One of the greatest spiritual leaders who influenced and shaped modern India, Sree Narayana Guru spread India’s message of communal harmony, Vice President M. Venkaiah Naidu has said. The Vice President was speaking online after releasing ‘Not Many, But One,’ an English translation of Narayana Guru’s poems in two volumes by G.K. Sasidharan.  Guru was a multi-faceted personality who combined in himself the qualities of a great sage, an eloquent proponent of the Advaita philosophy, a poet and a spiritual personality, Mr. Naidu said. He stressed the role played by Narayana Guru as a social reformer.  Temple entry He stood at the forefront of the temple entry movement and the struggle to end the discrimination against the socially underprivileged. By consecrating the Siva idol in Aruvippuram in the face of protests and becoming an inspirational force behind the Vaikom Satyagraha, he earned the respect and admiration of Mahatma Gandhi, Mr. Naidu said. In connection with the Sivagiri pilgrimage, Narayana Guru emphasised the importance of sanitation, education, agriculture, commerce, handicrafts and technical education, the Vice President said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/venkaiah-hails-gurus-message-of-communal-harmony/article33640442.ece
23 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Saplings planted to honour poet||The city Corporation has planted 1,000 saplings in various parts of the city to mark the birthday of poet Sugathakumari, who passed away recently. Mayor Arya Rajendran inaugurated the programme by planting a sapling on the Corporation main office premises. Deputy Mayor P.K. Raju planted a sapling in the Fort zonal office, while the standing committee chairpersons planted saplings in the various zonal offices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/saplings-planted-to-honour-poet/article33640598.ece
23 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||12,120 more receive vaccination in the State||On Friday, the day five of the vaccination drive against COVID-19, 12,120 more health workers received the vaccine in the State. More vaccination sites were opened in the State on Friday, with 141 sites carrying on the vaccination drive. There were 16 sites in Ernakulam district, 12 in Thiruvananthapuram, 11 in Kollam and Kozhikode, 10 sites in Kasaragod and nine sites each in rest of the districts. The State is taking up COVID-19 vaccination on four days of the week. Ernakulam district had the maximum number of beneficiaries, with 1,367 health workers receiving the vaccine. A total of 47,893 healthcare workers have been vaccinated in the State till now. So far not many adverse events have been reported in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/12120-more-receive-vaccination-in-the-state/article33640448.ece
23 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Man held for planting bomb under car||The Thumba police on Friday arrested one person for allegedly planting a country-made bomb that went off beneath a parked car. Vinod, 30, of Attinkuzhy near Thumba was apprehended in connection with the crime. The accused allegedly planted the bomb under the car that was parked near the railway quarters in Attinkuzhy on January 10. He went into hiding later, but the police identified him from the visuals recorded by CCTV cameras in the area. The police recovered a cache of country-made bombs that the accused had allegedly stored in his house. He was taken into custody on the basis of a tip-off received by the Kazhakuttam Assistant Commissioner. He has been remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-held-for-planting-bomb-under-car/article33640438.ece
23 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Help desk anniversary||Smrithi 21, the eighth anniversary celebration of the Snehitha gender help desk in the district, was inaugurated on Friday. The gender help desk has so far received 3,321 complaints since its inception in 2013. The help desk, which functions under the Kudumbashree district mission, has provided counselling to 1,484 persons and temporary shelter to 913 persons. The gender helpline facilitates temporary shelter, counselling and legal aid to women and children who are victims of atrocities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/help-desk-anniversary/article33640599.ece
23 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Chirayinkeezhu ROB construction from today||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate the railway overbridge at Chirayinkeezhu on Saturday. The railway overbridge passes over the gate close to the railway station on the Chirayinkeezhu-Kadakkavoor road. The government had sanctioned Rs. 25 crore for its construction through the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB). CM to open The Chief Minister will inaugurate the facility via videoconferencing at 11 a.m. Public Works Minister G. Sudhakaran will preside over the function. Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac, Deputy Speaker V. Sasi, Adoor Prakash, MP, District panchayat president D. Suresh Kumar, and other local body representatives will attend the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rail-overbridge-opening-today/article33640440.ece
23 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Financial aid for former bar hotel employees||Every possible kind of aid will be provided to workers through the State’s welfare fund boards, Labour Minister T.P. Ramakrishnan has said. He was speaking after distributing financial aid to bar hotel employees who had lost jobs, as part of the Suraksha self-employment scheme of the Kerala Abkari Workers Welfare Fund Board here on Friday. Financial aid of a maximum of Rs. 3 lakh each, comprising of Rs. 2.5 lakh term loan and Rs. 50,000 grant of subsidy, will be given according to the project submitted by the beneficiary. Financial aid was awarded to 26 persons out of 66 applications received. The government has allocated Rs. 77.5 lakh to the abkari board for the loan amount.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aid-for-bar-hotel-staff-who-lost-jobs/article33640439.ece
23 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Holiday for PG, MPhil students||The University of Kerala has declared holiday for postgraduate and MPhil classes conducted by its teaching departments until January 30. Vice Chancellor V.P. Mahadevan Pillai has directed department heads to conduct online classes. Research students and the faculty will be required to report at the departments during the period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/holiday-for-pg-mphil-students/article33640604.ece
23 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Directive to remove banners||Subcollector M.S. Madhavikutty has directed officials of local self-government institutions to remove flex boards, flags, and banners put up illegally in public places in the district by January 24. HC directive This follows a directive of the Kerala High Court. Secretaries of local self-government institutions concerned have to implement the order. Ms. Madhavikutty said deputy directors in panchayats, urban affairs regional joint directors in municipalities, and the secretary in city Corporation have been entrusted with inspecting the situation and reporting everyday status.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/directive-to-remove-banners/article33640607.ece
23 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Martial arts course||The SRC Community College has invited applications for a certificate in martial arts programme conducted by it. Applicants should have cleared their Class X examination. Application forms and prospectus are available at the SRC office near the police camp at Nandavanam. For details, call 0471-2325101, 2325102, or visitwww.srccc.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/martial-arts-course/article33640441.ece
23 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Assembly honours Oommen Chandy||The Assembly on Friday honoured former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy for completion of 50 years in public life as a legislator. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan reminisced about entering the Assembly as a novice legislator in 1970 along with Mr. Chandy.Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said Mr. Chandy had always spent his life with the masses and gained their love and acceptance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/assembly-honours-oommen-chandy/article33640450.ece
23 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Bird flu not declared State-specific disaster||Avian Influenza has not been declared a State-specific disaster in Kerala, Minister for Animal Husbandry K. Raju informed the Assembly on Friday. Replying to questions, the Minister said while bird flu had not been declared a State-specific disaster, the government had announced compensation for the birds that had died or were culled following the outbreak in Alappuzha and Kottayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bird-flu-not-declared-state-specific-disaster/article33640454.ece
23 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Keltron courses||Keltron has invited applicants for the following courses: diploma in computer applications, postgraduate diploma in computer applications, word processing and data entry, Tally and MS Office. For details, call 0471-2337450, 2320332.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/keltron-courses/article33640600.ece
23 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Power supply to be regulated today||Power supply to several areas in the Cheriyad transformer limits under the Thycaud electrical section will be disrupted from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Saturday. Supply to several areas in the Poojappura section limits will be disrupted from 9.30 a.m. to 5.30 p.m., the KSEB said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/power-supply-to-be-regulated-today/article33640601.ece
23 January 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||UDF wrests power in Pullazhi ward||The stunning victory of the United Democratic Front (UDF) in the Pullazhi division put the ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) in a delicate position in the Thrissur Corporation. UDF candidate K. Ramanadhan won the bypoll with a majority of 993 votes on Friday. In the 55-member council, the LDF and the UDF now have 24 seats each. The LDF, which is ruling the Corporation with the support of UDF rebel M.K. Varghese, persuaded him with the Mayor post for the first two years. Political observers think that the election result has given the Congress rebel Mayor more bargaining power. When Mr. Ramanadhan secured 2,042 votes, Madathil Ramankutty of the LDF got 1,049 votes. Mr. Ramanadhan is the mandalam president of the Congress and a former councillor. National Democratic Alliance candidate Santhosh Pullazhi is in the third position with 539 votes. There were six candidates in the fray. The UDF wrested back the seat, which it lost to the LDF in the last election. Rajani Viju of the LDF had won the Pullazhi division against P.V. Sarojini of the UDF with a majority of 177 votes then.  Varghese steadfast Though the Congress leaders now hope to snatch power from the LDF with the support of Mr. Varghese, the former Congress councillor, said he would continue as LDF Mayor. A total of 28 seats are needed for absolute majority in the 55-member council. The LDF has 25 seats with the support of Mr. Varghese. There are 24 UDF members and six BJP members. Election to the Pullazhi division was postponed following the death of the LDF candidate, M.K. Mukundan. A member of the Congress and Leader of the Opposition he had joined the LDF camp just before the election. The LDF fielded Madathil Ramankutty, a Congress rebel and a former councillor, in his place. However, the Congress presented a strong fight this time. All the major leaders campaigned for the election, hoping to snatch back the Corporation rule.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-wrests-power-in-pullazhi-ward/article33640611.ece
23 January 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Lorry crashes into house, miraculous escape for family||Members of a family had a miraculous escape when a lorry crashed into their house at Vazhukkumpara, near Kuthiran, on Thursday night. The driver of the lorry, which was coming to Thrissur from Tamil Nadu, lost control of the vehicle and it crashed into the house of Mathai of Vazhukkumpara around 11.30 p.m. Mathai and his family, who were sleeping inside the house, escaped with minor injuries. The lorry driver also suffered injuries. The lorry, which was carrying iron sheets, skidded off the road before crashing into the house. The walls and windows of the house collapsed in the impact. The power lines were also snapped. Mathai’s wife Sofy was sleeping in the front room with their granddaughter. They escaped with minor injuries. Another accident Traffic was disrupted for hours in another accident at Koratty in the early hours of Friday. A tanker lorry returning to Karnataka from Thiruvananthapuram collided with a lorry carrying coconut husk and was going from Pollachi to Cherthala. Nobody was injured in the accident. Traffic was disrupted for several hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lorry-crashes-into-house/article33640357.ece
23 January 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Congress invites Mayor Varghese back to its fold||After the thumping victory at the byelection to the Pullazhi division of the Thrissur Corporation, the Congress has welcomed Mayor M.K. Varghese, who won the election as a Congress rebel, to the United Democratic Front (UDF) camp once again. Mr. Varghese, a former Congress councillor, contested and won from the Nettisserry division as an Independent candidate after the Congress denied him seat this time.  Offer stands: UDF The Left Democratic Front (LDF) took him to their camp by offering the Mayor post for two years and captured power in the Corporation. “The UDF had offered Mr. Varghese the Mayor post for the entire five years. That offer still exists. We have given him a blank cheque and expect that as an old Congress member, he will return to our camp,” District Congress Committee president M.P. Vincent said. However, Mr. Varghese said he would continue as LDF Mayor. Congratulating the Congress and K. Ramanadhan, the UDF candidate who won the byelection, the Mayor said the election result in Pullazhi would not affect the Corporation rule. “It was the LDF that offered me the Mayor post first. I accepted it. I have been given a free hand to function as Mayor by the front. I will have to rethink only if there is any change in their stand,” Mr. Varghese said. He ruled out any discussion with the UDF in the current situation. “This vehicle will continue to run on the same track,” he said in a lighter vein.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/congress-invites-mayor-varghese-back-to-its-fold/article33640610.ece
23 January 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||547 new cases, 463 recoveries in Thrissur||A total of 547 new cases were reported in the district on Friday while 463 people recovered from the pandemic. There are 4,963 active cases in the district and 114 people from the district are undergoing treatment in hospitals in other districts. Total caseload So far, 83,682 COVID-19 cases have been reported from the district and 78,164 people have recovered. According to official statistics, 535 people, including four health workers, contracted the disease through local contact on Friday. Of them, 110 people are above the age of 60 and 15 are below the age of 10. In all, 3,495 people are in home care. In all, 99 people were admitted to hospitals for treatment on Friday. A total of 5,753 samples were collected for tests on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/547-new-cases-463-recoveries-in-thrissur/article33640613.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||In the melting pot||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-the-melting-pot/article33640389.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Curiosity and the cat||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/curiosity-and-the-cat/article33640370.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Youth on street||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youth-on-street/article33640429.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Colours abound||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/colours-abound/article33640444.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||All in order||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/all-in-order/article33640615.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Facing fury||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/facing-fury/article33640603.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Teachers’ demands||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/teachers-demands/article33640606.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Lending zing||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lending-zing/article33640609.ece
23 January 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Banana train’ chugs out of Tadipatri||The first exclusive rake of containers packed with export-quality bananas for the 2020-21 financial year, was flagged off by Divisional Railway Manager Alok Tiwari at Tadipatri on Friday. Mr. Tiwari said the Guntakal Division in association with Container Corporation of India Limited was sending the consignment of Desai Fruits to Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust port from where the containers would be shipped to West Asian countries. “Last year we had shipped 11,000 MT of bananas through 40 such rakes, and this year our target is to ship at least 40,000 MT of bananas through containers and today we are sending 1,000 MT,” he said., Pulivendula is the largest banana market in the region and best quality bananas are grown in Anantapur and Kadapa districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/banana-train-chugs-out-of-tadipatri/article33640006.ece
23 January 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM for uninterrupted Net service in villages||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has said that uninterrupted Internet service should be provided in every village. At a review meeting on Friday on Internet service and distribution of laptops under the Amma Vodi scheme, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy asked the officials to ensure Internet connection to every household from a network point in the village. “I want to do away with frequent interruptions in Internet service. Underground cables should be laid from HT line to substation and further to panchayat office to ensure uninterrupted service. An Internet library should be set up at the village network to facilitate work from home at every village. Even the YSR Colonies should have Internet facilities,” said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy. He further asked the officials to ensure distribution of laptops to students of opted for it before the start of next phase of Amma Vodi scheme. “The laptops should have the specifications that fulfil the needs of the students. If the laptop has some problems, technicians should be available to repair it within one week and hand it over back to the students. If the laptop cannot be repaired, it should be replaced,” the Chief Minister said. The annual maintenance contract should be signed for three years, he added. IT Minister M. Gautham Reddy was among others present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-for-uninterrupted-net-service-in-villages/article33640546.ece
23 January 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||SCR commissions new section||The South Central Railway (SCR) has completed and commissioned 106 km of electric traction of the railway line between Vijayawada-Uppaluru-Bhimavaram sections of Vijayawada division on Thursday. The newly commissioned electrification work of the section includes single line with electric traction from Vijayawada to Uppaluru for a length of 18 km and double line with electric traction from Uppaluru to Bhimavaram Town for a length of 88 km. The total length of electric traction in terms in the section is 226 km. The newly commissioned project is part of Vijayawada – Gudivada – Bhimavaram – Narsapur, Gudivada – Machilipatnam & Narsapur – Nidadavolu doubling and electrification being executed at a cost of Rs. 3,000 crore for a distance of 221 km. It is to strengthen rail infrastructure for seamless movement of freight and passenger traffic on the new double rail line, apart from saving energy and reducing fuel expenditure. The work was executed by RVNL - Rail Vikas Nigam Limited with modern construction practices and technology. Commissioner of Railway Safety Ram Kripal conducted inspection in the last two days of the section and signalled the zone to run passenger and freight trains, said General Manager Gajanan Mallaya. The work was completed as per schedule, overcoming the impact of COVID-19 pandemic situation, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/scr-commissions-new-section/article33640328.ece
23 January 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minor girl stabbed in Proddatur||A minor girl was stabbed allegedly by a love-lorn youth in Proddatur town of Kadapa district on Friday. The accused Sunil, an unemployed youth, reportedly proposed his love to the girl recently and allegedly started exerting pressure on her for reciprocation. The girl was believed to be undecided. Sunil barged into the house around noon when the girl was alone at home and stabbed her with a dagger and fled. The girl was rushed to the government general hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minor-girl-stabbed-in-proddatur/article33640011.ece
23 January 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four fishermen suffer burns as boat catches fire||Four persons suffered burns after the boat, in which they were preparing to venture into sea for fishing, caught fire reportedly owing to short circuit while switching on the engine, at Kakinada fishing harbour in East Godavari district on Friday. The injured have been identified as Boddu Nookaraju, Malli Yerrayya, Mugi Dhanayya and Dydupalli Suribabu. The boat is registered with the East Godavari district Fisheries Department. All the four belonged to Visakhapatnam district and were engaged in fishing from Kakinada Harbour. Nookaraju’s condition was said to be critical. All of them had been shifted to Government General Hospital in Kakinada, East Godavari SP Adnan Nayeem Asmi said. The fire occurred when the crew attempted to start the engine by joining two wires of the battery. They had filled the oil tank before starting the engine and the fuel that fell on the boat led to the spread of the fire to the remaining par of the boat, the police said. The Port police and port authorities swung into the action to control the fire, but a major portion of the boat was gutted by then. The incident occurred at around 1.30 p.m.  Probe ordered Backward Classes Welfare Minister Ch. Venu Gopala Krishna has ordered an inquiry into the incident. The Minister visited the hospital and inquired about the health of the injured. The district officials will probe the incident. The State government is prepared to provide medical treatment to the injured. The owners of the fishing boats should ensure safety of the crew, Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/four-fishermen-suffer-burns-as-boat-catches-fire/article33640292.ece
23 January 2021||NANDIGAMA (KRISHNA DT),ANDHRA PRADESH||Police crack Nandi idol damage case||In a joint operation, the Special Investigation Team (SIT), constituted to probe into the temple attack cases, and the Krishna district police cracked the Nandi idol damaging case in Sri Kasi Viesweswara Swamy temple in Makkapeta village in the district. They busted a seven-member treasure trove gang, including a temple priest, who resorted to the act, said SIT chief and DIG G.V.G. Ashok Kumar and Krishna district Superintendent of Police (SP) M. Ravindranath Babu. The gang conducted ‘recce’ and took photographs the Nandi, located in the temple established by Kakatiyas, believing that precious diamonds were embedded in the ears of the idol and damaged them. Disclosing this to the newsmen here on Friday, Mr. Ashok Kumar said the gang desecrated the idol with superstitions. “SIT is probing whether the accused have any political links. A detailed investigation is under progress,” he said. Mr. Ravindranath Babu, who is also the SIT member, said the police questioned 218 temple offenders, involved in similar crimes in AP and Telangana States earlier, and picked up the prime accused -- A. Srinivasulu and Ch. Krishnaiah of Hyderabad. Based on their confession, SIT picked up I. Vijay, A. Venkatappaiah Sastry (priest in Anjaneya Swamy temple in Gampalagudem village) and two others in the case. The gang broke open the lock of the temple on the night of September 16, broke the ears of Nandi by using gas cutters, chisel, hammer and a driller. When they did not find any diamonds in the ears, they planned to steal the Nandi idol. In the meantime, the temple management replaced the idol with a new one. The gang tried to convince the priest of Visweswara Swamy temple, Yugandhar Sarma, who grew suspicious, and alerted Nandigama DSP G. Nageswara Reddy and Jaggaiahpet CI P. Chandrashekar Reddy. The police team, led by Vatsavai SI S.L.R. Someswara Rao and Jaggaiahpet SI B.V. Rama Rao picked up the gang members in Telangana State, who spilled the beans. Police registered a case under Treasure Trove Act, 1978, and other IPC Sections. “We seized a car and the tools used for the offence. Efforts are on to nab the remaining accused of the gang,” Mr. Ravindranath Babu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-crack-nandi-idol-damage-case/article33640634.ece
23 January 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Active COVID cases fall below 100 in Nellore||The active coronavirus cases has dipped below the 100 mark in Nellore district for the first time since the outbreak of the pandemic as the number of recoveries outnumbered the new admissions to hospitals in the last 24 hours. The vaccination drive has picked up pace both at the government-run health centres and private hospitals, said District Medical and Health Officer (DMHO) S. Rajyalakshmi. As many as 1,387 health professionals took the jab at the 42 session sites set up in Nellore district on Friday. So far, 12,885 persons have been vaccinated in the district since the launch of the programme on January 16. “The vaccination programme is expected to gather steam in the coming days,” she said. The fresh cases have declined to single digit in the district. As many as 30 patients recovered in a span of 24 hours, bringing down the caseload to 97 in the district, with a recovery rate of more than 99%. The death toll remained unchanged at 506. Toll remains unchanged In Prakasam district, the active cases came down to 77 as only seven new cases were reported. The recovery rate was put at 98.94% in the district, where the death toll remained static at 580. About 1,000 health workers were vaccinated in the district on Friday. “We are planning to cover all the targeted 24,000 plus health workers in the district by the month-end,” said Prakasam DMHO P. Ratnavalli.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/active-covid-cases-fall-below-100-in-nellore/article33640010.ece
23 January 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Adopt resolution in Assembly against farm laws, APCC tells govt.||Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee (APCC) general secretary Ch. Sridhar Reddy on Friday urged the YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) government to convene a special Assembly session to facilitate the adoption of a unanimous resolution against the three farm laws. Addressing the media conference here, Mr. Sridhar Reddy said Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy should immediately convene a special Cabinet meeting to finalise a resolution, urging the Centre to take back the new farm laws, which were adopted much against the federal spirit of the Constitution as agriculture is a ‘State subject’. In the first place, the Chief Minister and opposition leader N.Chandrababu Naidu should apologise to the farmers in the State for supporting the three ‘corporate-friendly’ Bills at the time of their adoption by the Parliament, said Mr.Sridhar Reddy, who is also the party in-charge of Prakasam district. “The YSRCP and the TDP can make amends for their anti-farmer stand taken in the Parliament by ensuring the adoption of unanimous resolution in the State Assembly or else they will incur the wrath of farmers who are not willing to accept anything short of unconditional withdrawal of the farm laws,” said Mr. Sridhar Reddy. Power sector reforms He said it is unfortunate that the ruling YSRCP was the first party to back the Centre’s Electricity (Amendment) Bill which envisaged, among other things, fixing of smart meters to agricultural pumpsets. The move is aimed at diluting the free power scheme, he said. Party’s farmer wing State vice-president V. Rajagopala Reddy recalled that it was Dr.Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy, who had introduced the free power scheme in the united Andhra Pradesh and the NDA government’s power sector reforms aimed at determining power tariff with no subsidy component. ‘Ready for local body polls’ Mr. Sridhar Reddy, after a meeting with party functionaries, said the Congress was geared up to face the local body elections in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/adopt-resolution-in-assembly-against-farm-laws-apcc-tells-govt/article33640009.ece
23 January 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rumour-mongers will not be spared: DIG||Guntur Range DIG C.M. Trivikrama Varma on Friday urged the managements of places of worship to install CCTV cameras without delay. Reviewing the security arrangements, along with Prakasam SP Siddharth Kaushal, at the Bala Tripurasundari temple at Tripurantakam, he exhorted the people not to get carried away by the rumours spread by ‘mischief-mongers’. “Stern legal action will be initiated against those who will try to disturb communal harmony by spreading canard deliberately,” the DIG warned. The DIG oversaw the functioning of the peace committees constituted in the mandal and the security arrangements in temples and other places of worship, including mosques and churches. After examining the functioning of the CCTV camera at the Tripurantakeswara temple, he wanted the local people to contact the police or use the ‘Dial 100’ helpline in case they came across any person moving suspiciously near places of worship. “The CCTVs will be monitored round-the-clock,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rumour-mongers-will-not-be-spared-says-dig/article33640007.ece
23 January 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Farm Acts: CPI plans tractor rally on Jan. 26||CPI State secretary K. Ramakrishna on Friday said that a tractor rally would be taken out at all the district headquarters in the State on January 26 to extend solidarity to the farmers’ movement to scrap the farm Acts. In a solidarity meeting here, Mr. Ramakrishna appealed to people all walks of life to join the CPI to intensify the movement against the Acts. “The farmers’ movement is in full swing without any political backup. The farmers are continuing it braving the weather and COVID-19 pandemic, and such a historic movement deserves support from across the country,” he observed. “The Modi government at the Centre should repeal the Acts,” he demanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/farm-acts-cpi-plans-tractor-rally-on-jan-26/article33640547.ece
23 January 2021||Rajulapudi SrinivasVIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Treasure trove gangs on the prowl in A.P., Telangana: SIT||The Special Investigation Team (SIT) formed to investigate the vandalising of temples in the Shas tate sounded a high alert in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana over the movement of treasure trove gangs. More than 200 members of the gangs, involved in similar offences (damaging of temples) in Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh, Odisha and other States planned to search for ‘hidden treasure’ in temples, said SIT head and DIG G.V.G. Ashok Kumar. “We were shocked to know that many treasure trove gangs are operating in A.P. and neighbouring States,” the SIT chief told The Hindu on Friday. Krishna Superintendent of Police and SIT member M. Ravindranath Babu said as part of investigation in Nandi idol vandalising case, police arrested a gang from Telangana. During questioning, the gang members reportedly gave information on the operations of similar gangs. “The arrested gang conducted ‘recce’ of nine temples in A.P. and Telangana. They took the pictures of the temples, sanctums, idols of the goddesses and Nandi and other spots where they suspect treasure is hidden, and prepared plans to enter the temples, steal the idols or damage them in their hunt for treasures,” said Mr. Babu. “We are trying to find out the so-called astrologers, villagers, precious stone hunters, temple staff and others who helped the gangs in conducting ‘recce’ and taking photographs,” Mr. Ashok Kumar said. The SP said the gang was arrested after they committed the first offence in Makkapeta Sri Visweswara Swamy temple, located in Vatsavai mandal in Krishna district. “We have sent the details of the treasure trove gangs which are on the prowl in the State, to the DIGs, SPs and other officers. Interestingly, the gang members created fake ID cards on the name of ‘Hindu Devalayala Abhivrudhi Parirakshana Seva Samithi’ of A.P. and Telangana State and were moving around by flashing the ID cards,” Mr. Babu said. SIT teams and the investigation officers will visit the neighbouring States and collect the previous history of the gangs from their counterparts, the SP said adding that a vigil had been kept on those who were circulating messages on treasures and spreading superstitions. “We request the public and the Grama Rakshana Dalams, villagers and the community elders to be alert and help the police in protecting the temples,” the SIT chief appealed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/treasure-trove-gangs-on-the-prowl-in-ap-telangana-sit/article33640635.ece
23 January 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kalipatnam Ramarao felicitated||AP Legislative Council's Committee on Telugu language and Culture felicitated Kathanilayam founder and veteran writer Kalipatnam Ramarao here on Friday. Committee Chairman Mohemmed Ahemed Shariff, committee member P.V.N. Madhav and others recalled his great contribution to the Telugu literature with the establishment of Kathanilayam where one could find Telugu stories published since 1930. INTACH convener K.V.J. Radha Prasad, Kathanilayam secretary Dasari Ramachandra Rao, members Attada Appala Naidu, Kalipatnam Subbarao and others were present. The committee promised to recommend to the government for further development of Kathanilayam, a unique library established in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kalipatnam-ramarao-felicitated/article33640577.ece
23 January 2021||SRIKAKULAM / VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. failed to protect temples: TDP||The State government has failed to protect the temples, but is in a hurry to arrest the opposition party leaders for seeking corrective measures, former TDP legislator Gunda Lakshmi Devi has alleged. With the police declining permission to the TDP to organise Dharma Parirakshana Yatra in protest against the series of attacks on the temples, the party converted it into a ‘deeksha’ at the party offices in both Srikakulam and Vizianagaram districts. Addressing the ‘deeksha’ in Srikakulam, Ms. Lakshmi Devi said the government should respect the sentiments of the people. In Vizianagaram, party leaders expressed concern over the “delay” in nabbing the culprits involved in Ramatheertham incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-failed-to-protect-temples-tdp/article33640548.ece
23 January 2021||TIRUMALA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD cancels Ramakrishna Theertha Mukkoti||The TTD has decided to cancel the Ramakrishna Theertha Mukkoti event scheduled on January 28. The decision was taken in accordance with the COVID-19 guidelines pronounced by the Central government which is yet to give clearance for the reopening of swimming pools. As scores of devotees, who trek to the holy pond situated amid the deep forests about eight km from the town, are bound to take a holy dip in it, the TTD thought it wise to cancel the annual event in the larger interests of the devout.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-cancels-ramakrishna-theertha-mukkoti/article33640560.ece
23 January 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pawan: govt. lackadaisical in handling temple attacks||Jana Sena Party (JSP) president Pawan Kalyan has said that secularism is skewed in the country as it is not taking into account the sentiments of all faiths. Lashing out at the YSRCP government for the 142 incidents of temple attacks, Mr. Pawan Kalyan said the government’s approach smacked of indifference. “ Will it react the same way if places of worship of other faiths are attacked?” he questioned. Mr. Pawan Kalyan was addressing the media here on Friday on conclusion of the party’s two-day Political Affairs Committee meeting. Pastor’s comments Such sacrilegious act against a church or a mosque would have had global ramifications, Mr. Pawan Kalyan observed, and added that the JSP believed in true secularism and, hence, would question the government for its “callousness on the spate of attacks on Hindu temples.” Alleging that the government lacked seriousness in handling a sensitive and emotive issue, Mr. Pawan Kalyan wondered how could the State remain silent when a pastor, Praveen Chakravarthy, purportedly claimed in a social media post to have desecrated idols. “Indifference breeds such anti-social elements. What message does this send to the people?” he asked. “The JSP is not pointing an accusing finger at the ruling party for the attacks but is questioning its lackadaisical attitude in nabbing the culprits,” he said. Mr. Pawan Kalyan also took objection to the “loose talk” of a few Ministers hurt the religious sentiments of people. The JSP president announced to constitute ‘shadow committees’ to oversee the functioning of the trust boards of 12 major temples in the State. Mr. Pawan Kalyan also accused the YSRCP government of unleashing a reign of terror by harassing the opposition parties, the media and the people merely for raising voice of dissent. “Physical attack on party workers, fake cases, coercive measures on media houses, issue of NBWs for social media posts reflect the feudal attitude of the government,” Mr. Pawan Kalyan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pawan-govt-lackadaisical-in-handling-temple-attacks/article33640549.ece
23 January 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. resorting to terror tactics: TDP||Picking up from where it had left the Thursday’s ‘Dharma Parirakshana Deeksha’, the TDP observed the same near Kapila Theertham on Friday. The political event assumed a religious tinge with the performance of ‘Go puja’, where special prayers were offered to a cow and calf. Leading the demonstration, former MLA M. Sugunamma accused the State government of terrorising the denizens of Tirupati by resorting to lathicharge without provocation. She sought to know the reason behind the police accorded permission to the rally first and withdrawing it later. “The police arrested the senior leaders and chased away our activists . We deem the yatra to have been launched and will hold similar events in every constituency,” she added. MLCs B.T. Naidu, Rama Rao and former Minister Parasa Ratnam accompanied her.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-resorting-to-terror-tactics-tdp/article33640014.ece
23 January 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||YV donates Rs. 10 lakh for Ayodhya temple||TTD Trust Board Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy has donated Rs. 10 lakh from his personal funds for the construction of the Sri Ram Mandir at Ayodhya. He handed over the cheque for the amount to VHP national president Milind Parande and other RSS functionaries at his camp office at Tadepalli on Friday. Dubbing it a historic occasion, he expressed delight at getting the opportunity to get associated with the prestigious project. On the TTD’s contribution to the cause, he offered to discuss the same in the forthcoming board meeting. VHP Kshetra Secretary Kesava Hegde was among others present,.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/yv-donates-rs-10-lakh-for-ayodhya-temple/article33640550.ece
23 January 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||SVU to revive its distance education wing: V-C||Sri Venkateswara University Vice-Chancellor K. Raja Reddy has announced that reforms will be initiated to make the Directorate of Distance Education on par with the country’s leading universities. Speaking after releasing the common prospectus for distance education here on Friday, Prof. Reddy said the problems persisting in the wing would be addressed. He underlined the need to ensure strict adherence to the time schedule by streamlining the process of holding examinations and releasing results. “The SVU’s distance education courses are held in high regard in the job market,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/svu-to-revive-its-distance-education-wing-v-c/article33640012.ece
23 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. for conducting gram panchayat polls after 60 days||The State government has urged the State Election Commission (SEC) to revise the schedule for conducting the elections to local bodies in view of the vaccination programme. In a letter to State Election Commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar on Friday, Chief Secretary Adityanath Das said the State government was committed to assisting in the smooth conduct of elections to Panchayat Raj Institutions after duly inoculating poll personnel, including police, revenue etc. Any poll schedule after 60 days of the first dose of immunising the poll personnel, being part of frontline workers in Phase I and II of the vaccination programme, would be acceptable to the government, the Chief Secretary said. The State government, in compliance of the High Court order, would like to request the SEC to revise the schedule which would be in compliance with the letter and spirit of the High Court Order that “the parties would make all endeavour to ensure that both programmes are conducted smoothly and successfully”. The health and well-being of the polling personnel would be ensured only if they underwent a vaccination process and acquired the required immunity, so that they could be sent on duties of crowd management. Anything which is not in compliance with the Centre’s COVID guidelines would imperil the health of the personnel. A sagacious approach would be appreciated, he said, adding, the responsibility lay on both the government and SEC to carry out both programmes successfully. “Since the entire process involves concerns of public health and in the context of telephonic conversation with me indicating your decision to go ahead with the schedule as notified in the letter which was challenged in the writ petition, we were constrained to approach the Hon’ble Supreme Court,” he said adding, “Hence, we once again urge you not to proceed further and await the hearing of the Hon’ble Supreme Court in the matter, so that all concerns could be legitimately taken care of and the schedule conducive to both the processes is accordingly worked out.”  The health and well-being of the polling personnel will be ensured only if they undergo the vaccination process and acquire the required immunity Adityanath Das Chief Secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-for-conducting-gram-panchayat-polls-after-60-days/article33640542.ece
23 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Private schools, colleges warned against collecting excess fee||Expressing anger on managements of private schools and colleges that have been collecting excess fee from students in violation of the guidelines issued by the government in view of the COVID-19, Chairman of the A.P. School Education Regulatory and Monitoring Commission (APSERMC) R. Kanta Rao has urged parents to fight the menace by putting their foot down and refusing to pay excess fee. At a press conference here on Friday, Mr. Kanta Rao said the commission members had inspected 350 schools and colleges across the State in the last three days and found gross anomalies at some of them. It had recommended strong action against 25 schools and 50 colleges, he said. Taking into account the serious financial problems caused by the pandemic, the government had decided to slash the tuition fee by 30% and issued G,O. No. 57 asking managements of private schools and colleges to collect only 70% of the fee amount. The inspections revealed that a large number of them were collecting excess fees in violation of the G.O. ‘Intimidatory tactics’ He said a few institutions were found to be resorting to intimidatory tactics to fleece the hapless parents in these difficult times, and said the panel would recommend cancellation of recognition of such schools and colleges. Mr. Kanta Rao said there were also case of institutions without even the basic facilities collecting exorbitant fee. Students and parents had opened up before the panel members and poured out their woes regarding many key issues, he said. Commission Vice-Chairperson Vijaya Sarada Reddy said the panel members decided to personally verify the facts following several complaints of irregularities. The managements were collecting fee for the first and final years at the beginning of the academic year, and the students who wanted to shift to another college were harassed for issue of Transfer Certificate. Advice to parents She said the condition of classrooms and hostel facility were very bad, and said parents must check these facilities before joining their wards. Some colleges had been teaching courses that did not have the permission of the Board of Intermediate Education (BIE). She said, besides the current report prepared based on their visit, the commission would intensify the regular inspections and bring to book the erring managements. Commission member V.V. Narayana Reddy, Prasad Eeswaraiah and Ajay Kumar were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/private-schools-colleges-collecting-excess-fee-in-violation-of-go/article33640555.ece
23 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SEC to adopt 2019 rolls for local body elections||The State Election Commission (SEC) has decided to adopt electoral rolls already published with reference to January 1, 2019 as qualifying date and updated up to the date of notification for MPTCs/ZPTCs on March 07, 2020 for conducting the local body elections. State Election Commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar, in an order on Friday, said the Commission earlier decided to adopt the latest Assembly electoral rolls published by the Election Commission of India. The ECI has published the final Assembly electoral rolls on January 15, 2021 on schedule. The Panchayat Raj Department and the Commissioner of Panchayat Raj have singularly failed to take any meaningful and follow up measures to either obtain the draft electoral rolls published by the ECI on November 16, 2020 or even the final roll published on January 15, 2021, despite being reminded on any number of occasions, the order said. It is, therefore, clear that the Government in Panchayat Raj Department and the Commissioner of Panchayat Raj have decided to defy the direction of the Commission as well as flout the responsibility cast on them for preparation of electoral rolls in terms of Article 243K of the Constitution. Be it as may, the process of elections cannot be halted because of deliberate failures and detriment efforts to thwart them, the order stated. “The Commission under the present compelling circumstances has decided to adopt electoral rolls already published with reference to January 1, 2019 as qualifying date and updated up to the date of notification for MPTCs/ZPTCs on March 07, 2020 for all the afore-cited reasons,” Mr. Ramesh Kumar added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sec-to-adopt-2019-rolls-for-local-body-elections/article33640553.ece
23 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sankranti brings addl. revenue to RTC coffers||To cater to the transport needs of the travelling public during Sankranti festival, the Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) operated 5,684 special buses covering a distance of 33.14 lakh kilometres with 84 % occupancy ratio (OR), which brought a revenue of Rs. 1317.28 lakh to the public sector giant. In a statement on Friday, corporation’s Executive Director (Operations) K.S. Brahmananda Reddy appreciated the hard work of the drivers, conductors and other staff who made it possible for the organisation. He said the RTC bus services were operated with utmost caution and care to ensure safety of the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sankranti-brings-addl-revenue-to-rtc-coffers/article33640632.ece
23 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four COVID-19 deaths, 137 new cases in State||After reporting zero COVID-19 deaths in the last two days, the State registered four fatalities and 137 infections in the 24 hours ending Friday morning. With these, the toll increased to 7,146 and the tally rose to 8,86,604. The number of recoveries increased to 8,78,060 with 167 more patients recovering during the period. The overall positivity rate of the 1.278 crore samples tested so far was 6.93%. Anantapur, Guntur, Kurnool and Visakhapatnam districts reported on death each. Visakhapatnam, East Godavari and Krishna saw 17 cases. They were followed by Guntur (16), Anantapur (15), Chittoor (12), Kurnool (8), W.G. (8), Prakasam (7), Nellore (6), Srikakulam (5), Vizianagaram (5) and Kadapa (4). The district-wise tallies are: East Godavari (1,24,127), West Godavari (94,132), Chittoor (86,918), Guntur (75,371), Anantapur (67,593), Nellore (62,280), Prakasam (62,148), Kurnool (60,765),Visakhapatnam (59,602), Kadapa (55,205), Krishna (48,447), Srikakulam (46,086) and Vizianagaram (41,125).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/four-covid-19-deaths-137-new-cases-in-state/article33640544.ece
23 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lecturer post interviews: list of candidates put on website||The APPSC has displayed on its websitehttps://psc.ap.inthe list of candidates provisionally selected for verification of original certificates and oral test (interviews) for the post of lecturers in government degree colleges in the AP Collegiate Education Service and to the post of lecturers in government polytechnic colleges in AP Technical Education Service. The verification of original certificates followed by oral test (interviews) will be held at the commission office opposite Indira Gandhi Municipal Complex in Vijayawada. The commission will announce separately the schedule of the interviews. The commission has also invited applications from officers of the All India Services and State Services working in A.P. for half-yearly examinations, language tests and other tests scheduled to be held from March 16 to 19. The last date for receipt of applications is February 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lecturer-post-interviews-list-of-candidates-put-on-website/article33640561.ece
23 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pushpagiri seer launches yatra in State||Pushpagiri peetham seer Vidya Shankara Bharati Swamy has launched his ‘dharma parirakshana yatra’ in the State. The seer visited Kanaka Durga temple here on Friday as part of his plans to tour the State and visit temples, more particularly that were attacked. Later, addressing the media, the seer said that the yatra is being organised under the aegis of Devalayala Dharma Parirakshana Samithi. The pontiffs of many peethams have extended their support to the samithi and yatra. “The temples are centres of dharma. If they are targeted, Hindu dharma is attacked. To protect the ‘santana dharma’, it is necessary to protect temples,” he said. The seer called upon the youth to form as a ‘sena’ to protect temples. They can guard temples during the night, he said. The pontiff stressed on the need to constitute Dharmika Parishad, which was passed in combined Andhra Pradesh Assembly. The parishad would take the necessary steps to protect temples.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pushpagiri-seer-launches-yatra-in-state/article33640545.ece
23 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tableau on Lepakshi to delight R-Day parade viewers||The Andhra Pradesh tableau on Lepakshi, an architectural marvel, will be presented at Rajpath in Delhi during Republic Day parade on January 26. A fine example of architectural grandeur, it belongs to the 16th-century temple of stone, dating back to 1583. Courtiers of Vijayanagara kings -- Virupanna and Veeranna -- who were brothers, built this spectacular temple, much of which is positioned on a low, rocky hill called Kurmasailam. The tableau showcases the rich monolithic rock architecture of Lepakshi temple. Besides, it also showcases the spectacular monolithic rock Nandi with 27ft in length and 15ft in height. It is a colossal structure and reputedly India’s biggest monolithic Nandi. The perfectly proportioned body, finely-carved ornaments and the smooth contours add to its grandeur. Behind the Nandi will be exhibited the architectural marvel of the temple's main arches pillar ‘Mukha Mantapa’, ‘Ardha Mantapa’ or ‘antarala’ (ante chamber), ‘Garbhagriha’ or the sanctum sanctorum.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tableau-on-lepakshi-to-delight-r-day-parade-viewers/article33640631.ece
23 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police train guns on ganja menace||The Visakhapatnam City Police have embarked on a campaign to weed out the ganja menace, by booking nine cases and arresting 26 persons for smoking the contraband in just the past week. Of the nine cases, four alone were booked on Friday. Four persons were arrested on Friday in MVP Colony. Among the 26 persons who were arrested, 12 are below 25 years of age and eight are aged below 20, police said, adding that they want to send out a message that smoking ganja would attract severe consequences under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. Cases were registered at MVP police station, One Town police station, Two Town, Arilova, Three Town and Airport police station. Police said that the raids would continue and strict action would be taken even against those who are found accompanying the ganja smokers. Police also appealed to the parents to keep a watch on the movements of their children. Hash oil In another case, the city police on Friday arrested a 32-year-old man for allegedly possessing two litres of hash oil worth Rs. 4 lakh near Marripalem area under Airport police station limits. According to the police, on Thursday night, acting on a tip-off, Inspector of Airport police station Ch. Umakanth along with officials from City Task Force (CTF), conducted a raid near Marripalem and found S. Chandra Mohan (32) of G. Madugula, who was moving with two litres of hash oil. Police said that the accused was coming to the city from G. Madugula with the banned hash oil. Mr. Umakanth added that Chandra Mohan was only acting as a courier and was supposed to deliver it to someone in the city. Further investigation is on to ascertain the identity of the receiver, police said. In another case booked under NDPS, the Duvvada police arrested six persons who were allegedly trying to transport 107 kg of ganja in a private travel bus near Duvvada, here on Thursday night. The accused were identified as Ashorba Gaikwad (29), and Nagnath Ashorba Gaikwad (29), both from Parbhani, Maharastra, Dharmendra Kumar (24) from Mirzapur, Uttar Pradesh, Sushil Parameshwar Kasabe (30) and Varsha Vithoba Kasabe (32) both from Maharashtra and Anil Sunani (23) from Sambalpur, Odisha. Police said that all the accused work as labourers in Maharashtra. In order to earn easy money, they had conspired to smuggle and sell ganja for heavy profits. The smugglers had procured the ganja for Rs. 700 per kg from Sileru in Visakha Agency and were trying to shift it to Mumbai. Though the seized ganja is worth around Rs. 2 lakh in the Agency area, it is expected to fetch around Rs. 10 lakh in States like Maharashtra, police said. Based on credible information, a team led by Duvvada Inspector Lakshmi intercepted a private travel bus near Kurmannapalem junction and seized the contraband from the luggage hold. Noticing the police, the six accused tried to escape from the spot but were caught. Police found the ganja stuffed in 17 packets. Police said since January 20, 177 kg of ganja was seized at various places under three police stations in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-train-guns-on-ganja-menace/article33640641.ece
23 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special police teams formed to trace ‘Irani gang’ operating in city||The crime wing of the city police has formed special teams to trace the Irani gang reportedly operating in the city. The gang allegedly decamped with gold jewellery at two separate places in the city on Thursday. Teams supervised by Deputy Commissioner of Police V. Suresh Babu, ADCP (Crimes) Venugopal Naidu and ACP (Crimes) Ch. Penta Rao have launched an investigation into the case. It is learnt that CCTV footage at various areas is being checked. In one case, three and a half tolas of gold was robbed from a Steel Plant employee by diverting his attention at Duvvada area. Duvvada police registered a case. It was learnt in another incident on the same day, unidentified miscreants allegedly decamped with about two tolas of gold from an elderly person from Madhurawada near Birla Junction. Kancharapalem police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/special-police-teams-formed-to-trace-irani-gang-operating-in-city/article33640648.ece
23 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Land dealings: SIT tenure extended||The State government has extended the tenure of the Special Investigation Team (SIT) constituted to probe into the alleged land scams and irregularities in Visakhapatnam district, till February 28. The three-member SIT was constituted in October 2019 with former bureaucrat Vijay Kumar heading it. The other members are former bureaucrat Y.V. Anuradha and retired district and sessions judge T. Bhaskara Rao. The SIT earlier submitted its interim report in February 2020, and thereafter the tenure was extended for a further period of three months, for finalisation of the full report. But from March 15, the SIT was not able to function due to the COVID-19 pandemic. It again started to function from September last, but due to the time lost on account of the pandemic, Chief Secretary of AP Government Adityanath Das has extended its tenure till February 28. It is learnt from sources that the further extension of tenure of SIT could be to handle the Waltair Club land issue. The SIT recently took up the case pertaining to the ownership of the club’s land, based on a complaint filed by a third party. But the club authorities had filed a writ in the AP High Court and obtained stay on the inquiry. One of the reasons cited by the legal counsels for the club was that the term had ended for the SIT and it lacked jurisdiction to inquire in the properties of the club. When SIT began its probe in 2019, it primarily settled to look into six categories -- change of classification, tampering with records, encroachment of government land, allotment of government land to private individuals and organisations and NoC issue to political sufferers and freedom fighters. Of the total of about 1,400 representations received, SIT has cleared around 400 of them with its recommendations and observations. The other files have been sent to the authorities in the Revenue Department for their clarifications and observations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/land-dealings-sit-tenure-extended/article33640562.ece
23 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special express from Guntur to Rayagada||A daily special express train 07243/07244 between Guntur and Rayagada via Visakhapatnam will start plying with effect from January 27. Train 07243 Guntur-Rayagada special express train will leave Guntur daily at 11.20 p.m., with effect from January 27 and arrive in Visakhapatnam on the next day at 8.45 a.m., and depart at 9.05 a.m. to reach Rayagada at 1.40 p.m. In the return direction, 07244 Rayagada-Guntur special express train, will leave Rayagada daily at 2.50 p.m., with effect from January 28, to arrive in Visakhapatnam at 7.15 p.m. and depart at 7.35 p.m. and reach Guntur on the next day at 4.15 a.m. The trains will have stoppages at Mangalagiri, Vijayawada, Nuzvid, Eluru, Bhimadolu, Tadepalligudem, Nidadavolu, Rajamahendravaram, Dwarapudi, Anaparthi, Samalkot, Pitapuram, Annavaram, Tuni, Narsipatnam Road, Elamanchili, Anakapalle, Duvvada, Visakhapatnam, Simhachalam, Vizianagaram, Gajapatinagaram, Komatipalli, Donkinavalasa, Bobbili, Sitanagaram, Paravatipuram and Parvatipuram Town stations. The rake comprises one 3rd AC coach, six sleeper class, nine second class and two second class luggage-cum-brake van coaches. Passengers are requested to strictly follow all health protocols before undertaking their journey in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. Passengers are also requested to convey their accurate mobile number while purchasing a railway ticket to receive SMS alerts in time, if there is any update about train like train cancellation and change of timings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/special-express-from-guntur-to-rayagada/article33640639.ece
23 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Blood donation camp organised by SBI||A blood donation camp was organised by the Stressed Assets Recovery Branch of the State Bank of India (SBI) at the premises of the SBI Administrative Office at Siripuram, here on Friday. The camp was conducted under the auspices of Shabnam Narayan, Chief General Manager, Stressed Assets Resolution Group (SARG), State Bank of India, Corporate Centre, Mumbai, at all the SARG Group branches across the country. The Stressed Assets Recovery Branch has also organised the blood donation camp in association with Red Cross. The camp was inaugurated by K. Ranga Rajan, Deputy General Manager, Visakhapatnam AO. Mr. Ranga Rajan observed that blood donation can save a life and called upon everyone to fulfill their social responsibility by donating blood for the noble cause. K. Sri Kiran, Assistant General Manager, SBI, Stresses Assets Recovery Branch conveyed his gratitude to the donors. He spoke on the shortage of blood brought about by an increase in road accidents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/blood-donation-camp-organised-by-sbi/article33640640.ece
23 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Youth arrested for ‘stealing’ motorcycles||The Malkapuram police arrested a youth for allegedly stealing motorcyles here on Friday. P. Satish Kumar (22), a resident of Srikakulam district, reportedly stole motorcycles to fund his addiction to vices, police said. On January 19, Satish reportedly stole a motorcycle near HPCL refinery. Police arrested Satish near Scindia Junction on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/youth-arrested-for-stealing-motorcycles/article33640642.ece
23 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District police launch ‘Sankalpam’ in Agency||Chintapalle ASP Vidhya Sagar Naidu unveiled a poster for the incense stick manufacturing and leaf plate making courses, which will be conducted in Sileru and Darakonda areas in Visakhapatnam district, as part of the ‘Sankalpam programme’, here on Friday. The programme is being organised in association with ITDA Paderu, APSSDC and Dandakaranya educational society. According to police, as part of the Sankalpam initiative, such skill development courses are conducted for the first time in regions like Darakonda and Sileru. Mr. Vidhya Sagar said that the programme aims to help youth from the interior areas of Agency. He said that women will be given priority in these 30-60 days duration courses. Participating candidates will be provided food and accommodation for free. After completion of the programme, the candidates will also get a certificate from NSDC. He also said that the police department is in talks with buyers to facilitate marketing of the manufactured products. About 40 school dropouts from various areas in the Agency are being provided training in English, communication skills and computer basics under Sankalpam program at YTC Chintapalle, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-police-launch-sankalpam-in-agency/article33640647.ece
23 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ayyanna slams splurging on welfare schemes||Former Minister Ch. Ayyanna Patrudu alleged that the YSR Congress government was spending crores of rupees on implementation of welfare schemes at a time, when the finances of the State is in bad shape. This can put a huge burden on taxpayers, he alleged. In a video message here on Friday, the TDP leader wondered as to the need for the purchase of 9,260 vans for door delivery of rations, spending Rs. 539 crore, when there were ration shops in every panchayat or wards in municipalities and corporations. He felt that the public could go to the shops and collect their rations from there as they do when they pick up provisions from the general stores. He alleged that the YSRCP leaders were looting public money in the purchase of vans. Old vans were painted to make them pass off as new ones. He suggested that the State government could instead bring down the prices of essential commodities both at the ration shops and in the open market.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ayyanna-slams-splurging-on-welfare-schemes/article33640646.ece
23 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Weekly off for Rythu Bazaars||Rythu Bazaars in the city will have a holiday once a week from February 1. The 11 Rythu Bazaars in the city will have weekly holiday either on Tuesday or Wednesday for maintenance,officials said. Bazaars at Seethammadhara, Gopalapatnam, Kancharapalem, Peda Waltair, Peda Gantyada and Mulagada will be closed on Tuesdays. Those at Narasimhanagar, Marripalem, MVP, Gajuwaka, Pendurthy and Madhurawada will be closed on Wednesdays.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/weekly-off-for-rythu-bazaars/article33640636.ece
23 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GITAM Dental College now vaccine centre||GITAM Dental College and Hospital has been selected as COVID-19 Vaccination Centre here on Friday. As many as 200 COVID-19 warriors received shots at the vaccination centre. The drive will continue for the next two days at GITAM Dental College and Hospital, Principal K. Gangadhara Prasad said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gitam-dental-college-now-vaccine-centre/article33640637.ece
23 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Job mela held at Duvvada SEZ||A job mela was organised by the District Employment Exchange for recruitment of 200 trainees for the Worldwide Diamond and Jewellery Manufacturers Private Limited at Duvvada SEZ here on Friday. In all, 1,150 candidates, who passed Class X, Intermediate, Degree, ITI and Diploma attended the mela. Candidates were called in batches and explained the company profile, job prospects, duties and remuneration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/job-mela-held-at-duvvada-sez/article33640638.ece
23 January 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fee reimbursement sought for PG students||The Telugu Nadu Students’ Federation on Friday urged the State government to continue the fee reimbursement scheme for the PG students studying in private colleges. Many students have enrolled themselves for higher study with the hope of continuation of the scheme, said TSNF Vizianagaram Parliamentary Party wing president Madugula Bhanuprakash. He alleged that the government had failed in encouraging the students from poor financial background to pursue higher education in the State. He also condemned the arrests of TSNF leaders in Vijayawada and other places when they were agitating over the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fee-reimbursement-sought-for-pg-students/article33640578.ece
23 January 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Water scheme inaugurated at fishermen’s village||‘Naa Vooru Vizinaagaram’, a non-governmental organisation, has provided water facility to the fishermen community living in Tippalavalasa village. The move would minimise the burden on the women who were forced to go long distances daily to get potable water, NGO founder Gummuluri Vishala said, adding that nearly Rs. 1 lakh was spent on digging bore-well and providing pumpset. Along with organisation members, she inaugurated the water scheme launched as part of the ‘Patala Ganga’ scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/water-scheme-inaugurated-at-fishermens-village/article33640579.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||State challenges HC order on gram panchayat polls||The special leave petition said the SEC led by Mr. Kumar decided to hold the gram panchayat elections despite the vaccination drive and the spread of the virus. “The entire police force of the State is scheduled to be vaccinated with effect from first week of February. This is when the elections are scheduled. In effect, the police will be required to (i) ensure that the entire police force is vaccinated; (ii) ensure that the elections are conducted (ii) ensure storage and transport of the vaccine,” the petition said. Besides, the SEC had not consulted any health experts before giving the go-ahead for the polls. “Not only has the respondent rejected the concerns raised by the State [which were shared only after consulting the health experts of the State], a perusal of the material on record would reveal that no health experts have been consulted by the respondent to take such a decision,” the State government criticised. The State submitted in the petition that even the mandate of the High Court to hold effective consultation with the State was ignored. “The directions passed by the High Court, the respondent was under a mandate to take into account the views of the petitioner/State government before taking any decision on holding of elections in the State... The petitioner has duly shared these concerns. However, the same have been summarily rejected,” the petition said. The State said it was in an “unfortunate position” to apprise the top court that the “only consideration that appears to have weighed with respondent No.2 (Mr. Kumar) to declare elections is that he is retiring in March 2021 and wishes to conduct the election before that”. “The fact that such election can put the entire vaccination drive into a disarray and endanger the lives of lakhs of citizens does not appear to have weighed with the respondent No.2... any election to local bodies at this stage would be ill-conceived and ought not to be permitted,” the State’s petition said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-challenges-hc-order-on-gram-panchayat-polls/article33640551.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||JNTUA gets new V-C||Prof. Ginka Ranga Janardhana has been appointed as the Vice-Chancellor of Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Anantapur. He will assume office on Saturday. Hailing from Tadipatri town, his education was entirely in Anantapur district and did his B.Tech from the JNTU, Anantapur. A mechanical engineering student, he did his Master of Engineering from the PSG College of Technology, Coimbatore, and Ph.D. from J.N.T. University, Hyderabad. He has done Post Doctoral Fellowship from Hoseo University, South Korea. He joined the JNTU College of Engineering, Anantapur as a lecturer in November 1992. He had worked in JNTU Kakinada and Vizianagaram too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jntua-gets-new-v-c/article33640558.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Team work||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/team-work/article33640645.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||In full swing||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/in-full-swing/article33640557.ece
23 January 2021||Devarakonda,TELANGANA||Nalgonda accident toll goes up to nine||The death toll in Thursday’s autorickshaw-container collision near Angadipeta X roads in Nalgonda district went up to nine with two more persons succumbing to the injuries. The two, who were among the four injured in the accident, breathed their last while being taken to Hyderabad for treatment. The two others were said to be battling for life. Meanwhile, Energy Minster G. Jagadish Reddy announced a relief package – Rs. 3 lakh assistance, allotment of 2BHK house and support for education for children of the deceased. According to Gudipally police, the accident occurred around 6.30 p.m., outside the Essar filing station on the Nagarjunsagar-Hyderabad highway. Police identified those who died at the accident site as Kottam Mallesham, 40, the transporter, Nomula Peddamma, 40, Nomula Anjamma, 50, Godugu Iddamma, 48, Kottam Peddamma, 50, Kottam Chandramma, 35, and Nomula Saidamma. All the women were agricultural workers from Chinthabavi village of Devarakonda mandal, and were returning home after work. In a statement, Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao had expressed shock over the ghastly accident, and conveyed his condolences to the bereaved families. Earlier, addressing media, Superintendent of Police A.V. Ranganath had said the preliminary cause of the accident was said to be overspeeding and drunk driving. A breath analyser examination was conducted and the truck driver tested positive. On Friday, the Devarakonda Area Hospital in the town witnessed heart-wrenching scenes as relatives waited outside the mortuary. Leaders of various parties and organisations interacted with mortuary officials and condoled the deaths. Around 10.40 a.m., Pradesh Congress Committee leader N. Uttam Kumar Reddy and other party leaders consoled the bereaved families. On behalf of the party, he gave Rs. 50,000 to each victim family. Later, Mr Jagadish Reddy, along with Legislative Council chairman Gutha Sukender Reddy and local legislator R. Ravindra Kumar Naik arrived and spoke with officials and media persons. Meanwhile, Bharatiya Janata Party activists, who were protesting against the government’s ‘wait and see approach’, shouted slogans and blocked the van carrying the bodies. T ension prevailed as police officials forced activists into vehicles, but, with the support of the bereaved, the activists later handed over Rs. 20,000 to each family. Around 1 pm., the police diverted the van to transport bodies to Chinta Bavi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nalgonda-accident-toll-rises-to-nine/article33640273.ece
23 January 2021||Devarakonda,TELANGANA||‘4-in-All’ autorickshaws: Devarakonda’s lifeline and tragedy||Thirtysix-year-old Kottam Mallesham, driver of the auto-rickshaw that collided head-on with a truck resulting in the death of nine persons, including his 30-year-old wife Chandrakala, and 56-year-old mother Peddamma, apart from himself, on Thursday, had transported scores of men and women from the village in the past 10 years. “He would take bags of paddy, cotton and fertiliser, and passengers. He also offered free service if someone needed medical care, when ambulances took time to reach the tanda. It was a multi-purpose vehicle,” says Saidulu, showing the first house at Chinta Bavi’s entrance, and said it belonged to Mallesham’s extended family. The middle seat of Mallesham’s auto-rickshaw resting along the house wall, like a small sofa upside down, was visible. Saidulu, the neighbour, said the seat was removed to accommodate more people on the auto-rickshaw’s floor. In all, there were 20 people in it at the time of accident, and they had been commuting to Rangareddygudem village for paddy transplantation for more than a fortnight.  Everyday practice Twenty, for an auto-rickshaw that is painted as ‘4 in All’ before being passed by the Regional Transport Authority, is a huge number. But in Devarakonda, 20 passengers in the auto-rickshaws is a daily practice. Interaction with several drivers of the ‘4 in All’ rickshaws tell that the vehicles are a success because the State RTC buses do not serve passengers in the many interior villages and tandas. For instance, 20 residents of Chinta Bavi choose one of the seven ‘4 in all’ from the village to visit Devarakonda at Rs. 15 per head, rather than reach Polepally junction four kilometres away on foot and take the bus for almost the same charge per-head. And in cases of per-day hire, such as pick and drop agricultural workers to work sites drivers earn up to Rs. 1,500. According to L. Venkata Narayana, a part-time driver in Chinta Bavi, the last time an RTC bus arrived in the village was in 1997, when there were no roads. “After the bus got stuck in deep mud and its driver left, I drove it back to the centre. Officials later rejected service to Chinta Bavi,” he said. Mallesh, one of the auto-rickshaw drivers, who arrived with packed vehicles to Chinta Bavi to drop mourning residents, says there are at least 900 ‘4 in Alls’ in all of Devarakonda division. Besides driving the auto-rickshaw and a car, he collects instalments from ‘4 in All’ owners on behalf of finance companies in Nalgonda. “ The ‘4 in All’ is a success because it gives good mileage – 28-30 kmpl and it is multi-purpose. Including the driver, three in the front, four on each side in the middle seat and luggage in the rear is allowed by police,” he explains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/4-in-all-autorickshaws-devarakondas-lifeline-and-tragedy/article33640581.ece
23 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KTR launches free diagnostic centre in Hyderabad||Information Technology and Municpal Administration and Urban Development Minister K T Rama Rao on Friday inaugurated the Mini Hub — a health diagnostics initiative of the Telangana government — in Borabanda. Patients who arrive at primary health centres will be referred to the Mini Hub for conducting diagnostics, depending on requirement. As many as eight such mini hubs for diagnostics were launched on Friday.  Accessible healthcare After inaugurating the Mini Hub, Mr. Rama Rao spoke to the media and said that the initiative was launched to in order to make healthcare accessible to all, and that no person should be left out of its ambit. He also said the initiative will operate using hub-and-spoke model, and with Narayanguda Institute of Preventive Medicine as hub. At the Mini Hubs, those residing within the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation limits can avail services free of charge. These services include X-ray, MRI, CT scans, ECG, and radiology, among others. While eight were launched on Friday, plans are afoot to increase the number to 15 in the near future in the city. The same model will be replicated soon in other district headquarters in the State. Other ministers, including Minister for Health Etala Rajender and Minister for Home Mohammad Mahmood Ali, Minister for Animal Husbandry Talasani Srinivas Yadav, inaugurated mini hubs in different parts of the city. In a seperate development, the Minister expressed his gratitude to Vice President of India M. Venkaiah Naidu for endorsing his request for vaccine testing facility in Hyderabad. “My gratitude to Hon’ble @VPSecretariat Sri Venkaiah Naidu Garu for endorsing & speaking to @drharshvardhan Ji on my request to set up a vaccine testing & certification lab at Genome valley, Hyd Hope this can be expedited as Hyderabad is now the vaccine capital of the world,” he tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ktr-launches-free-diagnostic-centres-in-hyderabad/article33640308.ece
23 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||No multiple pleas on same matter: High Court||Reiterating that multiple petitions on same issue would not be entertained, Telangana High Court on Friday disposed of five write petitions relating to Dharani portal and its connected matters. However, the High Court decided to hear two PIL pleas on Dharani portal issue while detaching another PIL petition pertaining to transfer of lands in scheduled areas of the State involving rights of tribal communities. When the batch of three PIL pleas and five writ petitions came up for hearing, the bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy expressed dissatisfaction over filing of multiple pleas on the same matter. “Not going to allow this...,” the Chief Justice said while hearing the pleas. However, the Chief Justice categorically stated that the counsels of the petitioners, who filed pleas with similar content, can assist the court in adjudication of the matters and put forward suggestions if they have any. The bench said no when a couple of lawyers requested for inclusion of their names in the pleas that were retained for adjudication so that they would be informed about the dates of hearing. “Names are not important,” the Chief Justice remarked, adding that they can know about the dates from the counsels concerned. The bench gave four weeks of time to Advocate General B.S. Prasad when he said that he had to secure instructions on the matter but not before posing queries on what the government is proposing to do on the subject. Lawyer Vasudha Nagaraj, appearing in a PIL plea relating to transfer or registration of lands in scheduled areas of the State, said her petition was different from others connected to Dharani. She sought an earlier date for next hearing of the matter contending that government is violating rules related to the matter. But the Chief Justice asked if the counsel explained about the specific violations in the rejoinder and turned down her request stating the rejoinder did not show any information on that. The previous day, the bench disposed of several PIL pleas filed by different persons on issues relating to COVID-19 -- announcing that multiple pleas on same issues would not be entertained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-multiple-pleas-on-same-issue-hc/article33640330.ece
23 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Public hearing held on coal block||The public hearing held at Karod Bahal village in Angul district of Odisha on Wednesday as part of the process for getting environmental clearance for the Naini coal block allotted to Singareni Collieries Company Ltd has expressed support for the project. According to officials of Singareni Collieries Company Ltd here, people who participated in the public hearing had no major objections to the coal mining project. Chairman and Managing Director of Singareni Collieries Company Ltd N. Sridhar thanked the Odisha government officials, local people and general public for ensuring a smooth conduct of the public hearing on Wednesday. Many permissions for the coal block have already been secured, and the positive public opinion expressed on Wednesday would also speed up completion of other formalities so that coal mining could be be taken up in the next financial year (2021-22). The company has plans to extract about one million tonnes of coal in 2021-22. About 500 local people from six villages near the coal block area have participated in the public hearing and about 35 of them spoke on behalf of the villagers said they have no objection in coal mining to be taken up by Singareni in the Naini block. Singareni Collieries Company Ltd officials said the operation of the Naini coal block would be a major boon to the coal business of Singareni. The company has plans to produce about 10 million tonnes of coal every year to extract the 340 million tonnes reserves and the block spread across 912 hectares is expected to last for 38 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/public-hearing-held-on-coal-block/article33640584.ece
23 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Age is just a number for this tenni-koit achiever||Komarraju Venkata Shyam Sunder is one of those big achievers in Indian sport from a relatively less glamorous sport, tenni-koit, who can take pride in his achievements despite the lack of recognition over the years. And, true to his indomitable spirit, the 60-year-old Shyam Sunder, who was a six-time national champion in men’s singles in 90s in the then undivided Andhra Pradesh (AP), served another gentle reminder that age is only a number, especially for those who played the sport with passion and pride. This Hyderabadi added another feather in his cap by earning a Post Graduate in Yoga from Annamalai University recently. With a PG in Physical Education, it is obvious that this gentleman is keen to expand his domain of excellence by diversifying into yoga too and achieved with the same zeal and determination which made him a household name in tenni-koit. National chief coach He was also the national chief coach of the Indian team for the international tournaments in Germany (2004) and Belarus (2018). Conducting yoga classes for close to a decade now, Shyam Sunder is one of those highly respected sports personalities from the city, who not surprisingly continues to prefer a low profile despite his big achievements, including donning the role of a coach quite successfully. For the record, Shyam Sunder was good even in athletics and gymnastics and even dabbled in cricket playing the HCA Lower Division Leagues in an era when pride took precedence to everything else. Post retirement as the physical education teacher in Government School (Lalapet) here in 2019, Shyam Sunder continues to be a role model and is still in touch with the sport and the sporting fraternity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/age-is-just-a-number-for-this-tenni-koit-achiever/article33640301.ece
23 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Nizam’s kin visit NIMS, laud COVID vaccination team||The kin of VII Nizam Mir Osman Ali Khan, including his grandson Najaf Ali Khan, visited the Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS) on Friday to thank the doctors and other staff assigned to administer the COVID-19 vaccine to other frontline workers, to boost their morale. Mr. Khan along with his daughters Noorah and Fazlika presented bouquets to NIMS doctors and staff to congratulate them for their massive efforts in advancing healthcare and making it accessible to people. “I feel immense admiration as the vaccine administration has been started from NIMS founded by my great grandfather. As a student of science I am very thankful to the doctors as they work hard risking their lives to serve people,” Ms. Noorah said. Mr. Najaf Ali Khan thanked director of NIMS Dr. K. Manohar, hospital superintendent Dr. N. Satyanarayan, professor and head of Anaesthesiology and Intensive Care Dr. D. Padmaja and others for their efforts in the control and prevention of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nizams-kin-visit-nims-laud-covid-vaccination-team/article33640295.ece
23 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State sees 214 more coronavirus cases||The State recorded 214 COVID cases on Thursday. This brings the total number of positive cases to over 2.92 lakh. Two persons died of the virus, pushing the total number of deaths to 1,586. The number of samples tested was low, with the total number of tests done on Friday being 28,791. The number of primary contacts tested stands at 12,668 and the number of secondary contacts tested were 3,455. The total number of tests in the State now stands at 76,02,975. Test results of 632 persons were awaited. The total positive cases recorded in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation limits was 38. This was followed by Karimnagar and Medchal Malkajgiri, recording 16 cases each. Rangareddy district recorded 15 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-sees-214-more-coronavirus-cases/article33640305.ece
23 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GMR Airports rounds off terminal in Philippines in record time of 2 years||GMR Group’s airport subsidiary, GMR Airports, announced on Friday that its consortium has completed construction of a new terminal building of Clark International Airport in the Philippines in record time and handed it over to Bases Conversion and Development Authority (BCDA). The handing over of the airport’s new terminal building was graced through a formal ceremony at the Clark Freeport Zone. It marks a significant achievement for GMR as it has delivered the second project in the Philippines after developing Mactan Cebu International Airport – second largest airport of Philippines. Despite the challenge posed by the COVID pandemic, the joint venture of GMR Group and Megawide Construction Corporation delivered a new passenger terminal building of 1,12,000 square metres in a record time of 24 months. It is one of the fastest completed projects in the Philippines and first project of the Philippines government under the Hybrid Public Private partnership (PPP) framework, said an official spokesman. The size of the present terminal building is around 40,000 square metres that can handle around eight Million Passengers Per Annum (MPPA) from the present four million. The capacity of this terminal can be further expanded to handle 12-16 MPPA. The parking area of CIA’s newly-constructed passenger terminal building can accommodate about 4,500 vehicles. The terminal has 18 Passenger Boarding Bridges (PBB) and 48 check-in counters. The EPC contract was awarded following an international competitive bidding in December 2017. “We have been able to complete the new passenger terminal building in a record time of 24 months and hand over to BCDA successfully. It has been designed and constructed using the latest innovative technologies, international standards and environmental best practices,” said chairman of Energy & International Airports Srinivas Bommidala. GMR Infrastructure in partnership with Megawide Construction Corporation of Philippines is operating and developing Mactan Cebu International Airport – the second largest airport of Philippines for a 25-year concession period, he added, in his press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/gmr-airports-rounds-off-terminal-in-philippines-in-record-time-of-2-years/article33640298.ece
23 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Blood donation camp||The Stressed Assets Recovery Group of SBI on Friday organised a blood donation camp at its Stressed Assets Maintenance Branch (SAMB) here. It was jointly organised by SAMB branches of Hyderabad and Secunderabad, Stressed Assets Recovery Branch and Assets Recovery Management Branch. The camp was inaugurated by CGM of Hyderabad Circle SBI Om Prakash Mishra. Deputy General Manager of SAMB Hyderabad G.V. Sastry and DGM of SAMB Secunderabad Sudha Gururaja Rao were also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/blood-donation-camp/article33640299.ece
23 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||AR constable held on rape charges||A constable of police posted at the headquarters of City Armed Reserve (CAR) at Petlaburj was arrested by LB Nagar police on Thursday for allegedly sexually assaulting a woman. The accused, 32-year-old Avulagadda Abhilash Kumar Yadav from Jaipuri colony at Nagole, met the 27-year-old women at a gym and entered into a relationship, inspector V. Ashok Reddy said. The accused sexually exploited the victim against her consent and caused miscarriages whenever she got pregnant, he said. “He repeatedly sexually exploited her with a promise to marry her and cheated the victim. Abhilash administered birth control pills to the victim,” Mr. Reddy said. Recently, Abhilash got married to another woman, the officer added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ar-constable-held-on-rape-charges/article33640587.ece
23 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||PV’s house in village to be a museum||The State government has decided to redesign the house of former Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao at Vangara village, now in Warangal (Urban) district, as a museum and give it a facelift with colourful electric lights. It was also proposed to build a theme park and a science platform with innovative ideas in the village, Tourism Minister V. Srinivas Goud informed Rajya Sabha member K. Keshava Rao who is the chairman of organising committee of P.V. Narasimha Rao centenary celebrations. Mr. Goud called on Mr. Rao to brief him on the action plan prepared by government to develop Vangara into a tourist destination. The government had allotted Rs. 7 crore for the purpose. The Minister said the reforms introduced by the late Prime Minister during his tenure would be reflected in the theme park. The foundation stone for the park and the science platform would be laid shortly. Mr. Keshava Rao praised Mr. Goud for the initiative that the latter took in preparation of the plan for redesigning the house as museum.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pvs-house-in-village-to-be-a-museum/article33640322.ece
23 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Are TRS MLAS not happy with KCR?’||Congress MLC T. Jeevan Reddy wanted to know whether the TRS MLAs arguing for K.T Rama Rao as Chief Minister were not happy with Mr. K. Chandrashekhar Rao. The sudden clamour for making KTR Chief Minister with all the Ministers and MLAs aggressively promoting him perhaps indicates that they are not happy with KCR, he said at a press conference on Friday. The MLC said KCR had suddenly woken up to implement the Ayushman Bharat medical scheme and also the Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) reservations. "The delay has resulted in hardships to people in Telangana and at least he has realised the same after several years." The Congress leader also demanded that KCR implement the 12% reservations promised by him for the Scheduled Tribes (STs) immediately. Thousands of ST students and youngsters lost education and employment opportunities due to the delay, he said and assured that Congress would totally support if the CM called for a special session of the Legislative Assembly to implement the same. Mr. Reddy also took a dig at the sudden silence of the Chief Minister on the new farm laws that he opposed strongly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/are-trs-mlas-not-happy-with-kcr/article33640324.ece
23 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||OBC quota violated in EFLU: Congress||AICC spokesperson Sravan Dasoju has alleged that the English and Foreign Languages University (EFLU) has been deliberately violating the OBC reservation system in faculty recruitment. Mr. Sravan along with Youth Congress leader, Anil Kumar Yadav called on Talloju Achary, Member of the National BC Commission, and submitted a memorandum to him on the “deliberate violations” taking place in various universities including English and Foreign Languages University in Hyderabad. ‘Only 27 teachers’ Referring to EFLU, he said out of the total sanctioned faculty strength of UGC, OBC quota (27%), should have a total of 63 teaching positions. However, there were only about 27 OBC teachers. Further in the latest notification 58 positions were advertised of which only 8 were allotted to OBCs. With their gross negligence at least 30 OBC candidates would have to permanently lose their opportunities of recruitment in English and Foreign Languages University, he said in the memorandum. He alleged that English and Foreign Languages University Vice Chancellor Suresh Kumar and other authorities, by violating all the prescribed UGC guidelines, were attempting to recruit ineligible candidates including their kith and kin. Mr. Sravan also appealed to the Governor and the Union Minister of Education for their intervention and requested them to take an appropriate action. Mr. Sravan lamented that despite Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself belonging to an OBC, the Central Universities were openly murdering constitutional rights. He also warned the English and Foreign Languages University VC that the Congress would not accept such irregularities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/obc-quota-violated-in-eflu-congress/article33640326.ece
23 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SBI staff donate over Rs. 25 lakh for Sainik Welfare||State Bank of India (SBI) Hyderabad Circle on Friday donated nearly Rs. 25.20 lakh, raised through voluntary contributions from employees, to the Telangana Department of Sainik Welfare. Chief General Manager of the State Bank of India Om Prakash Mishra called on Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan and handed over a cheque of Rs. 25,19,800 favouring the Sainik Welfare Telangana, a release said. Made up of voluntary contributions by 7,438 staff of SBI in the State, the donation is utilised towards rehabilitation of dependent girl children of war veterans as well as ex-servicemen and war widows. Armed Forces Flag Day The donation was to commemorate Armed Forces Flag Day, which is observed on December 7 every year from 1949 to commemorate the monumental sacrifices made by the Armed Forces personnel in defending the territorial integrity of the country both during war and peace, a release from the bank said. “We hope that our humble efforts will help make a difference in the lives of the war veterans and their families,” Mr. Mishra said. Noble gesture The Governor thanked SBI staff for the noble gesture and appreciated the bank for the voluntary contributions to the Armed Forces Flag Day fund during the last five years which helped the Sainik Welfare Department to undertake a number of welfare measures for Armed Forces veterans. Colonel P. Ramesh Kumar, the director of the Department of Sainik Welfare was present and extended his gratitude to the state bank for its continued support in this.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sbi-staff-donate-over-rs-25-lakh-for-sainik-welfare/article33640296.ece
23 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CS assures to take issues of police to CM||Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar has assured the State Police Officers’ Association that the issues raised by the association will be taken to the notice of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao for initiating necessary steps for the welfare of the personnel. The Chief Secretary gave this assurance to a delegation of the association which called on him at BRKR Bhavan on Friday. He said the police personnel were playing a crucial role in maintaining law and order situation and in the development of the State in line with the vision of the Chief Minister. Director General of Police M. Mahender Reddy and Additional DGP (law & Order) Jitender were among others present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cs-assures-to-take-issues-of-police-to-cm/article33640321.ece
23 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Cong. panel to finalise MLC candidates||Telangana Congress has decided to constitute a committee headed by MLC T. Jeevan Reddy to finalise the names of party candidates for the two Graduate MLC elections to be held soon. The Committee consists of TPCC president, Uttam Kumar Reddy, CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka, working presidents A. Revanth Reddy, Ponnam Prabhakar, Kusum Kumar and Mohd Azaharuddin. The committee will recommend the names after going through the applications and the high command will select the candidates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cong-panel-to-finalise-names/article33640325.ece
23 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||489 vaccination sessions||As many as 489 vaccination sessions for healthcare workers were conducted across the State on Friday. According to a release from Director of Public Health, the sessions were intended to vaccinate as many as 28,433 beneficiaries. However, only 12,944 people could be vaccinated. There were five minor adverse events following immunisation. The vaccination drive for private healthcare workers will begin from January 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/489-vaccination-sessions/article33640303.ece
23 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Pandemic has advanced digital economy’||Chairman of Sundaram Clayton Group, Venu Srinivasan, on Friday underscored the need for youth to prepare themselves suitably to make most of the growth opportunities that lay ahead amid the accelerated adoption of technology globally. “India is going to be one of the world’s largest and competitive economies, with a large young population. The opportunities are infinite. To take advantage of such opportunities you need to adapt to survive,” he said delivering virtually the 11th foundation day lecture of ICFAI Foundation for Higher Education (IFHE).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pandemic-has-advanced-digital-economy/article33640585.ece
23 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Picture briefly (with photo)||Hyderabad Joint Commissioner of Police (Special Branch) Tarun Joshi on Thursday climbed Mount Kilimanjaro, the highest peak on the continent of Africa and highest stand-alone mountain in the world. Police Commissioner Anjani Kumar and other senior officials congratulated Mr. Joshi on achieving this feat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/picture-briefly-with-photo/article33640320.ece
23 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State Page brief||A team of NITI Aayog headed by its Vice-Chairman Rajeev Kumar called on Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on Friday. The team comprised NITI Aayog Advisor Ravindra Pratap Singh, consultant Namrata Singh Panwar and research officer Kamaraju. On the State government side, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, Roads and Buildings Minister V. Prashant Reddy, Planning Board Vice-Chairman B. Vinod Kumar and Principal Finance Secretary K. Ramakrishna Rao were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-page-brief/article33640323.ece
23 January 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Centre underplaying farmer protests: AIKS||All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) joint secretary Vijoo Krishnan launched a scathing attack on the BJP dispensation at the Centre accusing it of bringing the three farm laws during the pandemic for “corporate profiteering”, unlocking the doors for “corporate loot.” Undeterred by the biting cold, farmers are spearheading the historic struggle against the three farm legislations with firm resolve and overwhelming support from all sections of society, he asserted, reiterating that the struggle will continue until the three “anti-farmer” legislations are withdrawn. He addressed a series of meetings at Thallada, Wyra, Bonakal, Maddulapalli and Teldarpalli in the district. CPI (M) district secretary N. Nageswara Rao, Telangana Rythu Sangham district president B. Rambabu, Girijana Sangham district secretary B. Veerabhadram, and others accompanied the yatra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/centre-underplaying-farmer-protests-aiks/article33640583.ece
23 January 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||15 KGBVs sanctioned in Khammam||As many as 15 Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalayas (KGBVs) have been sanctioned to the district with an estimated outlay of Rs. 22 crore as part of efforts to promote access to quality education to girls from marginalised sections, said Minister for Education P Sabitha Indra Reddy. The Minister inaugurated six KGBV buildings constructed at an estimated cost of Rs. 12 crore - one each in Raghunadhapalem, Konijerla, Chintakani, Bonakal, Mudigonda and Kusumanchi mandals on Friday. She inaugurated the new building of the government degree college in Nelakondapalli built at a cost of Rs. 2.25 crore and the primary school building at Indiranagar in Khammam. She said all necessary arrangements are being made to resume physical classes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/15-kgbvs-for-khammam/article33640332.ece
23 January 2021||MEDAK,TELANGANA||Funds sanctioned for laying road||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has sanctioned Rs. 12.31 lakh additionally for laying road between Pothamsettipally and Edupayala. Disclosing these details here on Friday, MLC S. Subhash Reddy said that the government had sanctioned Rs. 19 crore in the past and bridges were constructed with that amount.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/funds-sanctioned-for-laying-road/article33640588.ece
23 January 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||‘Complete railway line’||Minister T Harish Rao directed officials to complete Manoharabad - Siddipet railway line at the earliest. At a review meeting held here along with Commissioner D. Joyal Davis and SCR officials on Friday, he said the administration will take all steps to see to it that there are no problems in land acquisitions. Informing that about Rs. 300 crore was already spent on the project, the Minister said that land acquisition was completed between Hyderabad and Siddipet. He wanted better coordination between revenue and railway officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/complete-railway-line/article33640592.ece
23 January 2021||Special Correspondent,TELANGANA||Final rolls published for Graduates’ constituency||Final electoral rolls for the Mahabubnagar-Ranga Reddy-Hyderabad Graduates’ constituency were published on Friday, and displayed at the offices of the Electoral Registration Officers, Assistant Electoral Registration Officers and RDOs of all the nine districts. As per the final rolls, there are a total 5,17,883 elelctors in the nine districts including Mahabubnagar, Nagarkurnool, Wanaparthy, Jogulamba Gadwal, Narayanpet, Rangareddy, Vikarabad, Medchal-Malkajgiri, and Hyderabad. Rangareddy district has the maximum number of voters at 1,40,968, while Vikarabad has the least number at 25,544. The three urban districts of Rangareddy, Medchal-Malkajgiri and Hyderabad together account for 3,75,635 voters and 72 per cent of the total electorate. The number of polling stations in all the nine districts stands at 616. The final electoral rolls are uploaded onto the Chief Electoral Officer’s website ‘www.ceotelangana.nic.in’ too. Voters may verify their names and polling stations in the electoral rolls and file claims for continuous updation of the same.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/final-rolls-published-for-graduates-constituency/article33640327.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||‘Super Over’ review: it happened one night||Super Over , the Telugu thriller now streaming on Aha, is Praveen Varma’s debut film as director. Praveen honed his skills as an assistant director to Sudheer Varma and has collaborated with some of his mentor’s favourites — cinematographer (Divakar Mani) and music composer (Sunny M R). Praveen succumbed after a road accident and Super Over’s post-production was overseen by Sudheer Varma. It’s a crisply narrated 83-minute film that does away with all unnecessary frills that can dampen the pace. Super Over is no game changer or milestone film but shows us glimpses of what the director was capable of. Praveen doesn’t spend much time in establishing the three principal characters. He throws them, and us viewers, into the thick of the action and we gather details about the protagonists along the way. Best pals Kasi (Naveen Chandra), Madhu (Chandini Chowdary) and Vasu (Rakendu Mouli)’s lives take an unexpected turn when Kasi is in dire need of money to help his parents repay debts. We get a glimpse of Bangararaju (Harsha, in a cameo) and his rags-to-riches story, courtesy cricket betting. The prospect of quick money draws Kasi into betting. Vasu, with a stable job and a steady income, tries to be the voice of reason and dissuades Kasi, but ultimately tags along and tries to help. Naveen, Chandini and Rakendu stay in sync with what the director-driven film requires of them. The stakes get higher once Kasi gets a taste of winning and we see him enjoying the process, his demeanour revealing it all. He wins big but it’s not going to be easy to get the money. A relentless chase begins, all over one night. Newer characters that are a part of the betting nexus keep popping up. With a few of these characters, smaller subplots emerge, some of which work and some of which serve to add contrived twists and turns. Had all this been fleshed out even better, we might have had a nail-biting battle of wits between the three friends and a police officer, played by Ajay. Nevertheless, Super Over has its moments, like the backstory of the cab driver for instance. Where the narrative slips, Sunny’s background score and Divakar Mani’s camera come in handy to keep us invested. There are fun references to James Bond films, director Shankar’s film Sivaji and on another occasion, a scene from Chiranjeevi-starrer Khaidi turns things around on that fateful night.  Super Over doesn’t tap its potential of being an edge-of-the-seat thriller but is a reasonably packaged thriller.  (For the longer review, check www.thehindu.com)   Super Over Cast: Naveen Chandra, Rakendu Mouli and Chandini Chowdary  Direction: Praveen Varma Streaming on: Aha||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/super-over-review-it-happened-one-night/article33640594.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Young talent||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/young-talent/article33640590.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||correction||The caption of the photograph carried along with news report ‘Five of SIM swap gang held’ was incorrect. It should have read: Cyberabad Commissioner of Police V. C. Sajjanar with seized SIM cards. Error regretted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/correction/article33640312.ece
23 January 2021||New Delhi,||Riots: ‘media trial should not destroy presumption of undertrial’s innocence’||“Presumption of innocence” should not be destroyed at the very threshold of justice process through media trial, a court said here on Friday on a plea moved by former JNU student leader Umar Khalid alleging “vicious media campaign” against him in a north-east Delhi riots case. The court said it hoped that the media would follow “self regulation techniques” while reporting on a case pending investigation or trail. “Self regulation is the best mode of regulation,” Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Dinesh Kumar said. While the press and the news media was described as the “Fourth Estate” in a democratic society, there existed a risk of prejudice being caused if they failed to do their duty with care and caution and one of such risks was that of ‘media trial’, he said. The plea moved by Mr. Khalid has claimed that the media reports have quoted from his alleged disclosure statement to show that he has confessed to his involvement in the riots and it was prejudicing his right to a fair trial. He had told the court that below the alleged disclosure statement, which was part of the chargesheet filed against him, it was written “refused to sign” by the accused. The court said in its order said: “The press and news media is described as the Fourth Estate in a democratic society. It has been regarded as one of the sentinels guarding the existence of the society. The most important role of the media is its ability to mobilise the thinking process of a large number of the population. “However, there exists a risk of prejudice being caused if the press and media fail to do their duty with care and caution. One of such risks is that of ‘media trial’. One of the basic principles of criminal jurisprudence is presumption of innocence. “This should not be destroyed at the very threshold through the process of media trial. Protection of such presumption is essential for maintenance of the dignity of the courts.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/riots-media-trial-should-not-destroy-presumption-of-undertrials-innocence/article33640176.ece
23 January 2021||Mumbai,||‘Communalisation of COVID-19 led to discrimination against Muslims’||Bebaak Collective, an association of activists advocating rights of Muslim women and the community, has come out with a report documenting the discrimination and violence faced by Muslims due to the communalisation of the pandemic. The report, ‘Communalisation of Covid-19, experiences from the frontline’, has attributed such discrimination and violence to the communal seizure of institutions. It has recommended a prompt and robust response from the judiciary to reinstate constitutional rights of minorities. “The findings of the study lead to the conclusions that the synchronised working of the media, police, and State authorities, which reflect in the communal seizure of institutions, was the primary force that allowed for the discrimination, violence and exclusion faced by Muslims,” said the report, which was released on Thursday. The report was prepared following interviews with different groups and individuals from seven States and Union Territories: Maharashtra, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Delhi. “Most participants had been engaged in intensive relief work and/or advocacy efforts since the beginning of the pandemic,” Hasina Khan, one of the authors of the report, said. The report pointed out that the identification of the Tablighi Jamaat conference in March 2020 as a COVID-19 hotspot became the basis for the large-scale communalisation of the pandemic. This was followed by fake news and communally coded news coverage rife with images and ideas that Muslims intentionally spread the virus, it said. About the impact of fake news and hate speech against Muslims following the Tablighi Jamaat incident, the report said that the vitriol on social media was reflected in the real-world experiences of Muslims as communal slurs. Among the recommendations, the report has made, are a robust response from the judiciary; implementation of an anti-discrimination law; and finding a mechanism to check fake news.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/communalisation-of-covid-19-led-to-discrimination-against-muslims/article33640201.ece
23 January 2021||Mumbai,||Farmers to begin vehicle march to Mumbai today||To demand repealing of the three farm laws, 20,000 farmers from across the State will begin a march to Mumbai from Nashik on Saturday, the birth anniversary of Subhas Chandra Bose. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha had given a call for a nationwide protest from January 23 to 26. Ashok Dhavale, president of the All India Kisan Sabha, said the organisation’s Maharashtra unit will be spearheading the vehicle march. “This march will support the historic two-month-long farmers’ struggle in Delhi for the repeal of the three farm laws and for a Central law to guarantee a remunerative MSP and procurement all over the country,” he said. The march will halt at Ghatandevi for the night and resume at 9 a.m. on Sunday. Farmers will march down Kasara Ghat and continue their journey to Mumbai. Over 100 organisations affiliated to the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, Trade Unions Joint Action Committee, Struggle Committee of Mass Movements, Nation for Farmers, and Hum Bharat ke Log had formed the Samyukta Shetkari Kamgar Morcha (Maharashtra) in a meeting held in Mumbai on January 12. It then called for a massive sit-in at Azad Maidan from January 24 to 26. The vehicle march will merge with this sit-in on Sunday. On January 25, farmer leaders, top leaders of the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi, and leaders of Left and democratic parties will address a public meeting. At 2 p.m., the farmers will march to the Raj Bhavan and submit a memorandum to Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari. NCP president Sharad Pawar, State Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat, and Sena minister Aaditya Thackeray have agreed to join the march to the Raj Bhavan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/farmers-to-begin-vehicle-march-to-mumbai-today/article33640204.ece
23 January 2021||Mumbai,||Congress leaders take out rally to Arnab’s office||Mumbai Congress leaders on Friday termed Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami a ‘traitor’ and led a march to his office in Worli, demanding his arrest. “How did the Prime Minister’s Office leak information on a secret operation to Goswami? Who are the traitors who did this? Goswami not only used the sensitive information to increase his channel’s TRP but also jeopardised national security. He should be arrested and probed,” said Mumbai Congress president Bhai Jagtap. Mumbai Congress leaders, ministers, MLAs, and corporators joined the rally from Jambori ground. “India lost 42 jawans in the Pulwama attack, but he was happy his channel’s TRP was going up. If Deepika Padukone’s WhatsApp chats can be made public, why can’t Goswami’s?” he asked. Mumbai Congress executive president Charan Singh Sapra said the probe should find out who leaked the information. “Was it the PM’s Office or the office of Amit Shah? Those who did this should be probed and treated as traitors,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/congress-leaders-take-out-rally-to-arnabs-office/article33640203.ece
23 January 2021||Mumbai,||2nd clean slate day in Dharavi||Dharavi did not report a single new case of COVID-19 in the last 24 hours, the second such instance since December 25, a civic official said on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/2nd-clean-slate-day-in-dharavi/article33640209.ece
23 January 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Four arrested for duping over 80 people of Rs. 2 cr.||Unit I of the Navi Mumbai Police’s Economic Offences Wing has arrested four people for cheating over 80 people of Rs. 2 crore. While Abhijit Madhukar Patil (42), Vanita Abhijit Patil (40), and Mukund Ashok Puranik (39) are from Kamothe, Yogesh Rajaram Bilaye (48) is a resident of Kalamboli. The police said the accused ran a multi-level marketing scheme via three investment companies — Vanita Enterprises, Trishul Gold Private Limited, and Trishulin Trading Private Limited — at Brahma Shopping Centre at Sector 15, Belapur. They promised to double the money deposited by investors within 20 months and offered 2% commission for bringing in more investors, police said. They provided benefits to a few investors and later defaulted on the payments. “Over 80 investors have claimed to have been cheated of Rs. 2 crore,” said Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime) Pravin Patil. Mr. Patil, Mr. Puranik and Mr. Bilaye were arrested in the wee hours of January 19, while Ms. Patil was arrested the same afternoon. Mr. Bilaye posed as the manager of the firm, while the others claimed to be owners of the investment companies. The accused were arrested under Sections 420, 409 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code; Sections 3,4, and 5 of the Prize Chits and Money Circulation Schemes (Banning) Act, 1978; and Sections 3 and 4 of the Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors (in Financial Establishments) Act, 1999. They have been remanded in police custody till January 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/four-arrested-for-duping-over-80-people-of-rs-2-cr/article33640205.ece
23 January 2021||New Delhi,||RLDA e-roadshows showcase NDLS redevelopment work||The Rail Land Development Authority (RLDA) has conducted online roadshows on the redevelopment of the New Delhi Railway Station (NDLS) — the first project to be undertaken on the Transit-Oriented Development (TOD) concept in the NCR. The RLDA is a statutory body under the Ministry of Railways for the development of vacant railway land. Currently, the Indian Railways has approximately f43,000 hectares of vacant land across the country and is also handling 84 railway colony redevelopment projects. ‘Flagship project’ “The redevelopment of the New Delhi Railway Station is our flagship project that will transform Delhi-NCR. The project has attracted interest from various stakeholders. As a responsible organisation, our foremost priority is to engage with them, keep them apprised of various developments and incorporate their views and suggestions into the project,” said RLDA Vice-Chairman Ved Parkash Dudeja. The objective of the initiative is to engage with relevant stakeholders such as leading international real estate developers, infrastructure players and financial institutions from advanced geographies such as Europe, Australia and South Asia. According to the RLDA, the project is currently at the Request for Qualification (RFQ) stage with February 2 as the last date of submission of applications. While RLDA is the approving authority for the master plan, an Apex Committee under the chairmanship of Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal has been constituted to ensure coordination amongst the various civic agencies involved and expedite the approvals and clearances. The roadshow was preceded by a pre-bid conference held in September 2020 for the project, which entails a capital expenditure of approximately $680 million over a period of four years and offers multiple revenue streams to the developer including revenue from real estate rights for a period of 60 years. According to the RLDA, the station has a master plan area of 120 hectares of which 88 hectares is being planned in Phase 1; the redevelopment will seek to remodel the NDLS into a world-class station in line with global standards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/rlda-e-roadshows-showcase-ndls-redevelopment-work/article33640196.ece
23 January 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi records 266 fresh cases, 7 deaths||The city witnessed 266 fresh COVID-19 cases in 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 6,33,542, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Friday. Also, seven more deaths have been reported in 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 10,789. A total of 71,850 tests were done in a day. Of the total cases, 6,20,693 people have recovered and there are 2,060 active cases. The positivity rate of COVID-19 cases was 0.37% on Friday and the overall positivity till now is 6.20%, as per the bulletin. Availability of beds Out of the total 9,068 beds available for COVID-19 treatment in the city, 8,125 were vacant. There were only 825 people under home isolation and 943 in hospitals. The Case Fatality Rate till now is 1.7%. Also, there were 1,836 containment zones in the city as of Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/delhi-records-266-fresh-cases-7-deaths/article33640200.ece
23 January 2021||New Delhi,||Illegal construction case: Sonu Sood moves SC||Actor Sonu Sood moved the Supreme Court on Friday, challenging the Bombay High Court’s order dismissing his appeal against a Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) notice over alleged illegal construction at his building in Juhu. Advocate Vineet Dhanda, who has filed the plea, said, “The petitioner has not made any changes in the building that warrants permission from the BMC. Only those changes that are allowed under the Maharashtra Regional and Town Planning Act have been done.” As per the BMC, the actor carried out structural changes in the six-storey residential building, Shakti Sagar, and converted it into a hotel without taking requisite permissions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/illegal-construction-case-sonu-sood-moves-sc/article33640210.ece
23 January 2021||New Delhi,||CM meets DSIIDC officials to review work on IT park||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday convened a meeting with Delhi State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation Ltd. (DSIIDC) officials to review the development work on the new Rani Khera Technology Park — a new IT business park to be constructed here. The officials gave a presentation on the construction work, which will commence from May, 2021. CM reviews other works Mr. Kejriwal also reviewed the status of ongoing maintenance work in industrial areas, including Okhla industrial area Phase III, Mangolpuri, Mayapuri, Udyog Nagar, Patparganj, Jhilmil, Jhandewalan, Lawrence Road, Kirti Nagar, GTK Road and Bhorgarh Industrial Area in Bawana Phase II. The DSIIDC presented the detailed plan for the construction of the business park, which the government will develop in seven different phases. Project completion According to the government, the first phase of the Rani Khera Business Park development project is expected to be completed by May 2023 and the second phase of the project is expected to be completed by May 2025. Mr. Kejriwal was also apprised that all necessary approvals of the government departments concerned have been duly completed and he directed the officials to conclude all works in a time-bound manner. He said both pending and ongoing redevelopment and maintenance work in DSIIDC industrial areas should be completed as per revised deadlines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/cm-meets-dsiidc-officials-to-review-work-on-it-park/article33640193.ece
23 January 2021||New Delhi,||Four storks that died in zoo found negative for bird flu||Samples of four storks that died in the Delhi zoo have tested negative for bird flu, said officials on Friday. Earlier this month, a sample of an owl from the zoo had tested positive for bird flu. “We had sent 12 samples from the zoo, four samples of dead storks and eight live birds, to National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD), Bhopal, for testing and it came out negative yesterday [Thursday] ,” a Delhi government official said. A total of 24 samples from nine locations in the city have tested positive for bird flu till now, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/four-storks-that-died-in-zoo-found-negative-for-bird-flu/article33640198.ece
23 January 2021||New Delhi,||Will include riot-hit areas in collection drive for Ram temple, announces Tiwari||North East Delhi MP Manoj Tiwari will begin a door-to-door “Rath Yatra” in his constituency, which also includes areas hit by last year’s riots, to collect donations for the Ram temple in Ayodhya from February 1. Mr. Tiwari said the “Sri Ram Janmbhumi Nirman Nidhi Abhiyan” in his constituency will seek to reach out to “all sections of society” and all donations would be voluntary. “I will reach out to all sections of the society to collect their contribution for a grand Ram temple in Ayodhya. There are several brothers and sisters from the minority community who wish to contribute and I will go to their houses, shops and establishments to seek donations,” Mr. Tiwari said. According to him, no target has been fixed for the amount of contributions to be collected. Several areas in north-east Delhi had witnessed violence in February 2020, which led to over 50 deaths and left hundreds injured in addition to massive destruction of private and public property. His drive will be part of a larger effort of which the VHP, the RSS and the BJP will launch from February 1 for donations for the temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/will-include-riot-hit-areas-in-collection-drive-for-ram-temple-announces-tiwari/article33640192.ece
23 January 2021||New Delhi,||RRTS to adopt European signalling tech||The country’s first Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS) is set to use an advanced signalling and train control system, said officials of the National Capital Region Transport Corporation (NCRTC). According to the NCRTC, the RRTS will adopt a modern European Train Control System Level 2 signalling over the long-term evolution communication backbone with the adoption of state-of-artHybrid Level 3. “Adoption of this signalling technology adds to the distinction of RRTS, as the first technologically advanced rail network in India will be operational with a design speed of 180 km/hr,” the NCRTC stated. The ETCS signalling system will be a key enabler in ensuring interoperability and train movement at quick frequencies, thereby reducing waiting time for passengers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/rrts-to-adopt-european-signalling-tech/article33640194.ece
23 January 2021||Pune,||Active cases dip below 45,000; 3,419 recoveries in Maharashtra||Maharashtra on Thursday recorded 3,419 COVID-19 recoveries and 2,779 new cases as active cases dipped to 44,926, while the total case tally touched 20,03,657. Fifty more deaths took the toll to 50,684 and total recoveries now stand at 19,06,827. The State’s recovery rate is 95.17%, while the case fatality rate is 2.53%. Pune reported over 500 new cases to take its total case tally to 3,84,449. Three deaths saw the total death toll rise to 7,888. As per district administration figures, there are 4,790 active cases and recovery rate is 96.35%.  483 cases in Mumbai Mumbai city reported 483 new cases to take its total case tally to 3,05,136, of which just 6,442 are active. Nine fatalities saw the city’s death toll reach 11,287. Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported more than 250 new cases, taking the district’s case tally to 1,33,415, of which 4,157 are currently active. A single death saw the total death toll reach 3,319. In western Maharashtra, Satara reported two deaths, while 70 fresh cases saw the total case tally rise to 55,896, of which just 727 are active. Its death toll stands at 1801. Neighbouring Sangli reported 18 cases and a single death as the district’s reported cases reached 50,684, of which just 481 are active. Its death toll stands at 1,779. Kolhapur reported 22 cases and no deaths as its tally reached 49,052, of which just 172 are active. The total death toll stands at 1,670. In north Maharashtra, Nashik district reported over 100 cases and three fatalities as its total case tally reached 119,858, of which 1,217 are active. Its toll stands at 1,975. Jalgaon reported 63 new cases and four deaths as its tally reached 57,170, of which 457 are active, while its death toll stands at 1,474. “Of 1,40,80,930 laboratory samples tested thus far, 20,03,657 (with the case positivity rate down to 14.23%) have returned positive with over 61,000 samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate A total of 2,13,414 people across the State are in home quarantine and 2,019 are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/active-cases-dip-below-45000-3419-recoveries-in-maharashtra/article33640207.ece
23 January 2021||Thane,||Three buildings gutted in Thane||Two diagnostics centres and a production unit of a confectionary were gutted in a blaze that erupted in Wagle Estate in Thane at 5 p.m. on Friday, which was doused after a four-hour-long operation. No casualties were reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/three-buildings-gutted-in-thane/article33640208.ece
23 January 2021||Washington,||Biden orders aid to combat hunger crisis||President Joe Biden is ordering an expansion of government benefits for hungry Americans, after the coronavirus pandemic ignited the worst hunger crisis the U.S. has seen in modern times. The decree, one of two executive orders the White House said he will sign on Friday, is modest and far short of the actions the President has called for from Congress. Nonetheless, it represents one of Mr. Biden’s first actions since taking office on Wednesday, aimed at reviving the world’s largest economy, after COVID-19 caused mass layoffs beginning last year that have left many people scrambling to pay the bills. “The American people can’t afford to wait. And so many are hanging by a thread, they need help, and we are committed to doing everything we can to provide that help as quickly as possible,” said Brian Deese, director of the White House’s National Economic Council Director. Mr. Biden’s main initiative to turn the economy around is a $1.9 trillion “rescue” package that he outlined last week, followed by a promised proposal aimed at fuelling job creation and spurring hiring. Federal stimulus “Much, much more is needed. And so that’s why, as we take these actions, we will continue to engage with Congress and with the American people around the need to move on the American rescue plan,” Mr. Deese told reporters. The orders also instruct government agencies to help people more quickly access federal stimulus payments, allow workers to leave jobs that could jeopardise their health, and expand protections for federal workers, while laying the groundwork for a minimum wage increase for federal contractors. Even after two massive government aid packages, the U.S. economy is reeling from the damage caused by the pandemic, which has seen the death toll soar to 4,00,000. The Labour Department reported more than 1.3 million new applications for unemployment were filed last week, and as of the first week of January nearly 16 million people were still receiving some form of government jobless benefits. Amid the widespread joblessness, many families are struggling to pay for groceries. The Commerce Department reported in mid-December that 13.7% of adults lived in households where they sometimes or often did not have enough to eat. And millions of children rely on meals from schools, which have been forced to close or modify their schedules during the pandemic. The government last year offered families food aid equivalent to what their children would be getting at school. Mr. Biden’s order expands that by15%, which the White House said would give a family with three children more than $100 extra every two months. The President order also instructs the Agriculture Department to issue guidance that would allow states to expand food aid to an additional 12 million people, and reevaluate its basis for determining benefits, according to the White House. Congress last month gave every American stimulus checks totaling up to $600, and Mr. Biden’s order calls for the Treasury Department to find ways to get that money to people more quickly, and help those who never received the first round of payments last Spring. It also asks the Labour Department to allow people who turn down jobs that could harm them, including potentially exposing them to COVID-19, to be allowed to claim unemployment benefits. Mr. Biden’s second order restores collective bargaining rights to federal government employees, and instructs agencies to do the preliminary work to allow him to issue a new order in coming weeks requiring federal contractors to pay their workers a minimum of $15 an hour and provide them with paid emergency leave. “These steps are designed to help ensure the federal government is a model employer,” Mr. Deese said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-orders-aid-to-combat-hunger-crisis/article33639902.ece
23 January 2021||Washington,||Trump impeachment article to be sent to Senate on Monday||House Speaker Nancy Pelosi plans to send the article of impeachment against Donald Trump to the Senate on Monday, launching the start of the former President’s trial on a charge of incitement of insurrection over the deadly Capitol riot. Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer announced the schedule on Friday. “There will be a trial,” Mr. Schumer said. “It will be a full trial, it will be a fair trial” Mr. Trump is the first President to be twice impeached and the first to face a trial after leaving office. While the transmission of the article launches the trial, the schedule ahead remains uncertain. On Thursday, Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell proposed pushing back the start of the trial to February to give the former President time to prepare and review his case. House Democrats who voted to impeach Mr. Trump last week for inciting the deadly January 6 Capitol riot say a full reckoning is necessary before the country — and the Congress — can move on. More time sought But Mr. McConnell in a statement on Thursday evening suggested a more expansive timeline that would see the House transmit the article of impeachment next week, on January 28, launching the trial’s first phase. After that, the Senate would give the President’s defence team and House prosecutors two weeks to file briefs. Arguments in the trial would likely begin in mid-February. “Senate Republicans are strongly united behind the principle that the institution of the Senate, the office of the presidency, and former President Trump himself all deserve a full and fair process that respects his rights and the serious factual, legal, and constitutional questions at stake, especially given the unprecedented speed of the House process,” Mr. McConnell said. Schumer, D-N.Y., is reviewing the plan and will discuss it with McConnell, a spokesperson said. The two leaders are also negotiating how the new 50-50 Senate will work and how they will balance other priorities. A trial delay would have appealed to some Democrats, as it would have given the Senate more time to confirm President Joe Biden’s Cabinet nominees and debate a new round of coronavirus relief. Democratic Sen. Chris Coons of Delaware, a key ally of the President Biden, told CNN that Democrats would consider a delay “if we are making progress on confirming the very talented, seasoned and diverse team that President Joe Biden has nominated. Ms. Pelosi said Mr. Trump doesn’t deserve a “get-out-of-jail card” just because he has left office and Mr. Biden and others are calling for national unity. Trump’s defence team Facing his second impeachment trial in two years, Mr. Trump began to assemble his defence team by hiring attorney Butch Bowers to represent him, according to an adviser. Mr. Bowers previously served as counsel to former South Carolina Governors Nikki Haley and Mark Sanford. Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham of South Carolina helped Mr. Trump find Mr. Bowers after members of his past legal teams indicated they did not plan to join the new effort. Mr. Trump is at a disadvantage compared to his first trial, in which he had the full resources of the White House counsel’s office to defend him. Ms. Pelosi’s nine impeachment managers, who will be prosecuting the House case, have been regularly meeting to discuss strategy. Ms. Pelosi said she would talk to them “in the next few days” about when the Senate might be ready for a trial. Shortly before the January 6 insurrection, Mr. Trump told thousands of his supporters at a rally near the White House to “fight like hell” against the election results that Congress was certifying. A mob marched down to the Capitol and rushed in, interrupting the count. Five people, including a Capitol Police officer, died in the mayhem, and the House impeached Trump a week later, with 10 Republicans joining all Democrats in support. Ms. Pelosi said it would be “harmful to unity” to forget that “people died here on January 6, the attempt to undermine our election, to undermine our democracy, to dishonour our Constitution.” Mr. Trump was acquitted by the Senate at his first impeachment trial.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-impeachment-article-to-be-sent-to-senate-on-monday/article33639911.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Biden respects successful India-U.S. ties: WH||U.S. President Joe Biden respects and values the successful bipartisan relationship the country has with India, White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki has said. “President Biden, who, of course, has visited India many times, respects and values the long, bipartisan, successful relationship between leaders in India and the United States. He looks forward to a continuation of that,” Ms. Psaki told reporters in the White House Press Briefing room on Thursday evening. Mr. Biden visited India in 2008 — the year the U.S. Congress approved the civil nuclear deal between the two countries. As Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, he played a key role in pushing the deal through. During the presidential campaign last year, this was a focus of the messaging targeting Indian- American voters. In 2013, Mr. Biden visited India again — this time as Vice-President. In 2014, he chaired a joint session of the U.S. Congress that Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed. Ms. Psaki’s comments on Thursday also referred to the Indian origin of Kamala Harris, the country’s new Vice-President. “Obviously, he selected — and yesterday she was sworn in — the first Indian-American to serve as Vice-President, a historic moment for all of us in this country, but a further... cementing of the importance of our relationship.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-respects-successful-india-us-ties-wh/article33639900.ece
23 January 2021||Moscow,||Russia begins crackdown on Navalny allies ahead of protests||The Russian authorities on Friday cracked down on allies of jailed Russian opposition politician Alexei Navalny and jailed his spokeswoman for nine days as the police vowed to suppress protests this weekend. Allies of President Vladimir Putin’s top critics are planning to hold demonstrations on Saturday in dozens of cities in support of the opposition politician, who was arrested and held behind bars on his return to Russia following a near-fatal poisoning with a nerve agent. The last time major protests took place in Moscow was in the summer of 2019, and the Saturday rallies are expected to be a major test of the opposition’s ability to mobilise support despite the increasing Kremlin pressure and the coronavirus pandemic. Police said unsanctioned public events will be “immediately suppressed,” as key opposition activists were detained on the eve of the rallies. Mr. Navalny’s spokeswoman Kira Yarmysh, 31, who spent the night in detention, was sentenced to nine days in jail for violating legislation on public gatherings after a hearing that lasted less than five minutes, her lawyer Veronika Polyakova said. Another activist, Georgy Alburov, said he expected to be jailed for 10 days. Key Navalny ally Lyubov Sobol is accused of repeatedly violating legislation on public gatherings, which carries a maximum fine of up to 3,00,000 rubles ($4,000), her lawyer Vladimir Voronin said. A number of Mr. Navalny’s associates were detained in the province.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/russia-begins-crackdown-on-navalny-allies-ahead-of-protests/article33639907.ece
23 January 2021||Beijing,||China hits out at EU over ‘gross interference’||China on Friday hit back at an EU resolution condemning its crackdown on Hong Kong democracy activists, accusing European lawmakers of “gross interference” in its governance of the city. Members of the European Parliament on Thursday passed the resolution calling for “targeted sanctions” against Chinese and Hong Kong officials held responsible for recent arrests of activists. The lawmakers also said they “regret” the handling of a landmark investment deal with China pending ratification by MEPs, saying that talks over the deal should have been seized “as a leverage tool aimed at preserving Hong Kong’s high degree of autonomy, as well as its basic rights and freedoms”. But Beijing struck back on Friday and urged EU lawmakers to “face up to the reality that Hong Kong has returned to China”. Foreign ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said the resolution showed that some MEPs had “confused right and wrong” and engaged in “gross interference in the affairs of China’s Hong Kong”. The European Parliament should “stop any form of meddling”, Ms. Hua said at a regular press briefing. Following pro-democracy protests in 2019, Beijing imposed a draconian national security law that effectively criminalised much dissent in a city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-hits-out-at-eu-over-gross-interference/article33639903.ece
23 January 2021||BAGHDAD,||Islamic State claims twin blasts in Baghdad||The Islamic State claimed responsibility for a rare suicide attack that rocked central Baghdad, killing 32 people and wounding dozens. The bombing targeted “apostate Shias,” the group said in a statement on an IS-affiliated website late on Thursday. U.S. troops withdrawal At least 32 people were killed and over 100 people wounded in the blasts on Thursday. Some were in severe condition. According to officials, the first suicide bomber cried out loudly that he was ill in the middle of the bustling market, prompting a crowd to gather around him — and that’s when he detonated his explosive belt. The second detonated shortly after. The U.S.-led coalition recently ceased combat activities and is gradually drawing down its troop presence in Iraq, sparking fears of an IS resurgence. The group has rarely been able to penetrate the capital since being dislodged by Iraqi forces and the U.S.-led coalition in 2017. The attack was the first in nearly three years to hit the capital. Elsewhere, in northern Iraq and the western desert, attacks continue and almost exclusively target Iraqi security forces. An increase in attacks was seen last summer as militants took advantage of the government’s focus on tackling the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/islamic-state-claims-twin-blasts-in-baghdad/article33639905.ece
23 January 2021||Brussels,||EU chief urges Putin to free Alexei Navalny||European Council chief Charles Michel demanded the “immediate release” of Russian opposition activist Alexei Navalny in a call with President Vladimir Putin on Friday. “The President of the European Council informed President Putin of the grave concern in the European Union and its Member States over recent developments and called to fully and unconditionally respect Alexei Navalny’s rights,” Mr. Michel’s office said. And Mr. Michel told the Kremlin chief that he would launch a “strategic debate” on EU-Russia relations when he convenes a summit of all 27 EU leaders in March.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/eu-chief-urges-putin-to-free-navalny/article33639904.ece
23 January 2021||Washington,||US--Biden-Cabinet-Defense||The U.S. Senate confirmed retired general Lloyd Austin as the Secretary of Defense on Friday, the second Cabinet nominee of President Joe Biden to gain approval and the first African-American to lead the Pentagon. Mr. Austin served in the military for four decades.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-biden-cabinet-defense/article33639991.ece
23 January 2021||MOSCOW,||EU--Russia-US-Nuclear Treaty||Russia said on Friday it welcomed a proposal by U.S. President Joe Biden to extend New START, a landmark nuclear arms reduction agreement due to expire next month. The accord is the last arms control deal between the former Cold War rivals.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/eu-russia-us-nuclear-treaty/article33639909.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Flu among the feathers||The Pampa river flows gently, its water glittering in the warm January sun. A lush green carpet of paddy saplings stretches out for miles near the water body. But a sombre mood prevails in this picture-perfect setting at SN Kadavu, a village near Karuvatta in Kerala’s Alappuzha district. A levelled patch of uncultivated paddy field abutting a road along the village looks diseased, sprinkled with bleaching powder. A nearby board reads: ‘Warning! Bird Flu 2021 carcass burning site’. Seated on a bench outside a thatched structure close to his two-bedroom house a few metres away from the culling site is Devaraj K.V., 52, a second-generation duck farmer. He looks shaken. Devaraj lost 9,240 ducks, his only source of income, to avian influenza (H5N8) in a span of just two weeks. “It’s been a horrendous couple of seasons,” he says. With an eye on the Christmas market, Devaraj had bought 8,240 one-day-old ducklings at Rs. 22 per chick from a hatchery at Thuruthy near Changanassery in Kottayam district in August 2020. Two months later, he purchased another 1,000 egg-laying ducks at Rs. 280 per bird from Valanchery in Malappuram district, all to help recoup his business that was reeling from the COVID-19-induced lockdown and the closure of restaurants and eateries. The ducklings were hand-fed for the first 30 days. In the following months, the birds were taken to the Chalunkal and Manthara paddy fields for foraging with the help of seven labourers. “Things were going smooth. I had even struck a deal with poultry traders in Ernakulam to sell my ducks two days before Christmas when the bird flu hit like a bolt from the blue,” says Devaraj. His ducks started to fall ill on December 20 and began to die one by one. In the next couple of days, some 3,000 ducks in his farm perished. The rest of the birds were culled by the authorities in the second week of January after the outbreak was confirmed in the Kuttanad region. Devaraj estimates his losses at Rs. 8 lakh. Recurring outbreaks The bird flu outbreak in Kuttanad, a vast area of land reclaimed from the Vembanad Lake spread across Alappuzha, Pathanamthitta and Kottayam districts, was the last straw for these farmers, who were already struggling to come to terms with the losses inflicted by the great deluge of 2018 and the COVID-19 pandemic. This was the third outbreak of avian influenza in the region in the past seven years. The outbreak was detected in Karuvatta, Pallippad, Nedumudi, Thakazhi and Kainakary in Alappuzha district and Neendoor in Kottayam district. Following the mass death of ducks last month, the authorities sent samples of dead birds to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD), Bhopal. Six of them tested positive for bird flu. On January 5, rapid response teams were despatched to the affected areas, except Kainakary where the disease was confirmed much later, on January 20. In three days, men wearing personal protective equipment culled and burnt the carcasses of 57,687 birds, almost entirely ducks, within a one-km radius of the hotspots in the two districts to keep the virus at bay. The teams destroyed 32,592 eggs and 5,078 kg of feed. The number of ducks that died due to H5N8 stood at 25,265. In Kainakary, 349 ducks, 297 chickens and two geese were culled on January 20 and 21. A Ramsar site and a designated Globally Important Agricultural Heritage Systems, Kuttanad, nicknamed the rice bowl of Kerala, is one of the areas where farming is carried out below the sea level. Duck farming to the villages here is what tapioca is to the tropical hills of Central Travancore. Nearly all households in the region keep at least a few of these birds in their backyards, which are a consistent source of income for several families and form the crux of their food security, besides offering jobs to several thousands. It is common to see duck flocks quacking and waddling across roads and paddy fields post-harvest, being guided and goaded by ‘masters’, across the region. The transformation of duck rearing in Kuttanad from the turn of the 21st century till the first bout of bird flu outbreak in 2014 was staggering. From 6.61 lakh in 2003, the total number of birds grew to touch 9.94 lakh in 2007. On the back of a slew of duck rearing schemes rolled out by the State government, the sector grew further over the next five years up to 2012, to take the bird count to 17.09 lakh. The bird flu outbreaks in 2014 and 2016, however, put the brakes on this flourishing sector. As per estimates by the State Animal Husbandry Department, around 15 lakh of ducks and ducklings were destroyed in Kuttanad during these outbreaks, while another four lakh ducks died in the floods of 2018, which also caused the destruction of eight lakh eggs besides 75,000 ducklings. The flock size kept by the farmers began to fall and in the years between 2012 and 2019, the bird stock grew by just 3.96% to take the number of birds to 17.76 lakh. “We conduct duck farming throughout the year with a focus on Christmas and Easter. If ducks survive through the period, we can make some good money even after labour cost and expenses for medicine. But if there’s bird flu or a bacterial infection, our lives turn upside down. After 2014 and 2016, we are unfortunately reliving the difficult moment again. It will take some time to rebound from this crisis,” says Samuel K., a duck farmer from Pallippad who lost a few thousand ducks to the flu outbreak. Traditional duck rearing Unlike the modern poultry farming methods of rearing birds indoors, duck farmers of Kuttanad rear ducks in the open, although it makes the birds more vulnerable to diseases like avian influenza. “Ducks are voracious eaters,” says Thomas Kutty, a duck farmer from Karuvatta. “It is not sustainable to hand-feed the birds beyond a specific period. Kuttanad with its vast paddy fields and backwaters is conducive for duck farming. Immediately after the paddy harvest, we move the birds to vast fields for feeding. We keep the birds on the move from one field to another until they are saleable,” says Kutty. According to him, allowing ducks to forage fields is mutually beneficial. The ducks get enough food in the form of rice, worms and insects, and the paddy owners stand to get a few bucks. The ‘Kuttanadan’ ducks (Chara and Chembally — two local breeds) reared like this are branded and are in high demand. With a dramatic increase in the consumption of poultry protein over the last decade, Kerala is now experiencing a huge gap between the demand and supply of duck meat. The prices rose consequently, from Rs. 160 to Rs. 210 per bird, show estimates available with the Government Duck Farm, Niranam. While consumers deal with higher prices, about 80% of ‘Kuttanadan’ ducks grown by traditional farmers are now sold for meat at the age of 2.5-3 months — a sharp deviation from the earlier practice of maintaining the female ducks for egg production. “This is not at all an ideal situation since all the good quality birds are now sold for meat while the State looks to neighbours for duck eggs,” explains Thomas Jacob, Chief Veterinary Officer, Pathanamthitta. Ban on poultry trade According to farmers’ associations, there are more than 1,000 big duck farmers in the region, while several thousands, including small farmers, meat traders and egg sellers, are allied to the sector. The bird flu has directly impacted only around 30 duck farmers, but it has rattled the entire poultry sector in the region with the authorities regulating the trade of meat and egg of ducks, chicken and quail in a bid to tame the spread of the disease. The 24.14-km Alappuzha- Changanassery road has parrot green paddy fields and palm-studded backwaters on either side. Small stalls selling ‘Kuttanadan’ ducks, eggs and local fish along the road stand testimony to the agricultural tradition of the place. However, after the outbreak, the traders whose lives depended on wayside vending have closed the duck stalls. “We are not farmers, but small-time traders. We buy ducks from farmers and sell them for a small profit. The ban on poultry trade has upended our lives,” says Jose K., a trader. The reports of a bird flu outbreak in the region, which sits next door to some of the most renowned international tourist destinations including Kumarakom, also came at a time when the tourism industry was looking for a revival after being in limbo thanks to the pandemic. In a quick fire-fighting act, most restaurants and houseboats operating in the region have stopped serving chicken and duck delicacies to guests. “Enquiries seeking the status of the outbreaks have already begun pouring in though we have got no cancellations so far. The bookings, however, will be affected if the scare continues for a longer time as had happened in 2014,” says K. Rupesh Kumar, coordinator, Responsible Tourism, Kerala. Huge losses At Vaisyambhagom, 9,000 fully grown ducks including drakes, healthy and unaffected by the outbreak, belonging to Thankachan Kaithakalam, are enjoying their time in the Pookaitha river. “These birds were to be sold in the new year. The outbreak and subsequent restrictions have changed everything,” says the veteran duck farmer. He had sold 12,000 birds on the eve of Christmas but is now expending Rs. 25,000 daily to feed the remaining flock. “The puncha paddy cultivation season is on and there are hardly any fields in the region for ducks to eat from. The only way to maintain the birds is to provide them with compounded feeds. In normal conditions, rearing a duck for meat costs around Rs. 175, while a 120-days-old duck could fetch Rs. 250. All the money I am spending now on the flock is additional cost. If the ban is to remain in place, I will have to suffer huge losses,” says Kaithakalam. He has with him 30,000 duck eggs, which he says “will spoil within days” with no proper facility to store them. Although duck farmers used to transport the birds to other districts and sometimes across the State as far as Andhra Pradesh for feeding based on the availability of fields, the restrictions in place mean that they cannot take the birds outside the region. The State government’s compensation plan for the owners of dead/culled birds due to the bird flu has been slammed by poultry farmers as being inadequate. The government has announced a compensation of Rs. 200 for a bird older than two months and Rs. 100 for those less than two months old. Besides, Rs. 5 will be given for each egg destroyed. “The government had given the same amount as compensation during the previous bird flu outbreaks. The prices of ducklings, feed and labour cost have increased in recent years and the government should have considered that while fixing the compensation. I have taken loans from money lenders at exorbitant rates and my family is staring at a debt trap,” Devaraj says. Some farmers say they might not be able to prove the number of birds that perished before the avian influenza was officially confirmed. “I am going to get compensation for the culled birds alone,” says Kutty. While farmers like Devaraj and Kutty are set to get some compensation, people like Kaithakalam who are unaffected by the disease but are prevented from selling the birds, eggs and meat are left in the lurch. “The government should at least provide the feed free of cost until the ban is lifted,” Kaithakalam says. Economic impact The first alarm of a potential bird flu infestation in Kuttanad came from a duck farm at Aymanam in Kottayam on November 25, 2014. Recognising its potential to set off a crisis in Kuttanad, a region well connected through a network of water bodies, the Animal Husbandry Department ordered the culling of all the poultry birds within a one-km radius of the outbreak zones. The Rapid Response Force teams comprising personnel of the Animal Husbandry and Health Departments were formed to respond and contain the outbreak. They culled 0.277 million poultry birds from 288 farms across the region. A study on the economic impact of the 2014 bird flu outbreak on Kuttanad, which was published by the ICAR – National Institute of Veterinary Epidemiology and Disease Informatics in 2017, had found that the loss due to destruction of feed and eggs was relatively high in backyard farms than their commercial counterparts. This was primarily due to easy access to stored feed and eggs for destruction and also lack of compensation for the destroyed feed. The analysis revealed a total loss of $10,203 per hatchery on an average. Of this, 59% was destruction of hatchery eggs. The transfer payments (compensation) had alleviated the loss partially to the farmers-producers and hatcheries though it could not offset other stakeholders, it noted. For instance, the decline in tourist inflow to Kuttanad post the outbreak was drastic, severely affecting the backwater tourism sector as a whole. While the loss in gross returns varied based on the types of boats, the loss per tourist boat was estimated to be $2,280. Pointing out that control measures are only post-incidence, the study also called for the adoption of preventive bio-security measures at the farm level besides periodical screening of domestic birds. “Frankly speaking, you do not have many other options as long as Kuttanad remains to be a major flyway location for migratory birds. There is always a chance of a bird flu outbreak in the region, especially in November-December. The widespread presence of bird sanctuaries and the huge network of water bodies are not helping the crisis either. For a rural community, that’s a pretty tough hit to take,” says G. Govindaraj, senior scientist with the ICAR- NIVEDI, who led the study. The Kerala State Planning board, in its proposal for a special package for post-flood Kuttanad, also noted that around 90% of the ducks in Kuttanad are reared without any systematic or scientific feeding practices or disease-control measures. According to the board, the high level of duck mortality due to Duck Pasteurellosis, Duck Plaque and New Duck diseases is a major issue faced by the sector in the region. “Lack of knowledge about vaccination against these diseases and scarcity of vaccination experts are some of the other factors leading to high levels of duck mortality. Kuttanad urgently needs a large project that would vaccinate most of the ducks within a strict time frame. It also needs proper disease surveillance programmes and vaccination of nomadic ducks to prevent mass deaths. A cadre of field workers has to be created for this purpose,” the report pointed out. The board also recommended that the Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, Pookode, be allotted a project with infrastructural facilities to provide and distribute five lakh ducklings each year, besides facilities for providing services like disease diagnosis, feed analysis, training, custom hatching facilities and field veterinary services. Risk to humans Soon after the bird flu was confirmed, the Centre rushed multi-disciplinary teams to study the outbreak and evaluate the public health risk of H5N8. Although the risk of transmission of the H5N8 subtype of the Influenza A virus to humans is considered to be very low, experts warned that mutations might occur and the virus could become more aggressive. “We have tested several samples. No case of H5N8 and H5N1 has so far been detected in humans in India. However, virus mutations remain a threat,” says a scientist with the National Institute of Virology, Pune. Santhosh Kumar P.K., District Animal Husbandry Officer, Alappuzha, says that there is no conclusive evidence yet that the source of infection was migratory birds. “But there is a high chance that the ducks in Kuttanad got the virus from the migratory birds that arrive in the region in large numbers,” he adds. With recurring avian influenza outbreaks poised to disrupt the sustainability and viability of duck farming in the region, experts have called for detailed studies. “The need of the hour is to set up a biosafety level-3 lab in the State. After duck deaths were reported in December, 2020, it took two weeks to ascribe it to bird flu as samples had to be sent to NIHAD,” says an official with the State Animal Husbandry department. Looking at the frightening regularity of the outbreaks, it is time the State adopted these remedial measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/flu-among-the-feathers/article33639898.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,||A new framework around caste and the census||Enumerating, describing and understanding the population of a society and what people have access to, and what they are excluded from, is important not only for social scientists but also for policy practitioners and the government. In this regard, the Census of India, one of the largest exercises of its kind, enumerates and collects demographic and socio-economic information on the Indian population. However, no data exists in a vacuum. It has its own history, context and purpose. About the Census The synchronous  decennial Census going back to the colonial exercise of 1881 has evolved over time and has been used by the government, policy makers, academics, and others to capture the Indian population, its access to resources, and to map social change. However, as early as the 1940s, W.W.M. Yeatts, Census Commissioner for India for the 1941 Census (https://bit.ly/2MbCSAz), had pointed out that, “the census is a large, immensely powerful, but blunt instrument unsuited for specialised enquiry”. This point has also surfaced in later critiques offered by scholars who consider the Census as both a data collection effort and a technique of governance, but not quite useful enough for a detailed and comprehensive understanding of a complex society. As historian and anthropologist Bernard Cohn had demonstrated, the Census may in fact produce an imagination of society, which suggests the epistemological complexities involved. While the usefulness of the Census cannot be disregarded, for instance with regard to the delimitation exercise, there is a lack of depth where some issues are concerned. In this context, the discussion around caste and its enumeration have been controversial. Since Independence, aggregated Census data on the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes on certain parameters such as education have been collected. With demands to conduct a full-scale caste census gaining traction over time, some have seen the inclusion of broader caste information as a necessity to capture contemporary Indian society and to understand and remedy inequalities, while others believe that this large administrative exercise of capturing caste and its complexities is not only difficult, but also socially untenable. Following decades of debate, the Socio-Economic and Caste Census (SECC) was conducted in 2011 (https://bit.ly/2LYsbkR) and took a few years to complete; this was a distinct exercise from the Census of 2011. The SECC, which collected the first figures on caste in Census operations since 1931, is the largest exercise of the enumeration of caste. It has the potential to allow for a mapping of inequalities at a broader level. The main concerns It would be disingenuous to ignore the emotive element of caste and the political and social repercussions of a caste census. There have been concerns that counting caste may help solidify or harden identities, or that caste may be context-specific, and thus difficult to measure. These discussions along with various counterarguments are not new. Commenting on the 1941 Census, Census Commissioner Yeatts observed that, “Thanks to the acute interest in community figures, practically all communities this time were census-conscious and took pains to see that their houses were in the list and that they themselves were counted.” In discussions around caste, scholars such as Nicholas Dirks and Cohn have demonstrated that the Census had the effect of marking out caste and community in the forms we see today. The other concern is whether an institution such as caste can even be captured completely by the Census. Questions remain on whether the SECC is able to cover the effects of caste as an aspect of Indian social structure in everyday life, or at least to illuminate our understanding of its impact at varying scales — from the local, to the regional and to the national scale. Can the SECC take into account the nuances that shape caste and simultaneously the ways in which caste shapes everyday life in India? The Census and the SECC have different purposes. Since the Census falls under the Census Act of 1948, all data are considered confidential, whereas according to the SECC website, “all the personal information given in the Socio Economic Caste Census (SECC) is open for use by Government departments to grant and/or restrict benefits to households”. The Census thus provides a portrait of the Indian population, while the SECC is a tool to identify beneficiaries of state support. This difference is significant since it influences not only the methods of collection but also the use and potential for misuse of data. A road map What is needed then is a discussion on the caste data that already exists, how it has been used and understood by the government and its various departments to grant or withdraw benefits, and also its utility for the important academic exercise of mapping social inequalities and social change. Linking and syncing aggregated Census data to other large datasets such as the National Sample Surveys or the National Family Health Surveys that cover issues that the Census exercises do not, such as maternal health, would be significant for a more comprehensive analysis, enabling the utilisation of the large body of data that already exists. This linking of the Census with the National Sample Survey data has been suggested in the past by scholars such as Mamta Murthi and colleagues (https://bit.ly/3oaUTMx). Statisticians such as Atanu Biswas point out that Census operations across the world are going through significant changes, employing methods that are precise, faster and cost effective, involving coordination between different data sources (https://bit.ly/2Y1s0aP). Care must however be taken to ensure that digital alternatives and linking of data sources involving Census operations are inclusive and non-discriminatory, especially given the sensitive nature of the data being collected. Time lag and planning Apart from themes specific to enumerating caste, there are other issues that the Census and the SECC in particular face. The first relates to the time lag between each Census, and the second to the delay in the release of data. The first of these is inherent in the way the Census exercises are planned. The second, however, also has important repercussions to understanding social change since data may remain un-released or released only in parts. Nearly a decade after the SECC for instance, a sizeable amount of data remains unreleased. While the Census authorities present documents on methodology as part of a policy of transparency, there needs to be a closer and continuous engagement between functionaries of the Census and SECC, along with academics and other stakeholders concerned, since the Census and the SECC are projects of governance as well as of academic interest. Before another SECC is conducted, a stocktaking of the previous exercise, of what has been learnt from it, and what changes are necessary, beyond changing exclusionary criteria for beneficiaries of state support, are crucial to enable the Census to facilitate effective policy work and academic reflection. Concerns about methodology, relevance, rigour, dissemination, transparency and privacy need to be taken seriously if this exercise is to do what it was set up to do. Divya Vaid teaches at the Centre for the Study of Social Systems, Jawaharlal Nehru University||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-new-framework-around-caste-and-the-census/article33639891.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,||A pick between dark politics or collective resistance||“A ll politics is a struggle for power; the ultimate kind of power is violence .” — C. Wright Mills Donald Trump’s drive to upend a legitimate election has shaken faith in the functioning of democracy worldwide. When a president of a country himself condones the rioters or calls them “patriots”, a grim reality awaits democracy in the face of the pervasive political polarisation ripping apart the very political fabric of a nation. Politicians across the globe sink to new levels of unwarranted incitement of a malleable public, a disastrous and politically debasing tendency of constitutional democracy. History as a pointer The loss of faith in the ruling elite points towards a disturbing future. The long and cyclic dark history of civilisation, of wars and violence, of religious fanaticism and irrationality is a loud indication of the failure to model society on rational principles. Our inherently dialectical history confirms the simultaneous birth of opposing forces at the very moment of assertion of any “truth”. For example, the trajectory of liberal democracy evolving into totalitarianism is evidently present in the brute forces of Italian fascism or German Nazism, two striking examples of the birth of vulgar nationalist fervour and racial superiority. The shock of Capitol Hill In the wake of the debacle on Capitol Hill, the world awakes to the reality of the scourge of violence within democracy, rousing a serious national debate on what comprises aggression, who perpetuates it, and why. It is imperative to halt the runaway course of democracy towards an environment increasingly subsumed in the violence of fear and hatred, an overwhelming plague in any civil society. Breaking, therefore, through the intellectual vacuity of the official discourse and coming to grips with the history of electoral violence we see that what happened on the Potomac is nothing new in the long history of racist and electoral violence. But it is not Mr. Trump who is solely responsible. The people are as much to be blamed. Jason Brennan, in his valuable and bracing book, Against Democracy , makes the contrarian conclusion that democratic participation promotes human beings to forget common sense and common politesse. Voters, as he puts it rather uncharitably, are “biased, ill-informed football hooligans” who “can present arguments for their beliefs, but cannot explain alternative points of view”. Along with them are the “hobbits”, a section that lacks fixed strong views on political matters. These two categories have their antithesis in the “Vulcans” who, Brennan argues, “think scientifically and rationally about politics”. Nazism, Trumpism or Hindutva are outstanding examples of this syndrome and the analogy fits in aptly with the credentials of the demonstrators in Washington DC, the “superbiased” who mindlessly fall in line with the manifesto of the ruling dispensation. Evasive promise Philosophical democratic theory is, therefore, rather perplexing. One aspect is the idolised view of democracy as an inimitably just form of government where people have the right to equal share of political power that empowers the people. However, judging by the history of violence, this could be an absolutely off the mark argument within real-world politics. It only shows that political participation has the potential of making people more irrational, prejudiced and mean. It pulls apart, impedes the social order and creates antagonists of civic order. A higher form of life that democracy promises seems to evade the public. The debatable questions, therefore, would be: Does democracy leave you smart and active, or dumb and uncivilised? Does it give us a broad outlook or is it selfishly limiting to one’s immediate needs? Does it not make people live in a world of delusion and deceit expediently passing the blame on to the Left or the “professional anarchists” responsible for violent acts of arson and loot, while thousands of protesters sustaining the powerful state apparatus are labelled as “peaceful” or as “patriots”. Death, pain and physical injury of people fighting back for civil liberties and human rights are of no consequence. The power and brutality of state violence therefore stands legitimised while justifiable or innocent violence accompanying demonstrations against racism or police ferocity result in ruthless consequences. The nightmare of history indeed, brings us face to face with sinister times that impel the need to oppose the offensive right-wing narrative that discourages dialogue, economic welfare and freedom of expression. The erosion of egalitarianism and freedom through unprecedented challenges from anti-humanist forces pushing democratic institutions to the brink of failure is effectively in operation globally. At the irreducible moment of confronting the nightmare of history, we have a choice before us. Either we accept the politics of ethnic intolerance, inequality and violence or arouse within us the unfaltering urge to resist the status quo . In the absence of activism, people are bound to fall prey to irrationality, resentment, xenophobia and the inexorable yearning for fear-inducing power. Shockingly, the right-wing fringe element anywhere in the world, America or India, seem untouched by the state brutality on the innocent and the marginalised. Political beginnings Recognising the failures of the past while retaining hope for the future, we need to develop a critique of violence within democracies that is adequate to the times. Understandably, there is always a political struggle basic to the recognition of evident and hidden forms of injustice and violence that make people mindful of it, deliberate on it, and act. These are the “political beginnings” that Hannah Arendt optimistically spoke of in her perennially relevant book, Men in Dark Times . To her, the collective power of the people mattered more than the power of the state, but only when the struggle is against authoritarianism and bigotry, not when the masses begin to prop a fascist disposition. Shelley Walia, a professor, has taught Cultural Theory at the Department of English, Panjab University, Chandigarh||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-pick-between-dark-politics-or-collective-resistance/article33639894.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Helpful pause||The Centre’s offer to suspend for 18 months the implementation of the three laws that are at the heart of the farmers’ unrest is a conciliatory gesture. It is regrettable that the farmers protesting against the laws that encourage market forces in the sector have rejected the government offer. They have been demanding the repeal of the three laws and a legal guarantee of Minimum Support Price for their produce. The government has refused to concede these demands, but its willingness to put off the implementation of the laws is a right step that could lead to a viable reform package for the agriculture sector. A toxic combination of the Centre’s intransigence, ignorance and insensitivity led to the current flare-up. That India’s agriculture sector requires reforms is not in dispute. The challenge is in identifying the viable measures from the economic, environmental and scientific perspectives and building a wide political agreement for them. The government has now shown wisdom and sagacity by offering to start consultations. Farmers should now not allow their maximalism to obstruct the path to an agreement. It is a case of better late than never. By creating an environment of trust with the aggrieved farmers, the government can reclaim its authority and role. Further consultations must be through a government-led political process, and the Supreme Court which has assumed an unwarranted role for itself must step back. As Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar pointed out, if the agitation can be ended with this concession from the government, it will be a victory for democracy. The government should do more. Harassment of farmer leaders by investigative agencies must immediately stop. The BJP should restrain its functionaries from labelling protesters as anti-nationals. The farmers, who are being represented by several organisations, must arrive at a common platform for talks with the government. Having been successful in winning the attention of the government and the larger society towards their grievances, the farmers must now suspend their protest, including the plan for a tractor rally in Delhi on Republic Day. The consultations on the three laws and reforms in general must take place in an ambience of mutual trust and a spirit of give and take. The talks must be without preconditions but with an agreed premise that agriculture and farmers cannot be left at the mercy of market forces, and the current crop and remuneration patterns are not sustainable. This requires both sides to be more open-minded than they have been so far. A pause of the laws can be helpful.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/helpful-pause/article33639886.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Fire warning||The deadly fire in an upcoming production facility at the Serum Institute of India (SII), in Pune has sent shock waves because of the key role played by the company in producing the Oxford-AstraZeneca Covishield COVID-19 vaccine. Five workers engaged in construction have perished, and there are indications that expensive equipment has been destroyed. There is understandable concern about the accident at the SII building, which is located away from the Covishield unit, as the company, reputedly the world’s biggest vaccine manufacturer, is now an institution of global importance. It is scheduled to deliver several hundred million doses of Covishield to a host of countries, including less affluent nations depending on the COVAX initiative led by WHO to protect their populations and move towards normality. Such a position of indispensability for the Pune facility in the war against the pandemic casts upon India, Maharashtra and SII, the responsibility of ring-fencing vaccine production against all threats, including the one that normally gets low importance in India, which is fire safety. The initial assessment indicates that Thursday’s blaze may have been triggered by flammable materials set afire by sparks generated during construction work, trapping and asphyxiating workers. It is welcome that the company has offered a solatium to the families of the victims, who included migrants from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, but the bigger task is to convince the world that critical vaccine supplies are not jeopardised by lax safety protocols. The storage and transport of vaccines, which are time and temperature-sensitive pharmaceutical products, require special care, and COVID-19 has come as a wake-up call to governments to overcome supply bottlenecks and capacity constraints. Even the creation of new vaccine plants to meet future needs would be entirely justified. With a scramble for approved vaccines and inability to produce enough for all countries, WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus warned that bilateral deals were threatening the smooth rollout of the COVAX initiative. At close to 3 billion doses, it is the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine that forms the bulk of over 10 billion doses of different vaccines ordered so far. Clearly, Indian production is vital to meeting this demand. Pharmaceutical production must satisfy precision, quality and safety standards comparable to high-technology sectors such as defence and space. High standards of fire safety form the core of all manufacturing: WHO model guidance for pharma units emphasises the availability of site security, automatic fire detection systems, mechanical or manual ventilation, sprinkler systems and fire drills, among other aspects. Too often, safety during construction and operation suffers dilution due to cost considerations, with almost no fire awareness among workers. The Pune fire shows that lives and reputations depend on full adherence to good practice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/fire-warning/article33639887.ece
23 January 2021||MUMBAI,||RIL net rises 12.5%, revenue slides 21%||Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) on Friday reported third-quarter consolidated net profit rose 12.5% to Rs. 13,101 crore, from Rs. 11,640 crore in the year-earlier period, helped by a 22% decline in costs. Revenue from operations, however, declined 21% to Rs. 1.24 lakh crore in three-month period ended December, from Rs. 1.57 lakh crore in the comparable quarter of the last financial year. A reduction in expenses helped buoy profits, as costs shrank to Rs. 1.13 lakh crore in the quarter, from Rs. 1.45 lakh crore a year earlier. “We have delivered strong operational results during the quarter with a robust revival in O2C [oil-to-chemicals] and retail segments, and a steady growth in our digital services business,” chairman and managing director Mukesh D. Ambani said in a statement to the stock exchanges. “I am proud that Reliance has employed 50,000 more people since March 2020,” Mr. Ambani added. Both revenue and EBITDA at the oil-to-chemicals business improved quarter-on-quarter by 10%, while EBITDA at the retail segment surged 54% from the preceding quarter. Reliance Retail posted net profit of Rs. 1,830 crore on revenue of Rs. 37,845 crore. New materials business Mr. Ambani said strong global action on climate change gives Reliance the right opportunity to accelerate its own ambitious new energy and new materials business, wedded to the vision of clean and green development. “In line with this vision, our O2C business has formally reorganised its reporting segments to reflect our new strategy and management matrix for this enterprise. The reorganised structure will facilitate holistic and agile decision making and enable us to pursue attractive new opportunities for growth, with strategic partnerships with the best and the biggest in this business globally,” he added. He said the O2C platform would increasingly move further downstream and become closer to customers. “It will create planet friendly and affordable energy and materials solutions to meet the growing needs of every sector of the Indian economy.” Jio Platforms reported consolidated net profit of Rs. 3,489 crore on revenue of Rs. 19,475 crore. The ARPU rose to Rs. 151, from Rs. 145 in the preceding quarter. Total data traffic rose 4% sequentially to 1,586 crore GB.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ril-net-rises-125-revenue-slides-21/article33639873.ece
23 January 2021||MUMBAI,||RBI moots scale-based tighter regulatory framework for NBFCs||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has suggested a tougher regulatory framework for the non-banking finance companies’ (NBFC) sector to prevent recurrence of any systemic risk to the country’s financial system. The banking regulator on Friday released a discussion paper on the revised regulatory framework which is formulated on a scale-based approach, and sought comments within a month. The regulatory and supervisory framework of NBFCs will be based on a four-layered structure — the base layer (NBFC-BL), middle layer (NBFC-ML), upper layer (NBFC-UL) and the top layer. If the framework is visualised as a pyramid, the bottom of the pyramid, where least regulatory intervention is warranted, can consist of NBFCs currently classified as non-systemically important NBFCs (NBFC-ND), NBFCP2P lending platforms, NBFCAA, NOFHC and Type I NBFCs. Moving up, the next layer may comprise NBFCs currently classified as systemically important NBFCs (NBFC-ND-SI), deposit-taking NBFCs (NBFC-D), HFCs, IFCs, IDFs, SPDs and CICs. “The regulatory regime for this layer shall be stricter compared to the base layer. Adverse regulatory arbitrage vis-à-vis banks can be addressed for NBFCs falling in this layer in order to reduce systemic risk spill-overs, where required,” the RBI said in the discussion paper. The next layer may consist of NBFCs identified as ‘systemically significant’. This layer will be populated by NBFCs having a large potential of systemic spill-over of risks and the ability to impact financial stability. “The extant regulatory framework for NBFC-NDs will now be applicable to base layer NBFCs, while the extant regulatory framework applicable for NBFC-NDSI will be applicable to middle layer NBFCs. NBFCs residing in the upper layer will constitute a new category,” the paper said. The revisions applicable to lower layers of NBFCs will automatically be applicable to NBFCs in the higher layers, unless there is a conflict or otherwise stated, the paper added. The current threshold for systemic importance, which is Rs. 500 crore now, is proposed to be revised to Rs. 1,000 crore. As per the proposals, the extant NPA classification norm of 180 days will be reduced to 90 days. “The regulatory framework for NBFCs needs to be reoriented to keep pace with changing realities in the financial sector,” the RBI said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rbi-moots-scale-based-tighter-regulatory-framework-for-nbfcs/article33639872.ece
23 January 2021||MUMBAI,||IL&FS addressed debt of Rs. 2,500 crore in Q3||IL&FS Ltd. on Friday said it had addressed debt of about Rs. 2,500 crore in the last quarter ended December 31. These include receipt of settlement amount by IL&FS Solar Power (ISPL) for approximately Rs. 780 crore; receipt of the tariff payments from the State distribution company by IL&FS Tamil Nadu Power (ITPCL) for approximately Rs. 1,190 crore; and Rs. 300 crore recoveries in IL&FS Financial Services Ltd. (IFIN) from borrowers outside the IL&FS group. As part of its quarterly update on the progress of the ongoing resolution process, IL&FS said it had, as of date, addressed approximately Rs. 32,000 crore of aggregate debt of the Group.  “The Group maintains its estimates of addressing aggregate debt of over Rs. 56,000 crore by FY22, out of an overall debt of over Rs. 99,000 crore (as of October 2018),” IL&FS said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ilfs-addressed-debt-of-rs-2500-crore-in-q3/article33639870.ece
23 January 2021||CHENNAI,||‘Pandemic pushes States’ borrowings up by 82.5%’||States’ borrowings during April-December 2020 were 82.5% higher compared with the corresponding period of the previous year, on account of the pandemic, according to a study. Till December 11, 2020, the States netted Rs. 4.6 lakh crore through market borrowings. GST shortfall The figure included Rs. 36,000 crore borrowed by the Centre and passed on to the States to meet the shortfall in revenue arising on account of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) implementation, said the study carried out by the PRS Legislative Research, a New Delhi-based independent and not-for-profit group. The current financial year’s figure of borrowings pertained to net borrowings, which excluded repayments, and this was compared with similar borrowings made in the previous year. A perusal of data available on revenue receipts of 21 states reveals that while the states raised only 37% of the full-year target during April-October 2020, they generated 52% of their annual revenue in the corresponding period of 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/pandemic-pushes-states-borrowings-up-by-825/article33639877.ece
23 January 2021||Chennai,||Indian Bank posts Q3 net profit of Rs. 514 crore||Indian Bank reported a standalone net profit of Rs. 514 crore for the third quarter ended December 2020. The lender compared the profit with a net loss of Rs. 1,739 crore that included a loss at the erstwhile Allahabad Bank, which has since been merged. Indian Bank had reported standalone net profit of Rs. 247 crore a year earlier.  “The bank has continued its steady growth in both business and profit combined with good control over asset quality,” said Padmaja Chunduru, MD and CEO, Indian Bank. Gross non-performing assets (NPAs) as a percentage of gross advances declined to 9.04% from 12.69% and net NPAs fell to 2.35% from 4.22%. “We will try to keep GNPA and NNPA below 10% and 3%, respectively,” she said. Net interest income rose 31% to Rs. 4,313 crore, while net interest margin increased 42 basis points to 3.13%. The board approved a proposal to raise up to Rs. 4,000 crore from share sale to enhance the capital base and an additional Rs. 3,000 crore via bonds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/indian-bank-q3-net-more-than-doubles/article33639882.ece
23 January 2021||MUMBAI,||Sensex plunges 746 points as profit booking widens||A day after briefly touching the 50,000-mark, the S&P BSE Sensex declined for a second consecutive day on Friday as more investors sought to book profits. Led by a fall in banking and metal stocks, the Sensex slumped 746 points, or 1.5%, to 48,879. The top losers included Axis Bank, Asian Paints, State Bank of India, IndusInd Bank and ICICI Bank. The NSE Nifty 50 too shed 218 points to close at 14,372. “Mostly sectoral indices traded in tandem with the benchmark wherein banking and metal ended as the top losers,” Ajit Mishra, VP, Research, Religare Broking Ltd., said. He said markets will first react to Reliance numbers in early trade on Monday. “The recent underperformance from the banking pack might derail the momentum if it continues next week as well,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sensex-plunges-on-weak-global-cues-profit-booking/article33639875.ece
23 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Biocon’s net slumps 16.7% to Rs. 169 crore||Biocon reported a 16.7% dip in net profit to Rs. 169 crore for the third quarter ended December 31. Revenue from operations rose 7.8% to Rs. 1,851 crore. Its generics business took a hit and there were headwinds across operational, regulatory and commercial functions. “2020 has been one of the most challenging years for the world with an unprecedented pandemic impact on the global economy,” said Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw, chairperson. “We still face headwinds across operational, regulatory and commercial functions. However, we expect normalcy by next fiscal.’’ The scrip slumped almost 11% to close at Rs. 393.80 on the BSE.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/biocons-net-slumps-167-to-rs-169-crore/article33639866.ece
23 January 2021||Mumbai,||Yes Bank Q3 net at Rs. 147 cr., NPAs rise||Yes Bank on Friday reported consolidated net profit of Rs. 147 crore for the December quarter and a jump in asset quality stress due to COVID-19. The bank had posted a loss of Rs. 18,564 crore a year earlier, when it recognised all the stress in the balance sheet. The lender had to be bailed out by a consortium led by SBI last March on troubles with the loan book. MD and CEO Prashant Kumar told reporters that this was the third straight quarter where the bank had shown a rise in profits. If the newly created stressed pool of restructuring and standstill NPAs were added to the reported gross NPAs of 15.36%, the stressed pool comes to 20%, which is higher than the year-earlier figures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/yes-bank-q3-net-at-rs-147-cr-npas-rise/article33639883.ece
23 January 2021||MUMBAI,||Earth Energy EV plans to roll out 6 models this year||Automotive start-up Earth Energy EV has announced the introduction of 6 new commercial and non-commercial e-vehicles in the India market this year. The EVs would be rolled out with 96% localisation, the company said. “Earth Energy will be producing EV batteries in India, which is considered to be one of the major cost reflectors in an EV,” it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/earth-energy-ev-plans-to-roll-out-6-models-this-year/article33639867.ece
23 January 2021||Mumbai,||Grasim to enter paints, invest Rs. 5,000 crore||Grasim Ltd. said it will foray into paints business with an initial investment plan of Rs. 5,000 crore. “The foray into paints is a strategic portfolio choice for Grasim as it looks to identify new growth engines,” said Kumar Mangalam Birla, chairman, Aditya Birla Group. “Grasim’s strong balance sheet will facilitate this entry, which will add size and diversity to its existing businesses.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/grasim-to-enter-paints-invest-rs-5000-crore/article33639868.ece
23 January 2021||Chennai,||DICV to improve localisation||Daimler India Commercial Vehicles has drawn up a 3-year plan to increase the indigenisation percentage in Indian-made commercial vehicles (CVs), said MD and CEO Satyakam Arya. The company has set a target to reach 95% localisation in commercial vehicles over the next three years. Currently, this stands at 90%, Mr. Arya said during a phygital meet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/dicv-to-improve-localisation/article33639879.ece
23 January 2021||KOZHIKODE,||Saxena deserves Test spot: Yohannan||Tinu Yohannan is disappointed that Kerala could not qualify for the knockout stage of the Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 tournament after coming so close. A win in the last league match, against Haryana, would have taken the team through but it ended in a defeat by four runs. Chance forfeited “It was disappointing because we had played well in the tournament and posted victories over giants Mumbai and Delhi in back-to-back matches,” Tinu told The Hindu on Friday. “Besides, we were in excellent position to chase down the target set by Haryana, but the loss of Sanju Samson and Mohammed Aharuddeen in the same over, when both were well set and the asking rate was well under control, proved costly,” he said. The former India seamer said he was still satisfied with the way his boys performed in Mumbai after being away from the game for nearly a year due to the COVID-19. “I was really happy with the way we batted,” he said. “The ease with which we chased big totals against Mumbai and Delhi was remarkable.” Against Mumbai, Azharuddeen played one of the best knocks in domestic T20. “We had decided to play him as opener,” Tinu said. “He relies more on timing than power, so I thought he would be more useful at the top than somebody like Vishnu Vinod, who generates a lot of power. We always knew Azhar had it in him to play a knock like the one against Mumbai, but he did even better.” He said the off-spinning all-rounder Jalaj Saxena’s bowling was another plus for Kerala. “He worked hard on his bowling during the lockdown,” said Tinu. “He has added things like the carrom ball to his repertoire.” Enviable record He said Jalaj had been the best all-rounder in India's domestic cricket for the last several seasons. “I don't know why he doesn't figure in discussions while picking the Indian Test team even when our main bowlers are injured,” said Tinu. “He has nearly 350 wickets and more than 6,000 runs in First Class cricket, the kind of records only men like Ben Stokes and Moeen Ali boast of.” He said he was glad Samson had been named Rajasthan Royals captain. “That will help in his batting, too,” he said. “At Mumbai he did a fine job as captain.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/saxena-deserves-test-spot-yohannan/article33640335.ece
23 January 2021||Chennai,||Bharat Arun: the wizard guiding India’s attack||Bharat Arun is the miracle worker of Indian cricket. Injuries wipe out an entire attack and he still conjures a force that can win the high-stakes Test series decider Down Under. With a flowing white mane these days, India’s bowling coach has the looks of a wizard. Years and years of accumulating knowledge flows through Arun as he guides the side’s bowlers. No Jasprit Bumrah or Mohammed Shami or Umesh Yadav or Ishant Sharma or Bhuvneshwar Kumar, or R. Ashwin or Ravindra Jadeja. Yet, with the India-A attack, some would call it India-B, Arun got the men he had to bowl as a unit, follow the process, and stick to the plan as India carved out an epic Test series victory in Australia breaching Fortress Gabba. Great pool of bowlers “We have a great pool of bowlers now. Have wonderful bench strength,” Arun said on Friday. The former India paceman’s role in assembling a tough and capable bunch of reserve bowlers has been massive. He said, “Mohammed Siraj and Shardul Thakur had done so well in First Class cricket. And T. Natarajan provided us the left-armer’s angle.” And Arun offered a significant insight into India’s winning strategy against Australia. He revealed, “It was around July last year when coach Ravi Shastri called me and asked me to chalk out a plan where we would take the off-side out of the equation.” Sticking to the task Arun elaborated, “The Australians are strong on the off-side with cuts and drives, and we decided to bowl straighter lines, on middle and leg, with a leg-side field. The bowlers stuck to their task and the plan worked.” This Indian team did not fear defeat. Dwelling on the side’s fearlessness, Arun said, “On the last day of the Brisbane Test, you had two young batsmen, Rishabh Pant and Washington Sundar, going all out for a win, when they could have, so easily, played out a draw. Of course, earlier, Cheteshwar Pujara played like a warrior, taking so many blows on the body.” And the strategy to play five bowlers at the Gabba was a brave ploy. “We have seen that it can be very hard to win a Test overseas with four bowlers. Playing an extra batsman would have been a defensive move and the captain, the coach and the support staff were on the same page — play five bowlers.” Arun observed, “We had seen Washington bat at the nets and knew he could really play and he was a left-hander too. Although there as a net bowler, Washington batted half-an-hour at the nets in every session.” Simple mantra India’s winning mantra was simple, he noted. “Follow the process. Execute the plans on the field with discipline.” Arun was optimistic looking ahead. “We have a top-class pace attack, have depth. And, in Ashwin and Jadeja, have the two best spinners in the world. Jadeja blossoming as an all-rounder is great for Indian cricket.” England would be a tough team to beat, he said. It will be another day and another challenge for Arun.  Around July last year, Shastri called me and asked me to chalk out a plan where we would take the off-side out of the equation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/arun-the-grand-wizard-guiding-indias-attack/article33639977.ece
23 January 2021||LIVERPOOL,||Burnley ends Liverpool’s home run||Liverpool suffered a shock 1-0 defeat to lowly Burnley on Thursday, ending its 68 match unbeaten home record in the Premier League as its title defence continued to fade. An 83rd minute penalty from Ashley Barnes, after he was brought down by goalkeeper Alisson Becker, decided the contest even as Jurgen Klopp’s side failed to score for the fourth straight league match. Liverpool has not won for five games in the league and trails leader Manchester United by six points, in fourth place. It was Burnley’s first victory at Anfield since a 1-0 victory in September, 1974 and Sean Dyche’s side was rewarded for a superb defensive display.  In LaLiga, Eibar goalkeeper Marko Dmitrovic defied convention by scoring a penalty but it was Luis Suarez’s spot kick in the dying minutes that proved conclusive as Atletico Madrid secured a 2-1 away win on Thursday which lifted it seven points clear at the top. Dmitrovic gave Eibar the lead in the 12th minute before Suarez levelled for Atletico five minutes before halftime. Suarez had the final say, drawing a foul from Anaitz Arbilla to earn a penalty. He oozed calm and chipped the ball past Dmitrovic to give his side all three points.  The results:   Premier League: Liverpool 0 lost Burnley 1 (Barnes 83-pen).   LaLiga: Valencia 1 (Garcia 69-og) drew with Osasuna 1 (Calleri 42); Eibar 1 (Dmitrovic 12-pen) lost to Atletico Madrid 2 (Suarez 40, 89-pen) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/burnley-ends-liverpools-home-run/article33640045.ece
23 January 2021||BANGKOK,||Satwiksairaj-Ashwini move into last four||Satwiksairaj Rankireddy and Ashwini Ponnappa entered the mixed doubles semifinals with a stunning win over the World No. 6 pair of Peng Soon Chan and Liu Ying Goh of Malaysia in the Toyota Thailand Open Super 1000 tournament here on Friday. The unseeded pair of Satwik and Ashwini overcame Peng Soon Chan and Liu Ying Goh 18-21, 24-22, 22-20 after toiling for 75 mintues in a thrilling quarterfinal. The Indian pair, ranked World No. 22, will be up against top seeds Dechapol Puavaranukroh and Sapsiree Taerattanachai of Thailand in the semifinals. Later in the day, Satwik and Chirag Shetty saw off another Malaysian pair of Ong Yew Sin and Teo Ee Yi 21-18, 24-22 in 37 minutes. However, P.V. Sindhu dished out a below-par performance to lose her quarterfinal, while Sameer Verma’s gallant fight ended in agony. Sindhu was all at sea against home favourite Ratchanok Inthanon, who rode on her precision and quality of strokes to outclass the Indian 21-13, 21-9 in just 38 minutes. Sameer’s giant-killing run also came to an end after he squandered a match point to go down 21-13, 19-21, 22-20 to World No. 3 Anders Antonsen of Denmark.  The results (quarterfinals): Men: Anders Antonsen (Den) bt Sameer Verma 21-13, 19-21, 22-20. Doubles: Satwiksairaj Rankireddy & Chirag Shetty bt Ong Yew Sin & Teo Ee Yi (Mas) 21-18, 24-22.   Women: Ratchanok Inthanon (Tha) bt P.V. Sindhu 21-13, 21-9.   Mixed doubles: Satwiksairaj Rankireddy & Ashwini Ponappa bt Peng Soon Chan & Liu Ying Goh (Mas) 18-21, 24-22, 22-20 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/satwiksairaj-ashwini-move-into-last-four/article33639972.ece
23 January 2021||Galle,||Mathews’ century drives Sri Lanka||Angelo Mathews scored a stubborn century to take Sri Lanka to 229/4 on the first day of the second Test against England on Friday after early strikes by James Anderson made the home side look vulnerable. Mathews was at the crease on 107 with and Niroshan Dickwella at the close in Galle. Sri Lanka lost the first Test by seven wickets.  Anderson claimed three wickets, including opener Lahiru Thirimanne for 43 soon after lunch, that took his Test tally to 603 in 157 matches. Mathews built crucial partnerships, including a 117-run stand for the fourth wicket with skipper Dinesh Chandimal who made 52. Fast bowler Mark Wood trapped Chandimal lbw and the batsman went off after an unsuccessful review of the umpire’s decision. Mathews reached his 11th Test hundred, and third against England, with a single off Jack Leach. He put on 36 runs with Dickwella, holding out after England took the new ball in the 81st over.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mathews-century-drives-sri-lanka/article33639986.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Mumbai extends its lead||Mumbai City FC regained the five-point lead at the top of the Indian Super League standings after it defeated SC East Bengal by a solitary goal in the 12th round at the Tilak Maidan Stadium on Friday. Mourtada Fall found the net for Mumbai City in the first half and that separated the opponents till the end. Mumbai City, with 29 points after the victory, was more purposeful in its attack and justifiably got the lead midway through the first half. Defensive start East Bengal started defensively knowing well the attacking might of its opponent. East Bengal coach Robbie Fowler chose to rest his first choice forward Nigerian Bright Enobakhare and preferred to have most of his foreign roster in defensive positions to stop the likes of Adam Le Fondre, Hugo Boumous and Cy Goddard in the Mumbai City attack. Despite preparing the bulwark against the most consistent attacking side in the tournament so far, East Bengal conceded the goal in the 27th minute when Boumous created a fantastic opportunity with a measured chip for the towering Fall to finish. Heading it in The goal came following Goddard’s corner that was helped along to Boumous positioned at the right flank. The Frenchman lobbed the ball for Fall, the tallest man in the East Bengal box, and the Senegalese defender made no mistake with his header. Mumbai City came close to scoring in the 14th minute when the East Bengal goalkeeper Debjit Majumder fumbled and Boumous sent the loose ball wide of an open net.  The result:   East Bengal 0 lost to Mumbai City FC 1 (Mourtada Fall 27).   Saturday’s match: Kerala Blasters v FC Goa, 7.30 p.m .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mumbai-extends-its-lead-at-the-top/article33640051.ece
23 January 2021||Coimbatore,||All eyes on Ashwin and Amir||Chennai’s Ashwin Datta (Dark Don Racing) and Kottayam’s Amir Sayed (MSport) are ready to set the track ablaze yet again in the grand finale of the 23rd JK Tyre National Racing Championship at the Kari Motor Speedway this weekend. Ashwin, the championship leader with 39 points, dominated the Formula LGB4 class and, so did Amir (60 points) in the Novice category. It’s not going to be easy though for the former as there are other top drivers such as Raghul Rangasamy (MSport), Sarosh Hataria (Ahura Racing) and Sandeep Kumar (Dark Don) who will be going flat out for the top honour. Rules and regulations In the year gone by, when the COVID-19 pandemic took a toll on sport at home, the JK racing event has placed a premium on following all the rules and regulations. “We feel proud that despite the pandemic, which put the world at halt, we at JK Tyre were able to maintain the continuity of India’s longest running racing championship without compromising on the safety protocols set by the Government and State authorities. “And this is all with the support of our participants, patrons, officials and technicians who worked together to make this happen,” said Sanjay Sharma, Head of Motorsports, JK Tyre. “With some seasoned racers on the track, it would be a sight to watch the final round go down to the wire as we will get our National champions for 2020,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/all-eyes-on-ashwin-and-amir/article33640068.ece
23 January 2021||Los Angeles,||Lakers improve to 8-0 on the road||LeBron James scored a season-high 34 points as Los Angeles Lakers won its eighth straight road game with a 113-106 victory over Milwaukee Bucks on Thursday. James made a key three-pointer and capped his night with an emphatic double-clutch slam dunk as the Lakers improved to an NBA best 12-4 in the season. The Lakers bottled up reigning league MVP Giannis Antetokounmpo, who finished with 25 points and 12 rebounds but had a career high nine turnovers. Elsewhere, R.J. Barrett recorded a career best with 28 points, and New York Knicks used a 40-point first quarter to build a lead it relinquished only momentarily in a 119-104 victory over Golden State Warriors. Stephen Curry had a game-high 30 points for the Warriors, who were coming off back-to-back wins over Los Angeles Lakers and San Antonio Spurs. The Warriors lost Draymond Green to a disputed technical ejection in the second quarter, when he appeared to be yelling at his own teammate James Wiseman — but the officials saw it differently.  The results:   Jazz bt Pelicans 129-118; Warriors lost to Knicks 119-104; Bucks lost to Lakers 113-106.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lakers-improve-to-8-0-on-the-road/article33640053.ece
23 January 2021||Coimbatore,||Stage set for MRF Rally of Coimbatore||After two exciting rounds in Puttur and Bengaluru, the riders are all set to attack the stages in the third round of the MRF MoGRIP FMSCI Indian National Rally Championship (INRC) for two-wheelers at the Kethanur windmill farms in Palladam on Sunday. Organised by the Coimbatore Auto Sports Club, the Rally of Coimbatore, that brings in a large crowd, will witness a mix of dirt and special stages. However, this time around, spectator entry is restricted to 100. The total route distance is approximately 80.22km and those of the special stages is 67km. There will be two special stages, the Black Thunder (19.25km) and Thunder World (14.25km), run twice in the same direction. The stages are set inside the private wind farms near Kethanur (Palladam) area, and it promises to be a treat to watch. Seventy-three riders have confirmed participation across nine classes that form the National championship. There will also be a `Star of Tamil Nadu’ category and that has attracted 11 contestants. “Our Club is pleased to host this rally yet again,” said J. Prithiviraj, CASC’s honorary secretary. The ceremonial flag-off will be on January 23 at 5 p.m. from the Suguna Kalyana Mandapam on the Avinashi Road followed by Sunday’s action from the Kethanur Service Park at 9 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/stage-set-for-mrf-rally-of-coimbatore/article33640072.ece
23 January 2021||NOIDA,||Spotlight on Narsing||The last time Indian wrestlers were in action at home was in February 2020. Exactly 11 months later, more than 250 of them will get back on the mat across 10 weight categories, many for the first time since then, at the two-day Freestyle Wrestling National Championships starting on Saturday. The Wrestling Federation of India has decided to split the nationals across different cities to adhere to COVID-19 guidelines. The women’s event is scheduled for January 30-31 in Agra and the Greco-Roman competition in Jalandhar on February 20-21. Chance to stake claim With the top names exempted and Olympic spots yet to be sealed, the next two days would be a chance for several hopefuls to stake their claim but the biggest attraction will undoubtedly be in the 74kg. With two-time Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar not participating, competition is expected to be tough in the category with several former champions in the fray. The spotlight will firmly be on Narsingh Yadav, returning from a four-year doping ban. His first outing since becoming eligible late last year at the Individual World Cup in December ended in a first-round elimination Other contenders include Jitender Kumar, Amit Dhankhar and Parveen Rana. Among others, youngster Gourav Baliyan will be favourite in the 79kg while Satyavrat Kadian will be hoping to win in the 97kg. India is yet to qualify in the 74, 97 and 125kg categories with selection trials for the Asian qualifiers (Almaty, April 9-11) likely towards the end of March. Exempted The three already qualified for Tokyo — Bajrang Punia (65kg), Deepak Punia (86kg) and Ravi Dahiya (57kg) — have been exempted from participation. The WFI has insisted on negative COVID-19 test reports for all participants, team staff and officials with face masks mandatory and regular sanitisation of the mats through the competition. Haryana, Railways and Services have been allowed to field two teams of 10 wrestlers each.  The schedule:   Saturday: 57kg, 61kg, 74kg, 92kg, 125kg . Sunday: 65kg, 70kg, 79kg, 86kg, 97kg.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/spotlight-on-narsingh/article33640162.ece
23 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||12-member team for Shotgun World Cup||The National Rifle Association of India (NRAI) has announced a 12-member team for the shotgun World Cup scheduled to be held in Cairo from February 22. Olympic quota winners Angadvir Singh Bajwa and Mairaj Ahmad Khan, along with Olympian Kynan Chenai and Asian Games silver medallist Lakshay Sheoran provide strength to the challenge. The NRAI has also selected 12 rifle and pistol shooters along with the those selected for the Cairo event , for the Asian online shooting competition to be hosted by Kuwait on January 29 and 30. The eight Olympic quota winners in air rifle and pistol — Divyansh Singh Panwar, Deepak Kumar, Apurvi Chandela, Anjum Moudgil, Saurabh Chaudhary, Abhishek Verma, Manu Bhaker and Yashaswini Singh Deswal — will be joined by Arjun Babuta, Elavenil Valarivan, Sarabjot Singh and Annuraj Singh. The national federation has said the team for the rifle and pistol World Cups, to be held in Delhi and Changwon, would be selected after the next set of selection trials scheduled to be held at the Dr. Karni Singh Range, Tughlakabad, from Feb. 8.  Team for shotgun World Cup: Trap: Lakshay Sheoran, Kynan Chenai, Prithviraj Tondaiman; Rajeshwari Kumari, Shreyasi Singh, Manisha Keer.   Skeet: Angadvir Singh Bajwa, Mairaj Ahmad Khan, Gurjoat Singh Khangura; Ganemat Sekhon, Parinaaz Dhaliwal, Karttiki Singh Shaktawat .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/12-member-team-for-shotgun-world-cup/article33640157.ece
23 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rutuja knocks out top seed Sanjana||Rutuja Chaphalkar knocked out top seed and title favourite Sanjana Sirimalla 6-2, 6-3 in the girls semifinals of the ITF grade-4 junior tennis tournament at the DLTA Complex here on Friday.  In the final, Rutuja will face debutant in the ITF junior circuit, the 14-year-old Shruti Ahlawat, who did not break into a sweat in dismissing Sanjana Devineni for the loss of four games.  Rutuja put herself in line for a double, as she won the doubles title with Hrudaya Shah. The duo beat top seeds the Maruri sisters, Reshma and Suhitha, in the second set tie-break. In the boys event, top seed Nishant Dabas was ruthless in putting out Nikhil Niranjan for the loss of three games. He will face the tall and wiry Chirag Duhan, who tamed the crafty Ajay Malik. Nishant also kept himself in line for two titles as he won the doubles crown with Aman Dahiya.  The results:   Boys, semifinals: Nishant Dabas bt Nikhil Niranjan (USA) 6-1, 6-2; Chirag Duhan bt Ajay Malik 6-4, 6-4.   Doubles, final: Nishant & Aman Dahiya bt Manas Dhamne & Lonin Lotlikar 6-1, 6-4.   Girls, semifinals: Rutuja Chaphalkar bt Sanjana Sirimalla 6-2, 6-3; Shruti Ahlawat bt Sanjana Devineni (USA) 6-2, 6-2.   Doubles, final: Rutuja & Hrudaya Shah bt Reshma Maruri & Suhitha Maruri 6-4, 7-6(3) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rutuja-knocks-out-top-seed-sanjana/article33640160.ece
23 January 2021||KOLKATA,||Intl. hockey stadium in Salt Lake complex||An international hockey stadium with astro-turf will be built inside the Salt Lake Stadium Complex here, Bengal Sports Minister Aroop Biswas announced on Friday. The stadium, to be built over an area of approximately three acres at an estimated cost of Rs. 20.53 crore, will have grass hills and can accommodate 6500 spectators. It will have two players’ dressing rooms. The colour combination of the astro-turf will be blue and yellow. The field of play will be 110m x 75m. “Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, Hockey Bengal (HB) and Olympian Gurbux Singh always wanted an astro-turf hockey stadium here. This is a gift from the Chief Minister to Gurbux Singh and HB in the new year,” said Biswas. Gurbux thrilled Gurbux said, “Happy to know that an astro-turf stadium is coming up here. Hope Bengal hockey will benefit from this.” The hockey infrastructure will be situated on the northern side of the Salt Lake Stadium near Gate No. 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/intl-hockey-stadium-in-salt-lake-complex/article33640516.ece
23 January 2021||Alappuzha,||State TT from today||The Bank of Baroda-Kerala State table tennis championships, organised by Table Tennis Association of Kerala (TTAK), will get underway at the YMCA TT Arena on Saturday. More than 300 players from 14 districts will be in action in the tournament which will be held in a staggered manner, during weekends and public holidays, due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The men’s and women’s events will be held on Saturday, followed by competitions in the youth sections on Sunday. The tournament will resume on January 26 with the veterans events. Matches in the cadet section will be held on Jan. 31 while the junior and sub-junior events will be held on Feb. 6 and 7 respectively. Open draw system The TTAK has adopted an open draw system and it will be done in the presence of the players. However, the top-eight in each category will directly qualify for the main draw. The others will figure in a qualifying round for making it to the main draw. “We decided to go for an open draw to avoid complaints as many players from the disaffiliated KTTA have also submitted their entries. But we also need to protect the ranking of players who have been with TTAK for the last three years. So we decided to give direct entries into the main draw for the top eight ranked players,” said Michael Mathai, secretary, TTAK. The Kerala teams for various Nationals will be selected during this championship. The tournament will be inaugurated by Soumya Raj, chairperson, Alappuzha Municipal Corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/state-tt-from-today/article33640337.ece
23 January 2021||Chennai,||IPL auction likely in Chennai on Feb. 18||The players’ auction for the 2021 edition of the Indian Premier League is likely to take place in Chennai on February 18. The auction is to be held between the second and third Tests between India and England. The first two Tests will be held in Chennai with the second match to end on February 17. The player retention deadline ended on January 20 and the transfer deadline for player trades between the franchises ends on February 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ipl-auction-likely-in-chennai-on-feb-18/article33639974.ece
23 January 2021||Kolkata,||No one learns algebra in Class I: Saha on Pant||Rishabh Pant, the batsman, redeemed himself spectacularly in Australia and his much-criticised wicketkeeping skills are also on the mend, feels senior India stumper Wriddhman Saha who wants the youngster to be given some breathing space as “no one learns algebra in Class I”. “I don’t see who is No. 1 or 2. The team will give a chance to those who do better. I will continue to do my job. Selection is not in my hands, it’s up to the management.” Saha was all praise for the 23-year-old Pant, whose knock sealed the Test series triumph for India at the Gabba. “No one learns algebra in class I. You always go step by step. He is giving his best and will definitely improve. He has matured and proved himself. In the long run, it augurs well for the Indian team,” he said of Pant, who has often been found wanting behind the stumps. “The way he has shown his intent after being sidelined from his favourite T20 and ODI formats was really exceptional.”   We help each other whoever gets into the XI. Personally, there’s no conflict with him Saha||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/no-one-learns-algebra-in-class-i-saha-on-pant/article33639983.ece
23 January 2021||Melbourne,||Serbia to face Germany, Canada in group play||Novak Djokovic and his defending champion Serbia squad will play Germany and Canada in group play at the ATP Cup from February 1-5 at Melbourne Park. The draw held on Friday also has Australia playing in a tough group with Rafael Nadal's Spain as well as Greece in Group B. Serbia beat Spain in the final of the inaugural 2020 ATP Cup. Greece will be led by No. 6-ranked Stefan Tsitsipas. Alex de Minaur leads the Australian lineup that made the semifinals last year. The inaugural event was played last year in Brisbane, Perth and Sydney. But because of restrictions in place for COVID-19 pandemic, the 2021 edition will be played entirely at Melbourne Park. The 12 teams have been divided into four pools for group stage, round-robin play. The four group winners will advance to the semifinals.  The Groups:   Group A: Serbia, Germany, Canada. Group B: Spain, Greece, Australia. Group C: Austria, Italy, France. Group D: Russia, Argentina, Japan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/serbia-to-face-germany-canada-in-group-play/article33640472.ece
23 January 2021||MELBOURNE,||Badosa tests positive||A Spanish tennis player ranked in the top-70 who was forced to quarantine in her hotel room after potentially being exposed to the coronavirus on an Australian Open charter flight says she tested positive for COVID-19. Paula Badosa, a 23-year-old who reached the fourth round at last year’s French Open, wrote on Thursday on Twitter that she received her test result on the seventh day of her hard quarantine. “I have some bad news,” Badosa said in a post written in Spanish and English. “Today I received a positive COVID-19 test result. I’m feeling unwell and have some symptoms, but I’ll try to recover as soon as possible listening to the doctors. I’ve been taken to a health hotel to self isolate and be monitored.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/badosa-tests-positive/article33640478.ece
23 January 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Vishesh claims a double||Vishesh Patel won a double in the under-18 boys event of the AITA championship series junior tennis tournament at the Altevol Academy courts. Vishesh beat Nishit Rahane 6-3, 6-0 in the boys final. In doubles, he joined Anup Bnagargi to defeat Maharsh Patel and Shivam Kadam in straight sets. Divya Bhardwaj won the girls title, and the doubles title was bagged by Jennika Jaison and Gia Pereira.  The results:   U-18: Boys, final: Vishesh Patel bt Nishit Rahane 6-3, 6-0; Semifinals: Nishit bt Shivam Kadam 6-2, 6-4; Vishesh bt Tanishq Jadhav 6-3, 6-1.   Doubles, final: Anup Bangargi & Vishesh bt Maharsh Patel & Shivam 6-2, 7-6(6).   Girls, final: Divya Bhardwaj bt Khushi Desai 6-3, 6-2; Semifinals: Divya bt Khushali Modi 6-1, 6-7(7), 6-2; Khushi bt Sanchita Nagarkar 6-2, 6-0.   Doubles, final: Jennika Jaison & Gia Pereira bt Anannya Bhatia & Ira Shah 4-6, 7-5, [10-7] .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vishesh-claims-a-double/article33640158.ece
23 January 2021||New Delhi,||Siraj is the find of the tour: Shastri||India head coach Ravi Shastri on Friday described rookie pacer Mohammed Siraj as the find of the Australia tour, hailing him for the key role he played in the historic Test series win. “Find of the tour for shoring up the bowling attack the way he did: Mohd. Siraj. He fought through personal loss, racial remarks and channelised them to find home in the team huddle,” Shastri tweeted. Siraj successfully stepped into the shoes of his senior pace colleagues after making his debut in the second Test.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/siraj-is-the-find-of-the-tour-shastri/article33640313.ece
23 January 2021||KOLKATA,||Subhomoy to head Bengal selection panel||Former Bengal top-order batsman Subhomoy Das will head the revamped Bengal men’s selection committee, as per a Cricket Association of Bengal (CAB) decision on Friday. The other members will be Jiten Singh, Ajoy Das, Alokendu Lahiri and Probal Dutta. Chandana Mukherjee will head the women’s selection panel, which will also have Shyama Dey, Purnima Chowdhury, Ananya Mitra and Sujata Sinha. Test cricketer Ashok Malhotra will chair the cricket talent committee, also consisting of Saradindu Mukherjee. The third member of the panel will be announced later. The CAB gave green signal to one-day, T20 and women’s tournaments to resume cricket events across the state.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/subhomoy-to-head-bengal-selection-panel/article33640515.ece
23 January 2021||MADRID,||Barca labours past Cornella||Barcelona needed extra-time goals from Ousmane Dembele and Martin Braithwaite to end the cup run of third-division side Cornella and reach the Copa del Rey last 16 with a 2-0 win on Thursday. Barca missed two penalties, Miralem Pjanic and then Dembele both guilty from the spot, but Dembele made amends by scoring early in extra time, before Braithwaite made it two after 120 minutes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/barca-labours-past-cornella/article33640152.ece
23 January 2021||DHAKA,||Bangladesh clinches series||Off-spinner Mehidy Hasan claimed a career-best four for 25 as Bangladesh clinched the three-match ODI series against the West Indies on Friday with a seven-wicket victory in the second game. Bangladesh had won the first match by six wickets. Skipper Tamim Iqbal hit 50 to help the side chase the target in 33.2 overs after the West Indies was bowled out for 148 in 43.4 overs.  The scores: West Indies 148 in 43.4 overs (R. Powell 41, Mehidy 4/25) lost to Bangladesh 149/3 in 33.2 overs (Tamim 50, Shakib 43 n.o.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bangladesh-clinches-series/article33639973.ece
23 January 2021||Vadodara,||Hooda suspended||The Baroda Cricket Association (BCA) has suspended senior player Deepak Hooda, who had stormed out of the camp before the start of the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy, for this domestic season for "indiscipline". Hooda had walked out of the team on the eve of the tournament after a spat with captain Krunal Pandya. He had alleged "misbehaviour" on Krunal’s part. “He (Hooda) has been suspended for this season for indiscipline and bringing disrespect to the BCA and the game,” BCA secretary Ajit Lele told PTI on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bca-suspends-hooda/article33640043.ece
23 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA:,||Susamkeerth slams century||A. Susamkeerth cracked 159 to help Kondapalli Cricket Club record a convincing 196-run win over Everest Cricket Club in the KDCA A-Division League cricket championship for Katragadda Madhusudhana Rao memorial trophy.  The scores: VVKRM 237/9 in 50 overs (A. Brahma Teja 93) bt Andhra Blues 214 in 41.3 overs (Rasheed 70, Bheema Rao 3/43, A. Brahma Teja 3/47).   Royal 274/7 in 50 overs (Roopesh 93 n.o., M. Harsha 46, Prabhu Kiran 44) bt Railways 213 in 40.2 overs (Ch. Srikanth 34, Yadav 30, Md. Kasim 31, Roopesh 4/39, A. Vasu 3/39).   Kondapalli 338/5 in 50 overs (A. Susamkeerth 159, Vamsi 62, Anantha Karthikeyan 54, T.V. Siddhartha 4/70) bt Everest 142 in 49.2 overs (Chaitanya 42, Gokul Varma 39).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/susamkeerth-slams-century/article33640628.ece
23 January 2021||Fujairah,||Rutuja & Bains lose semifinals||Rutuja Bhosale and Naiktha Bains of Britain lost in the doubles semifinals 7-6(5), 5-7, [11-9] to Cagla Buyukakcay and Viktorija Golubic in the $25,000 ITF women’s tennis tournament here on Friday.   The results: $25,000 ITF women, Fujairah, UAE: Semifinals: Cagla Buyukakcay (Tur) & Viktorija Golubic (Sui) bt Naiktha Bains (GBR) & Rutuja Bhosale 7-6(5), 5-7, [11-9].   $15,000 ITF women, Cairo, Egypt: Semifinals: Elina Avanesyan (Ru) & Lexie Stevens (Ned) bt Yuriko Lily Miyazaki (Jpn) & Riya Bhatia 5-7, 6-2, [10-5]. Quarterfinals: Yuriko & Riya bt Julie Belgraver (Fra) & Ziva Falkner (Slo) 6-4, 6-1 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rutuja-bains-lose-semifinals/article33640159.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Big win for Push Academy||Sarthak Ray (80) and Anindo Naharay (46) helped Push Academy beat LB Shastri Club by six wickets in the Turf Youth Cup under-15 tournament.  The scores: LBSC 171/9 in 40 overs (Avijit Tyagi 56, Vardaan Suri 3/8) lost to Push Academy 172/4 in 37.2 overs (Sarthak Ray 80, Anindo Naharay 46) .    Sporting Club defeated RCC Club by 14 runs in the Endurance under-15 league.  The scores: Sporting Club 176 in 34.4 overs (Parikshit Sehrawat 52, Kunal Sangwan 36, Yakshal Kumar 3/14) bt RCC Club 162/9 in 35 overs ( Saksham Sharma 57, Yash Mishra 48, Kartik Kalra 3/8) .    Deepak Punia (42 and 5/14) and Harshit Kaushik’s 100 helped Delhi Challengers beat Fauji Spartans by 241 runs in the Rikhi Ram memorial tournament.  The scores: Delhi Challengers 295/7 in 40 overs (Harshit Kaushik 100, Deepak Punia 42, Shivam Sharma 39, Arun Sharma 3/41) bt Fauji Spartans 54 in 14.4 overs (Deepak Punia 5/14, Anureet Singh 3/10) .    Swasthik Sports Management beat Dogra Academy by 10 wickets in the Swasthik Cup (u-17).  The scores: Dogra Academy 124 in 33.3 overs (Chirag Kumar 29, Deepanshu Gulia 3/14, Ram Vaishnav 3/17, Mukul Malyan 3/20) lost to SSM 125 for no loss in 24 overs (Karan Garg 67 n.o., Vishesh Sharma 52 n.o.) .    Mayank Arora’s five-for and Yash Dhull’s 95 runs helped Bal Bhawan Academy beat Sporting Club by 90 runs in the Shanti Devi memorial tournament.  The scores: BBA 250/9 in 40 overs (Yash Dhull 95, Arpit Rana 46, Jatin Gahlot 40) bt Sporting Club 160 in 30 overs (Archit Malik 69, Karan Dagar 46, Mayank Arora 5/51) .    Ritik Raghav and Prashant Vashith slammed centuries while Ashish Chaurasia picked up six wickets for just 14 runs as Gush Club beat Dharmesh Sharma Academy by 145 runs in the Ghevra Cup tournament.  The scores: Gush Club 269/4 in 40 overs (Ritik Raghav 121, Prashant Vashist 105, Ayush Gupta 3/42) bt DSA 124 in 31 overs (Ashish Chaurasia 6/14, Rishabh Manchanda 3/33) .    Fore Titans defeated Gujrat Fighter by 13 runs in the One X T20 tournament.  The scores: FTA 149/9 in 20 overs (Ganesh Wanjale 43, Shubham Yadav 3/15) bt Gujrat Fighter 136/8 in 20 overs (Aadi Kumar 37, Shubham Yadav 29, Shubham Sangle 2/22, Ganesh Roham 2/35) .    Abhinav Tejrana’s match-winning 84 saw R.P. Academy score a three-wicket win over Haryana Academy in the Tripathi Premier tournament.  The scores: Haryana Academy 215/9 in 40 overs (Akhil Kohar 56 n.o., Rajat Paliwal 52) lost to RPA 216/7 in 39.4 overs (Abhinav Tejrana 84, Vaibhav Rawal 48 n.o., Avneesh Sudha 3/42) .    Rajveer Bhatia top-scored with 65 and picked up three wickets as GD Goenka beat Titiksha Academy by 83 runs in the Shree Manik Chand tournament.  The scores: GD Goenka 225/9 in 40 overs (Rajveer 65, Ashmet 50, Mayank Maahour 4/23) bt Titiksha Academy 142 in 23 overs (Sameer Singh 39, Rajveer 3/9); PRA 74 in 27 overs (Yash Virat 35, Zaynul 4/22, Vahin Kakad 3/10) lost to York Club 75/1 in 17 overs (Saksham Sharma 51 n.o.) .    Shaurya Sindhu’s 97 and Dhurv Choudhary’s 58 saw Titiksha Academy beat Airliner Academy by 14 runs in the Marathon tournament.  The scores: Titiksha Academy 222/4 in 30 overs (Shaurya Sindhu 97, Dhurv Choudhary 58) bt Airliner Academy 208/6 in 30 overs (Krishan Sharma 106 n.o.) .    Pranav Rajvanshi and Ritik Sharma scored half-centuries to help Mount Club score a 54-run win over Youngster Academy in the Sunil Jain tournament.  The scores: Mount Club 247/7 in 40 overs (Pranav Rajvanshi 68, Ritik Sharma 65, Manas Joshi 38, Paras 3/31) bt Youngster Academy 194/4 in 40 overs (Sumit 89, Nitesh Kumar 35) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/big-win-for-push-academy/article33640149.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Abhinav cracks unbeaten 239; Maheep, Sujhan score tons||Centuries by K. Maheep Kumar (109, 80b, 17x4, 3x6), B. Sujhan (134, 155b, 29x4) and M. Abhinav (239 n.o., 182b, 32x4, 11x6) for Vijayanand Cricket Club were some of the highlights of the A-Division (two-day) league cricket championship.  The scores: A1-Div. (three-day): Sporting XI 189 in 51.1 overs & 301/9 in 40 overs (Rakesh Yadav 71, A. Pratheek Reddy 116) lost to EMCC 277 in 87.3 overs & 221/6 in 36.2 overs (P. Aman Rao 43, B. Anirudh 36, Mohul Bhowmick 48 n.o., G. Lokesh 45 n.o.).   A2-Div. (two-day): HBCC 313 in 79.1 overs bt Rakesh XI 307 in 82.3 overs (G. Dheeraj 139, D. Bhuvan 84, K. Deepak 3/80).   Balaji Colts 215 in 53.2 overs bt New Blues 174 in 32.2 overs (Vansh Sharma 5/35).   SK Blues 261 in 67.1 overs (C. Siddharth Rao 65, Adarsh 3/52, Vivekananda 3/29) bt Manikumar 29 in 23 overs (Anil Kumar 6/16, Sameer Shreshta 4/9).   Azad 291 in 69 overs (Nanda Swamy 51, Bhanu Prasad Reddy 79, Ganesh Kumar 51, Sampath 44, S. Vijay Verma 5/60) bt SN Group 187 in 67.4 overs (Sri Gaurav 48, Nishant Reddy 109, K. Ganesh Kumar 6/17).   Sayi Satya 282 in 57 overs bt Sri Shyam 181 in 57.3 overs (Sehgal 3/52).   Classic 200 in 55.3 overs lost to Vijay Hanuman 202/8 in 61.2 overs (B. Bharath Teja 40, J. Stephen 31 n.o., S. Raghavendra Rao 3/21).   Marredpally 306 in 77.1 overs bt Visaka 267 in 56.3 overs (A. Vigneshwar 117, P. Jagadeesh 36, Md. Furqan 3/65).   Medak Dist. 454/7 in 90 overs bt Pasha Beedies 201 in 63.5 overs (J. Kush 62, Hishant 4/37).   Deccan Wanderers 189 in 68 overs lost to Hyderabad Wanderers 190/2 in 55.5 overs (Varun Vinod 94 n.o., Ghazi Abbas 71).   PKM 253/6 in 90 overs (M. Roshan 47, S.P.R. Navaneeth 38, M. Rushil 100, N. Shashank Yadav 38, Md. Basheeruddin 3/38) lost to CCOB 255/6 in 79.2 overs (U. Sai Charran 36, Md. Basheeruddin 33, Abdul Rehman 61, B. Sai Kiran 46).   Crown 228 in 62 overs (Anurag Reddy 110, Siddharth Jain 38, Hussain Ali 5/54) lost to National 233/1 in 55.3 overs (Charan 98, Ram Pranav 102 n.o.).   Shalimar 160 in 40.3 overs (Dev Patel 34, Fardeen Umani 69, D. Manish Reddy 5/41) lost to Team Speed 161/2 in 40 overs (M.A. Jayanth 84 n.o., Deepanshu Chouhan 59 n.o.).   Abhinav Colts 107 in 27.4 overs (Varun Reddy 62, Kiran Paul 5/33) lost to Eleven Masters 108/2 in 25.4 overs (Prajwal Rao 88 n.o.).   Vijayanand 608/6 in 90 overs (K. Maheep Kumar 109, B. Sujhan 134, M. Abhinav 239 n.o., S. Sai Akshar 45) bt Bharat 83 in 26.5 overs (S. Revant Rahul 50 J. Leela Sai 3/22, M. Manikanta three for zero).   Saint Sai 152 in 48.3 overs (S. Nagapavarthan 92, Shashank Srivastava 6/38) lost to Shanti 154/4 in 36.2 overs (M. Karthikeya 57, Aditya Reddy 40 n.o.).   Noble 248 in 52.2 overs (Ashwin Sooraj 59, Vamshi Krishna 57, Y. Akash 35, Anish Chandra 3/44) lost to Sec’bad Gymkhana 252/5 in 50.2 overs (Sai 57, Md. Adil 71 n.o., Saurabh 35, Hussain 3/61).   Hyderabad Titans 294/9 in 70 overs bt Yadav Dairy 96 in 41.1 overs (Sudheendra Neela 39, Naga Subhash 5/34).   Canara Bank 180 in 58.3 overs bt Rushiraj 60 in 27 overs (M.A. Jaweed 4/19, Srinivas 3/9).   Nizam College 405/10 in 87 overs bt Green Turf 191in 61.2 overs (Ayman Arif 62, Yashwant 5/49, Noman 3/36).   Deccan Blues 579/7 in 90 overs bt Saleemnagar 124 in 34.5 overs (Ajay Yadav 5/15).    Pavan Kumar and Sailu Noor of Andhra Pradesh defeated Assam’s Elsayeed and Mahaswetha 3-0 in the mixed doubles final of the 36th all-India Postal table tennis tournament at the Fateh Maidan Indoor Stadium.  The results (all finals): Men’s doubles: S. Bhumin & Pratik Patil (Guj) bt Sourav Gosh & Pratikrit Roy (WB) 3-1.   Women’s doubles: Sayani Bose & Sangitha Mahadhani (WB) bt Murchana Gohain & Mahaswetha (Asm) 3-1.   Mixed doubles: Pavan Kumar & Sailu Noor (AP) bt Elsayeed & Mahaswetha (Asm) 3-0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/abhinav-cracks-unbeaten-239-maheep-sujhan-score-tons/article33640317.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,||ENGAGEMENTS||Cricket: TNCA league, II div. Elite, TI Cycles vs UFCC (T. Nagar) (IC-Gurunanak); RKS CA vs IOB (Sumangali, turf); Indian Bank vs Aruna (Wahe Guru ‘A’); Plate, Parry’s vs ICF SA (TI-Murugappa), 9 a.m.   III ‘B’, Bunts vs Sea Hawks (Omega College); Triplicane CC vs Madras Aryan (Magna); Rising Stars vs Royapettah (St. Bede’s ‘B’); Perungalathur vs Sical RC (Cricket Drome), 9.30 a.m.   VI ‘A’, Ashok Leyland vs B&C Mills (Loyola ‘A’); Jai Hind vs Bank of India (St. Patrick’s); Varsity Occasionals vs Halifaxs (Engg.); Presidency College vs Madras Indians (Sumangali Medavakkam, matting), 8 a.m.;   VI ‘B’, Amar vs TVS (Engg.); Madras Fertilizers vs Saidapet Gymkhana (Sumangali Medavakkam, matting); Free Lancers vs YMCA (Royapettah), St. Patrick’s, 1 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/engagements/article33640064.ece
23 January 2021||Wijk aan Zee,||Harikrishna accepts Giri’s draw offer||P. Harikrishna accepted Anish Giri’s draw offer in 26 moves in the fifth round of the Tata Steel Masters chess tournament on Thursday. With one of the five overnight leaders, Sweden’s Nils Grandelius (3.5 points), beating Maxime Vachier-Lagrave to re-emerge as the only leader, Harikrishna, Magnus Carlsen, Anish Giri and Fabiano Caruana (three each) shared the second spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/harikrishna-accepts-giris-draw-offer/article33640049.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,||The chosen friend of Siva||The Periyapuranam throws light on the intense state of devotion of the Nayanmars against the backdrop of the life and times in which they lived. Much depends on the mental attitude and faith of the reader when approaching these stories of devotion to imbibe and practise the compassion, love and humanitarian values embedded in them, pointed out Sri K. Kalaivanan in a discourse. For instance, in describing the life of Sundarar, it is first indicated that Sundarar, Paravaiyar and Sangiliayar have come from Kailasa to live on earth for a brief period on the Lord’s command. Though not aware of their past state, they feel the power and force of Siva’s boundless grace that guides their life. The Lord intervenes to turn Sundarar into the path of devotion. He enacts an episode to draw him into His fold. Sundarar refuses and then finally accepts the Lord’s claim to be His slave. Siva gives him the name Vanthondar because of his harsh reaction. Sundarar had even called Him ‘Pitha,’ meaning the mad one. Siva then confers on him the gift of poesy and inspires him to sing hymns in His praise. Seeing Sundarar hesitating, Siva suggests the very word Pitha to begin the hymn. Of all the endless names of Siva, this name is unique as it indicates the way devotion to God can lead one to an ecstatic state. In the case of Sundarar, Siva chooses to give Himself as a friend to this devotee and makes known this fact when He speaks in His divine voice thus; “Sundara, I give myself to you as a friend. Henceforth you shall always appear in the bridegroom’s attire that you were in when I enslaved you.” Since then, Sundarar is known as Tambiran Thozhan, the chosen friend of Siva. As promised, Siva is always present to guide and help him cope with the ups and downs in his life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/the-chosen-friend-of-siva/article33639968.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 08:31 IST,||Sudoku - January 23, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-january-23-2021/article33640667.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Moth kachori plus||It was a conversation many years ago in a barber’s shop that led me to one of the most sublime kachori outlets in Delhi. I was getting my hair trimmed when a fellow customer began telling us all about the (dal) moth -topped kachori in Multani Dhanda, Paharganj. We all drooled as the barbers snipped away. Soon after, I went looking for moth kachori — and ended up forging an everlasting relationship with it. A few years ago, a foodie reader of this column told me about a place in East Delhi where this moth kachori was available, too. We went to Nagpal di Hatti (Phone: 9213741815 and 9213275645) in Gandhi Nagar, near Geeta Colony, and I recall we had a great time trying out the fare there. In these isolated times, we look for happy memories. I suppose that’s why I had a yearning for some moth kachori a few days ago, at lunchtime. I found out that Nagapl was on Zomato, so I promptly placed an order for two plates (Rs. 40 a piece; Rs. 75 for two), and since I was going down the greasy path, a plate of chholey bhaturey (Rs. 90). Because one should have a balanced diet, I asked for a plate of saag (greens) and rice (Rs. 80) as well. All this at Rs. 449 — street food rates. First, let me tell you about the kachori . This Multani speciality (which was introduced to this city after Partition) consists of a crisp kachori filled with a paste of dried dal, and topped with moth, with surprising specks of rice in it, onion strips and chutneys. I broke a kachori into half, and found it deliciously crunchy, the softness of the dal complementing it. The moth dal on top, of course, set it apart from others, giving it a different taste and texture. I had a small piece of the bhatura , and found that it was nicely stuffed with paneer. The chholey that came with it was rather good. Surprisingly not very oily, it was just rightly spiced. I loved the palak — the spinach was creamy and well cooked, and had little besan dumplings in the gravy that gave a delicious twist to what could have been a plain dish. Though it came with a plate of jeera rice, I had mine with a roti, and enjoyed it thoroughly. In these pandemic times, it was nice meeting my old friend, the moth kachori . And I am happy to have struck a new friendship — with Nagpal’s palak and kofta . The writer is a seasoned food critic||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/moth-kachori-plus/article33640532.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Takeout in a sal leaf||A couple of weeks ago, my nephew, 7, asked me why it was so hard for everyone to reuse and recycle. A concept he was well aware of thanks to schools that now teach children conscious ways to reduce waste. The question from someone his age did amaze me, but honestly, I did not have a clear answer. This is a big question we need to ask everyone. In the initial days of the lockdown, I was shocked to see the amount of groceries I was consuming and the volume of waste being generated. I did follow a cycle of reusing kitchen waste in different recipes, but the real waste was the packaging, as most plastics couldn’t be reused. Being in the restaurant business, the delivery and takeaway model has been crucial to us surviving the pandemic. A large chunk of this business has been innovation and adaptability, with brands introducing menus that are compatible to a delivery model. As packaging has improved, unconventional and green solutions have found a niche in this vertical. But there is a problem. Last year around August, when restaurants opened up, we were overwhelmed to see the number of new eco-friendly packaging vendors. Few had the right certifications. This greenwashing is scary because you don’t know what you are buying. For me, choosing the right containers and standardising their shape across restaurants has been a massive task. Some of our popular dishes at Jamun like raan and chaat had to reach our guests without the contents being squeezed in one box. I could not find bigger containers for a party or a large group so I opted for stainless steel and aluminium (food grade) thaalis for the time being. While I am still looking for bigger dishes, most restaurants use a hot sealing machine with bioplastic to seal plastic containers with gravies. We are thinking of using stainless steel tiffins as an exchange programme for delivering food with minimum deposits. Recycled glass jars for curries and sauces are also being explored. Taking stock There are some successful brands in the country that are over a decade old. Rhea Mazundar Singal’s Ecoware crafts biodegradable cups, plates and bowls from crop waste. Singal sold about 99 lakh pieces last year, a milestone for the 10-year-old company. From her, I learnt that the Indian Railways completely switched to biodegradable packaging a few years ago. They use materials like bagasse — an inexpensive material made from sugarcane waste — which took them 10 months to re-engineer to fit the needs of the menu and travel time. Uttar Pradesh-based Yash Papers’ CHUK, a line of tableware products from bagasse, is popular within restaurant circles. A new entry in 2020 was Delhi-based Bumboo, India’s first bamboo food packaging company. The evergreen plant is a sustainable and energy conscious raw material, but most of Bumboo’s products are exported. Other players include True Green, Earthware Products and Earthsoul, to name a few. With quick-service restaurants (QSR) and Indian and international chains opening up, and the rising demand for high-quality, eco-packaging, I noticed some trends. 1. Innovating with plants:The use of banana leaves, thedhakplant, teak plant andsalleaves has reached an all-time high. It is refreshing to see restaurants and a few grocery stores revisit our dining culture — leaves were used in temple prasadams and marriages — to innovate with packaging. This tradition has attracted the attention of the European market and a German company, Leaf Republic, is manufacturing and importing the finished goods and raw materials from India. The leaves from a variety of plants are used as dining plates, food wraps, while frying, and also as packaging. The plates are manufactured on a small scale and the single-layered stitched ones, known as khaliare, are used for dining purposes or further turned into thick plates by heat pressing machines. We use banana leaves at our restaurants in Delhi and Goa as plates and have received promising feedback. Meanwhile, Bhawan in the capital has created rectangular containers from khaliare to serve and deliver their street food. Jamun — in New Delhi and Goa — uses baked and unbaked clay, terracotta vessels and has also introduced sal leaf plates in a posh setting. 2. Reusable materials:Products made from the areca palm, jute, lotus plant, jackfruit leaves, banyan tree leaves, banana fibre and clay are being used differently to pack and store food materials. The research has been around the freshness and temperature each material can withstand for food deliveries. 3. Bioplastics: Made from plant-derived materials, the demand for bioplastic is on the rise and many restaurants are now using this. While there are still large barriers to overcome — the number of equipped industrial facilities, for instance — this is an exciting and growing sector. 4. Smart packaging design:Companies are focussing on finding ways to reduce unnecessary materials — extra boxes, containers, bands or layers. Before the pandemic hit, I wanted to get customers to exchange old cloth bags in return for a discount coupon at the restaurant, but sadly this did not work as people weren’t keen. I am now inspired by the kokoboard boxes (which open up and can be used as plates or as a dinner mat) and potato plastic. 5. Less is more:Packaging that can be reused is great but customers need to see clear labelling on how to recycle or dispose it if need be. So it is easier for buyers to make informed choices. What’s the future? In the next two years, I see a wider adoption of natural fibres. Most food chains, restaurants and QSRs are switching to eco-packaging and, as for tableware, areca and sugarcane bagasse are good options. Soon catering companies will also shift a part of their services to adopt eco-friendly practices — such as serving food at gatherings on reusable plateware.        The global biodegradable packaging market, which was valued at $3.92 billion till last year, will touch $21 billion by 2025, states the Coherent Marketing Insights Report. It marks Asia-Pacific as the fastest growing region, and the growth will mainly be from China, India and ASEAN countries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/takeout-in-a-sal-leaf/article33639852.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,||The honest auto-response||Dear Sir, we are delighted to inform you that our Auto Response service has been upgraded to superior human-like, honest, friendly responsiveness. Dear Sir, this is an auto response. Please do not reply. Because you will get yet another auto response, unless, of course, you’re the sort who collects auto responses, like people collect magnets and stamps and annoying habits. Dear Sir, thank you for your reply despite our friendly advice. This is still your friendly auto response. The intended recipient of your mail is on leave. After a week, you may deduce that he has been sacked/quit/returned but forgotten to turn his auto response off. As his faithful mail service, we will continue to blatantly lie that he is on leave. Dear Sir, thank you for informing us that you are not a Sir. We will change your sex immediately. Is there anything else we can do for you? Dear Sir, we are happy to inform you that you are now Female. Congratulations! Dear Madam, we are not trying to be funny. Or rude. We are your friendly honest auto response. We have taken note that you are a Madam. Dear Madam, once our server deleted the profanity in your mail, we could not understand the message any more. So your request for us to (Deleted) off cannot be complied with. Dear Madam, we are not being patronising or flirtatious by calling you ‘dear madam’. We are your honest friendly auto response. We will personalise our message to whatever you sign off with. Dear Deleted, this is an auto response that your mail — telling us to (Deleted) off — is much appreciated and of great value and will be attended to immediately. The recipient of your mail is very busy at work and will attend to your important mail in due course. Dear Deleted, we have registered your complaint that the recipient of your mail is NOT busy at work at all, and that you see him posting selfies all over social media. We hope you had a pleasant experience and that we will be able to extend our excellent service to you soon again. Dear Deleted Deleted, this is an auto response to inform you that most of the words in your reply were deleted by our server. However, to be true to our policy of exceptional customer service, we will (Deleted) off and (Deleted) transfer you to another (Deleted) more appropriate (Deleted) who may be able to communicate in your language. Dear Deleted Deleted, to help serve you better, your account has been deleted. Where Jane De Suza, author ofFlyaway Boy, pokes her nose into our perfect lives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/the-honest-auto-response/article33639797.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Indian restaurants’ global ticket||Oxford Street bears a deserted look in the London lockdown. Many top retailers have shut, including Debenhams, which announced the closure of its flagship store last week. But despite the dire pronouncements that central London will never be the same again, at least one glitzy opening is being planned in the coming months. And it will be Indian. As soon as the lockdown lifts, restaurateur Anjan Chatterjee is hopeful of opening the doors to his ambitious Bengali restaurant, Chourangi, on Oxford Street. It has been ready since last April. “Then the pandemic happened. Now we are planning to open in June,” he says. Chourangi has been a project close to his heart for many years. “I was one of the first people to start a regional Indian restaurant chain and go beyond restaurantised Punjabi flavours [before regional Indian food became trendy]. Even with Only Fish, my first restaurant in 1992, I wanted to give people food that I am really passionate about,” says the veteran restaurateur, who went on to open Mainland China and Oh Calcutta. “For some years now, I have felt London is ready for different Indian cuisines such as traditional Bengali,” he adds. Though Chatterjee has Mainland China outlets in several locations internationally, Chourangi is possibly his biggest project yet. The Bengali flavours are authentic, despite minor tweaks for London sensibilities. Grabbing opportunities Chourangi is not the only ambitious Indian restaurant hoping to make a mark internationally in 2021. While most dining capitals of the world are likely to take a hit, a handful of Indian restaurateurs and investors seem to be capitalising on the opportunity that the post-pandemic foodscape presents. Next week, Windmill Craftworks, the Bengaluru microbrewery, is opening an outpost in Dallas. The plan is ambitious — not just to introduce Indian craft beer into a mature market like the US but also within a huge 450-cover restaurant. Chef Mandaar Sukhtankar, who oversees F&B for the group and has been instrumental in putting together sister restaurant Oota in Bengaluru, says he is planning to introduce a few classics such as Kerala beef fry and fish moilee, as well as weekend brunches focussing on different types of dosas to go with the beer. Then there’s Lite Bite Foods, one of India’s biggest restaurant companies promoted by Dabur’s Amit Burman, which is planning to take its popular Punjab Grill to Riyadh and Dubai. “We feel there is a lot of potential for upscale Indian food in the Middle East, where the average per cover [APC] is much higher than in India,” says Rohit Aggarwal, director Lite Bite Foods. 2021 is a good time to scout for upscale international locations, he says, particularly in hotels because many are looking to augment revenues by leasing out space on a profit sharing basis. Aggarwal also points out that for Indian companies that can afford to open outlets in these luxury spaces (an 80-100 cover upscale restaurant in a prime location costs approx Rs. 5-Rs. 7 crore to set up, while it takes about Rs. 2.5 crore in Delhi or Mumbai), this is a good opportunity given that revenue from international operations is about 2.5 to 3 times that in India. With rents in Europe plummeting, other hospitality companies are looking to leverage this too. Ankur Bhatia of The Bird Group, whose Roseate hotels are present in Delhi, Rishikesh and London among others, wants to grow his restaurant brands as independent outlets. “Kheer, our restaurant at the Roseate New Delhi, can do well in London, so I will be looking for locations there,” he says. Meanwhile, on the flip side, Chennai’s serial restaurateur M Mahadevan, who at one time was involved in running 276 eateries worldwide, says he prefers to be cautious right now. He is not planning any international ventures this year and feels that with full global recovery still a question mark, resources must be conserved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/indian-restaurants-global-ticket/article33639838.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Chennai’s quarantine quilt project||In the village of Nattarasankottai in Tamil Nadu, 11 students of the KMSC Girls Higher Secondary School pleated, folded, embroidered and sewed under the watchful eye of their craft teachers and local deity, Kanattammal. They were introduced to quilting by Meena Subramaniam — whose grandfather hails from the village — in January 2020. She went there armed with quilting books and fabrics, and the students picked a pattern of their choice to work on. Subramaniam promised to check on them in May, but then the pandemic stuck. So, with the help from the school’s computer teacher, she explained quilting intricacies to them via Zoom calls, all the way from London where she lives. The pandemic has, no doubt, prompted several artistic pursuits and quilting seems to be one of the most popular activities. We’ve seen children learn the art from family members and many making masks and blankets to be donated. At Nattarasankottai, the girls used to gather in the school’s sewing room and worked for three to four hours a day to create 11 quilts that were sent for the 2021 India International Quilt Festival (IIQF). At the festival’s first edition held in Chennai in 2019, the organisers had promised a second edition for 2021. Now, despite the pandemic, they are sticking to that promise and taking the three-day IIQF virtual today. Bringing in the kids This time around, there is a special category, Gen Nxt, for quilts made by children under the age of 18. The category now has 17 entries: 11 from Nattarasankottai, five from Chennai and one from Pune. “We owe it to our children to pass on the knowledge of our ancestors,” says Tina Katwal, a co-founder at IIQF who also started India’s first quilting studio, The Square Inch, back in 2014. The lockdown and the subsequent no-school days helped many parents do just that as they sat with their kids and taught them handwork. “I have no regrets about missed school days,” says quilter Chitra Mandanna, who took the time as an opportunity to teach her five-year-old, Isha, quilting. “She has always seen me quilting and whenever I sat at my machine, she wanted to do it too. So, with leftover fabric scraps from my work, Isha began to put them together to create blocks,” explains Mandanna, whose daughter is perhaps the youngest entrant in the Gen Nxt category. Taking IIQF digital Besides the Gen Nxt category, there’s a section for Indian quilts, where the entries reflect India’s vast textile tradition, and the Floral Rhapsody themed category that invites quilts crafted using any technique, style and method of construction. The turnout is impressive, but pulling off IIQF was a challenge. “We reinvented ourselves so many times in the past 12 months,” says co-founder Varsha Sundararajan, who is is chuffed to have roped in three eminent judges: Reena Dewan of Kolkata Centre for Creativity, Marline Turner of the South African Quilters’ Guild, and quilter Paramjeet Bawa. Due to the pandemic, sponsors were hard to come by and it was difficult to convince them about a digital event. “The greater worry was holding on to so many amazing quilters who weren’t familiar with technology and gadgets,” she adds. But Katwal, Sundararajan and co-founder Deepa Vasudevan pulled off a coup. For the quilt show competition, 288 quilts were submitted by 139 quilters/groups from Australia, India, Kenya, Kuwait, Singapore, South Africa, UAE, UK and the USA. Also, there are several workshops on quilting techniques for beginners and the experienced, an artisan showcase, a shopping hub and lectures. This, in a year where some of the major international quilting events such as the Tokyo International Great Quilt Festival, the International Quilt Festival (Houston), and the Carrefour Européen du Patchwork (Grand Est region, France) were cancelled.  The India International Quilt Festival 2021 goes live today at 9.30 am on indiaquiltfestival.com. Watch highlights from the show at weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/chennais-quarantine-quilt-project/article33639777.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Love and a rug||Falguni Shane Peacock, the designer duo who celebrities swear by — be it for their dramatic feathered lehengas or ruffled mini dresses (sported recently by new mum Anushka Sharma) — is venturing into home décor. “It was always on our vision board,” says Falguni, of their collaboration with Cocoon Fine Rugs, adding, “Wehadto be a part of everyone’s homes.” The husband and wife are the latest to join the growing ranks of fashion designers who’ve ventured into the interior space because of the lockdown and the extra time it freed up. The collection transfers their edgy aesthetic on to seven limited-edition, hand-spun wool and silk carpets. The name Meraki (a Greek word that means putting your soul into your work) came from the Peacocks putting their “time, effort and heart” into the project. And the theme of love runs through the line — with pieces called ‘Love you to the moon’, ‘Never letting you go’, and ‘Give your heart and soul to me’. “Since 100% of ourselves has gone into it, we thought we would go with that whole feeling of love,” says Falguni, while Shane adds, “We added the love because when you’re taking something into your house, you [want] it to have special meaning. If I say [a carpet is called] ‘Forever in love,’ it brings new dimensions, building positivity in your place.” Swear by the moon Were they inspired by anything in particular? No, they say. “We thought of it like, ‘If I had to put it in my house, how would it look?’” The pandemic had seen the couple filling their home with plants and vibrant flowers, so blooms on a rug was a given. Another has a military design, which takes off from “the first show we did at the New York Fashion Week. That’s a very special place for us”. The one called ‘I’ll meet you where the sun meets the moon’ has the letters FSP creatively camouflaged in the rug. “It starts off from the ends on the broader side and narrows to a point, intersecting and interlinking in the centre. It denotes the day and night, and meeting at a place where the sun meets the moon.” The rug ‘Love you to the moon’ catches my eye. It features the text ‘Love you to the moon &’, with the word ‘back’ missing. Is there a story behind the choice? “It can be ‘moon and’ anything; we kept it open-ended. The person who is buying it can add their own meaning to it and have their own interpretation,” says Shane. Homes, the Peacock way Meanwhile, for Ayush Choudhary, founder of Cocoon Fine Rugs — which has previously collaborated with designers such as JJ Valaya and Varun Bahl — working with Falguni and Shane meant adding a young, cool vibe to the brand. “Among contemporary Indian fashion designers, we love their work and relate to their aesthetic; it is so cutting-edge,” he says, adding that the process was quite organic. “They were planning an entry into the home segment, so when we reached out it just sort of fell into place.” And rugs are just the first step. By the end of March, Shane says they “are looking to launch small collections in the home décor space: bedspreads, cushions, rugs, wallpaper, and candles”. Expect more ‘love’ in 2021.  The Meraki collection costs between Rs. 1.5 lakh and Rs. 3.5 lakh. It is available at Cocoon stores and, in two weeks, on cocooncarpets.co m||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/love-and-a-rug/article33639843.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Safe, secure and locked up||Several delightful nuggets of advice were handed out to women over the past few weeks. The first came from the Supreme Court. Deliberating upon the ongoing farmers’ protest, the eminent jurists demanded to know why women, children and old people were being “kept” in the protests — evoking an image of goats tethered to a fence. It then went on to make the “sending back” of women, old people and children one of the conditions upon which to build future consensus. While the ostensible motivation for thesediktatsis ‘protection’, it comes from a place of complete incomprehension of the idea of agency. Of the fact that women must and will make their own decisions about whether to protest or not, and when and where and how they will do so. More importantly, it displays a sad ignorance about the myriad ways in which women are an integral part of the farming community. Just the clichéd photograph of the rows of colourful sari-clad bodies bent double in paddy fields — which often acts as the de facto stock image for Indian farming — should establish that women can no more be removed from the occupation of farming than they can from the protest sites where they gather to fight against what they believe might harm their interests. As landless labourers, as owners of small land holdings, as co-workers on family farms, women are deeply impacted by changes in farming laws and it is entirely apposite that they are protesting. But more important, it is a woman’s prerogative to join any protest, whether or not she is connected to it. Article 19 of India’s Constitution allows its citizens to move freely across India and to assemble anywhere peaceably and without arms. It does not leave women out of the definition of ‘citizens’. The second helpful tip came from Chandramukhi Devi, a member of the National Commission for Women, after another horrific rape and murder in Badaun, Uttar Pradesh, this time in a temple. Ms Devi suggested that the woman could have avoided being raped had she not gone out in the evening. Or if she had been accompanied perhaps by a child. So, we now have more points added to the list of things women must do to avoid rape. Besides not eating noodles, not wearing jeans, not using cell-phones, and not stepping out after dark, they must also keep some manner of child handy. Almost like a pepper spray substitute. Finally, to make our bundle of happiness complete, we had Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan propose a new system whereby a woman stepping out of home for work will have to register at a police station and be tracked for her own safety. Clearly, the many well-wishers of women do not see the thin line between protection and policing. Nor do they realise the extraordinary degree to which such a policy can be misused, given the ethical track record of the country’s police. In fact, what is most amusing is the amount of trust being placed in a force whose first response to rape complaints is invariably great reluctance to register an FIR. And who have been known to help parents track down, sometimes with fatal result, adult sons and daughters who have dared to marry outside their caste. In these helpful proposals, what’s completely missing is any reference to men — the segment of the population that is most often responsible for rape, assault and murder. Neither Ms Devi nor Mr Chouhan suggest that men stay indoors after dark to avoid the temptation to rape. Or that they wear a tiny tracking device that lets cops (and wives) know exactly where they are every minute. Nor havekhappanchayatsweighed in with hints about the pasta or pyjamas men must avoid to help keep their raging libido in check. Given this lacuna, I am seriously considering appealing to the highest court of the land with a PIL. In which I request that their worships pay some attention also to the not-so-fair sex. Perhaps a ruling that says all men must mandatorily forward their WhatsApp chats to their mothers. Not only will those sleazy upskirt forwards mysteriously cease,desimoms might finally be eager and willing to give their sons that long overdue kick in the pants. Where the writer tries to make sense of society with seven hundred words and a bit of snark.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/safe-secure-and-locked-up/article33639846.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,||A chandelier from the Mysore Palace||In an era where functionality wins over embellishment, AstaGuru’s Opulent Collectibles auction features the kind of craftsmanship that needs to be appreciated up close and in person. The sale, slated for January 27 and 28, features furniture, home décor and sculptures from India and around the world. “There are a few lots presented in this auction that have an established validation such as chandeliers from F&C Osler,” says Siddanth Shetty, Vice President of Business Strategy and Operations. “The vases from Sèvres and Satsuma vases are sought after internationally as well.” The lots are varied and have histories that go as far back as the Mysore Palace (for the F&C Osler chandelier) or, more recently, to the jeweller Fred Leighton, from whose residence a pair of Italian cut and beaded glass Campana urns are up for auction. Perhaps the most interesting is a silver candelabra, which was originally gifted to George Carr Glyn, the chairman of the London and Birmingham Railway Cooperation, that is engraved as such and features an intricately detailed scene of children climbing a tree. With pieces like the jewelled prabhavali , the collectibles auction also celebrates Indian craftsmanship which, given the pandemic, has become unsustainable for a lot of the country’s under-appreciated artisans. Shetty points out that an investment made today in supporting craftsmen will mature. “Over time, these collectibles will become even more treasured and worthy of being part of an extraordinary private collection,” he explains. “People always value products with impeccable craftsmanship that can stand the test of time.” This value is understood internationally and he says that India’s market is responsive towards such categories and segments, as seen by encouraging customer interest. “The response received is more India-specific than international. There is a higher interest within the country, which is important as that motivates us to work harder as a home-grown auction house,” he adds. In the year gone by, AstaGuru conducted nine auctions, when social distancing and lockdown orders were at their peak. Going forward, the company is hoping to give their clients “a better and more enjoyable bidding experience”, while the team works remotely in a streamlined manner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/a-chandelier-from-the-mysore-palace/article33639785.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,||iPads for infants||Being a parent of a young child during the pandemic is part hilarious, part infuriating, part anxiety-inducing and totally overwhelming. As my partner and I synced our work calendars to take turns on our three-year-old’s Zoom classes, we saw ourselves becoming the helicopter parents we swore we’d never be. The very idea of a normal school routine seems to be a distant prospect, and parents have had no choice but to impart early methods by themselves. Enter ed-tech. Start-ups that deal with online education have raised $998 million in funding just last year, with India having the second biggest chunk of the industry in the world. Apart from K-12, these companies have been setting their sights lower. Byjus, one of the largest players in the segment, launched a Disney-based educational app for two- to four-year-olds. Indian kids’ platform, Playydate, offers online sign language and Spanish classes for ages zero to two. How early is too early? The premise of Netflix’s nappies-meets-neuroscience documentary, Babies , is about how newborns know and learn more than we ever thought possible. Husband and wife founders of Raising Superstars, an activity programme for 0- to 2-year-olds, Raghav and Shraddha Himatsingka believe in this infinite capability. Raghav, a Stanford graduate and serial entrepreneur, turned to child development when he became a father. “The human brain’s ability to learn is at its maximum from the ages 0 to 2,” he says. As the mother of a three-year-old, the conviction that a child’s infinite potential dries up at age two gives me some grief. Dr Kripa Sundar, a learning scientist and the author of How Do I Learn? , says, however, that, “Learning is complex,” pointing out that our biology, health, sleep and even food habits can affect the way we learn.      Off the beaten path Meanwhile, some parents of toddlers have been adopting a more open approach to learning. Sruti Harihara Subramanian, an independent filmmaker and the founder of the Goli Soda Store, says, “I have open shelves so my daughter can choose the books she wants to read, the activity she wants to do, or the toys she wants to play with.” While there is no denying the academic benefits of structured early learning, she shares that her focus is squarely on raising her child to be independent, empathetic and confident — without resorting to external programmes. After all, she points out, children are always learning, whether or not we teach them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/ipads-for-infants/article33639795.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Ramin Bahrani: speaking for the underdog||Ramin Bahrani has a thing for the underdog. An immersion into his filmography is to view the lives of the marginalised with an unusually keen eye. His first film, Man Push Cart (2005), follows a former Pakistani rock star selling doughnuts and coffee on the streets of New York. In Chop Shop (2007), a Latino orphan scrounges for money to buy a food truck. In his other films, too, this pattern is distinctly recognisable: the lives he limns are dark yet smattered with a curious yearning for hope, by dreams that appear distant but are not wholly unreasonable. Given Bahrani’s almost Ken Loach-like oeuvre, it is unsurprising that the Netflix adaptation of Aravind Adiga’s Booker Prize-winning novel, The White Tiger (2008), should have come to him. However, in this case, it was not merely a happy crossing of paths between producer and director. In a storyline reminiscent of an epic novel of destiny, Bahrani’s name was, quite literally, written into The White Tiger — on its dedication page. When we meet in December 2019, only a few days of shoot remain. Bahrani looks tired but content, his spectacles and stubble lending a professorial air. Predictably, we begin by talking about Adiga and the book. “We went to college together [sometime in the 90s, at Columbia University in New York] and became friends,” he says. “He is one of the smartest people I’ve ever met. He is wickedly funny, with a talent for seeing the world in ways others just don’t. We talk a lot about novels and movies. In fact, he’s always the first person to read all my scripts.” In a recent interview with FT , Adiga recounted his side of this tale. On the side of the economically-excluded, and united by the power of stories, each had planned to bring these two elements together. Bahrani got there first, releasing his first feature, said Adiga, adding that his friend’s “entrepreneurial zeal” became his blueprint. “When Ramin made Man Push Cart , he launched two careers, his and mine,” he shared.  Exploring the dark  Years before The White Tiger found itself on bestseller lists across the world (it has sold over four million copies), Bahrani found himself reading its early drafts. By the time it was released, the only person who knew the characters and the story better was the author. In fact, Bahrani’s grasp of the narrative found admirers in his two lead actors as well. When I speak with Priyanka Chopra and Rajkummar Rao — bravely holding forth despite the biting Delhi cold and a series of interview sessions — they concur that Bahrani was probably the best suited to tell the remarkable story of Balram Halwai (played by Adarsh Gourav), the droll, sarcastic, cynical narrator who rises from crippling poverty to become an entrepreneur. On his way up, he becomes chauffeur to Ashok (Rao) and Pinky Madam (Chopra), a wealthy couple for whom corruption is a way of life. Chopra says the book touched her the time she read it a decade ago. “When my agents told me it was being made, I actively pursued it. I want to get behind stories that come out of India and have the ability to resonate with people across the world,” says the actor, who auditioned remotely for the role, from her small home studio. “What excites me is that it is thought provoking, dark yet funny, and makes one sit back and say, ‘Well, this does happen. What are we going to about it?’” Rao agrees. “That is how humans are; they are surprising and do things we don’t expect them to do. As an actor, that was fascinating. Sometimes we get into these dark areas that make us bend our ways. It is the most exciting part, knowing there are multiple paths to our lives,” he says.  Research and Rs. 100  Both of them admire how Bahrani has chosen to tell the story. Chopra feels the director’s heritage as well as his strong sense of justice informs his lens. “He has the dual perspective of having seen the developing world as well as America, and he’s good friends with Aravind. He’s as close to it as it can get. And his perspective is something I don’t think we’d have seen elsewhere,” she says. However, despite Bahrani’s closeness to the story, he didn’t take it easy. Even before filming started, he chose to spend months in India, riding local buses and visiting the places Adiga had written about, even those that did not make it into the script. He also met scores of people — from families in upscale apartment colonies in Gurugram to drivers at garages in Delhi. His research closely mirrors that of Adarsh Gourav, the talented young actor who plays Balram. In an interview with Rediff, Gourav recounts preparing for the role by living anonymously in a remote village in Jharkhand and working for Rs. 100 a day with a street food vendor, washing plates for 12 hours a day. There are elements of the book, however, that are arguably difficult to translate on to the screen. The internal life of the protagonist, for instance. Bahrani overcame the challenge through the classic voice-over. “Whether it is being used by François Truffaut in Jules and Jim [1962] or Martin Scorsese in Goodfellas [1990], showcasing dark humour or a demented mind through voice-over opens up possibilities,” he says. “The words may say something and the images something else, so we’d have an unreliable narrator. That is, of course, exciting and attractive.”  A tale of the times?  While Bahrani added and deleted a few sequences and adapted the character for the screen, the story stays largely faithful to the novel. “The hardest part was cutting things out, since I love the book so much. But when I put all of it in the script, it came to 200 pages! Aravind gave me a wealth of gold and cutting it is just not easy,” he says. Initially, he considered updating the story (set in 2005) to a more recent setting, before abandoning the idea. “It is a period film. One of the biggest changes today is that thing in your hand, the supercomputer. In today’s world, Balram wouldn’t be writing emails, he’d probably be doing video or Instagram,” he says, adding, “This is only the second time in my life that I’ve adapted a book and I wanted to stick to it.” In a curious paradox of circumstances, Bahrani’s The White Tiger is releasing at a time of global distress and its story has taken on renewed significance. As Bahrani shared with FT , “With Covid, the inequality was right there. Visible. Inescapable. And Balram is inequality personified. He’s the delivery person bringing your meal, your Uber driver, the healthcare worker who couldn’t afford healthcare themselves.” Chopra echoes this, stating that though India may have made unsteady progress in the years since 2005, there is a long way to go still. “The story of Balram will be relevant for a very long time, until we eradicate poverty, the vicious cycle of hunger, and the lack of education opportunities for the young men and women of this country,” she concludes. Streaming now on Netflix.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/ramin-bahrani-speaking-for-the-underdog/article33639821.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Instapick||Bundled-up Bernie Sanders: Meme makers collectively felt the ‘Bern’ when Sanders went viral for his sensible winter coat look at the Presidential Inauguration earlier this week. He has since been edited next to Forrest Gump, Deadpool and riding a New York subway train. As for the mittens, they were crafted by Jen Ellis of Essex Junction, who upcycled them from an old sweater.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/instapick/article33639799.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Weekend getaways||For Republic Day, Piggy Hostel on picturesque Calangute beach, Goa, is offering a 4 nights/5 day package with a detox menu and a four-day beginners yoga course. At Rs. 5,999 + taxes per person.7719974449 Svatma, a heritage hotel in Thanjavur, is offering a 2N/3D weekend package at Rs. 20,000 for individuals and Rs. 25,000 for couples. Or take a WFH week away with their 6N/7D package at Rs. 50,000 (for two) and Rs. 45,000 (for one). Corporate getaways are also available.62273222||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/weekend-getaways/article33639801.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Best foot forward||A year after launching in India, Birkenstock, the German footwear brand, brings their e-commerce vertical, 1774, with collabs by design mavens like Valentino, Proenza Schouler and others. The site, which began operations yesterday, will also carry the 1774 capsule — a new, season-less unisex drop. Details: birkenstock.in. French label Chanel hits the airwaves with theirChanel Connectspodcast. Guests like Tilda Swinton, Pharrell Williams and Keira Knightley talk about the future of art and style. On Spotify, Apple and chanel.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/best-foot-forward/article33639803.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Taste of home||Bhadangfrom Kohlapuri andgud revdifrom Meerut, Indoripoha...These lesser-known snacks have been curated on Postcard. The online store was founded by Ashish Nichani and Sudarsan Metla, who also launched Place of Origin (a marketplace for speciality Indian foods). The new platform offers 31 varieties of snacks. On thepostcard.in. There’s a new craft vodka on the list of Indian spirits: Rahasya, produced and retailed in Goa. Made with corn and wheat grain from Punjab, it is priced at Rs. 850 for 750ml||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/taste-of-home/article33639805.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Talking point||72nd Republic Day: For the first time in 50 years, India’s Republic Day celebrations will be held without a foreign dignitary as a chief guest. Flight lieutenant Bhawana Kanth is set to become the first woman fighter pilot to be a part of the parade this year, while the Rafale jets will also make a debut appearance at Rajpath. And for history buffs, there’s an online quiz at quiz.mygov.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/talking-point/article33639807.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Virtual atelier||Going beyond an e-commerce site, designer Manish Malhotra recently launched a virtual space for customers to take an immersive walk-through of the label’s Delhi flagship store. Created by Bengaluru-based GMetri, to browse couture, jewellery and beauty products too. manishmalhotra.in. Meanwhile, Amit Aggarwal has worked with Dusala Kashmir to bring out a line of shawls. The brand, founded by Sugandha Kedia, blends pashmina weaves withzari, and Aggarwal’s metallic polymer. Details: dusala.in, amitaggarwal.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/virtual-atelier/article33639809.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Art and poetry||Till January 30, Delhi-based gallery Art Magnum and Singapore-based platform Art Podium will showcaseTimeless Treasures, featuring pioneers of modern art movements in India. Part of the ongoing Singapore Art Week, the lineup includes works by Satish Gujral, Jamini Roy, MF Husain, among others. Details: artpodium.com.sg. Poetry with Prakriti celebrates the multi-faceted writer, Margaret Mascarenhas. In a virtual event, Peter Griffin, Nilanjana Roy, Tishani Doshi and others will read her work. Today at 7 pm on insider.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/art-and-poetry/article33639811.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Design collaborations||Rahul Mishra is the latest designer on Swarovski’s Confluence roster. ‘Ode to Spring’ is his first jewellery line, translating the 3D embroidery that he is best known for into crystal-embellished necklaces, bracelets, earrings and rings. On confluenceshop.com from Rs. 2,050 onwards. Payal Singhal has collaborated with fusion brand Indya for a summer-festive capsule collection that will drop on February 1. Jackets, jumpsuits and other separates come in a sorbet palette with pops of colour. From Rs. 1,200 onwards at houseofindya.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/design-collaborations/article33639813.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Talking temple foods||When two people who have made it their life’s mission to document food history and tradition meet, there’s plenty for them to talk about. In a recent Zoom interaction forThe Hindu Weekend, author Shoba Narayan, and chef and TV host Rakesh Raghunathan compared notes on how religious, agricultural and social practices were interlinked in various parts of India, as well as Narayan’s new book, Food and Faith: A Pilgrim’s Journey Through India (HarperCollins). Read the full story and watch the interaction on weekend.thehindu.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/talking-temple-foods/article33639815.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,||McGregor vs Poirier||After a disappointing 2020 season, where he only got to fight for 40 seconds against Donald Cerrone, Conor McGregor is raring to go. The Irish champ goes up against American Dustin Poirier in the Etihad Arena, UAE, at UFC 257 tomorrow. In their first meeting back in 2014, McGregor took less than two minutes to score a TKO victory. Since then, Poirier has gone on a 10-2 run, making this a match to watch. The main card is preceded by a bout between Dan Hooker and former three-time Bellator MMA champion Michael Chandler. At 8.30 am IST on Sony TEN 2 and Sony LIV.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/mcgregor-vs-poirier/article33639825.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,||NatGeo’s Spotlight||As a part ofNational Geographic India’s new programming lineup, a series of new documentaries are all set to premiere starting today. TitledSpotlight, the series features films such asVirus Hunterswhich follows experts on the hunt to identify the chain of events that could cause the next global pandemic;The Last Icethat looks at Inuit communities fighting to protect the rapidly disappearing Arctic region, among others. The documentaries will be telecast every Saturday at 9 pm starting January 23.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/natgeos-spotlight/article33639827.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,||What realty expects from the Budget||Have the government and RBI done enough to bail out the economy — specifically the real estate sector? After all, the industry remains one of the most precise bellwethers of the state of India’s economy. As the vaccines are rolling out gradually, the Union Budget presents several opportunities to give the sector a shot in the arm. Given that real estate contributes more than 8% to the country’s economy, it has justifiable expectations. Multiple measures were announced in 2020 to beat the unprecedented impact of COVID-19 on the overall economy and the realty sector. A few include: RBI’s massive repo rate cut of 140 bps (leading to the lowest home loan interest rates in over 15 years)  A six-month moratorium on EMIs  Restructuring loans of real estate companies at the project level  At a State level, stamp duty reductions in Maharashtra  A liquidity boost to NHB  The first real-time deployments of rescue capital from the SWAMIH fund These measures were proactive and commendable but, given the depth of pain in the real estate sector, they were not enough. The housing industry needs focused measures to further bolster demand in 2021. This year, the demands go beyond the usual suspects of single-window clearance and industry status. Affordable housing is very likely to get another booster shot. However, the budget also needs to focus on the larger market. More than ever before, home buyers and investors need focused tax incentives to get mobilised in the market. Also, as the government is aware, developers’ liquidity woes need to be alleviated to forestall further market mayhem.   Industry demands    Hike the Rs. 2 lakh tax rebate  — This is on housing loan interest rates under Section 24 of the Income Tax Act to at least Rs. 5 lakh to generate healthier housing demand, most notably in affordable and mid-segment housing.    Personal tax relief  — This is needed either by tax rate reductions or amended tax slabs. The last increase in the deduction limit under Section 80C (to Rs. 1.5 lakh a year) was in 2014 and an upward revision is long overdue.    GST waiver for under-construction homes  — The present GST rate on under-construction properties is 5% minus the ITC benefit for premium homes (>Rs. 45 lakh) and 1% for affordable homes (<Rs. 45 lakh). Even a limited period waiver of GST will reduce overall property cost and thus push demand for under-construction homes, which have been slacking presently. Funds from buyers can aid developers towards project construction and thus lessen their dependence on financial institutions. The most-recent limited-period Stamp Duty cut in Maharashtra significantly boosted demand in both MMR and Pune        More incentives for private sector investments in affordable housing  — Despite the benefit of infrastructure status for this critically important segment, developers are unable to get funding from major banks and NBFCs at affordable cost. The profit margins for affordable housing projects continue to be extremely low.        Ease liquidity  — The liquidity crunch had a cascading impact across sectors, including real estate. Project delays — the biggest fallout of the cash crunch — have severely dampened buyer sentiments in the last two years. Developers need a rational capital flow to keep up the supply pipeline, especially for ready-to-move-in homes which are in high demand. Increased supply also helps keep property prices range bound.  The writer is   Chairman, Anarock   Property Consultants  Continued on page 6||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/what-realty-expects-from-the-budget/article33639853.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Free parking is not your right||It’s a given that our streets now have more vehicles than people. And parking these cars, bikes and even trucks anywhere — main roads, residential areas and sidewalks — is considered a right by most Indians. A right assumed like every other: throwing trash anywhere, defecating in public, encroaching footpaths… the list can go on. While a few Indian cities are inching towards formulating parking management policies, many are yet to take the matter seriously. Many argue that paid parking is unnecessary when, in fact, there are several reasons why free parking is detrimental for all — the city, pedestrians and even motorists. Donald Shoup, a professor in the Department of Urban Planning at UCLA in the U.S., has extensively researched parking, transportation, public finance, and land economics. The author of The High Cost of Free Parking , Shoup recommends that cities should charge fair market prices for on-street parking, spend the revenue to benefit the metered areas, and remove off-street parking requirements (shoupdogg.com). In a 2014 piece in Vox , Shoup argues, among other things, that ‘a parking spot, unlike things we normally consider to be public goods, is finite’. We pay for everything else about our cars — the car itself, the gas, the tires, the insurance. Why should parking be different, he asks. I agree. In a country that encourages buying private vehicles and does not do enough for public transport, people who invest in private vehicles must be ready to pay for its use. In countries like Singapore, for instance, the process and cost of purchasing a personal vehicle are designed to discourage car buying. A great way to push traffic towards public transport and keep the city greener. The Centre for Science and Environment’s recent analysis of pre-lockdown, lockdown and post-lockdown mobility trends in New Delhi reveals that the city isn’t ready for the post-lockdown traffic rebound. Also, it is not prepared for the right actions that need to be taken to cut down the volume of traffic or even implement parking management rules. This is bound to be the case across cities. In Chennai, while the plaza at Pondy Bazaar has been effective in encouraging cyclists and pedestrians, the promised robotic multi-level car park is yet to be launched. So, much to the annoyance of residents, haphazard parking on adjoining roads and footpaths continues to be the norm. However, in other prime areas such as Besant Nagar, Nungambakkam Purasawalkam and Anna Nagar, the Corporation is looking at increasing the number of smart parking slots to 12,000. Premium smart parking spaces on Khader Nawaz Khan Road with a fee of Rs. 40 an hour and along certain stretches in Anna Nagar for Rs. 20 an hour are being planned. Their launch and implementation, however, is something we need to check out. On a recent trip to Bengaluru, it was refreshing to see parking meters installed — and working — in several localities. People who park in ‘no parking’ zones have their cars and bikes towed away in minutes. As per reports, smart parking systems are planned for the entire city. These systems, if implemented well, have a series of benefits. A structured parking plan saves motorists time and fuel spent in cruising for a slot — a common sight at Chennai’s beaches and shopping districts that adds to vehicular congestion. As stated in the Vox article, “In many urban areas with high parking demand, when we subsidise cost and freeze its apparent price at zero, there are many more people who want it than spots available. Without meters to stimulate turnover, people tend to take spots and hold on to them all day. As a result, we waste our time cruising, looking for scarce open space.” Other than these measures, what we need is a drive that discourages the use of cars. This can be done only after a safe, people-friendly and gender- neutral public transport system is created. Simply making cars expensive or increasing fuel costs doesn’t work without giving people a convenient alternative. The recently announced train from Bengaluru airport to the city has been welcomed by all, but issues about timings and intermodal transport remain. Other questions remain unanswered — how safe will the option be for women and the elderly during non-peak hours? Are the platforms wheelchair-friendly? As we limp back to a post-Covid world in 2021, here’s hoping for roads that have more people than cars and cities that welcome humans rather than concrete monsters.  A fortnightly column on environmental sustainability and urban issues   In a country that encourages buying private vehicles and does not do enough for public transport, people who invest in private vehicles must be ready to pay for its use||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/free-parking-is-not-your-right/article33639856.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Trends to ditch in 2021||The New Year is the time for a new you and a new look for your interiors too. Homes have always been our havens but the pandemic has meant that we have spent more time indoors than ever before. If you’re planning to ring in the new, we suggest that you stay clear of these 10 décor trends that have been done to death over the past few years. They’ve had their time in the sun and it’s time to bid them adieu.  Floral overload. Flowers on the walls, the bedding, cushions, the sofa and even in the powder room. All that flower power may have lit up granny’s boudoir, but it just won’t do for a bedroom for the woman of today.  Colour-coded bookshelves. Styling a bookshelf is fine, we’re all for it. But devoting hours to painstakingly arranging books by colour gets our goat. Wouldn’t you rather spend that time reading?  Wall-to-wall carpeting. Sure it makes sense in places where the temperature plummets to below zero regularly. But in India it ends up becoming a dust trap — one you are forced to live with.  Ruffled skirts. For anything and everything — be it the bed, the curtains, the pelmet, the sofa set or the vanity. Does everything need to be covered up with a long fabric skirt? Minimalist designs anyone?  Face-off. Andy Warhol may have given a variety of celebrities more than their 15 minutes of fame, but haven’t we all had enough of celebrity faces popping out at us unexpectedly on the sofa and settees? No more Audrey Hepburn, Marilyn Monroe, and Salim/Anarkali!  Plastic table cloths. Designed to prevent food, drink or dirt from adhering to the cloth tablecloth beneath, these pieces of plastic showed that you valued that piece of cloth more than the people you were eating with. It’s time to replace it with cloth covers and runners.  Indian kitsch. There seems to be no letup in the love for Indian kitsch. Bollywood memorabilia, street art, metal and wood trunks, tiffin boxes, chai glass holders, kettles and household objects. Enough already!  Owl is not well. The playful owl — in all sorts of shapes, forms and colours — has perched everywhere. On cookie jars, bed linen, tins, salt and pepper shakers, decals, even wallpaper. Can he just fly off now?  Ombre. The word is traced to the French word ‘ombrer’, which means ‘to shade’. Ombre has taken over many modern homes via painted furniture, art, bedding, and accessories like shades, lamps, lampshades and rugs. Its moment is over.  Glass bricks indoors. Time was when these little bits of glass were used to create a breezy feel or let in light. But there are lots of other ways to do that, aren’t there? So, which décor trend or aesthetic you wish would never return?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/trends-to-ditch-in-2021/article33639861.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,||A guide for investors||Residential real estate has been primarily driven by end-users over the past two years. Previously, investors accounted about 20% of the overall buying activity. Now, with the returning vitality in the housing market, the stage is set for investors to get active again. Evaluating residential real estate makes a lot of sense amidst the volatility in other asset classes, and the property market’s enhanced regulatory environment. What investors should focus on We are already seeing increased activity in high-end markets and projects where sales had more or less frozen for a long time. HNIs are responding to the significantly reduced prices and one can safely assume that these buyers also include investors. However, the return on investment (ROI) that luxury homes can deliver in current market conditions is debatable. The best plays for real estate investors are currently affordable and mid-range housing, where owning multiple units will yield far better returns than one or two luxury homes. With stocks largely over-stretched and financial markets beset by their own challenges, residential real estate can be one of the safest investment bets — albeit from a long-term perspective. The ‘good old days’ of reaping fast and massive profits from real estate are over — these days, investors must come to the market with more realistic ROI expectations. Short-term speculative real estate investments are neither viable nor profitable anymore. A suitable investment horizon for Indian housing is 5-10 years. A few key points: While stock market prices are at their peak, property prices are their lowest. Offers and discounts by developers as well as stamp duty reductions in Maharashtra have resulted in significantly reduced cost of acquisition  Affordability of homes — calculated on the ratio of home loan repayment to income — is expected to touch 27% in FY21 (as against 53% in FY12). With housing prices remaining range-bound over the past 7-8 years, the pick-up in demand will eventually cause prices to harden again.  There are many options available across budget segments for investors to choose from. including ready-to-move inventory . Also, ready homes are almost as affordable as under-construction homes which additionally attract GST. Choosing the right markets While there are plenty of options in the market, not all options in affordable and mid-segment housing are created equal and need to be examined closely. There is less guesswork involved in luxury properties which, almost by definition, are developed in good locations and by well-known developers. The landscape in the lower budget ranges is much wider and needs to be mapped carefully for the right opportunities. While considering cities to invest in, the much-hyped housing inventory overloads need to be viewed contextually. Slow-moving housing inventory tends to be in unviable locations of a city, and the same city will invariably have pockets which draw good demand. Investment opportunities must be evaluated more at a micro-market level than at a city level, or one may miss out on some of the best options. If we consider a seven-year horizon to gauge price growth across cities and markets, average property prices in the top cities (2013-Q3 2020) saw close to a 14% jump. The average price of a home in the top seven cities rose from approximately Rs. 4,895 per sq. ft. in 2013 to Rs. 5,599 per sq. ft. by Q3 2020-end. Among the top cities, Pune saw the maximum rise of 38% during the period. This was followed by Bengaluru and Hyderabad with 20% growth each.     Ready vs. under-construction For end-users, there is merit in the currently popular wisdom of sticking to ready-to-move-in properties as they face no construction risk; however, for investors, the best opportunities may still lie in under-construction projects. The entry level is lower, and price appreciation increases as the project nears completion. Under-construction plays should be restricted to projects by strong national or local players with proven execution capabilities. Ideally, the identified project should be due for completion in 6-18 months. A word of caution — because it is a cost-intensive asset class even for developers, prices cannot fall below a certain level. Also, developers cannot price properties below the existing ready reckoner/circle rates/guidance values. Under-construction projects with unnaturally low prices (below current market pricing and circle rates) need to be examined very carefully before being short-listed for investment. Despite the RERA assurance, projects are still liable to get stuck and grievance resolutions can take a long time.  The writer is Director and Head – Research, Anarock   Property Consultants||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/a-guide-for-investors/article33639865.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Chennai’s realty snapshot||Knight Frank India’s recently-launched 14th edition of its flagship half-yearly report, India Real Estate: H2 2020, highlights that Chennai’s office leasing activity was recorded at 0.3 mn sq m (3.2 mn sq ft) in H2 2020 whereas new completions stood at 0.01 mn sq m (0.1 mn sq ft) during the same period. H2 2020 is also the second-highest performing half-year in the last decade in terms of the transaction volumes, states the report that analyses the performance of the office and residential market across eight major cities for the July-December 2020 (H2 2020) period.In Q4 2020, office space transactions grew by a significant 227% compared to Q3 2020. With the news of the vaccine coming in, Information Technology (IT) companies have started locking in office spaces and implementing their lease plans. This increase in leasing activity coupled with the pent-up demand contributed to the Q4 2020 transaction volume surge. The share of Banking, Financial Services and Insurance (BFSI) sector in total transactions went up from 13% in H2 2019 to 22% in H2 2020, recording a sizeable 60% YoY growth in the sector’s office space absorption in H2 2020. With a share of 58% of the total transaction volume, IT sector remained the primary driver of Chennai’s office market. On the performance of the residential segment in the city, housing sales and launches were respectively recorded at 5,673 units and 3,714 units in H2 2020. With respect to ticket sizes, as conversion rate continues to be higher in the affordable housing segment, 61% of the H2 2020 launches were in the Rs. sub-5 million ticket size segment. In terms of sales, the increase in traction in the Rs. 5 million and above ticket sizes is a welcome change. Driven by the COVID-induced need for larger homes, the share of Rs. 5 million and above ticket sizes in total sales has gone up from 44% in H2 2019 to 57% in H2 2020. Key highlights of Chennai’s office market:  New completions recorded a 91% Year-on-Year (YoY) growth this year driven primarily by two large office buildings going live in Q1 2020.  On the transactions front, leasing activity maintained its annual decadal average with 0.4 million sq.m. (4.5 million sq.ft.) of transacted space in 2020. It is also noteworthy that H2 2020 is the second-highest performing half-year period in this decade, after H2 2019, with 0.3 million sq.m. (3.2 mn sq.ft.) of transactions activity recorded.  IT office space absorption witnessed an increase not just in terms of the share, which has gone up from 53% in H2 2019 to 58% in H2 2020, but also in terms of the total area transacted which was up by 4% YoY. This is noteworthy because most companies had adopted work from home policy for a large section of their employee base after the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic.  Within co-working players, enterprise model providers and managed office operators have seen an increase in activity in H2 2020, particularly towards the latter part of Q4 2020. These companies offered tenants the much-desired flexibility in lease tenures, rentals and occupancy, which has helped tenants maintain business continuity in these uncertain times. This trend is expected to help revive co-working demand in the coming quarters.  In terms of location, the Suburban Business District (SBD) — Old Mahabalipuram Road (OMR) micro market accounted for 63%, the highest of the total H2 2020 transactions driven by the IT sector companies that dominate this zone. In terms of the total transacted area, SBD-OMR saw a 186% YoY increase from 0.07 million sq.m. (0.7 million sq.ft.) in H2 2019 to 0.2 million sq.m. (2.0 million sq.ft.) in H2 2020.  The average deal size has gone up from 3,026 sq.m. (32,567 sq.ft.) in H2 2019 to 4,620 sq.m. (49,732 sq.ft.) in H2 2020. Nine large transactions (4,654 sq.m. or 50,000 sq.ft. and above) accounted for 77% of the total number of H2 2020 transactions causing the jump in the average deal size and indicating an increase in the average floor plate requirement of occupiers.  The city level weighted average transacted rentals in Chennai have held up against the pandemic pressure and recorded a near 0% YoY growth in the year 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/chennais-realty-snapshot/article33639858.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Taking possession of owned land||In 1995, my grandfather named his property in my father’s name, but my father has not transferred the patta in his name. Now my uncle (father’s younger brother) has built a house on that plot without informing us. As my father is posted in New Delhi since 2008 he hasn’t been able to take any action until now. He will be retiring soon and wants to take possession of the land. Whom should we consult to tackle this problem?  Shri Nidhi Chennai The exact nature of the document (whether registered or otherwise) under which your father was given rights over the property by your grandfather, is not clear from your query. The nature of ownership of your grandfather, the document under which your father is claiming rights over the property, your family structure and all other relevant documents have to be looked into to answer your query. Please consult your lawyer and go by his/her advice.  We have an apartment at Madipakkam which is 30-years-old. We have decided to demolish and reconstruct the complex that comprises 12 flats. The total area is 4,800 sq.ft. and the building only has a ground floor and first floor (along with UDS). The area of each unit measures 675 sq.ft. The promoter has the following conditions: 1. They will issueRs. 2,50,000 to each of the 12 flat owners. The rental amount is Rs. 12000 2. The building plan includes 22 flats spread across a total of five floors M Muraleedharan Chennai You can insist on a clear written offer from the proposed builder and discuss the same with the present flat owners. You must obtain proper legal advice to ensure that the clauses in the agreement capture the representations and assurances of the builder as well as the consequences of non compliance/breach by the builder. The aspects relating to mortgaging the property to raise construction finance, custody of original documents of title etc., and their implications on the owners have to be clearly understood. There should not be any deviation or violation of approved building plans. The cost of maintenance will depend on the facilities and amenities provided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/taking-possession-of-owned-land/article33639857.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Anarock acquires ApnaComplex||Realty services firm Anarock recently announced its 100% acquisition of digitally-driven society and apartment management proptech platform ApnaComplex. As per a press release, the 10-year old B2C technology player was acquired for an undisclosed sum from NestAway Technologies, India’s leading rental housing operator funded by Goldman Sachs, Tiger Global, UC-RNT Fund, IDG India, Chiratae Ventures and InnoVen Capital. “Our acquisition rationale is to extend innovative features and tech upgrades for home owners, residents, society managing committees, as well as facility and security management teams,” says Anuj Puri, Chairman, Anarock Group,” adding, “We will look beyond just large societies and include small and medium-size complexes, to scale up substantially over the next few years. We also expect to scale up the staff strength to aid operational growth.” Headquartered in Bengaluru, ApnaComplex currently caters to over 6,00,000 households across 80 Indian cities and the start-up was among the top ten solutions launched at the Product Launch pad at the NASSCOM Product Conclave.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/anarock-acquires-apnacomplex/article33639854.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,||What realty expects from the Budget||Have the government and RBI done enough to bail out the economy — specifically the real estate sector? After all, the industry remains one of the most precise bellwethers of the state of India’s economy. As the vaccines are rolling out gradually, the Union Budget presents several opportunities to give the sector a shot in the arm. Given that real estate contributes more than 8% to the country’s economy, it has justifiable expectations. Multiple measures were announced in 2020 to beat the unprecedented impact of COVID-19 on the overall economy and the realty sector. A few include: RBI’s massive repo rate cut of 140 bps (leading to the lowest home loan interest rates in over 15 years)  A six-month moratorium on EMIs  Restructuring loans of real estate companies at the project level  At a State level, stamp duty reductions in Maharashtra  A liquidity boost to NHB  The first real-time deployments of rescue capital from the SWAMIH fund These measures were proactive and commendable but, given the depth of pain in the real estate sector, they were not enough. The housing industry needs focused measures to further bolster demand in 2021. This year, the demands go beyond the usual suspects of single-window clearance and industry status. Affordable housing is very likely to get another booster shot. However, the budget also needs to focus on the larger market. More than ever before, home buyers and investors need focused tax incentives to get mobilised in the market. Also, as the government is aware, developers’ liquidity woes need to be alleviated to forestall further market mayhem.   Industry demands    Hike the Rs. 2 lakh tax rebate  — This is on housing loan interest rates under Section 24 of the Income Tax Act to at least Rs. 5 lakh to generate healthier housing demand, most notably in affordable and mid-segment housing.    Personal tax relief  — This is needed either by tax rate reductions or amended tax slabs. The last increase in the deduction limit under Section 80C (to Rs. 1.5 lakh a year) was in 2014 and an upward revision is long overdue.    GST waiver for under-construction homes  — The present GST rate on under-construction properties is 5% minus the ITC benefit for premium homes (>Rs. 45 lakh) and 1% for affordable homes (<Rs. 45 lakh). Even a limited period waiver of GST will reduce overall property cost and thus push demand for under-construction homes, which have been slacking presently. Funds from buyers can aid developers towards project construction and thus lessen their dependence on financial institutions. The most-recent limited-period Stamp Duty cut in Maharashtra significantly boosted demand in both MMR and Pune        More incentives for private sector investments in affordable housing  — Despite the benefit of infrastructure status for this critically important segment, developers are unable to get funding from major banks and NBFCs at affordable cost. The profit margins for affordable housing projects continue to be extremely low.        Ease liquidity  — The liquidity crunch had a cascading impact across sectors, including real estate. Project delays — the biggest fallout of the cash crunch — have severely dampened buyer sentiments in the last two years. Developers need a rational capital flow to keep up the supply pipeline, especially for ready-to-move-in homes which are in high demand. Increased supply also helps keep property prices range bound.  The writer is   Chairman, Anarock   Property Consultants  Continued on page 6||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/what-realty-expects-from-the-budget/article33639863.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,||The honest auto-response||Dear Sir, we are delighted to inform you that our Auto Response service has been upgraded to superior human-like, honest, friendly responsiveness. Dear Sir, this is an auto response. Please do not reply. Because you will get yet another auto response, unless, of course, you’re the sort who collects auto responses, like people collect magnets and stamps and annoying habits. Dear Sir, thank you for your reply despite our friendly advice. This is still your friendly auto response. The intended recipient of your mail is on leave. After a week, you may deduce that he has been sacked/quit/returned but forgotten to turn his auto response off. As his faithful mail service, we will continue to blatantly lie that he is on leave. Dear Sir, thank you for informing us that you are not a Sir. We will change your sex immediately. Is there anything else we can do for you? Dear Sir, we are happy to inform you that you are now Female. Congratulations! Dear Madam, we are not trying to be funny. Or rude. We are your friendly honest auto response. We have taken note that you are a Madam. Dear Madam, once our server deleted the profanity in your mail, we could not understand the message any more. So your request for us to (Deleted) off cannot be complied with. Dear Madam, we are not being patronising or flirtatious by calling you ‘dear madam’. We are your honest friendly auto response. We will personalise our message to whatever you sign off with. Dear Deleted, this is an auto response that your mail — telling us to (Deleted) off — is much appreciated and of great value and will be attended to immediately. The recipient of your mail is very busy at work and will attend to your important mail in due course. Dear Deleted, we have registered your complaint that the recipient of your mail is NOT busy at work at all, and that you see him posting selfies all over social media. We hope you had a pleasant experience and that we will be able to extend our excellent service to you soon again. Dear Deleted Deleted, this is an auto response to inform you that most of the words in your reply were deleted by our server. However, to be true to our policy of exceptional customer service, we will (Deleted) off and (Deleted) transfer you to another (Deleted) more appropriate (Deleted) who may be able to communicate in your language. Dear Deleted Deleted, to help serve you better, your account has been deleted. Where Jane De Suza, author ofFlyaway Boy, pokes her nose into our perfect lives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/the-honest-auto-response/article33640520.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,||iPads for infants||Being a parent of a young child during the pandemic is part hilarious, part infuriating, part anxiety-inducing and totally overwhelming. As my partner and I synced our work calendars to take turns on our three-year-old’s Zoom classes, we saw ourselves becoming the helicopter parents we swore we’d never be. The very idea of a normal school routine seems to be a distant prospect, and parents have had no choice but to impart early methods by themselves. Enter ed-tech. Start-ups that deal with online education have raised $998 million in funding just last year, with India having the second biggest chunk of the industry in the world. Apart from K-12, these companies have been setting their sights lower. Byjus, one of the largest players in the segment, launched a Disney-based educational app for two- to four-year-olds. Indian kids’ platform, Playydate, offers online sign language and Spanish classes for ages zero to two. How early is too early? The premise of Netflix’s nappies-meets-neuroscience documentary, Babies , is about how newborns know and learn more than we ever thought possible. Husband and wife founders of Raising Superstars, an activity programme for 0- to 2-year-olds, Raghav and Shraddha Himatsingka believe in this infinite capability. Raghav, a Stanford graduate and serial entrepreneur, turned to child development when he became a father. “The human brain’s ability to learn is at its maximum from the ages 0 to 2,” he says. As the mother of a three-year-old, the conviction that a child’s infinite potential dries up at age two gives me some grief. Dr Kripa Sundar, a learning scientist and the author of How Do I Learn? , says, however, that, “Learning is complex,” pointing out that our biology, health, sleep and even food habits can affect the way we learn.      Off the beaten path Meanwhile, some parents of toddlers have been adopting a more open approach to learning. Sruti Harihara Subramanian, an independent filmmaker and the founder of the Goli Soda Store, says, “I have open shelves so my daughter can choose the books she wants to read, the activity she wants to do, or the toys she wants to play with.” While there is no denying the academic benefits of structured early learning, she shares that her focus is squarely on raising her child to be independent, empathetic and confident — without resorting to external programmes. After all, she points out, children are always learning, whether or not we teach them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ipads-for-infants/article33640519.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,||A chandelier from the Mysore Palace||In an era where functionality wins over embellishment, AstaGuru’s Opulent Collectibles auction features the kind of craftsmanship that needs to be appreciated up close and in person. The sale, slated for January 27 and 28, features furniture, home décor and sculptures from India and around the world. “There are a few lots presented in this auction that have an established validation such as chandeliers from F&C Osler,” says Siddanth Shetty, Vice President of Business Strategy and Operations. “The vases from Sèvres and Satsuma vases are sought after internationally as well.” The lots are varied and have histories that go as far back as the Mysore Palace (for the F&C Osler chandelier) or, more recently, to the jeweller Fred Leighton, from whose residence a pair of Italian cut and beaded glass Campana urns are up for auction. Perhaps the most interesting is a silver candelabra, which was originally gifted to George Carr Glyn, the chairman of the London and Birmingham Railway Cooperation, that is engraved as such and features an intricately detailed scene of children climbing a tree. With pieces like the jewelled prabhavali , the collectibles auction also celebrates Indian craftsmanship which, given the pandemic, has become unsustainable for a lot of the country’s under-appreciated artisans. Shetty points out that an investment made today in supporting craftsmen will mature. “Over time, these collectibles will become even more treasured and worthy of being part of an extraordinary private collection,” he explains. “People always value products with impeccable craftsmanship that can stand the test of time.” This value is understood internationally and he says that India’s market is responsive towards such categories and segments, as seen by encouraging customer interest. “The response received is more India-specific than international. There is a higher interest within the country, which is important as that motivates us to work harder as a home-grown auction house,” he adds. In the year gone by, AstaGuru conducted nine auctions, when social distancing and lockdown orders were at their peak. Going forward, the company is hoping to give their clients “a better and more enjoyable bidding experience”, while the team works remotely in a streamlined manner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/a-chandelier-from-the-mysore-palace/article33640533.ece
23 January 2021||CHANDIGARH,||‘Akalis and AAP spreading lies’||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday accused the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) of spreading lies over the farm laws and dubbed the Centre’s refusal to repeal them as ‘inhuman’. He also announced jobs for one member of each of the families of the State’s farmers who had lost their lives in the agitation against the new laws. The Chief Minister said the Centre should repeal the laws, then sit with the farmers and frame new laws after taking all stakeholders into confidence. Pointing out that the Constitution of India had already been amended many times, he asked why the Government of India was adamant about not taking back the laws. Capt. Amarinder was speaking on a ‘Facebook Live’ session. The Chief Minister said “we are losing our farmers to the cold every day, with an estimated 76 dying so far.”  Jobs for family members In addition to the Rs. 5 lakh compensation being given to the families of the deceased farmers, his government would also give a job to a family member, he added. Capt. Amarinder said the Akalis and the AAP were spreading lies on the issue of the high-powered committee on agricultural reforms, as exposed by an RTI response. Pointing out that Punjab was not even included initially in the committee, he said it was only after he wrote to the Centre that Punjab’s name was added, by which time the first meeting had already taken place without the State’s representation. The second meeting was attended by Manpreet Badal as financial issues were discussed, while in the third and final meeting, no politician was invited and only the Agriculture Secretary attended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/akalis-and-aap-spreading-lies/article33640172.ece
23 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||8-bed hospital a lifeline for aged and ailing protesters at Singhu||Ever since a makeshift hospital was set up at the protest site on the Singhu border, a total of 120 patients have been admitted as on January 21, said Life Care Foundation, a non-profit organisation that started the hospital. The eight-bed hospital, which was set up on January 8, has admitted 120 patients and is attending to over 300 patients in the outpatient department every day, said Avtar Singh, who started the foundation a year ago. “It is really cold now. So most patients coming to the emergency department are asthma patients,” said R.M. Sharma, Emergency Medical Officer while pointing at three patients lying in bed with oxygen masks. Dr. Sharma said mostly, the admitted patients stay for a few hours or one day. However, there are patients who require more than a day. Pointing to an elderly man lying on a bed, Dr. Sharma said he had been there for three days because he got injured after falling off a mobile toilet and developed an infectious wound. They have been treating people for indigestion, diabetes, and blood pressure as well. On Friday afternoon, a young man, who came shivering, walked into the hospital and Dr. Sharma said he was seemingly suffering from jaundice after which a nursing attendant immediately helped him to a bed and put him on liquid drip. Simultaneously, a lab attendant came and took the blood test to perform liver function test. Mr. Avtar said there are three doctors, four nurses, and one physiotherapist who work here and are paid for the job. Help from Khalsa Aid Their salaries are paid by Khalsa Aid India, Mr. Avtar said, adding that he pays salaries of seven boys himself. “I’ve taken a loan of Rs. 3 lakh. But now, things are going very smoothly. God has blessed us and all the needs are being taken care of by the goodness of people who have given me their numbers in case I fall short of material”. Sharing a special moment, he said his wife asked him about the gift he wanted on the wedding anniversary on January 16. “I told her that we needed the blood count testing machine. So she bought it and gifted it to me,” he said. Transcending beliefs At the Life Care Foundation pharmacy, Sadiq Mohammed, a resident of Roopnagar, who has been associated with Mr. Avtar for the last eight years, has been serving here since the beginning of the protest. He wears a turban since birth just like his father and grandfather. “People get shocked to see a Muslim wearing a turban but it is very normal for me because I have grown up seeing this. We offer namaz five times a day but during morning namaz, I visit the gurdwara and during evening namaz, my father goes to the gurdwara,” he said, adding that turban is an honour for a farmer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/120-patients-admitted-so-far-at-makeshift-hospital-at-singhu/article33640178.ece
23 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Cheating case against SAD leader and Delhi gurdwara body chief||The Delhi Police’s Economic Offences Wing has registered a cheating case against Shiromani Akali Dal leader and Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) president Manjinder Singh Sirsa, officials said on Friday. According to reports, a Delhi court had in November last year directed the EOW to register an FIR against Mr. Sirsa for alleged misappropriation of funds during his tenure as the secretary general of the DSGMC. The case against Mr. Sirsa and others was registered on Thursday for cheating and embezzlement of gurdwara funds by making huge unjustified payments amounting to around Rs. 1 crore for the purchase of tents, blankets and tarpaulin from sham companies, the police said. It was registered on the basis of a complaint by one Bhupinder Singh, who is one of the stakeholders in the funds received by the DSGMC, they said. Charges The case was registered under Sections 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 406 (punishment for criminal breach of trust) and 120B (punishment of criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code, the police said. An investigation is under way, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cheating-case-against-sad-leader-and-delhi-gurdwara-body-chief/article33640188.ece
23 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||31 people arrested for running fake call centre, duping people||The Delhi police have arrested 31 people, including 30 women, for allegedly running a fake call centre and duping people on the pretext of providing them jobs in banks, officials said on Friday. The police said they were informed that a fake call centre was running near G.T. Road, Shahdara. Thereafter, a police team raided the premises and found a fake call centre was being run and its executives called people and promised them jobs in banks. The victims were asked to register themselves on a website, www.bankinstantjob , and to pay Rs. 10 in the name of registration. “A total of 31 people, including 30 women callers, were nabbed,” Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (Shahdara) Sanjay Kumar Sain said. During interrogation, the accused disclosed that they used to put up advertisements of bank jobs online, asking people to visit a certain website. The callers used to call interested candidates and ask them to pay Rs. 10 in the name of registration, Mr. Sain said. The accused used to send a link to the victims for filing required informations for the payment of fee. However, when the victims clicked on the link, a parallel window would open on the accused’s system through which they could access informations like card details on their admin portal. They used to fill the details by themselves and get the OTP, following which Rs. 2,000 to Rs. 5,000 was withdrawn from the victims’ account, the police said. Coupons, gift cards The accused used the amount duped from their targets to get coupons or gift cards and later redeemed those on various e-shopping websites. A total of 48 mobile phones, eight ATM cards, 85 SIM cards and three laptops were recovered from the possession of the accused, the police added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/31-people-arrested-for-running-fake-call-centre-duping-people/article33640518.ece
23 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man held with fake currency notes||A 44-year-old man was arrested on Friday with fake currency notes with a face value of Rs. 4 lakh in east Delhi’s Anand Vihar, the police said. The accused has been identified as Sheikh Shehzad, a resident of Delhi, who hails from Motihari district in Bihar, they said. The recovered notes have almost every feature like that of an original one, including security thread and watermarks, the police said. “On Thursday, the police were informed that a member of a fake Indian currency note [FICN] syndicate would come to Anand Vihar railway station to deliver a huge consignment to one of his contacts named Raja. “A trap was laid and the accused was nabbed. The police recovered FICN in the denomination of Rs. 2,000 and with a total face value of Rs. 4 lakh from his possession,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) Sanjeev Kumar Yadav said. During interrogation, Mr. Shehzad said he received consignments from a man named Habibur Rehman, a resident of Kaliachak in West Bengal. Mr. Shehzad had already delivered four to five consignments of FICN worth over Rs. 20 lakh in Delhi and NCR, the DCP said. He told the police that all the new security features that the government introduced were being quickly updated on fake currency notes. He was earlier arrested by Delhi Police Special Cell along with three accomplices in 2016 and FICN with the face value of Rs. 10.25 lakh was recovered from them, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-held-with-fake-currency-notes/article33640189.ece
23 January 2021||GURUGRAM,||Accept demands of farmers, says Hooda||Former Haryana Chief Minister and Leader of the Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Friday said that those in power remain unmoved by the suffering of the farmers and deaths during their agitation against farm laws. He asked the government to accept the demands of the farmers and end their agitation. Mr. Hooda, who continued his outreach among agitating farmers, was speaking at a sit-in at Ramayan toll plaza in Hansi. The former Chief Minister said he stood with farmers whole-heartedly as he himself was the son of one and understood their pain.  ‘Nation deeply hurt’ Mr. Hooda said the nation was deeply hurt by the indifference of the government as many farmers had lost their lives in the struggle for their legitimate demands. “We and the nation stands with the farmers. Their martyrdom will not go in vain,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/accept-demands-of-farmers-says-hooda/article33640174.ece
23 January 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Odisha BJP issues ultimatum on procurement||The Odisha unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Friday issued an ultimatum that the party will hit the streets if the State government failed to streamline paddy procurement in the next 72 hours. A delegation of BJP leaders met Revenue Divisional Commissioner (Northern) to discuss the bottlenecks in purchasing thousands of paddy packets lying under open sky in different market yards. “The discussion has been partially successful. The RDC assured us of resolution of problems that can be taken up at his level whereas he would recommend other issues to the government for redressal,” said Sameer Mohanty, president, Odisha BJP. The BJP has been at loggerheads with the government over the issue of non-procurement of paddy in western Odisha. MPs, MLAs take part MPs, MLAs and senior party leaders of western Odisha took part in the protest launched by the party on Thursday. Mr. Mohanty, Leader of the Opposition in the Odisha Legislative Assembly Pradipta Naya, MPs and MLAs slept on the floor of the Sambalpur Town Police Station on Thursday night. Jai Naryan Mishra, Sambalpur MLA and convenor of the protest, said, “The RDC assured that he would take steps to stop the collection of a small portion of paddy by procurement agencies, and enable farmers whose token has been lapsed to sell their paddy.” The Biju Janata Dal (BJD) had attributed disruption in paddy procurement to the non-release of subsidy of about Rs. 6,039 crore by the Centre.  ‘No Central subsidy’ Ranendra Pratap Swain, State Food Supplies Minister, wrote to Piyush Goyal, Union Minister for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution: “Odisha State Civil Supplies Corporation has so far borrowed a staggering sum of Rs. 15,000 crore to run the programme. This high volume of bank loan is mainly due to the non-release of subsidy by the Department of Food and Public Distribution.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/odisha-bjp-issues-ultimatum-on-procurement/article33640175.ece
23 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi Cong. moves court seeking details of money collected by AAP govt.||Delhi Congress vice-president Abishek Dutt on Friday filed a Public Interest Litigation in the Delhi High Court, seeking details from the AAP government of the money collected by it through taxes and the grants received from the Central government, a share of which is payable to the Municipal Corporations of Delhi. The PIL also asked for the amount paid to the municipal corporations and the manner in which the civic bodies have expended the money. The PIL comes at a time when civic body workers, most of them who have been at the frontline during the COVID-19 crisis, have been on strike demanding their salaries while the AAP government and the BJP-run civic bodies have been trading charges on the state of finances. Mr. Dutt demanded a “true and complete” disclosure of funds collected by the Delhi government and distributed to the three civic bodies in accordance with the recommendations of the 5th Finance Commission. In the PIL, he has also sought a detailed “forensic examination and audit of the financial dealings and affairs” of the Delhi government and the civic bodies by the CAG. Salary delay “The current plight of the civic bodies is such that neither the Central government nor the State government has been giving any funds to them, thus severely hampering the payment of salaries to the frontline corona warriors, who risked their own lives to work overtime during the lockdown and thereafter,” Mr. Dutt said. He added that the net tax collection by the Delhi government was on the rise, and it even made a Rs. 60,000-crore budget estimate but it had not complied with the Finance Commission’s recommendations on giving money to the civic bodies for “basic expenses”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-cong-moves-court-seeking-details-of-money-collected-by-aap-govt/article33640181.ece
23 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Minimum temperature dips below normal, settles at 4.2 degrees||Minimum temperature has again fallen below normal in Delhi after a brief hiatus, with the mercury on Friday settling at 4.2 degrees Celsius, which is three degrees below normal for this time of the year. The maximum temperature was 18.6 degrees Celsius, which was also three degrees below normal. In the morning, fog lowered visibility to 350 metres at Safdarjung and Palam. For Saturday, the Met Department has forecast a partly cloudy sky with moderate to dense fog in the morning and strong surface winds during the day. The maximum and minimum temperatures will be around 20 and 7 degrees Celsius respectively. Under the influence of a Western Disturbance, the sky is likely to be cloudy over the weekend that will keep temperatures in check and then fall thereafter. The air quality of Delhi, Noida, and Gurugram deteriorated to the “very poor” category on Friday, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. The national capital’s air quality is expected to improve in the coming days. “Due to better ventilation condition, AQI is forecast to marginally improve on January 23 and 24, but will stay in the ‘very poor’ category. The middle end of the ‘very poor’ category is forecast for January 25,” said a statement by the government-run monitoring agency SAFAR. Also, the speed of surface-level winds was “moderate”, which aided in lesser accumulation of pollutants near the surface. However, the “mixing layer height”, which is the height from the ground level up to which pollutants can be dispersed, was “low”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/minimum-temperature-dips-below-normal-settles-at-42c/article33640184.ece
23 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Fire engulfs multi-storey building in central Delhi||A fire broke out on the second floor of a multi-storey building in central Delhi’s ITO on Friday morning, fire officials said. No casualty has been reported. A security guard stuck on the terrace of the building was rescued by fire fighters. “We received a call at 8.30 a.m. about a fire in a meter board at the Institution of Engineers building at ITO,” said Atul Garg, director, Delhi Fire Service. Initially, three fire tenders were rushed to the spot. Later, nine more were pressed into service and the blaze was doused within an hour, he said. In another incident, a fire broke out at a paint godown in south-west Delhi’s Palam on Friday. No causality has been reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/fire-engulfs-multi-storey-building-in-central-delhi/article33640190.ece
23 January 2021||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan Assembly session to begin from February 10||The budget session of the Rajasthan Assembly will begin from February 10. Governor Kalraj Mishra on Friday gave permission to convene the budget session, which will be the sixth during the current Assembly, after declaring the prorogation of fifth session. The fifth session of the Assembly was adjourned sine die on November 2, 2020, after the passage of three Bills to stop the applicability of the Centre’s new agriculture sector laws in the State. The Bills were put to vote following a walkout staged by the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party. The proposal for convening the budget session was to be placed in a State Cabinet meeting on Wednesday, but it was cancelled following the death of Congress MLA Gajendra Singh Shaktawat. The proposal was later approved through circulation among the Cabinet members before its referral to the Raj Bhavan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rajasthan-assembly-session-to-begin-from-february-10/article33640173.ece
23 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Toilets, bathing facility set up at protest site||Two western and one Indian toilets and one bathroom have been constructed at the protest site, essentially for elderly and women. The toilets are being constructed by Doaba Sangharsh Committee. Lakhwinder Singh Chakbamu, a member who has been staying at the Singhu border, said those who are worshippers have to wake up early and take bath, which become tough as it is really dark at dawn. “They have to walk into the fields to bath and to relieve themselves. There is also fear of pigs,” he said. Members said that this service is essentially for people of Doaba and those who might need in emergency. They are planning to put a lock at the toilets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/toilets-bathing-facility-set-up-at-protest-site/article33640180.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Ramin Bahrani: speaking for the underdog||Ramin Bahrani has a thing for the underdog. An immersion into his filmography is to view the lives of the marginalised with an unusually keen eye. His first film, Man Push Cart (2005), follows a former Pakistani rock star selling doughnuts and coffee on the streets of New York. In Chop Shop (2007), a Latino orphan scrounges for money to buy a food truck. In his other films, too, this pattern is distinctly recognisable: the lives he limns are dark yet smattered with a curious yearning for hope, by dreams that appear distant but are not wholly unreasonable. Given Bahrani’s almost Ken Loach-like oeuvre, it is unsurprising that the Netflix adaptation of Aravind Adiga’s Booker-prize winning novel, The White Tiger (2008), should have come to him. However, in this case, it was not merely a happy crossing of paths between producer and director. In a storyline reminiscent of an epic novel of destiny, Bahrani’s name was, quite literally, written into The White Tiger — on its dedication page. When we meet in December 2019, only a few days of shoot remain. Bahrani looks tired but content, his spectacles and stubble lending a professorial air. Predictably, we begin by talking about Adiga and the book. “We went to college together [sometime in the 90s, at Columbia University in New York] and became friends,” he says. “He is one of the smartest people I’ve ever met. He is wickedly funny, with a talent for seeing the world in ways others just don’t. We talk a lot about novels and movies. In fact, he’s always the first person to read all my scripts.” In a recent interview with FT , Adiga recounted his side of this tale. On the side of the economically-excluded, and united by the power of stories, each had planned to bring these two elements together. Bahrani got there first, releasing his first feature, said Adiga, adding that his friend’s “entrepreneurial zeal” became his blueprint. “When Ramin made Man Push Cart , he launched two careers, his and mine,” he shared.  Exploring the dark  Years before The White Tiger found itself on bestseller lists across the world (it has sold over four million copies), Bahrani found himself reading its early drafts. By the time it was released, the only person who knew the characters and the story better was the author. In fact, Bahrani’s grasp of the narrative found admirers in his two lead actors as well. When I speak with Priyanka Chopra Jonas and Rajkummar Rao — bravely holding forth despite the biting Delhi cold and a series of interview sessions — they concur that Bahrani was probably the best suited to tell the remarkable story of Balram Halwai (played by Adarsh Gourav), the droll, sarcastic, cynical narrator who rises from crippling poverty to become an entrepreneur. On his way up, he becomes a chauffeur to Ashok (Rao) and Pinky Madam (Chopra), a wealthy couple for whom corruption is a way of life. Chopra says the book touched her the time she read it a decade ago. “When my agents told me it was being made, I actively pursued it. I want to get behind stories that come out of India and have the ability to resonate with people across the world,” says the actor, who auditioned remotely for the role, from her home studio. “What excites me is that it is thought provoking, dark yet funny, and makes one sit back and say, ‘Well, this does happen. What are we going to about it?’” Rao agrees. “That is how humans are; they are surprising and do things we don’t expect them to do. As an actor, that was fascinating. Sometimes we get into these dark areas that make us bend our ways. It is the most exciting part, knowing there are multiple paths to our lives,” the actor says.  Research and Rs. 100  Both of them admire how Bahrani has chosen to tell the story. Chopra feels the director’s heritage as well as his strong sense of justice informs his lens. “He has the dual perspective of having seen the developing world as well as America, and he’s good friends with Aravind. He’s as close to it as it can get. And his perspective is something I don’t think we’d have seen elsewhere,” she says. However, despite Bahrani’s closeness to the story, he didn’t take it easy. Even before filming started, he chose to spend months in India, riding local buses and visiting the places Adiga had written about, even those that did not make it into the script. He also met scores of people — from families in upscale apartment colonies in Gurugram to drivers at garages in Delhi. His research closely mirrors that of Gourav. In an interview with Rediff, Gourav recounts preparing for the role by living anonymously in a remote village in Jharkhand and working for Rs. 100 a day with a street food vendor, washing plates for 12 hours a day. There are elements of the book, however, that are arguably difficult to translate on to the screen. The internal life of the protagonist, for instance. Bahrani overcame the challenge through the classic voice-over. “Whether it is being used by François Truffaut in Jules and Jim [1962] or Martin Scorsese in Goodfellas [1990], showcasing dark humour or a demented mind through voice-over opens up possibilities,” he says. “The words may say something and the images something else, so we’d have an unreliable narrator. That is, of course, exciting and attractive.”  A tale of the times?  While Bahrani added and deleted a few sequences and adapted the character for the screen, the story stays largely faithful to the novel. “The hardest part was cutting things out, since I love the book so much. But when I put all of it in the script, it came to 200 pages! Aravind gave me a wealth of gold and cutting it is just not easy,” he says. Initially, he considered updating the story (set in 2005) to a more recent setting, before abandoning the idea. “It is a period film. One of the biggest changes today is that thing in your hand, the supercomputer. In today’s world, Balram wouldn’t be writing emails, he’d probably be doing video or Instagram,” he says, adding, “This is only the second time in my life that I’ve adapted a book and I wanted to stick to it.” In a curious paradox of circumstances, Bahrani’s The White Tiger is releasing at a time of global distress and its story has taken on renewed significance. As Bahrani shared with FT , “With Covid, the inequality was right there. Visible. Inescapable. And Balram is inequality personified. He’s the delivery person bringing your meal, your Uber driver, the healthcare worker who couldn’t afford healthcare themselves.” Chopra echoes this, stating that though India may have made unsteady progress in the years since 2005, there is a long way to go still. “The story of Balram will be relevant for a very long time, until we eradicate poverty, the vicious cycle of hunger, and the lack of education opportunities for the young men and women of this country,” she concludes. Streaming now on Netflix.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ramin-bahrani-speaking-for-the-underdog/article33640392.ece
23 January 2021||New Delhi,||Jatin- brief||Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Legislative Assembly, Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, on Friday demanded that Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal ensure the release of MLA Development Fund immediately as development work in Delhi had come to a standstill. The condition of Public Works Department roads in Delhi is very bad, making their immediate repair necessary, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/jatin-brief/article33640185.ece
23 January 2021||New Delhi,||BJP leaders misusing govt. money, school premises for doing fake politics: AAP||The AAP on Friday alleged that BJP leaders were “misusing” government money and school premises for doing “fake politics”. “Today at a school in Kalyanpuri, BJP leaders started playing politics with mid-day meal kits. They distributed kits under their own banner in the presence of school principal and parents,” said AAP MLA Kuldeep Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-leaders-misusing-govt-money-school-premises-for-doing-fake-politics-aap/article33640186.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Instapick||Bundled-up Bernie Sanders: Meme makers collectively felt the ‘Bern’ when Sanders went viral for his sensible winter coat look at the Presidential Inauguration earlier this week. He has since been edited next to Forrest Gump, Deadpool and riding a New York subway train. As for the mittens, they were crafted by Jen Ellis of Essex Junction, who upcycled them from an old sweater.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/instapick/article33640521.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Weekend getaways||For Republic Day, Piggy Hostel on picturesque Calangute beach, Goa, is offering a 4 nights/5 day package with a detox menu and a four-day beginners yoga course. At Rs. 5,999 + taxes per person.7719974449 Svatma, a heritage hotel in Thanjavur, is offering a 2N/3D weekend package at Rs. 20,000 for individuals and Rs. 25,000 for couples. Or take a WFH week away with their 6N/7D package at Rs. 50,000 (for two) and Rs. 45,000 (for one). Corporate getaways are also available.62273222||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/weekend-getaways/article33640522.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Best foot forward||A year after launching in India, Birkenstock, the German footwear brand, brings their e-commerce vertical, 1774, with collabs by design mavens like Valentino, Proenza Schouler and others. The site, which began operations yesterday, will also carry the 1774 capsule — a new, season-less unisex drop. Details: birkenstock.in. French label Chanel hits the airwaves with theirChanel Connectspodcast. Guests like Tilda Swinton, Pharrell Williams and Keira Knightley talk about the future of art and style. On Spotify, Apple and chanel.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/best-foot-forward/article33640523.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Taste of home||Bhadangfrom Kohlapuri andgud revdifrom Meerut, Indoripoha...These lesser-known snacks have been curated on Postcard. The online store was founded by Ashish Nichani and Sudarsan Metla, who also launched Place of Origin (a marketplace for speciality Indian foods). The new platform offers 31 varieties of snacks. On thepostcard.in. There’s a new craft vodka on the list of Indian spirits: Rahasya, produced and retailed in Goa. Made with corn and wheat grain from Punjab, it is priced at Rs. 850 for 750ml||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/taste-of-home/article33640524.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Talking point||72nd Republic Day: For the first time in 50 years, India’s Republic Day celebrations will be held without a foreign dignitary as a chief guest. Flight lieutenant Bhawana Kanth is set to become the first woman fighter pilot to be a part of the parade this year, while the Rafale jets will also make a debut appearance at Rajpath. And for history buffs, there’s an online quiz at quiz.mygov.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/talking-point/article33640525.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Virtual atelier||Going beyond an e-commerce site, designer Manish Malhotra recently launched a virtual space for customers to take an immersive walk-through of the label’s Delhi flagship store. Created by Bengaluru-based GMetri, to browse couture, jewellery and beauty products too. manishmalhotra.in. Meanwhile, Amit Aggarwal has worked with Dusala Kashmir to bring out a line of shawls. The brand, founded by Sugandha Kedia, blends pashmina weaves withzari, and Aggarwal’s metallic polymer. Details: dusala.in, amitaggarwal.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/virtual-atelier/article33640526.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Art and poetry||Till January 30, Delhi-based gallery Art Magnum and Singapore-based platform Art Podium will showcaseTimeless Treasures, featuring pioneers of modern art movements in India. Part of the ongoing Singapore Art Week, the lineup includes works by Satish Gujral, Jamini Roy, MF Husain, among others. Details: artpodium.com.sg. Poetry with Prakriti celebrates the multi-faceted writer, Margaret Mascarenhas. In a virtual event, Peter Griffin, Nilanjana Roy, Tishani Doshi and others will read her work. Today at 7 pm on insider.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/art-and-poetry/article33640527.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Design collaborations||Rahul Mishra is the latest designer on Swarovski’s Confluence roster. ‘Ode to Spring’ is his first jewellery line, translating the 3D embroidery that he is best known for into crystal-embellished necklaces, bracelets, earrings and rings. On confluenceshop.com from Rs. 2,050 onwards. Payal Singhal has collaborated with fusion brand Indya for a summer-festive capsule collection that will drop on February 1. Jackets, jumpsuits and other separates come in a sorbet palette with pops of colour. From Rs. 1,200 onwards at houseofindya.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/design-collaborations/article33640528.ece
23 January 2021||January 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Talking temple foods||When two people who have made it their life’s mission to document food history and tradition meet, there’s plenty for them to talk about. In a recent Zoom interaction forThe Hindu Weekend, author Shoba Narayan, and chef and TV host Rakesh Raghunathan compared notes on how religious, agricultural and social practices were interlinked in various parts of India, as well as Narayan’s new book, Food and Faith: A Pilgrim’s Journey Through India (HarperCollins). Read the full story and watch the interaction on weekend.thehindu.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/talking-temple-foods/article33640529.ece
