24 January 2021||Kolkata,||World watching new India: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday wondered how Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose would have felt had he seen the new India, which is not only becoming self-reliant but also giving a befitting reply to those interfering in its territorial sovereignty. “Netaji had imagined a kind of strong India. Today the world is seeing India in its new avatar; from LAC to LoC wherever anyone is trying to pose any challenge to the territorial sovereignty of the country is given a befitting reply,” Mr. Modi said. The Prime Minister was speaking in Kolkata while participating in the 125th birth anniversary celebrations of the iconic freedom fighter. Addressing a gathering on the lawns of the Victoria Memorial Hall, Mr. Modi said Netaji would be satisfied and proud to see the new self-reliant India.  The Prime Minister said, “Today our forces have jets such as Rafale and it is manufacturing advanced jets such as Tejas. When he [Netaji] would see that the armed forces of his country are so strong and have the advanced equipment which he wanted, how would he feel,” the Prime Minister asked. He went on to say that Netaji would be proud to see that his country had not only fought the COVID-19 pandemic and but also developed a vaccine and is helping other countries with the technology. “Netaji once asked people not to lose hope of free India; similarly, no one can stop India from being self-reliant,” he added. During his speech of more than 40 minutes, Mr. Modi referred to a question that Netaji asked his nephew Sisir Bose before executing the daring escape from the country in January 1941. Netaji had asked his nephew in Bengali “Amar ekta kaaj korbe (Will you do something for me)?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/netaji-would-have-been-proud-of-new-self-reliant-india-modi/article33647300.ece
24 January 2021||New Delhi,||Police give nod for tractor parades in Delhi on R-Day||Protesting farmers who have been camping at the borders of the national capital for more than two months now will be allowed to enter Delhi with their tractors on Republic Day, according to a compromise arrived at between the farm unions and the police officials on Saturday. The solution follows three days of discussions. Farmer leaders said the Delhi Police had given them permission to hold tractor parades on five routes within the national capital on January 26. A senior police officer, however, said while the original proposal to hold a rally on the Outer Ring Road has been vetoed, farmers will be allowed to enter Delhi in the course of their parade. Control room More than two lakh tractors will participate in the parades, which will start from several points on the border, enter the capital for a stretch and then exit again, according to the farm unions. A control room is being set up to coordinate the parade and more than 2,500 volunteers will be deployed to facilitate the movement of vehicles. The farmers’ parade will only begin well after the official Republic Day parade on Rajpath is completed, they added. Tens of thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at several border points round the capital for almost two months, demanding a repeal of the three farm reform laws and a legal guarantee for minimum support prices (MSP) for their crops. The farmers’ negotiations with the government hit a dead end on on Friday. Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh spokesperson Abhimanyu Kohar, who attended the meeting between the unions and the police, said the tractor parades will start from the Ghazipur, Singhu and Tikri border points, and details will be finalised later on Saturday night. Thousands of farmers, including many women, have already reached the Singhu border from Haryana, Punjab and Uttarakhand to participate in the rally, he added. “Preparations are in full swing for disciplined conduct of the rally. We are getting a huge response from farmers. We had a meeting with police and final route of the rally has been discussed and it will be conveyed to protesters,” Mr. Kohar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/police-give-nod-for-tractor-parades-in-delhi-on-r-day/article33647303.ece
24 January 2021||Mangaluru,||Police Commissioner’s appeal to people||Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar on Saturday asked people to inform about persons who are throwing unwanted material with communally sensitive messages at places of worship. In a message on the social media, Mr. Kumar said persons who are doing such acts are bringing discredit to the city that is known to have harmonious living and where people come from other places to realise their dream. People should take responsibility to give information about mischievous elements. He asked people to call or message him about the miscreants. People can also message on WhatsApp to the police control room number [9480802300]. Mr. Kumar said four cases have been registered in this connection and efforts were on to trace the accused. A case each was registered at Ullal police station for alleged deposit of condoms and poster with desecrated images of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa at Koragajja Daivastana. Another case was registered at the Konaje police station for desecration at a bhajana mandira. A case was registered at the Mangaluru East police station for throwing of condoms near a place of worship. The Mangaluru South police registered a case for alleged deposit of a provocative message-bearing fake currency note into the offering box kept at Koragajja Katte in Pandeshwar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/police-commissioners-appeal-to-people/article33647756.ece
24 January 2021||KOTTAYAM,||Kappan to meet Pawar in Mumbai||As attempts by rival factions within the State unit of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) to assert their control over the party gather pace, the faction led by Mani C. Kappan, MLA, will meet party leader Sharad Pawar in Mumbai to press for the party's exit from the Left Democratic Front (LDF). Official sources said on Saturday that the meeting was being planned as Mr. Pawar had cancelled his scheduled visit to the State for discussing the issues concerning a prospective denial of the Pala Assembly seat to the NCP. The meeting between Mr. Pawar and Mr. Kappan is likely to take place before the scheduled LDF meeting on January 27. “Mr. Kappan will seek Mr. Pawar's permission to quit the ruling alliance in case the coalition fails to commit the seat to him,” they said. Mr. Kappan, however, did not confirm the move but said he would be leaving for Mumbai immediately upon being called by Mr. Pawar. “Pala is my sitting seat and there is no point in requesting for it over and again,” he said. Asked whether he would be interested in contesting from Kuttanad instead of Pala, Mr. Kappan replied in the negative. With the LDF most likely to allot the Pala seat to the Kerala Congress (M), a vertical split in the NCP now appears unavoidable. Though the national leadership appears undecided on the issue and is reportedly planning to send its general secretary Praful Patel to the State, a consensus is unlikely to arrive at. Faction meet Earlier the other day, the faction led by Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran had met at the Minister's residence and vowed to stand by the LDF as they had already been assured of a fair deal by the CPI(M) State leadership. The faction claims the support of 10 district committees, while the rival group has the backing of four units, including Kottayam, Pathanamthitta, Kannur and Kasaragod. The situation, meanwhile, appears not very rosy within the United Democratic Front (UDF) either as the Kerala Congress led by P.J. Joseph has asserted its right to field candidates from all seats that traditionally belonged to the regional party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kappan-to-meet-pawar-in-mumbai/article33647647.ece
24 January 2021||HYDERABAD,||Farmers direct their ire at MP||Bharatiya Janata Party MP of Nizamabad D. Arvind had to face the wrath of turmeric farmers at Choutpalli village of Kammarpalli mandal in Nizamabad district on Sunday when he held an interactive meeting with them over the demand of minimum support price for turmeric and setting up of turmeric board at Nizamabad. The meeting ended abruptly after four hours of heated arguments, with the MP walking away in a huff as the farmers resorted to slogan shouting against him. Present on the occasion were about 200 farmers who had contested the last Lok Sabha elections from Nizamabad to highlight their demands at the national level. After the meeting, the farmers’ leaders served an ultimatum on the MP either to resign from his post or ensure MSP for turmeric within ten days. Otherwise, they will confront him at all public fora with the support of all parties. The MP took pains to explain that he had never promised turmeric board in five days nor an MSP of Rs. 15,000 a quintal as raised by the farmers’ leaders. He had only released a written bond promising to get the board. He recalled that it was only at his initiative that a regional office of the Spices Board was set up in Nizamabad when Central officials took his views in the matter. All this was within nine months of his election. He demanded that the State government extend a support price for turmeric and the Centre will contribute to it. The Centre itself could not fix the price because it will result in demands from all States. As the farmers were unrelenting, Mr. Arvind left the venue saying he had explained what he wanted and it was left for them to take a decision.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-mp-faces-ire-of-turmeric-farmers/article33647636.ece
24 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Officials stay away from SEC’s video conference||The serious differences between the government and State Election Commission (SEC) on the timing of gram panchayat elections, for which the first phase notification was issued on Saturday, turned into a full-blown crisis as the Chief Secretary, Director General of Police (DGP) and District Collectors stayed away from the video conference organised by State Election Commissioner N. Ramesh Kumar in the evening. The video conference was scheduled to begin at 3 p.m., but it had to be called off as the officials cited some urgent work as the reason for not attending the consultation, while Mr. Ramesh Kumar maintained that it was the bounden duty of the government officials to fulfil their Constitutional responsibilities once the election notification was issued. Addressing mediapersons earlier in the day, Mr. Ramesh Kumar said it was in exercise of its powers under Article 243-K of the Constitution that the SEC was conducting the elections, and he would complain to the Governor and also inform the courts about any hindrances that might be caused by the government. Mr. Ramesh Kumar told The Hindu that he exchanged letters with the Chief Secretary and the Director General of Police over the cancelled video conference which would in his view undermine Phase-1 of the elections. It may be noted that the Supreme Court is likely to hear the House motion petition filed by the government against the High Court order that elections should be conducted as per schedule, on January 25, while Mr. Ramesh Kumar expressed his resolve to hold the elections right away..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/officials-stay-away-from-secs-video-conference/article33647296.ece
24 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,||Buzz around shifting of Capital growing||Ever since Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy announced in January last his proposal of three capitals — Visakhapatnam as Executive capital, Kurnool as Judicial capital and Amaravati as Legislative capital — the proposal had gone into a state of limbo. It was followed by agitations by the farmers in Amaravati region and multiple court cases. But again the capital buzz in Visakhapatnam appears to be picking up in recent times. It is learnt that the employees of various government offices and the secretariat in Amaravati have been told to prepare for a shift to Visakhapatnam and have been advised to approach schools and colleges for admission of their children. This was substantiated by a couple of principals from reputed schools, who said that enquiries for admission into various classes have increased of late. A few resident welfare associations of gated communities said that people were approaching for rental purpose. This appears to substantiate the rumour that the Executive capital may start functioning from mid of April this year. Officials’ visits Other indications that affirm it is that a number of teams comprising government officials have increased their frequency of visits to the IT Hills in Rushikonda, where the proposed government offices are likely to be located. It is learnt that an engineering college in Gambheeram area has been told to shut down and talks are in the air that it would be converted into a makeshift secretariat. Officials have confirmed that the bookings for the APTDC resort at Rushikonda will be stopped from February, as the rooms may be turned into immediate guesthouses for officials and lawmakers. The road network connecting the Beach Road from the city or National Highway side has already been strengthened. The Visakha Valley double road is ready and operational, and roads connecting the IT SEZ at Rushikonda from the National Highway side have been repaired and extended.  Governor’s residence Though there is no official confirmation, speculations are strong that the premises of club located in the heart of the city might become the Governor’s residence. The management of the club has already entered into a legal imbroglio with the State government over the land ownership issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/buzz-around-shifting-of-capital-growing/article33647225.ece
24 January 2021||Aligarh,||AMU medical team pulls out all stops for vaccine trial||Shafiq-ur Rehman Khan is elated as the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital (JNMCH) of Aligarh Muslim University has received a letter of appreciation from Bharat Biotech for completing the enrolment and evaluation process of 1,000 volunteers under phase 3 trials of Covaxin well within time. Mr. Khan, a microbiology postgraduate, was one of the two field officers in the drive. “The biggest challenge was to fight the myths that people associate with the vaccine. We were repeatedly asked if it would cause infertility. It was the reputation of the university and my standing in society that helped us clear the myths,” said Mr. Khan, who has been a student representative in the AMU Court. Prof. Mohammad Shameem, principal investigator, said the university got a letter of appreciation from Dr. Raches Ella, son of chairman of Bharat Biotech, Dr. Krishna Ella, who is coordinating the Phase 3 trials. The letter congratulated the Vice-Chancellor, the professor, and his team for “speedy enrolment and execution”. Letter of appreciation “The letter said ‘where other sites failed, your execution will be pivotal for us to mitigate this pandemic’. We are the first to complete the second dose as well. The data has been submitted to Bharat Biotech and ICMR. They wanted us to enrol more volunteers if possible but we felt it could compromise the process,” Prof. Shameem said. The process, he said, started in the first week of November when JNMCH received the letter from ICMR as one of the sites for the COVID-19 vaccine trial. “Our field workers did a good job in clearing the doubt that the goal of vaccination is not population control. The doubts are not specific to one community or religion. It is again a myth propagated by a section of media and politicians with vested interests,” he said. The doubts, he added, sometimes also emanate when “we advise the volunteers not to conceive for the next four-five months as we don’t yet know the vaccine’s impact on the newborn”. As per ICMR protocol, Prof. Shameem said, 25% of volunteers were from the high-risk category — at least 60 years of age with comorbidities. “Less than 5% were from health care workers. For every visit, they are paid Rs. 750,” he said. In the first week following the vaccine jab, Mr. Khan said the team called up the volunteers every day. “After that, we called them once a week. They were given contact numbers to report any adverse effect.” The two volunteers whom The Hindu spoke to said the doctors cleared their doubts but they were not aware that they could have been injected with a placebo. Mahesh from Kwarsi area of Aligarh said he saw the trial as a good opportunity to get vaccinated. “We were given a booklet with a consent form. I even got my mother, who is a diabetic, injected. I didn’t know that we could be injected with something other than the vaccine.” Similarly, Tahir from Turkman Gate area of Old Aligarh said he and his wife volunteered after the doctors clearly explained the process. “I work as a guard and felt it would be good if I get vaccinated. How could the doctors inject something other than the vaccine,” he wondered.   (The names of the volunteers have been changed to protect their identity)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/amu-medical-team-pulls-out-all-stops-for-vaccine-trial/article33647487.ece
24 January 2021||Aligarh,||AMU medical team pulls out all the stops for vaccine trial||Shafiq-ur Rehman Khan is elated as the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital (JNMCH) of Aligarh Muslim University has received a letter of appreciation from Bharat Biotech for completing the enrolment and evaluation process of 1,000 volunteers under phase 3 trials of Covaxin well within time. Mr. Khan, a microbiology postgraduate, was one of the two field officers in the drive. “The biggest challenge was to fight the myths that people associate with the vaccine. We were repeatedly asked whether it would cause infertility. It was the reputation of the university and my standing in society that helped us clear the myths,” said Mr. Khan, who has been a student representative in the AMU Court. Letter of appreciation Prof. Mohammad Shameem, principal investigator, said the university got a letter of appreciation from Dr. Raches Ella, son of chairman of Bharat Biotech, Dr. Krishna Ella, who is coordinating the Phase 3 trials. The letter congratulated the Vice-Chancellor, the professor, and his team for “speedy enrolment and execution”. “The letter said ‘where other sites failed, your execution will be pivotal for us to mitigate this pandemic’. We are the first to complete the second dose as well,” Prof. Shameem said. The process, he said, started in the first week of November when JNMCH received the letter from ICMR as one of the sites for the COVID-19 vaccine trial. “Our field workers did a good job in clearing the doubt that the goal of vaccination is not population control. The doubts are not specific to one community or religion. It is again a myth propagated by a section of media and politicians with vested interests,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/amu-medical-team-pulls-out-all-the-stops-for-vaccine-trial/article33647799.ece
24 January 2021||New Delhi,||2-year jail for Bharti in assault case||AAP MLA Somnath Bharti was on Saturday sentenced to two years in jail by a Delhi court in a 2016 case of assaulting a security staffer at AIIMS and causing damage to the hospital property. The court, however, granted bail to Mr. Bharti to enable him to file an appeal before the High Court against his conviction. The Aam Aadmi Party said “injustice” has been meted out to Mr. Bharti and he will appeal against the decision. “We respect the judiciary and have full faith in it. However, we feel injustice has happened to Mr. Somnath Bharti in this case. Somnath is a very popular leader and is loved by everyone in his constituency. People are quite sad in his constituency as the news of his conviction is spreading. Somnath is filing an appeal. We are confident that justice will be done to him at appellate level,” AAP said in a statement. Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Ravindra Kumar Pandey also imposed a fine of Rs. 1 lakh on Mr. Bharti. “The court is of the considered view that the prosecution has duly proved its case beyond all reasonable doubt against accused Somnath Bharti,” the magistrate said.  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/2-year-jail-for-bharti-in-assault-case/article33647484.ece
24 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||SEC issues notification for first phase of panchayat polls||The conflict between the State government and the State Election Commission (SEC) over holding the gram panchayat elections reached a flashpoint on Saturday with State Election Commissioner N. Ramesh Kumar issuing the notification for the first phase of the four-phase elections, even as the House motion petition which the government filed in Supreme Court against the High Court order to hold elections as per schedule, is due to be heard on January 25. As per the notification released at a press conference here, elections will be held in 14 revenue divisions covering 146 mandals in 11 districts on February 5, for which nominations have to be filed before 5 p.m. of January 27. Addressing mediapersons, Mr. Ramesh Kumar said the High Court believed that the SEC fixed the election schedule after duly taking the safety of voters and government employees into consideration, and insisted that the elections would be held in tandem with the COVID-19 vaccination programme. He asked why should the employees’ unions object to holding the elections in February, when local body elections and Assembly polls were successfully completed in many States. While claiming to have no personal enmity with Chief Secretary Aditya Nath Das and Director-General of Police Gautam Sawang, whom he described as “mature officers”, Mr. Ramesh Kumar hoped that the government would at least now extend cooperation for the smooth conduct of the elections. He issued a subtle warning that if the election process was obstructed, the government would have to bear the entire responsibility and pay a price for it and said that the Panchayat Raj Department (PRD) had failed in discharging its duties. Further, Mr. Ramesh Kumar said the commission was adopting the 2019 electoral rolls in the absence of the final ones for 2021, which should have been made available by he Panchayat Raj Department. About 3.60 lakh youth who attained more than 18 years of age would nota be able to vote due to the adoption of 2019 rolls. Appropriate action would be taken against the derelict officials of the Panchayat Raj Department at a right time, Mr. Ramesh Kumar stated, adding that due attention would be paid to “unanimous elections” and an Inspector General-rank police officer would be posted to check electoral malpractices and offences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/despite-objection-from-ap-sec-notifies-panchayat-polls/article33647224.ece
24 January 2021||Hyderabad,||Seven of gang who robbed TN branch of Muthoot Finance held near Hyderabad||Seven members of an armed gang, who robbed a little over 25 kg of gold jewellery worth around Rs. 7.5 crore and Rs. 96,000 cash in broad daylight from a Muthoot Finance Limited branch at Hosur of Krishnagiri district in Tamil Nadu on Friday, were arrested on the outskirts of Hyderabad in the wee hours of Saturday. The inter-State dacoity gang, which was trying to flee to Madhya Pradesh and Jharkhand via Nagpur on National Highway 44, was nabbed by the Cyberabad police near Tondupally toll plaza near Shamshabad Airport in a joint operation with their counterparts of Hyderabad and Rachakonda Commissionerates and Krishnagiri police. The masked gang members robbed the gold ornaments on Friday morning after holding the Muthoot staff at gunpoint and took away the digital video recorder of the surveillance cameras from the branch. Then, they tied and locked the employees inside and escaped from the scene on their newly purchased bikes. They went towards Tamil Nadu-Karnataka border where a container vehicle and an SUV were waiting for them to escape further. Local police zeroed in on a gang from north India involved in similar offences in other States and based on the toll gate data and technical aid, the vehicles used by the accused were tracked on National Highway 44 moving towards Hyderabad. Soon, the Krishnagiri police alerted their counterparts in Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Maharashtra. “Though we couldn’t catch them in Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, and Andhra Pradesh, the gang was caught by theTelangana police. It was a well-coordinated operation, and there were chances of cross firing, as the gang members were carrying firearms,” Krishnagiri Superintendent of Police Bandi Gangadhar said. As soon as they got information from Krishnagiri, the Telangana police deployed Armed Reserve parties at all the toll plazas and started monitoring the ‘targeted’ vehicles. Around 3 a.m. near Raikal toll plaza, a police team spotted an SUV with occupants of similar features as narrated by the TN police, and was trailing it till Tondupally toll plaza as there was a huge armed force deployment there. Cyberabad Commissioner of Police V.C. Sajjanar said that the accused Rup Singh Baghal (22), a student, and Shankar Singh Bayyal Baghal (36), Pavan Kumar Vishkarma (22) from Jabalpur in Madhya Pradesh, Bupendhar Manji (24), and Vivek Mandal (32) of Ranchi, Jharkhand, who were travelling in the SUV were caught at Tondupally toll plaza, while the container driver Tek Ram (55) and helper Rajeev Kumar (35) from Meerut in Uttar Pradesh were nabbed near Medchal. One of the prime suspects Amit alias Vivek Shukla from Indore in Madhya Pradesh, who was travelling in the container, managed to escape. The stolen gold jewellery, Rs. 93,000 cash, seven firearms, 10 magazines, 97 live rounds, an SUV, a container and 13 mobile phones were recovered from their possession. “Three months ago Rup Singh and Amit went to Bengaluru to commit the offence at any of the Muthoot Finance branches. They conducted recce at several branches and finally selected Hosur branch, which had two entry roads to escape easily after committing the offence,” he said. After visiting the premises more than three times, the gang procured firearms, committed the offence on Friday morning and decamped with the booty within 20 minutes. In October last, Amit, Shanker and others attempted to rob a Muthoot Finance branch in Ludhiana of Punjab, where gang members Sujeeth Singh, Sourabh and Roshan Singh were arrested on the spot, Mr. Sajjanar said. There they fired 32 rounds and killed a person. Further, Mr. Sajjanar asked all finance companies to employ armed security guards, install CCTVs and buzzer alert systems. “The accused have done recce and visited the branch as genuine customers. The staff must profile the customers at entry and exit into the company and analyse CCTV for suspicious activity,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gang-who-robbed-tn-branch-of-muthoot-finance-held/article33647609.ece
24 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Exam postponed as CCB unearths racket||The competitive examination for the post of First Division Assistant organised by the KPSC, scheduled to be held on Sunday, was postponed indefinitely after Central Crime Branch (CCB) police officials got wind of a paper leakage scam. Six persons were arrested on Saturday for allegedly selling question papers. Sandeep Patil, Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime), said that acting on a tip-off, a team of officials arrested the accused in Ullal, Jnanabharathi station limits. The gang was waiting by the side of the road with the question papers when the police nabbed them. The police also seized Rs. 24 lakh in cash and three vehicles from them. The accused, two of who have been identified as Chandru and Rajappa, have been taken into custody for questioning to ascertain their network.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/exam-postponed-as-ccb-unearths-racket/article33647338.ece
24 January 2021||Srinagar,||Cross-border tunnel found in Jammu||The Border Security Force on Saturday unearthed a 150-metre tunnel on the International Border in Jammu. This is the fourth such passage to be found in the past six months. A BSF spokesman said the 30-foot-deep cross-border tunnel was detected in the Pansar area. It opened near a fence meant “to push trained and armed militants”. The BSF said two Pakistan outposts, identified as Abhiyal Dogra and Kingre-de-kothe in Sakargarh district, are located opposite the area where the tunnel was found. Drone shot down The BSF had shot down a Pakistan drone carrying weapons and ammunition in the same area in June last year. “An infiltration bid was also foiled in November 2019 in the same area,” the BSF said. A tunnel, around 150 metre long and 15 to 20 foot deep and around 3 foot wide, was detected on November 22 last year. On January 13, another such tunnel, around 30 foot deep and 150 metre long, was spotted in Jammu’s Samba district. The tunnel unearthed on Saturday is the fourth such tunnel busted in the past six months in Jammu’s Samba, Hiranagar and Kathua areas. “Around 10 such tunnels were unearthed in the Jammu region in the past one year,” officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cross-border-tunnel-found-in-jammu/article33647344.ece
24 January 2021||Mumbai,||2,697 new COVID-19 cases in Maharashtra||Maharashtra on Saturday reported 2,697 fresh COVID-19 cases, taking the count to 20,06,354, the State Health department said. With the deaths of 56 people, the fatalities in the State went up to 50,740. A total of 3,694 patients were discharged during the day, taking the recoveries in Maharashtra to 19,10,521, it said. The number of active cases in Maharashtra is now 43,870. With 64,899 new tests, the number of samples tested for coronavirus so far went up to 1,41,45,829. The case recovery rate now stands at 95.22% while the fatality rate is 2.53%, the department said. Mumbai city reported 435 new coronavirus positive cases and 10 deaths, taking its caseload to 3,05,571 and toll to 11,297. Mumbai division, including Mumbai city and satellite towns, saw 849 fresh cases in the day, taking the tally to 6,87,872, while 23 fatalities pushed the total toll to 19,475. Nashik division reported 367 fresh cases including 108 in Nashik city. Pune division saw 632 new cases including 241 in Pune city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/2697-new-covid-19-cases-in-maharashtra/article33647474.ece
24 January 2021||Vijayawada,||State’s lone COVID-19 death reported from Vizag district||The State reported one more COVID-19 death and 158 infections in the 24 hours ending Saturday morning. The lone death was reported from Visakhapatnam district. The overall toll, therefore, increased to 7,147 while the tally reached 8,86,852. With 172 patients recovering during the period, the total number of recoveries increased to 8,78,232. The rate of recovery was put at 99.03%. The number of patients undergoing treatment was put at 1,473. The overall positivity rate was 6.91%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/states-lone-covid-19-death-reported-from-vizag-district/article33647886.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Birthday special||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/birthday-special/article33647476.ece
24 January 2021||Jammu,||150-metre cross-border tunnel found in Jammu||The Border Security Force on Saturday unearthed a 150 metre tunnel on the International Border in Jammu. This is the fourth such passage to be found in the past six months. A BSF spokesman said the 30 feet deep, cross-border tunnel was detected in the Pansar area. It opened near a fence erected by the BSF “to push trained and armed militants”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/150-metre-cross-border-tunnel-found-in-jammu/article33647298.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Elephant calf mourns its mother||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/elephant-calf-mourns-its-mother/article33647843.ece
24 January 2021||Kolkata,||Why not have four capitals, asks Mamata||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday suggested that India should have four capitals on a rotation basis. “Why shouldn’t Kolkata be the capital of the country — I am saying this because of our contribution to the freedom struggle... I will again urge the Centre that India should have four capitals — one in south, one in north, one in east and in northeast…,” she said at a gathering here after participating in a road show to pay tribute to Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. “Sudip da (Leader of the Trinamool Congress in the Lok Sabha, Sudip Banerjee), you should demand that Parliament sessions be held on a rotation basis in each of the four places,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/why-not-have-4-capitals-across-india-asks-mamata/article33647301.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Inspiring awe||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/inspiring-awe/article33647888.ece
24 January 2021||Patna,||Lalu Prasad’s health worsens, shifted to AIIMS||Rashtriya Janata Dal president Lalu Prasad was was shifted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in New Delhi on Saturday as his health deteriorated at the Ranchi-based Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS). Mr. Prasad, serving a prison sentence in several cases related to the fodder scam, has multiple ailments. “Lalu Prasad is having trouble breathing for the past two days. On Friday, he was found to be having pneumonia. Considering his age [72], we have decided to shift him to the AIIMS, Delhi, on the advice of a panel of doctors, for better treatment,” RIMS Director Kameshwar Prasad told presspersons. Jail authorities gave the approval for shifting him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lalu-prasads-health-worsens-shifted-to-aiims/article33647485.ece
24 January 2021||Hyderabad,||SSC exams from May 17 to 26||The Department of School Education has announced the academic calender for 2020-21 academic year with the Secondary School Certificate (SSC) examinations scheduled from May 17 to 26. Summer vacation will be from May 27 to June 13. Minimum attendance will not be mandatory to write the exams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ssc-exams-from-may-17-to-26/article33647603.ece
24 January 2021||New Delhi,||Vaccination achieves 86% of daily target in Delhi||On the fifth day of vaccination in the city on Saturday, a total of 6,967 healthcare workers — 86% of the target of 8,100 — were inoculated, which is the highest till now. Also, 24 adverse events following immunisation were reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vaccination-achieves-86-of-daily-target-in-delhi/article33647482.ece
24 January 2021||MANGALURU,||Exposing tribal children to the fine arts||At a time when the entire nation was focussing on online education because of COVID-19, a few tribal students of Uttara Kannada district got hands-on education on arts and crafts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/exposing-tribal-children-to-the-fine-arts/article33647757.ece
24 January 2021||Siliguri,||Cash, drugs seized in north Bengal; 2 arrested||A large amount of cash, drugs and a note counting machine were seized in two separate raids in West Bengal's Darjeeling and Jalpaiguri districts, police said on Saturday. The first raid was carried out by the Special Task Force at a house in Ashraf Nagar on Friday night. The second raid was at Fulbari and two residents of Haryana were arrested.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cash-drugs-seized-in-north-bengal-2-arrested/article33647704.ece
24 January 2021||Patna,||Lalu’s health worsens, shifted to Delhi AIIMS||Rashtriya Janata Dal president Lalu Prasad was shifted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in New Delhi on Saturday as his health deteriorated at the Ranchi-based Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences. Mr. Prasad, along with his wife and former Bihar Chief Minster Rabri Devi, took an air ambulance to Delhi on Saturday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lalus-health-worsens-shifted-to-delhi-aiims/article33647705.ece
24 January 2021||Srinagar,||Snowfall cuts off Kashmir Valley||A fresh spell of snowfall on Saturday cut off the Kashmir Valley from the rest of the country, as both air and surface traffic were affected. An official said flights were cancelled because the runway of the Srinagar airport was not feasible for landing and take-off.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/snowfall-cuts-off-kashmir-valley/article33647797.ece
24 January 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Hooda opposes changes to Haryana domicile rule||Leader of the Opposition in Haryana Bhupinder Singh Hooda opposed the changes in the rules reducing the time period needed to get domicile of the State. “The State government had issued a notification that allowed any person living in Haryana for 5 years to get a State domicile, reducing it from the earlier 15 years,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hooda-opposes-changes-to-haryana-domicile-rule/article33647798.ece
24 January 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra: NCB conducts raids in Pune and Thane||Continuing its raids since the arrest of Parvez Khan, a Dawood Ibrahim aide, this week, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Saturday conducted searches in Pune and Thane, a senior official said.In Pune, raids were conducted on the residence of a drug peddler, reported to be in touch with Khan. In the other raid in Thane, the NCB team nabbed a jeweller who was in touch with one of the arrested accused, who is a DJ and rapper, he said.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maharashtra-ncb-conducts-raids-in-pune-and-thane/article33647473.ece
24 January 2021||Patna,||Lalu’s health worsens, shifted to Delhi AIIMS||Rashtriya Janata Dal president Lalu Prasad was shifted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in New Delhi on Saturday as his health deteriorated at the Ranchi-based Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences. Mr. Prasad, serving a prison sentence in several cases related to the fodder scam, has multiple ailments. Mr. Prasad, along with his wife and former Bihar Chief Minster Rabri Devi, took an air ambulance to Delhi on Saturday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lalus-health-worsens-shifted-to-delhi-aiims/article33647477.ece
24 January 2021||COIMBATORE,||Rahul says State needs new thinking, new govt.||Tamil Nadu needs a new thinking and a new govern- ment, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi told a gathering at the SITRA-Kalapatti road junction on Saturday. The Congress will work with the people to provide the government that they deserved and they would be proud of, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rahul-says-state-needs-new-thinking-new-govt/article33647512.ece
24 January 2021||COIMBATORE,||Govt. will never let down Muslims: CM||The State government will always safeguard the rights of Muslims, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami told Jamaath leaders here on Saturday. He is in the city as part of his two-day election campaign in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-will-never-let-down-muslims-cm/article33647392.ece
24 January 2021||CHENNAI,||COVID-19 active cases fall below 5,000 in T.N.||The number of active COVID-19 cases fell below 5,000 in Tamil Nadu on Saturday. A total of 4,984 persons are under treatment. Chennai accounts for the most, with 1,749, and Perambalur the least, with three. The State saw 586 fresh cases and two deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-active-cases-fall-below-5000-in-tn/article33647393.ece
24 January 2021||Bengaluru,||SSLC answer scripts to have QR code||For the first time, the answer scripts for SSLC students will be affixed with QR code. The KSEEB has decided to introduce this to prevent malpractice. The exam is tentatively scheduled to take place from June 14 to 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sslc-answer-scripts-to-have-qr-code/article33647341.ece
24 January 2021||Hassan,||Blast: Police probing source of explosives||The Shivamogga police, probing the blast that occurred at Hunasodu in Shivamogga taluk, are looking for the source of the explosive and the way it was transported to the crushing unit. The district administration has clarified that only crushing of stones was allowed in the area and mining was prohibited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/blast-police-probing-source-of-explosives/article33647342.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Yemen’s rebels and revivalists||After the U.S. invasion of Iraq in 2003, when anti-Americanism was at its peak in the Muslim world, several Islamist organisations had tried to mobilise supporters riding the public sentiments. For the Houthis in northern Yemen, it was a tipping point. What started as a religious revivalist movement aimed at restoring the fading glory of the Zaydi sect of Islam, the Houthis, under the leadership of Hussein al-Houthi, were turning political. When the second intifada broke out in the Palestinian territories in 2000, the Houthis staged solidarity protests. They mobilised supporters against the U.S.’s war on Afghanistan in 2001. After the Iraq war, they adopted a new slogan, “Death to America, death to Israel, curse upon the Jews, victory to Islam”. Not many had foreseen back then that this tiny group of tribesmen from the Marran Mountains of the northern province Sa’dah would grow into the most powerful rebel war machine in Yemen and, within little over a decade, capture the capital Sana’a and establish their rule over much of the country. For the past six years, the Houthis have been controlling Sana’a, while attempts to dislodge them, including a Saudi-led military intervention, failed to meet their goals. The success story of the Houthis is also the story of one of the worst humanitarian crises of our times. The Saudi military intervention, the Houthi resistance and a separatist movement in the south have collectively turned Yemen into a humanitarian catastrophe. And then, there is Al-Qaeda of the Arabian Peninsula, exploiting the lawlessness and expanding its operations. Making matters worse, the administration of Donald Trump in the U.S. designated the Houthis a ‘terrorist organisation’ in its final days in office. This is expected to make providing aid to the Houthi-held territories and finding an eventual political solution to the crisis difficult. The ball is now in U.S. President Joe Biden’s court. The origins The roots of the Houthi movement can be traced to “Believing Youth” (Muntada al-Shahabal-Mu’min), a Zaydi revivalist group founded by Hussein al-Houthi and his father, Badr al-Din al-Houthi, in the early 1990s. Badr al-Din was an influential Zaydi cleric in northern Yemen. Inspired by the Iranian revolution of 1979 and the rise of Hezbollah in southern Lebanon in the 1980s, Badr al-Din and his sons started building vast social and religious networks among the Zaydis of Yemen, who make up roughly one-third of the Sunni-majority country population. The Zaydis are named after Zayd Bin Ali, the great grandson of Imam Ali. Zayd Bin Ali had led a revolt against the Ummayad Caliphate in the eighth century. He was killed, but his martyrdom led to the rise of the Zaydi sect. For centuries, the Zaydis were a powerful sect within Yemen. In the 16th century, they established an imamate and in the 17th, they ousted the Ottomans from Yemen. The imamate went into decline and got fractured in the 19th century, faced with challenges from repeated attacks from the Ottomans and the rising influence of Wahhabism in Arabia. After the collapse of the Ottoman Empire in 1918, the Zaydis, once again, consolidated power in northern Yemen and established the Mutawakkilite Kingdom. This lasted till 1962 when the Egypt-backed republicans overthrew the monarchy. When Badr al-Din al-Houthi and his son Hussein launched Believing Youth, the plan was to reorganise the Zaydi minority. But when the movement turned political and started attacking the “corrupt” regime of Ali Abdullah Saleh and his support for the U.S.’s war on terror, it became a thorn on Saleh’s side. They called themselves Ansar Allah (Partisans of God), mobilised tribesmen in the north against the government and chanted the “Death to America” slogans. In 2004, Saleh’s government issued an arrest warrant against Hussein al-Houthi. He resisted the arrest, starting an insurgency. In September, the government troops attacked the rebels and killed Hussein. Since then, the government launched multiple military campaigns in Sa’dah, the Zaydi stronghold, to end the resistance, which was locally called the Houthis movement, after their “martyred” leader. But the government’s heavy hand backfired. It only strengthened the Houthis, who, by 2010 when a ceasefire was reached, had captured Sa’dah from the government troops. March to Sana’a When protests broke out in Yemen in 2011 as part of the Arab Spring protests, the Houthis backed the agitation. President Saleh, a Zaydi who was in power for 33 years, resigned in November, handing the reins to his deputy, Abdrabbuh Mansur Hadi, a Saudi-backed Sunni. Yemen, under the tutelage of the Saudis and the Emiratis, started a national dialogue to resolve internal differences. The Houthis were part of the dialogue. But they fell out with the transition government of Mr. Hadi, claiming that the proposed federal solution, which sought to divide the Zaydi-dominated north into two land-locked provinces, was intended to weaken the movement. They soon got back to insurgency. Saleh, who was sidelined by the interim government and its backers, joined hands with his former rivals and launched a joint military operation. By January 2015, the Houthi-Saleh alliance had captured Sana’a and much of northern Yemen, including the vital Red Sea coast. (Later the Houthis turned against Saleh and the latter was killed in December 2017). The rapid rise of the Houthis in Yemen set off alarm bells in Riyadh which saw them as Iranian proxies. Saudi Arabia, under the new, young Defence Minister, Mohammed Bin Salman, started a military campaign in March 2015, hoping for a quick victory against the Houthis. But the Houthis had dug in, refusing to leave despite Saudi Arabia’s aerial blitzkrieg. With no effective allies on the ground and no way-out plan, the Saudi-led campaign lost its steam over the years. The U.S. and Saudi Arabia accuse Iran of backing the Houthis. In Saudi Arabia, both the Houthis and Iran found a common foe. In the past six years, the Houthis have launched multiple attacks on Saudi cities from northern Yemen in retaliation for Saudi air strikes. In 2019, the Houthis claimed the attack on two Saudi oil installations that knocked out, briefly, half of the kingdom’s oil output. The Houthis have established a government in the north. The Supreme Political Council, headed by its President, Mahdi al-Mashat, is the executive branch of their rule. Mohammed Ali al-Houthi, Hussein’s brother, leads the movement. There are serious allegations against both the Saudis and the Houthis in the war. While the Saudi bombings caused a large number of civilian deaths, the Houthis were accused, by rights groups and governments, of preventing aid, deploying forces in densely populated areas and using excessive force against civilians and peaceful protesters. The conflict appears to have entered a stalemate. Yemen, often dubbed the poorest Arab country, is now divided into three parts — the Houthi-controlled northern territories, the Southern Transition Council-controlled areas in the south (which has the backing of the UAE) and the rest held by the internationally recognised government of President Hadi. All sides are trying to maximise their interests with attempts to find a political solution reaching nowhere. In the meantime, Yemen’s suffering is mounting.  In Focus  The roots of the Houthi movement can be traced to ‘Believing Youth’, a Zaydi revivalist group founded by Hussein al-Houthi and his father Badr al-Din in the 1990s  In 2004, Hussein was killed by Yemeni troops, but the group he founded, called Houthis, after its leader, continued to the battle against the government  In 2014, three years after President Saleh resigned amid protests, the Houthis reached Sana'a, and by early 2015, they took over the city   Trump’s last-minute decision to designate the Houthis a terrorist outfit is likely to make providing aid to Yemenis and finding a political solution to the crisis difficult||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/yemens-rebels-and-revivalists/article33647265.ece
24 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Seven more States to deploy Covaxin||From next week, the Centre will expand access to Covaxin, a COVID-19 vaccine being developed by Bharat Biotech, to seven States in addition to the existing 12, the Union Health Ministry said in a briefing on Saturday. One more death — the first in a woman — following vaccination was reported in Gurugram, Haryana taking the tally to six. This too was attributed to cardiac failure and not linked to vaccination, a Ministry official said. Following the immunisation, 123 adverse events have been reported till 6 p.m. on the eighth day of the drive. So far, no severe or serious adverse events or death have been linked to the administration of vaccines, the Ministry said. Nearly 1.4 lakh were vaccinated until 6 p.m. with Maharashtra accounting for nearly 21,751 inoculations followed by Bihar at 12,165 and Andhra Pradesh at 11,562. This brings the number in the first week since the vaccination drive began to 15,37,190 healthcare workers. Across India, 27,776 sessions have been organised since last Saturday and ideally there should have been 2.7 million vaccinations so far. Accounting for today’s numbers, this works out to nearly 55% of the intended beneficiaries getting their inoculations. Eleven persons have been hospitalised so far. Sharing expertise A training of immunisation programme managers of 13 countries (Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Brazil, the Maldives, Mauritius, Mongolia, Morocco, Myanmar, Nepal, Oman, the Seychelles and Sri Lanka) using Indian vaccines was conducted by the Ministry covering all aspects of the roll-out spread over two days. The seven States administering Covaxin from next week would be Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Jharkhand, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab and West Bengal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/seven-more-states-to-deploy-covaxin/article33647253.ece
24 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||India, China to hold 9th round of talks today||India and China are scheduled to hold the ninth round of Corps Commander talks on Sunday after a long delay in the senior military-level talks to work out a phased disengagement and de-escalation along the disputed border in Eastern Ladakh. The talks will be held on the Chinese side at Moldo opposite Chushul, a defence source said. As the earlier round, the Indian side will be led by Lt. Gen. P.G.K. Menon, General Officer Commanding of the 14 Corps. Last November, officials said both sides are close to finalising a phased withdrawal plan of troops and equipment but there was no progress since in concluding it. With no breakthrough in several rounds of military and diplomatic-level talks, both sides have dug in for the harsh winter in the high-altitude region. The Indian stand continues to be complete disengagement and de-escalation along the entire Eastern ladakh. No progress After the sixth round on September 21, both sides for the first time issued a joint statement in which they agreed to “stop sending more troops to the frontline” and “refrain from unilaterally changing the situation on the ground”. There has been no progress towards resolution in the subsequent rounds. Early this month, Army chief Gen. Manoj Naravane said the forces were ready to hold the ground for as long as it takes along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) to achieve “national objectives”. He had also downplayed reports of Chinese troop withdrawal from the training areas in the depth which he said were 500-1,500 km away from the border and one should not lay “too much significance” on these comings and goings. With the long-term view, the Army is reorganising some of its strike elements from the western border to the northern border for deployment along the LAC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-china-to-hold-9th-round-of-talks-today/article33647243.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Settling the frontiers||Until 1996, there were only three residents in the border village of Yumai, located in Tibet in the foothills of the Himalayas, a few kilometres from the Line of Actual Control (LAC) that separates India and China. By 2011, 25 others would join Zhoigar, a Tibetan herder, and her two family members, but Yumai would still hold the distinction of China’s least populated village. It is, also, as remote as border villages come, a long 200-km drive from Lhunze, the county capital, which itself is a 400-km drive from Lhasa. All that would change in 2017, when the Tibet Autonomous Region (TAR) government embarked on a plan to build what it calls moderately well-off villages in border areas. Under the plan, 628 “first line and second line villages” — referring to those right on the border, like Yumai, and others in remote areas slightly further within — would be redeveloped in the prefectures of Ngari, Shigatse, Shannan, and Nyingchi, along China’s borders with India, Bhutan and Nepal. A total investment of 30.1 billion yuan (about Rs. 30,000 crore) was announced for the plan, covering 62,160 households and 2.4 lakh people. Under the plan, funds poured into Yumai. So did new residents brought in by the government, some of whom were herders living elsewhere in Tibet. Yumai’s population jumped seven-fold to 191 residents. New houses were built, as well as a hydropower generator and transmission infrastructure that connected the village to the national grid. Yumai became a model village for others on Tibet’s borders when in 2017, China’s President Xi Jinping sent a letter to Zhoigar, replying to a letter he had received from her, and mentioned her in his annual new year televised address. Mr. Xi praised her patriotism and said he hoped Yumai’s story “will motivate more herders to set down roots in the border area like galsang flowers, and become guardians of Chinese territory”. That same year, Zhoigar was nominated to China’s National People’s Congress (NPC), its ceremonial legislature, as a member of Parliament. Most of the projects envisioned under the 2017 plan, set to be completed by 2020, are now seeing fruition, with consequences for India and Bhutan, which share disputed borders with China. In some areas, small hamlets, with one or two herding households as was the case in Yumai, are being expanded into larger permanent settlements with authorities “stepping up efforts in relocating people to the border to boost both national security and quality of life”, as State media reported last year. Remote location Considering the remoteness of the location, national security appears to be the abiding priority. Some of the new settlements are in disputed territory, as in the case of the new village of Pangda, built last year 2-3 km into what Bhutan sees as its land. On January 18, another newly built village, barely 30 km from Yumai and 4-5 km into what India sees as its territory in Arunachal, came to light via satellite images, completed sometime before last November. Indian officials said this land has been under China’s effective control since 1959 and there were military barracks there. The civilian settlements are, however, a way for China to solidify its territorial claims and effectively settle the dispute unilaterally. In Shannan prefecture, border counties like Lhunze, where Yumai is located, and Cona, administer thousands of square kilometres of disputed territory along the LAC. Cona county alone covers 34,979 sq. km “of which 10,094 sq. km are in the LAC,” the Communist Party-run Global Times reported last year. The county last year began relocating 3,222 people from 960 families “to weakly controlled areas” right up to the LAC, the newspaper reported, with “distances between the relocation destinations and LAC [to be] shorter than 2 km in a straight line and 5 km on the ground”. Some of these settlements will likely be on what India sees as its territory, as the alignment of the LAC is in dispute in at least eight different areas in this sector. China has refused to exchange maps showing its claimed LAC. “The residents always patrol around and write ‘China’ with brushes and red paint on some mountain walls and stones,” the newspaper reported. “Some people also use stones to make five stars or sickles and axes of the Party emblem, and paint all the stones red.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/settling-the-frontiers/article33647267.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||The man who may succeed Merkel||Last week, 59-year-old Armin Laschet was elected the chairperson of the Christian Democratic Union (CDU), Germany’s ruling party. The CDU, along with its Bavarian sister party, the Christian Social Union (CSU), is in a grand coalition with Germany’s other major political formation, the Social Democratic Party (SDP). Mr. Laschet’s election is a significant development for two reasons: Germany goes to the polls in September, and Angela Merkel, who has led the CDU for nearly two decades, won’t be running for chancellorship again. Ms. Merkel has been a great force for stability at a time of polarisation, both within the CDU and the German polity as a whole. From 2005, she has helmed Europe’s dominant economy with a cool competence while piloting the European integration project through the difficult waters of hyper-nationalism, xenophobia, and economic crisis. There is thus a lot at stake on who succeeds Merkel. Mr. Laschet, a lawyer by training, is the premier of North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany’s most populous state. As a Merkel confidant, he is expected to continue her policies across the board, from economy to immigration and foreign policy. In the digital vote held on January 16, he won by a narrow margin of 521 to 466, polling 53% of the votes to beat his arch-conservative opponent Friedrich Merz. Split down the middle That Mr. Merz lost is a sign that the party is not yet ready to break with Ms. Merkel’s centrism, which has served it well so far. But that he got 47% of the votes indicates that the party is virtually split down the middle. Indeed, Germany has seen a steady erosion of the centrist space. While the centre-right CDU is getting outflanked by the far-right Alternative for Germany (AfD), the Greens have been gaining ground at the expense of the centre-left SDP. In this increasingly fragmented polity, Ms. Merkel’s successor faces two challenges: hold the CDU together by keeping both the conservatives and the liberals within the party happy; form an alliance with a suitable rival (mostly likely, the Greens) so that the CDU-CSU returns to power post-September. Having won the chairmanship of the party, Mr. Laschet has a head start. But not everyone is convinced he can step into Ms. Merkel’s shoes. The fate of his predecessor is a cautionary tale. In December 2018, Ms. Merkel’s handpicked successor, Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer (AKK), became the CDU chief. She was expected to run for German chancellorship. But she couldn’t hold the party together. In February 2020, in a regional election, the CDU unit of Thuringia defied her command, and the party line, to endorse a candidate supported by the AfD. AKK resigned, triggering yet another search for Ms. Merkel’s successor that has ended, for now, with Mr. Laschet. Popularity challenge Typically, but not necessarily, the party chief gets to run for the post of Chancellor. Mr. Laschet has won the leadership battle in the CDU, but he lacks in popularity. The CSU chief and Bavarian Premier Markus Soder is way ahead in the popularity charts. Within the CDU, Health Minister Jens Spahn has more mass appeal than Mr. Laschet. The popularity aspect and the fact that both Mr. Soder and Mr. Spahn have made no secret of their ambitions suggest that Mr. Laschet still has his work cut out convincing party front-benchers that he should be the one getting the chancellorship ticket. He will get a chance to prove himself when two States go to the polls in March. Nonetheless, while Mr. Laschet may not top popularity charts domestically, his election has elicited near unanimous approval internationally. Having served as a Member of the European Parliament, his commitment to pro-European politics is beyond question. His open stance on Huawei and the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline suggests that both China and Russia would be happy to see him in Ms. Merkel’s chair. With Donald Trump gone, the Biden administration in the U.S., too, would like someone who continues the Merkel line on pragmatic trans-atlanticism. Mr. Laschet is known to be a jolly, affable person. Sometimes jollity and an unassuming nature are excellent for masking ambition. That Mr. Laschet is today the frontrunner to succeed Ms. Merkel is proof that his rivals underestimate him at their peril.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-man-who-may-succeed-merkel/article33647263.ece
24 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||‘Sukhoi helped maritime security’||The resurrection of 222 Squadron at Thanjavur with Sukhoi-30 aircraft has paved the way for strengthening maritime security in the southern peninsula and maintaining Indian interests in the Indian Ocean region, Air Marshal Amit Tiwari, Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Southern Air Command (SAC), has said. Speaking at a Commanders’ Conference held at the SAC, Akkulam, on Saturday, he outlined efforts by the command in fast-tracking infrastructure development for fighters, deployment of radars, and successful conduct of Combined Guided Weapons Firing at Suryalanka on varied firing platforms. The Air Marshal expressed satisfaction over the induction of an additional indigenously built LCA (light combat aircraft) Tejas aircraft squadron at Sulur. The Air Force is in a highly accelerated growth stage and induction of indigenous systems is in tandem with the government’s ‘Make in India’ initiative, he said. At the conference, the Air Marshal reviewed the operations, maintenance, and administration activities undertaken by the SAC during the past year. He provided the Commanders with a vision for maritime operations in peninsular India for the next decade. He also emphasised the need to maintain a very high level of operational preparedness and orientation. Air Officers Commanding and Station Commanders of all Air Force Stations under the Southern Air Command attended the day-long conclave.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sukhoi-helped-maritime-security/article33647218.ece
24 January 2021||Kolkata,||Tug of war over Netaji’s legacy||The 125th birth anniversary celebration of Subhas Chandra Bose on Saturday turned into a tug of war between the Centre and State government, with each trying to appropriate the legacy of the national icon. With only a few months to go for the Assembly election in West Bengal, attempts to appropriate cultural icons like Netaji and Rabindranath Tagore are being made by the Trinamool Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party. The Union Culture Ministry had earlier this week announced that “in order to honour and remember Netaji’s indomitable spirit and selflessness to the nation, the Government of India has decided to celebrate his birthday on the 23rd day of January every year as Parakram Dibas”. While the Centre had announced the day to be observed as Parakram Divas (day of courage), Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee observed the day as Desh Nayak Divas (day of hero of nation). Prime Minister Narendra Modi participated in three events in the city, including a visit to Netaji’s ancestral house on Elgin Road, which serves as the Netaji Research Bureau. He later visited the National Library, where an art exhibition and international symposium on Netaji was inaugurated. He later participated in an event at the Victoria Memorial, and said the Centre would celebrate Netaji’s birthday as Parakram Divas every year. Earlier in the day, Ms. Banerjee visited the Netaji Research Bureau and participated in a roadshow from the Netaji statue at Shyam Bazaar to another statue of the national icon on Red Road. “I do not understand Parakram, whether it is Hindi word or Bengali word or an English word, but we understand that Netaji was the greatest Desh Nayak. Therefore, we are observing the day as Desh Nayak Divas,” Ms. Banerjee said. The title “Desh Nayak” was given to Netaji by Tagore, she said. The Chief Minister went on say that she was in touch with Netaji’s family “for 365 days, and not just before the election”. She also announced on social media that a monument named after the Azad Hind Fauj would be built at Rajarhat. “A university named after Netaji is also being set up,” she said. “Attempts are being made by the Trinamool to show that the BJP is alien to the culture of West Bengal. That is why the State’s ruling party goes into a hyper drive when the PM visits the city or Home Minister Amit Shah goes to Santiniketan,” Professor of political science at Rabindra Bharati University Biswanath Chakraborty told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tug-of-war-over-netajis-legacy/article33647241.ece
24 January 2021||IDUKKI,||Leopard killing: illegal wildlife trade suspected||The gang that trapped a leopard and killed it at Viripara, near Mankulam, is suspected to have close links with an inter-State gang involved in illegal wildlife trade. Forest officials arrested five persons on Friday on the charge of trapping and killing the animal. They also seized the skin, nails, and bones of the six-year-old leopard from a house where the accused had cooked and eaten it. Those arrested were identified as Mankulam residents Vinod, Kuriakose, Binu, Sali, and Vincent. Trapped on Wednesday A forest official said the area where the snare was set up was known for constant movement of wildlife, including leopards and tigers. The animal was watched at least for 15 days to set up the snare and it was trapped on Wednesday. It was moved to a house where it was killed and the meat cooked. The skin, nails, teeth, and bones were carefully removed to sell them in the illegal wildlife market, which is said to be active across the border. The way in which the skin was removed indicated that the gang was careful not to damage it as to claim maximum price in the market. Mankulam range officer V.B. Udayasooryan said the gang might have hunted animals earlier and it was evident that the leopard was trapped not for meat. The accused had cooked only a small portion of the meat just to taste it. They used only the meat from the thigh and the rest was was thrown into a nearby river. The motive of hunting the leopard was to sell its skin, nails and bones. The animal weighed around 50 kg and the accused carefully kept the body parts in the house. A probe was on into the contacts of the accused, he said. The nails and teeth are in demand in jewellery shops as they are used in lockets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/leopard-killing-illegal-wildlife-trade-suspected/article33647682.ece
24 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||AICC plots a new political course for Cong. in Kerala||A galaxy of top national leaders met here on Saturday to plot a definitive political course to help the State unit of the Congress shrug off its organisational sluggishness and win the Assembly elections in April. The import of the All India Congress Committee's (AICC) message to the State unit seemed clear. Candidate selection Including acceptability and factoring in caste, communal, gender and age demographic trends in candidate selection would pave the way for victory. So would building bridges with community leaders, social organisations and other influencers. Factional loyalty would not inform candidate selection henceforth. Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and AICC general secretaries Tariq Anwar and K.C. Venugopal reportedly conveyed the message to MLAs, MPs and Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee leaders during marathon meetings at Indira Bhavan here. The presence of the top officers also indicated that the AICC held the State unit in a vice-like grip. The national leadership has brought all leaders on board, including Oommen Chandy, Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala, KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran and United Democratic Front (UDF) convener M.M. Hassan as a microcosm of Kerala's diverse electorate. It has also banned open speculation about Chief Minister candidateship to prevent any mid-campaign power struggle. The AICC has asked the Election Management and Strategy Committee (EMSC) headed by Mr. Chandy to rebuild the party's election machinery from the rump. It has asked the Congress to mimic the district-level arrangement to catalyse its sluggish ward-level election machinery. Intra-party criticism By one account, the EMSC came under intra-party criticism for not having the youth on board. Several young MLAs and leaders had felt sidelined. The AICC prevented potentially embarrassing optics of veteran Congress leader K.V. Thomas deserting the party. It made a placatory gesture by hearing Prof. Thomas at the KPCC headquarters. However, the Congress was unlikely to accede to his demands to prevent possible copycat conduct on the part of other leaders. The Congress was also eyeing the "factional feud" over the Pala seat in the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) with political intent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aicc-plots-new-political-course-for-itself-in-kerala/article33647220.ece
24 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Judges recall dark days of Emergency||Justices N.V. Ramana and D.Y. Chandrachud of the Supreme Court on Saturday shared their personal experiences as students when the Emergency was declared in 1975, deeply affecting their lives. Justice Ramana, who is in line to be the next Chief Justice of India following the seniority norm, recounted how as an 18-year-old student, he escaped on a lorry from imminent arrest to his maternal aunt’s home with Rs. 10 in his pocket. Justice Chandrachud spoke of the personal insight he gained as a Delhi University law student, whose father was on the Bench, into the “tribulations of a judge grappling with his reconfigured role in this novel state of exception”. They were speaking at the virtual launch of a book The Law of Emergency Powers: Comparative Common Law Perspectives , authored by Abhishek Singhvi and  Khagesh Gautam. Justice Chandrachud narrated how the Emergency visited on the nation an “unprecedented destruction of civil liberties in the garb of curbing internal disturbances”. He said the Emergency served as “harrowing reminder of State excess”. Lessons learnt Justice Ramana said the Emergency taught him much about the “human tragedies of hunger, pain and suffering”. “My transformative years as a student were deeply impacted by the 21-month Emergency between 1975 and 1977. Ours was the first Emergency batch in Delhi University. One of the first consequences which emanated from that was the ragging which we had to undergo at the university was meagre as compared to wilder tradition of the university,” Justice Chandrachud said. He recounted that students like him were witness to the indoctrination and the “black arts of the 20-point programme” during the Emergency during the bus journeys to the varsity. He was also privy to some of the speeches delivered by some of the most leading examples or crusaders of personal liberty. Justice Chandrachud referred to the lockdowns, restrictions on movement and enhanced powers of the Executive during the pandemic, which he described as one of the largest global disrupters in a century. Necessary steps However he said these steps were considered a “pervasive phenomenon necessary to tailor a state infrastructure to battle a deadly virus”. “In the face of mortality, one could not simply argue for their fundamental right to travel freely. Even if a state of emergency was not declared in India, several executive actions were taken to meet the challenges of the extraordinary challenge. The judiciary, as a counter-majoritarian institution, in times of such state crisis, has to adopt a much finer line of judicial review over executive action that is dealing with medical novelties to preserve public health,” Justice Chandrachud said on the pandemic. Justices S.K. Kaul and Surya Kant, also spoke at the virtual event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/judges-recall-dark-days-of-emergency/article33647289.ece
24 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Draft policy to help grow nano, micro enterprises||A new policy on the anvil, the Udyog Sahayak Enterprises Network (USENET), may give a major fillip to the growth-stunted nano and micro-enterprises in India’s informal sector. The proposed framework, whose draft was jointly put together by the Azim Premji University, the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI), and the Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS), is aimed at providing a slew of growth-driven services to over 62 million nano and micro-enterprises that currently employ over 100 million people. By enabling scale-up, the draft claims, USENET can aid in the creation of an additional 10.3 million jobs over five years, going up to nearly 56.9 million jobs over 10 years. Each of these small enterprises currently has one to three employees, and if given a boost, they have the potential to grow and create a large number of jobs, says the draft. If the value-added per worker can be computed, according to the draft, it could bring in a 12% nominal growth in GVA (gross asset value), amounting to an economic value of Rs. 2.16 lakh crore in five years and over Rs. 19 lakh crore at the end of 10 years. T. Muralidharan, chairman, FICCI, Telangana State Council, and co-author of the report said, “Through USENET, we are trying to create a countrywide entrepreneurial network. The platform will give millions of nano and micro-enterprises, which are facing harassment and growth challenges, information on policies, schemes and credit options, and visibility to lenders and customers, thereby help them grow and go digital.” Report co-author and faculty member at Azim Premji University, Amit Basole, noted that rather than creating more nano-entrepreneurs, the country has to help existing MSEs grow in size. “We can do this by creating a support system which enables them to go digital, avail of government schemes, adopt new technologies, and increase productivity. This will create millions of new jobs,” he said. According to co-authors of the proposal, the draft is currently under review by the group of ministers and the PMO. The Union government is likely to sanction upto Rs. 5,000 crore to part-fund CAPEX to set up at least 19 lakh USENET centres. Each of these centres will be headed by a Udyog Sahayak, who will have a mandate to help and monitor the growth of 15 to 50 enterprises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/draft-policy-to-help-grow-nano-micro-enterprises/article33647215.ece
24 January 2021||New Delhi,||Congress faces twin challenges||A day after the stormy meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC), party leaders on Saturday conveyed a sense of urgency with regard to preparations for elections in States such as Tamil Nadu and Kerala. While former party chief Rahul Gandhi embarked on a three-day tour of Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, who had taken on the group of 23 dissenters (G-23) during Friday’s CWC meet, was in Thiruvananthapuram to oversee the first meeting of Kerala's election management committee. Referring to the series of meetings in Kerala, AICC general secretary (organisation) K.C. Venugopal tweeted, “We all resolved to put up a united front in the coming election.” The task looks more difficult when it comes to party’s central leadership, given the sharp divisions between the G-23 and loyalists of the Gandhi family now. By pushing the party’s presidential election until June, the loyalists have bought time to convince former party chief Rahul Gandhi to once again take over the reins. Their calculation is that if the party does well in Puducherry, and Tamil Nadu as part of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK)-led alliance, and wrests Kerala from the Left Democratic Front (LDF) , Mr. Gandhi can be convinced to return as party chief. Mr. Gandhi, however, steadfastly avoided speaking about the issue even when party leaders asked him to reconsider his resignation. No going back While the G-23 may shed their reservation about Mr. Gandhi coming back, it is clear that they do not want to leave decision-making the “sole prerogative” of the Gandhi family. “The letter writers have stuck to their guns and won’t back off. Timing is crucial as the party needs to be fighting fit well ahead of the 2024 to take on the BJP,” said a G-23 member who's not part of the CWC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-faces-twin-challenges/article33647236.ece
24 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Security tightened across Delhi for Republic Day||Following Intelligence inputs, the Delhi Police have deployed personnel at power substations and grids, after banned terrorist outfit Sikhs For Justice (SFJ) gave a call to agitating farmers to “plunge Delhi into darkness on Republic Day” by targeting the offices of power distribution companies and cutting power supply. The order copy signed by the Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Branch) says supporters of the U.S.-based SFJ were planning to cut off power supply on January 25 and 26. The organisation supports the Khalistan movement, the secession of Punjab from India as Khalistan. The BSES, the power supply company of Delhi, said it had received an input from the SFJ. The SFJ is known to incite gullible youth into committing acts of arson and violence. Some youth recently damaged mobile towers in Punjab.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/security-tightened-across-delhi-for-republic-day/article33647239.ece
24 January 2021||Patna,||Lalu’s health worsens, shifted to AIIMS||Rashtriya Janata Dal president Lalu Prasad was was shifted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in New Delhi on Saturday as his health deteriorated at the Ranchi-based Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS). Mr. Prasad, serving a prison sentence in several cases related to the fodder scam, has multiple ailments. “Lalu Prasad is having trouble breathing for the past two days. On Friday, he was found to be having pneumonia. Considering his age [72], we have decided to shift him to the AIIMS, Delhi, on the advice of a panel of doctors, for better treatment,” RIMS Director Kameshwar Prasad told presspersons. Jail authorities gave the approval for shifting him. Mr. Prasad, along with his wife and former Bihar Chief Minster Rabri Devi, took an air ambulance to Delhi on Saturday evening. The former Bihar Chief Minister was sent to the Birsa Munda Central Jail in Ranchi in December 2017. Later, he was admitted to the pay ward of the RIMS. When the COVID-19 pandemic broke out, Mr. Prasad was shifted to the hospital Director’s residence, known as Kelly Bungalow, to protect him from the virus. However, he was brought back to the pay ward on November 26, 2020, following an allegation that he was making phone calls to Janata Dal(U) MLAs seeking their help in defeating the National Democratic Alliance candidate for the Bihar Assembly Speaker’s post. On Friday, the Jharkhand High Court heard about the violation of the jail manual by Mr. Prasad. The case will be next heard on February 5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lalus-health-worsens-shifted-to-aiims/article33647251.ece
24 January 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Centre carries out bureaucratic reshuffle||Ahead of the Union Budget, the Modi administration on Saturday carried out a reshuffle with appointments of Secretaries in crucial Ministries. The appointments include that of the 1985-batch IAS officer Deepak Khandekar as Secretary in the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT). He has been shifted from the Tribal Affairs Ministry. Water Resources Secretary U.P. Singh, also of the 1985 batch, has been made Textiles Secretary. Mines and water Alok Tandon has been appointed Secretary in the Mines Ministry. Mr. Tandon, a 1986-batch IAS officer, is serving in his parent cadre State of Uttar Pradesh. Pankaj Kumar, Chief Executive Officer, Unique Identification Authority of India, has been appointed Water Resources Secretary. Tourism Secretary Yogendra Tripathy has been moved as Secretary, Chemicals and Petrochemicals, while Rajesh Chaturvedi has been shifted from there to the Department of Fertilizers as Secretary. Arvind Singh, Chairman of the Airports Authority of India, has been made Tourism Secretary. The Gujarat-cadre IAS officer B.B. Swain, Special Secretary in the Commerce Ministry, has been appointed Secretary in the Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME). Outgoing Secretary of the MSME Ministry A.K. Sharma recently took voluntary retirement to join the BJP in Uttar Pradesh. In the latest round, over a dozen senior IAS officers were appointed or reshuffled in the Central administration. The appointment orders were issued by the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet headed by the Prime Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-carries-out-bureaucratic-reshuffle/article33647290.ece
24 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Kerala gears up for vaccination Phase 2||The second phase of COVID-19 vaccination will begin in the State after February 15, Health Minister K.K. Shylaja has said. Priority would be given to COVID-19 front-line warriors once health workers are covered, the Minister said here on Saturday. The government was planning to increase the number of vaccination centres to 249 with each district equipped with at least 14 centres. Action plan With the State set to ramp up the vaccination drive, the Health Department has drawn up an action plan for the upcoming phase. Health workers who have received the first shot of the Covishield vaccine will be ready for their final jab by February 13. The schedule had been designed such that the first phase was completed by February 15 and the second phase would start soon after, the Minister said. In all, 4,87,306 persons, including health-care workers and front-line warriors, have registered for receiving the vaccination. Of the total registrations, 3,93,345 are health workers, including 1,86,017 from the government sector and 2,07,328 from the private sector. As many as 2,965 Central government health workers also have enrolled. Meanwhile, the registration of COVID-19 warriors was progressing in the State. So far, 75,572 employees under the Home Department, 6,600 municipal workers and 8,824 Revenue Department staff had registered their names. Increasing the number of vaccination centres forms a key component of the action plan formulated by the department. The State was allotted 133 vaccination centres in the first phase. In all, 141 centres are now equipped for the vaccination programme. The plan is to increase it to 249 in the next stage. Under this plan, 38 centres will be equipped in Ernakulam district and 30 in Thiruvananthapuram. Every district would have at least 14 vaccination centres, she said. Initially, the government had allocated four days a week for the vaccination (Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Friday). But the districts could make changes to ramp up the vaccination drive, the Minister said. Health workers scheduled to receive the shot would be alerted 48 hours in advance. The vaccination centres have been directed to administer the vaccine to other registered health workers if they cannot make it on the designated day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-gears-up-for-vaccination-phase-2/article33647221.ece
24 January 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra to unlock history in prisons||The Maharashtra government is set to launch “jail tourism” under which historically significant jails in Maharashtra, which are still being used as penal centres, will be opened to visitors to see the barracks where freedom fighters were imprisoned by the British. “Pune’s Yerawada Jail will be opened for first-of-its-kind jail tourism from January 26,” said Home Minister Anil Deshmukh. Mr. Deshmukh said freedom fighters including Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru, Sarojini Naidu, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, Motilal Nehru, Lokmanya Tilak and Subhas Chandra Bose were imprisoned by the British in different jails in Maharashtra during the freedom struggle. “Thane, Nasik, Dhule, Pune, Ratnagiri are a few places in Maharashtra where these great freedom fighters were imprisoned by British. All these jails have a significant historical value. The barracks where these great personalities were kept are preserved as memorials which remind us the dedication of these personalities in winning freedom,” the Minister said. On Republic Day, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, along with Deputy CM Ajit Pawar, will inaugurate the project at Yerawada Jail. “The famous Poona Pact between Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar and Mahatma Gandhi took place beneath a mango tree at Yerawada jail. In 1899, the Chapekar brothers were given death sentence in this jail. Schools, colleges, educational institutions will be given the chance to see these historic places under the jail tourism project,” he said, adding that no outsiders have been allowed on these premises so far. Terrorists Jinda and Sukha, who murdered General Vaidya, and Mumbai attack convict Ajmal Kasab were all hanged in the same jail. Mr. Deshmukh said tourists will be provided with a guide and the number of visitors will be restricted to 50 a day. Those who want to visit should apply online to the Yerawada Jail Superintendent at yerwadacpmh@gov.in or spycppune@gmail.com on a institution’s letter head including names of visitors, stating the purpose of the visit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-to-unlock-history-in-prisons/article33647249.ece
24 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||CPI(M) terms Chandy a spent force||Former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy is a spent force, says Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] acting secretary A. Vijayaraghavan. According to Mr. Vijayaraghavan, Mr. Chandy could provide no impetus to the United Democratic Front’s (UDF) flailing Assembly election campaign. Mr. Chandy ran the UDF to ruin in the 2015 elections. The monuments of his corruption, including the Palarivattom flyover, remained stark in public memory. Most of Chandy’s Cabinet colleagues were battling corruption cases. Several more faced criminal cases. The Chandy government was steeped in moral degeneracy, he said. Elevating Mr. Chandy as head of the so-called Election Management and Strategy Committee (EMSC) of the Congress was mere high-sounding posturing. Mr. Chandy and Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) leader P.K. Kunhalikutty were bedfellows and part of the clique that had aligned the Congress with Islamist and Hindu majoritarian forces. The Congress had attempted to benefit from the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) bid to use cherry-picked leaks from Central agencies to tarnish the government. Voters had rejected their recriminatory politics in the local body polls, he said. LDF confident The LDF was on a winning streak. It would sweep back to power in the Assembly elections on the strength of its governance record and political programme. The LDF would fight the polls on a secular, pro-welfare, and development platform. The LDF would keep the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) within its fold. The CPI(M) had not discussed accommodating Congress leader K. V. Thomas. The LDF would meet on January 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/oommen-chandy-a-spent-force-cpim/article33647683.ece
24 January 2021||PALAKKAD,||Further probe in Walayar case ordered||A POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) court here on Saturday sanctioned further investigation in the sensational Walayar case in which two minor sisters had been found hanging in their house in mysterious circumstances four years ago. District Additional Sessions Judge S. Murali Krishna, who is also the district POCSO judge, permitted the special investigation team (SIT) to inquire the case again. The SIT, formed by the government after the High Court quashed the POCSO court’s verdict acquitting all accused in the case, had approached the trial court (POCSO court) seeking permission for further investigation. In effect, it will be a reinvestigation by the special investigation team led by Railway Police Superintendent R. Nishantini and Crime Branch Superintendent A.S. Raju. The case had acquired sensational dimensions and widespread media attention when the POCSO court here exonerated all accused following the failure of the prosecution and the investigators in providing scientific evidence. The victims’ parents approached the High Court seeking a reinvestigation and launched protests together with the Walayar Action Council seeking punitive action against the police officers who investigated the case. Special investigation team members said they would go through the entire procedural formalities of investigation and were hopeful of building a solid case. Two of the accused, V. Madhu and N.T. Shibu, were remanded in judicial custody until February 5. Another accused, M. Madhu, was granted bail by the High Court. The third accused, Pradeep, committed suicide a few weeks ago. The fifth accused in the case was a minor, who is being tried by the Juvenile Justice Board.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/further-probe-in-walayar-case-ordered/article33647346.ece
24 January 2021||Hassan,||Shivamogga blast exposes illegal mining||The Shivamogga police, probing the blast that occurred at Hunasodu in Shivamogga taluk, are looking for the source of the explosive and the way it was transported to the crushing unit. The district administration has clarified that only crushing of stones was allowed in the area and mining was prohibited. Going by the incident, it is clear that owners of the unit were into mining illegally. The mining operation involves blasts, for which explosives are required. They were into the production of M-sand. Explosive material A person in the neighbouring area, who is into stone crushing, told The Hindu that crushing units were dependant on the raw materials (boulders) extracted in other areas. “When sufficient raw material is not available, those who had invested huge money to set up the crushing unit, go for mining,” he said. The technical experts who visited the spot have collected samples to ascertain the actual explosive stocked at the site. However, it is said that it could be ammonium nitrate, normally used in the mining areas. “Nobody keeps a huge stock of the explosives at the working place, as it is highly risky. There are designated suppliers, who bring the huge stock from a distant place and distribute it to those who need. There are strict guidelines on how to transport them. However, those into illegal trade ignore them. Each unit would stock a small quantity of the material required for a week. Some suppliers claim they bring it from other States. But only they know the truth,” he said. The local people and some Congress leaders have raised doubts about how explosive material could reach the site, without the knowledge of the police or the other departments. If it were supplied from other States, the vehicle could have passed through many check-posts. Bodies identified Meanwhile, the police have identified the deceased as Praveen, Manjunath of Antaragange in Bhadravati taluk, Pawan, Javed and Raju of Rayadurga in Andhra Pradesh. The identity of one more person is yet to be ascertained. Their relatives have reached Shivamogga to take the bodies. It is said the two persons, natives of Bhadravati taluk, had contacts with suppliers of the explosive material. The police are probing from where they brought it. Cases booked The Shivamogga Rural police registered a case on Saturday against three people — Sudhakar, who holds the lease of the crushing unit, his associate Narasimha, and Avinash Kulkarni, owner of the land. The three have been arrested. The case has been registered on charges of violating rules as per the Explosives Act, 1884, Explosive Substances Act, 1908, negligent conduct with respect explosive substance (286 of IPC) and culpable homicide not amounting to murder (304 of IPC).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/shivamogga-blast-exposes-illegal-mining/article33647213.ece
24 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Indonesia makes room for an Indian hero||Tucked away inside the Indonesian Embassy in New Delhi is a special room — one that has been built in recognition of the nation’s freedom struggle from Dutch colonialism 74 years ago, and named, unusually, for an Indian leader, Biju Patnaik. The former Chief Minister of Odisha (1990-1995), who was a skilled pilot, flew several missions in 1947 to transport Indonesian leaders, including the nation’s tallest leader, President Sukarno, Vice-President Hatta and Prime Minister Sutan Sjahrir out of Indonesia, at grave risk to himself. “We wanted to build a living memorial that would not just be a museum, so we decided that our meeting and videoconference room would be named the Bjiu Patnaik Room,” says Hanafi, the Cultural and Social Counsellor at the Embassy, who helped execute the project that was completed by Indonesian Ambassador Sidhartho Suryodipuro this month, before he ended his tenure in Delhi. On the walls of the Biju Patnaik room are photographs, newspaper clippings and letters that document Mr. Patnaik’s secret assignments to fly out the Indonesian leaders, as well as his relations with the Indonesian leadership.  Eventually, Indonesia won back its freedom. In 1950, President Sukarno was the chief guest at India’s first Republic Day, and India-Indonesia ties remained strong for the next decade. Souring of ties A letter in the Patnaik room also tells the tale of how relations between the two countries soured after Indonesia didn’t support India in the 1962 war with China. Hoping to sway President Sukarno, Mr. Patnaik wrote to him in November 1962, “Today, through an irony of fate, our freedom is in danger. I do hope and pray that Sukarno, the man of destiny of Indonesia, would not forget his brothers-in-arms in India, in their hour of darkness.” Relations were revived only decades later, when in 2005, India and Indonesia signed a Strategic Partner- ship agreement; military exchanges and trade ties have grown since. The newly-inaugurated Patnaik room, is a reminder not only of the historical bonds between the two countries, but the imperative of keeping ties strong in the present as well, diplomats at the Embassy say.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/indonesia-makes-room-for-an-indian-hero/article33647292.ece
24 January 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab to build fiscal information platform||The Punjab government has signed an agreement with the eGovernments (eGov) Foundation to build a first-of-its-kind fiscal information exchange platform to enable better management of public finance in the State. The platform will facilitate real-time availability of financial information to the stakeholders for data-driven and efficient deployment of public funds and policy making. The not-for-profit eGovernments Foundation was founded by Nandan Nilekani and Srikanth Nadhamuni in 2003. “An extensive study has been conducted to understand the public finance challenges of the State and how modern day technology can become an enabler to resolve them. Over the next two years, with the implementation of this platform, the State aims to build tools to monitor and track its financial health by building agility to adapt to dynamic and evolving needs such that available funds can be deployed actively to meet its development agenda and priorities,” State Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan told The Hindu on Saturday. Ms. Mahajan said the vision of the project was to make Punjab a “lighthouse State” for effective public finance management by building resilient and efficient technological tools. The platform is being co-designed by the Punjab government and eGov with experts from multilateral organisations and public policy consultancies. The project is in sync with the data-driven governance mandate under the Punjab State Data Policy, 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/punjab-to-build-fiscal-information-platform/article33647489.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Indonesia makes room for an Indian hero||A letter in the Patnaik room also tells the tale of how relations between the two countries soured after Indonesia didn’t support India in the 1962 war with China. Hoping to sway President Sukarno, Mr. Patnaik wrote to him in November 1962, “Today, through an irony of fate, our freedom is in danger. I do hope and pray that Sukarno, the man of destiny of Indonesia, would not forget his brothers-in-arms in India, in their hour of darkness.” Relations were revived only decades later, when in 2005, India and Indonesia signed a Strategic Partner- ship agreement; military exchanges and trade ties have grown since. The newly-inaugurated Patnaik room, is a reminder not only of the historical bonds between the two countries, but the imperative of keeping ties strong in the present as well, diplomats at the Embassy say.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/indonesia-makes-room-for-an-indian-hero/article33647579.ece
24 January 2021||Hyderabad,||SSC exams in Telangana to be held from May 17||The Department of School Education has announced the academic calender for 2020-21 academic year with the Secondary School Certificate (SSC) examinations scheduled from May 17 to 26. The department has worked out the schedule of 89 working days for Classes 9 and 10 when they open from February 1 and function till May 26. Summer vacation will be from May 27 to June 13. However, the total working days for the year have been calculated as 204, including 115 days from September 1, 2020 to January 30, 2021 when digital classes were held. Minimum attendance will not be mandatory to write the exams for students of all the classes. No child will be withheld from writing the examinations on any grounds, the academic calendar says. The schools will operate from 9.30 a.m. to 4.45 p.m. in the districts while they will function from 8.45 a.m. to 4 p.m. in Hyderabad and Secunderabad. Online and digital classes for class 10 class will be held from 10 a.m. to 11 a.m. and for class 9 from 4 p.m. to 5 p.m. As per the calender, the Formative Assessment-1 (FA1) will be completed by March 15 and the FA-2 by April 15. The summative assessment will be done from May 7 to 13. Students will have to do a project work and assignments covering 30% of the syllabus to be completed at home with the help of teachers and parents. This syllabus, however, will not be part of the final exams or the internal assesments. Exams would cover the remaining 70% syllabus to be taught in schools and online. The schools will have to organise regular health check-ups for students and arrange isolation rooms for staff and students with Covid-19 symptoms. Parents’ meetings are also must before the reopening of schools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ssc-exams-in-telangana-to-be-held-from-may-17/article33647216.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Why not have four capitals, asks Mamata||“Sudip da (Leader of the Trinamool Congress in the Lok Sabha, Sudip Banerjee), you should demand that Parliament sessions be held on a rotation basis in each of the four places,” she added.  Ms. Banerjee said, “We are not parochial. We are saying it for everyone.” She questioned why a capital should not come up in the south in Tamil Nadu, Kerala or Karnataka, in the north in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab or Rajasthan and similarly in the east in Kolkata. The Chief Minister called for a change in attitude towards the States. Quoting the BJP’s oft repeated slogans, she said, “The attitude needs to be changed… one leader, one nation, one ration card, one nation... one political party, one nation ... what is the valuation?” Later in the day, while participating in another event at the Victoria Memorial along with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Chief Minister expressed her annoyance to slogans, including “Jai Shri Ram”, being raised at the venue. “I think government programmes should have a dignity. It is not a programme organised by a political party... I am thankful to the Prime Minister and Ministry of Culture for holding the event here in Kolkata,” Ms. Banerjee said. She went on to say that “disrespecting someone by inviting them to an event” does not speak well of the organisers, adding that in protest, she would not address the gathering. The Chief Minister then ended her speech abruptly with, “Jai Hind, Jai Bangla”. Ms. Bannerjee, however, attended the entire programme that ran for almost an hour after the incident. The development evoked strong reactions from both the BJP and the Trinamool Congress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/why-not-have-4-capitals-across-india-asks-mamata/article33647229.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||150-metre cross-border tunnel found in Jammu||The official added that the structure was detected between the Border Posts 14 and 15. The BSF said two Pakistan outposts, identified as Abhiyal Dogra and Kingre-de-kothe in Sakargarh district, are located opposite the area where the tunnel was dug up. The BSF had shot down a Pakistan drone carrying weapons and ammunition in the same area in June 2020. “An infiltration bid was also foiled in November 2019 in the same area,” the BSF said. A tunnel, around 150 metre long and 15 to 20 foot deep and around 3 foot wide, was detected on November 22 last year. On January 13, another such tunnel, around 30 foot deep and 150 metre long, was spotted in Jammu’s Samba district. The tunnel unearthed on Saturday is the fourth such tunnel busted in the past six months in Jammu’s Samba, Hiranagar and Kathua areas. “Around 10 such tunnels were unearthed in the Jammu region in the past one year,” officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/150-metre-cross-border-tunnel-found-in-jammu/article33647231.ece
24 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||HAL to deliver three combat helicopters soon||Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd. (HAL) is scheduled to deliver the first batch of three indigenous light combat helicopters (LCH) to the Army and the Air Force before March 31, a defence official said. They are part of the 15 limited series production (LSP) LCHs approved by the Defence Acquisition Council. “HAL has received the Letter of Intent from Army and Air Force. Once the order is given, it will deliver the remaining 12 helicopters of the LSP in the next financial year,” the source said. Early this month, the Defence Ministry said in its annual report that the contracts for the procurement of the LCH from HAL, additional Harop (P-IV) loitering drones from Israel and the upgrade of unmanned aerial vehicles in service were “likely to be signed in the first quarter of 2021”. The Army variant of the light utility helicopter (LUH), which has completed all tests and also demonstrated its high-altitude capability last September, is scheduled to receive its initial operational clearance at the Aero India show, which will be held in Bengaluru from February 3. The LCH and the LUH along with the weaponised ALH will be showcased inside the Indian pavilion at Aero India. The LUH, a three-tonne helicopter, is positioned as replacement for the Cheetah and Chetak helicopters. According to HAL, it can fly at 220 kmph.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hal-to-deliver-three-combat-helicopters-soon/article33647233.ece
24 January 2021||Srinagar,||Snowfall cuts off road, air links to Kashmir||A fresh spell of snowfall on Saturday cut off the Kashmir Valley from the rest of the country, as both air and surface traffic were affected. An official said flights were cancelled because the runway of the Srinagar airport was not feasible for landing and take-off due to snow accumulation. “The disruption in the air traffic is expected if the snowfall continues. Any final decision on cancellation of flights will be taken only after the real time assessment,” the official said. The Srinagar-Jammu National Highway, which runs through the Qazigund area of south Kashmir, was also closed to traffic. “No vehicular movement shall be allowed on Jammu-Srinagar highway from either side on January 25 in view of the shooting stones and mudslides at several places on the road and snow accumulation around the Jawahar Tunnel,” a Traffic Department official said. Mussarat-ul-Islam, Deputy Commissioner, Ramban, which is a major stop on the Srinagar-Jammu highway, directed local officials “to make necessary arrangements for stranded passengers in designated shelter sheds”. “Officers should stay at their headquarters to deal with any emergency that may arise due to the rain and snowfall. Men and machinery have also been put on alert,” Mr. Islam said. According to official figures, the plains of Kupwara and Baramulla in north Kashmir received six to eight inches of snowfall; Srinagar, Budgam and Ganderbal in central Kashmir received four to eight inches and the plains of south Kashmir three to six inches. “Kulgam’s Ahrabal received the highest — 12 inches of snowfall,” the official said. “The weather system is likely to persist during the next eight to 10 hours and gradually improve thereafter,” the meteorological department said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/snowfall-cuts-off-kashmir-valley/article33647259.ece
24 January 2021||Geneva,||WHO chief thanks Modi for ‘continued support’||World Health Organization chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus on Saturday thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his continued support to the global COVID-19 response, saying acting together, including sharing of knowledge, will help in combating the novel coronavirus. “Thank you, India and Prime Minister Narendra Modi for your continued support to global COVID-19 response. Only if we act together, including sharing of knowledge, can we stop this virus and save lives and livelihoods,” tweeted Mr. Ghebreyesus, WHO’s Director-General. On January 19, India announced its assistance of vaccines to the neighbouring countries. A day after, 1.5 lakh doses of vaccines were supplied to Bhutan and one lakh doses to the Maldives. Over 2 million doses of COVID-19 vaccines were provided to Bangladesh and 1 million doses to Nepal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/who-chief-thanks-modi-for-continued-support/article33647256.ece
24 January 2021||Chennai,||Perarivalan’s advocate writes to T.N. Governor||The advocate of Perarivalan, convict in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case, has written to Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit, appealing to provide solace to the convict and his aged parents and alleviate their sufferings. In his letter, advocate-on-record K. Paari Vendan said Perarivalan was suffering from multiple co-morbidities, including systemic hypertension, chronic prostatitis, gout arthritis and irritable bowel syndrome, among others. While he had suffered 29 years of imprisonment, his aged parents were running from pillar to post to get premature release for their son. It was essential to note that a key investigating official, then in the Special Investigation Team that probed the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case, had gone on record stating that he did not record the “exculpatory” part of Perarivalan’s confessional statement while in custody “which means that my client Mr. A.G. Perarivalan could be innocent and due to lack of any legal recourse he is still languishing in jail”, his advocate wrote. Mr. Vendhan said the investigation officers, the officer who recorded Perarivalan’s confessional statement and others were all asking for his release as their conscience had prodded them to do so. “Now it is in your good office to consider and provide solaces to these long-pained souls. Please do justice, alleviate their sufferings,” he said. Sources in the State government said Perarivalan, lodged in the Puzhal central prison here, had petitioned for 30 days’ parole for undergoing treatment in a private hospital in Villupuram. The petition was submitted days before the hearing on remission came up before the Supreme Court a couple of days ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/perarivalans-advocate-writes-to-tn-governor/article33647257.ece
24 January 2021||New Delhi,||Ban on Chinese apps will stay, says govt. notice||The government has sent notices to Chinese apps, including TikTok, that the order to block them will be continued. The notice has been issued by the Ministry of Electronics and IT after reviewing replies of blocked apps, according to a source who did not wish to be identified. When contacted, TikTok confirmed that it had received a notice from the government. “We are evaluating the notice and will respond to it as appropriate. TikTok was among the first companies to comply with the government of India directive issued on June 29, 2020. We continually strive to comply with local laws and regulations and do our best to address any concerns the government may have. Ensuring the privacy and security of all our users remains to be our topmost priority,” a TikTok spokesperson said. The government had blocked 59 Chinese apps in June and 118 more, including PUBG mobile game, in September. The Ministry of Information Technology had blocked the apps under Section 69A of the Information Technology Act after learning that they may be used for “activities prejudicial to the sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-lifting-of-ban-on-chinese-apps-says-notice/article33647261.ece
24 January 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Hooda opposes changes to Haryana domicile rule||Leader of the Opposition in the Haryana Assembly Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Saturday opposed the changes in the rules reducing the time period needed to get domicile of the State. “The State government had issued a notification that allowed any person living in Haryana for 5 years to get a State domicile, reducing it from the earlier 15 years,” he said. Mr. Hooda said on the one hand the government is seeking to provide 75% reservation for ‘Haryanvis’ even in private jobs, while on the other, it is reducing the time period for domicile. Mr. Hooda said he was not against the people of other States. But it was the responsibility of the government to first safeguard the rights of the people of its State, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hooda-opposes-changes-to-haryana-domicile-rule/article33647237.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||World is watching new India, says Prime Minister||During his speech of more than 40 minutes, Mr. Modi referred to a question that Netaji asked his nephew Sisir Bose before executing the daring escape from the country in January 1941. Netaji had asked his nephew in Bengali “Amar ekta kaaj korbe (Will you do something for me)?” “If today, every Indian places his hand on his heart and feels the presence of Netaji, then he will hear the same question: will you do something for me? This work, this task, this goal is to make India self-reliant today,” Mr. Modi said. Reflecting on the contribution of West Bengal in the freedom struggle, the Prime Minister said the State will have to take up new responsibility for a self-reliant India (Atmanirbhar Bharat). “Along with the dream of self-reliant India, Netaji is the biggest inspiration for Sonar Bangla (Golden Bengal). As with the role played by Netaji in the freedom struggle, West Bengal will have to take up the same responsibility for a self-reliant India. A self-reliant and Sonar Bangla will have to take lead in making a self-reliant India,” he said. The reference to “Sonar Bangla’ by Mr Modi is significant as the term is the BJP’s catch phrase for its campaigns in the State. scheduled to hold Assembly polls in the next few months. Mr. Modi called on the people of the State to come forward and restore their pride and like Netaji not rest till the objective is achieved. Pointing out that all the 130 crore Indians are indebted and will remain so to Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, Mr. Modi said January 23 is not only the birth anniversary of the national icon but also the day of birth of “self-pride” of the country. “Netaji once asked people not to lose hope of free India; similarly, no one can stop India from being self-reliant,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/netaji-would-have-been-proud-of-self-reliant-india/article33647228.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Police give nod for tractor parades in Delhi on R-Day||Thousands of farmers, including many women, have already reached the Singhu border from Haryana, Punjab and Uttarakhand to participate in the rally, he added. “Preparations are in full swing for disciplined conduct of the rally. We are getting a huge response from farmers. We had a meeting with police and final route of the rally has been discussed and it will be conveyed to protesters,” Mr. Kohar said. Gurnam Singh Chaduni, who heads a faction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union in Haryana, told reporters that as thousands of farmers will participate in the parade, there will be no single route. Krantikari Kisan Union president Darshan Pal said barricades set up at Delhi border points, will be removed on January 26 and farmers will take out tractor rallies after entering the national capital. It will be a peaceful rally and protesters will follow the route map agreed to during the meeting. A senior police officer said farmers have not been allowed to hold a protest on the Outer Ring Road as had been initially proposed. However, the tractors will be allowed to enter Delhi and leave along a fixed route, added the official. Earlier in the day, the protesting farmers handed over to the Haryana police a man, who they alleged, had come to kill some of the farm leaders. The suspect however, is said to have told the police that he was thrashed by a group people at the Singhu border before he was presented before the media. A video of the suspect, recorded when he was grilled by Haryana Police, has been widely circulated on social media. “On January 26, there was a plan to create disturbance during the tractor parade by opening fire on Delhi Police personnel, which would prompt them to retaliate against the protesting farmers in a strong manner,” he claimed during a press conference at the Singhu border on Friday night. A police official said the young man was being quizzed in Sonipat by the Crime Branch of the State police. The man has been residing in Sonipat and has no previous criminal record.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/police-nod-for-tractor-parades-in-delhi-on-r-day/article33647230.ece
24 January 2021||Ludhiana,||Teacher dies of COVID-19 in Ludhiana||A 48-year-old government schoolteacher, who had tested positive for COVID-19, died at a private hospital here on Saturday, following which her 12 colleagues and three students also returned positive results, an official said. Schools in the State reopened for Classes 5 to 12 from January 7 after a government order. The deceased teacher taught maths at the Government Senior Secondary School Galib Kalan in Jagraon. Additional Deputy Commissioner Neeru Katyal said the school has now been shut and the samples of other students and the staff were being taken for testing. State Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla had said the decision to open schools was taken following a persistent demand by parents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/teacher-dies-of-covid-19-in-ludhiana/article33647490.ece
24 January 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Gujarat local body polls to be held in Feb.||The local body elections in Gujarat will be held in two phases on February 21 and 28, in view of the pandemic. Six municipal corporations will vote in the first phase on February 21 while elections for 31 district panchayats, 231 taluk panchayats and 81 municipalities will be held on February 28. Results for the six municipal corporations — Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, Rajkot, Bhavnagar and Jamnagar — will be announced on February 23 while those for the panchayats and municipalities will be known on March 2. The elections for local urban governance bodies and panchayati raj institutions at district and taluk level were scheduled to be held in November and December but were postponed in the wake of the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gujarat-local-body-polls-to-be-held-in-feb/article33647244.ece
24 January 2021||Hyderabad,||Akhila Priya gets bail, released from prison||Former Andhra Pradesh Minister and TDP general secretary Bhuma Akhila Priya Reddy, who was granted conditional bail by a local court in Secunderabad on Friday, was released from Chanchalguda Women’s prison on Saturday. She was received by her supporters from Allagadda in Kurnool district. Ms. Reddy left waving to the supporters from her car, and promised to disclose details about the Hafeezpet land dispute shortly. The court ordered that she be released on bail executing a bond of Rs. 10,000 with two sureties. Other conditions are that she appear before Bowenapally Station House Officer on alternative Mondays between 11 a.m. and 12 noon starting from February 2 and cooperate with further investigation. “The accused shall not threaten any of the victims and other witnesses in this case. The prosecution may seek cancellation of bail in case of breach of conditions,” the court said in its order. She was arrested and remanded to judicial custody by Bowenpally police on January 6 for the kidnap of businessman K Praveen Rao and his brothers, Sunil Rao and Naveen Rao on January 5. So far, police have arrested 19 people in connection with the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/akhila-priya-gets-bail-released-from-prison/article33647604.ece
24 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||India-France air exercise concludes||Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Gen. Bipin Rawat flew on a French Air Force mid-air refueller aircraft at the India-France air exercise Desert Knight 2021 which concluded on Saturday, the IAF said. The IAF is looking at leasing six mid-air refuelling tankers for which Airbus A330 is the lead contender. A first-of-its-kind bilateral exercise, Rafale aircraft from both sides along with Su-30 MKI and Mirage 2000 aircraft of the IAF undertook complex missions, the IAF statement said. “Both Air Forces exercised in realistic settings to enhance operational capabilities. The exercise provided an opportunity to share best practices and evolve operational concepts; particularly for effective combat employment of the Rafale fleet,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-france-air-exercise-concludes/article33647287.ece
24 January 2021||Srinagar,||NC upset with new policy for land allotment||Senior National Conference (NC) leader and MP Hasnain Masoodi on Saturday opposed the J&K Industrial Land Allotment Policy approved by Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Friday. “Such policy decisions should have been left to the State government to approve,” Mr. Masoodi, also convener of the Peoples Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), said. “A coterie of bureaucrats cannot replace a vibrant Legislature, where pros and cons of such policy decisions are deliberated upon,” he said. The new policy proposes zoning of industrial areas at block and municipality level “after taking into consideration various factors, including the existing level of industrial development and urbanisation”. A committee will allot industrial land to the applicant within 45 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nc-upset-with-new-policy-for-land-allotment/article33647234.ece
24 January 2021||Washington,||Vaccines: U.S. applauds ‘true friend’ India||Terming India a “true friend” which is using its pharmaceutical sector to help the global community, the U.S. has applauded New Delhi for gifting COVID-19 vaccines to several countries. “We applaud India’s role in global health, sharing millions of doses of COVID-19 vaccine in South Asia. India’s free shipments began with the Maldives, Bhutan, Bangladesh and Nepal and will extend to others,” the South and Central Asia Bureau of the U.S. State Department tweeted on Friday. “India’s a true friend using its pharma to help the global community,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vaccines-us-applauds-true-friend-india/article33647245.ece
24 January 2021||New Delhi,||Fuel prices touch an all-time high||Petrol and diesel prices set a record in the country on Saturday after prices were raised by 25 paise a litre each, the oil marketing companies said in a price notification. The new petrol price in Delhi is Rs. 85.70 a litre and in Mumbai Rs. 92.28. The diesel price is Rs. 75.88 and Rs. 82.66, respectively. This is the second consecutive day of rate increase and the fourth this week. The prices have gone up by Rs. 1 a litre this week. The prices last touched a record on October 4, 2018. Demand for duty cut Various sections have been demanding a cut in excise duty on fuel to ease the burden on consumers. Fuel prices vary from State to State depending on local sales tax or VAT. Petroleum Minister Dharmendra Pradhan earlier this week blamed Saudi Arabia’s oil output cut for the surge in prices but remained non-committal on excise cuts. Top oil explorer Saudi Arabia has pledged additional voluntary output cuts of 1 million barrels a day in February and March, which has led to the climbing of prices. Indian Oil, Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd. and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd. on January 6 resumed daily price revision after nearly a month-long hiatus. Since then, rates have gone up by Rs. 1.99 a litre on petrol and Rs. 2.01 in case of diesel. This comes after international oil prices firmed up on hopes of demand returning after the roll-out of coronavirus vaccines in different countries, including India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/petrol-diesel-prices-touch-an-all-time-high/article33647247.ece
24 January 2021||New Delhi,||Somnath Bharti gets 2-year jail term||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA Somnath Bharti was on Saturday sentenced to two years in jail by a Delhi court in a 2016 case of assaulting security staff at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) and causing damage to hospital property, as per PTI reports. The court, however, granted bail to Bharti enable him to file an appeal before the High Court against his conviction in the case and jail term. The AAP said that “injustice” had been meted out to him and the MLA would appeal against the decision. “We respect the judiciary and have full faith in the judiciary. However, we feel injustice has happened to Mr. Somnath Bharti in this case. Somnath is a very popular leader and is loved by everyone in his constituency. He works 24 hours for his people. People are quite sad in his constituency as the news of his conviction is spreading. Somnath is filing an appeal. We are confident that justice will be done to him at appellate level,” the AAP said in a statement. Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Ravindra Kumar Pandey also imposed a fine of Rs. 1 lakh on the MLA. “The court is of the considered view that the prosecution has duly proved its case beyond all reasonable doubt against accused Somnath Bharti,” the magistrate was quoted saying by PTI. According to the prosecution, on September 9, 2016, Mr. Bharti, along with nearly 300 others, brought down the fence of a boundary wall at the AIIMS with a machine. The case was lodged on the basis of a complaint from R.S. Rawat, Chief Security Officer, AIIMS.  ( With inputs from PTI )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/somnath-bharti-gets-two-year-jail-sentence/article33647254.ece
24 January 2021||KALPETTA,||Elephant tramples woman to death||Shahana, a 26-year-old woman from Kannur, was trampled to death by a wild elephant in a resort at Elembilery, near Meppadi, here on Saturday night. She was part of a tourist group and was staying in a tent put up outside of the resort. The other members of the group escaped, forest sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/elephant-tramples-woman-to-death/article33647684.ece
24 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Metro extension line final inspection likely next week||The Commissioner of Metro Rail Safety (CMRS) is likely to inspect the phase I extension project of the Chennai Metro Rail next week, without whose approval the 9-km Washermenpet-Wimco Nagar stretch cannot be commissioned. According to sources in Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. (CMRL), the inspection may be held on January 31, February 1 and 2. A team from CMRS visit the city on January 25 to get an introduction of the phase I extension project and then subsequently take up full-fledged inspection of the line. Scheduled to be completed last year, work on the Rs. 3,770-crore phase I extension project has been delayed because of the lockdown. The CMRS team will walk through the stations, viaduct and tunnels and sift through documents containing the technical specification of this project for three days. It will check various measurements of the station, walkway, tracks, the functioning of tunnel ventilation system and overhead equipment, sources said. “Apart from primarily inspecting the safety parameters, they will examine if the passenger information display system, platform screen doors and passenger emergency telephone are working fine,” a source said. In the past, CMRS had raised issues after inspection and accorded final approval after corrective measures were taken. Although considerable civil work is yet to be completed in stations, officials said it would be finished soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/metro-extension-line-final-inspection-likely-next-week/article33647420.ece
24 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Terrestrial water storage dips in Chennai, neighbouring districts||The terrestrial water storage, both surface and groundwater, has been decreasing in Chennai and neighbouring districts since 2002. The decline is steady, but not alarming, according to a study done by the Department of Geology, Anna University. The total storage in Chennai and neighbouring districts has been decreasing by 0.12 cm every year in an area of 8,242 sq. km., with Pazhaverkadu to the north and close to Puducherry to the south. Satellite data The study, which was taken up along with the National Geophysical Research Institute-CSIR, Hyderabad, has integrated the satellite data extracted from GRACE (Gravity Recovery and Climate Experiment) and the data obtained from the Public Works Department. GRACE was a joint mission of NASA and the German Aerospace Centre. “The satellite gravity data have been globally used in various applications for monitoring changes in water storage on a large scale. Our study attempts to explore the changes in surface and groundwater storage over a region to facilitate a rapid assessment and chalk out comprehensive projects for conservation,” said L. Elango, professor, Department of Geology, Anna University. Rainfall has slightly increased over the districts around Chennai since 2002 and groundwater storage, too, has improved after June 2015. However, the overall groundwater level in the past 18 years has been dipping by 0.011 cm every year, said Samurembi Chanu, a research scholar who was part of the study. Diverse water usage patterns and tremendous changes in land use and land cover have led to variations in groundwater storage. This has meant less area is available for rainwater percolation. “The satellite data and the groundwater measurement of the PWD had a reasonable correlation. But we found that groundwater mass in coastal places had increased. While the physical measurement of groundwater indicates fluctuations, satellite data show the magnitude of seawater intrusion,” Prof. Elango said. For instance, the groundwater at Minjur and Tamaraipakkam would remain at the same depth. But seawater intrusion had occurred at Minjur, indicated by an increase in groundwater weight. Seawater is denser than freshwater, and has more gravitational pull. According to the study, seawater intrusion in the Ponneri-Minjur belt was recorded to a stretch of 15 km till 2015. However, it has come down by a few kilometres after the 2015 floods, and groundwater quality has improved by 20% in these areas owing to interventions like check dams across waterways. The rise in the sea level by about 2 mm every year also resulted in seawater ingress into the coastal aquifers. “While the aquifers may have slightly recovered with the 2020 rain, we need to continue interventions like check dams and storage structures to improve groundwater recharge. Rainwater harvesting must be implemented on a larger scale,” Prof. Elango said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/terrestrial-water-storage-dips-in-chennai-neighbouring-districts/article33647399.ece
24 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Active cases of COVID-19 drop below 5,000||The number of active COVID-19 cases fell below 5,000 in Tamil Nadu on Saturday. A total of 4,984 persons are under treatment across the State. Chennai accounts for the most, with 1,749, and Perambalur the least, with three. As the State recorded 586 fresh cases, only two deaths were reported — one each in Chennai and Tirunelveli. A 53-year-old woman from Tirunelveli who had diabetes and systemic hypertension was admitted to a private hospital with complaints of fever, cough for five days and difficulty in breathing for two days. She died on January 22 owing to COVID-19 pneumonia. A 78-year-old man from Chennai died at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on January 16 owing to COVID-19 pneumonia and respiratory failure. Two returnees from Karnataka also tested positive. The State’s overall case tally stands at 8,34,171, and 8,16,878 persons have been discharged so far. A total of 12,309 persons have died. The number of active cases was less than 5,000 in early May last year; thereafter it started rising. Ramanathapuram reported no fresh cases, while 19 other districts had fewer than 10 cases each. Chennai reported 153 fresh cases, while Chengalpattu and Coimbatore had 51 and 47 cases respectively. There were 30 cases in Tiruppur, 27 in Erode, 26 in Tiruvarur, 25 in Kancheepuram and 24 in Tiruvallur. The fresh cases took Chennai’s overall tally to 2,30,026, while Coimbatore accounted for 53,966 cases and Chengalpattu 51,206 cases. As many as 673 persons, including 206 in Chennai, were discharged after treatment. In the last 24 hours, 63,073 samples were tested. So far, 1,55,77,766 samples have been tested. Vaccination update On the eighth day of vaccination in Tamil Nadu, 7,575 persons received the two vaccines against COVID-19, taking the total number of healthcare professionals/workers inoculated so far to 59,226. Of the day’s capacity to vaccinate 16,500 persons, 7,381 were administered Covishield and 194 received Covaxin. Covaxin was administered at three of the six session sites on Saturday. So far, 57,965 healthcare professionals/workers have received Covishield and 1,261 have received Covaxin, according to the daily report of the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/active-cases-of-covid-19-drop-below-5000/article33647425.ece
24 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TNFRS holds drills to check preparedness of personnel||The Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services (TNFRS) has launched “Thee” (fire in Tamil), an android mobile application, as part of its efforts to improve response time. The department is holding drills across the State to test the preparedness of its personnel. One such drill was conducted on Friday and the S.M. Nagar station in North Chennai won the event. In 2020, the TNFRS helpline 101 received 5,000 calls in Chennai and out of this 2,150 were about fire and the rest were rescue calls. Now, the public can download the ‘Thee’ app and press the help button in it. The control room will get an alert in a few seconds and based on the GPS location of the caller, the nearest fire station will be alerted. “This will save a lot of time as the personnel will not have to ask them address, route and so on. We will just ask them the nature of the call and then send the team with respective equipment. More than 5,000 people have downloaded the app till date,” said Priya Ravichandran, Joint Director, TNFRS, Northern Region. Agile force Since the team will have to reach the spot quickly, the TNFRS has started conducting drills to improve its reaction time. “Once we get an alert, an electronic bell in the respective fire station will ring. The team in the fire station has to get ready wearing their helmet and other protective gear and board the fire tender and the vehicle has to move. As of now, the minimum time for this is one minute,” said a senior TNFRS official. “The team that takes the least amount of time will be the winner. All the 346 stations participated in this. The crew from S.M. Nagar fire station, headed by officer Venkatesh, completed this in 53 seconds. The team members were given certificates and medals,” Ms. Priya said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnfrs-holds-drills-to-check-preparedness-of-personnel/article33647404.ece
24 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police open 18 clubs for slum children||Commissioner of Police Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal on Saturday inaugurated 18 boys and girls clubs in north Chennai, which will help children from slum areas in their education and sports. Boys’ clubs were inaugurated in 2003 as part of the community policing initiative. Later, they were renamed as boys and girls clubs bringing the latter into the rehabilitative effort. The police have been training children from low income groups and crime-prone areas to help them make a mark in various fields. The Corporation, NGOs and corporate sponsors pitch in with funds. The city has 97 such clubs. Mr. Aggarwal inaugurated 18 more clubs on Saturday at Ennore Tsunami Nagar. Joint Commissioner of Police (north) V. Balakrishnan and other officials were present. Mr. Aggarwal said Deputy Commissioners of Police should identify talented children from these clubs and help them write competitive examinations and participate in sports competitions. He wanted the police officers to collaborate with resource persons and education centres to provide free coaching to the children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-open-18-clubs-for-slum-children/article33647418.ece
24 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Units in industrial estates pitch for infrastructure upgrade||Some of the oldest industrial estates set up during the 1960s and 1980s have urged the government to help upgrade the infrastructure as they are struggling without proper amenities. Micro, small and medium enterprises say they have made several representations to the government about issues pertaining to roads, street-lights, garbage clearance, drinking water supply and sewage treatment, but not much has happened. Take the case of the Thirumazhisai Industrial Estate, which is spread across 203.86 acres, accommodating over 266 units. The estate is flooded even after a short spell of rain. “Water gets into most of the units,” says R.G. Chakrapani, secretary of the Thirumazhisai Industrial Estate. The level of the national highway roads, he says, has been increased to 8 feet above the Sidco main roads; hence rainwater gushes into the estate. Entrepreneurs want an effective storm water drainage system, a proper garbage dump yard, financial aid for repairs to street-lights and roads capable of bearing with heavy loads. “Sidco has allotted one acre to the TNEB for building a sub-station. We request the government to expedite the project as we suffer frequent power outages and voltage drops,” Mr. Chakrapani says. Members of the Thirumudivakkam Industrial Estate, which houses about 450 units with an annual turnover of about Rs. 5,000 crore, say road connectivity and upgrade is their priority. “The roads in the estate should be upgraded to bear with heavy truck loads. Thiruneermalai Road should be upgraded as a 100-foot road,” says R. Selvam, secretary of the Thirumudivakkam Industrial Estate Manufacturers Association. The units urge the government to allocate a dump yard at a location where the other estates, at Pillaipakkam and Irungattukottai, can manage their solid waste. At the Ambattur Industrial Estate, one of the oldest Sidco estates that was established in 1963, the facilities were developed through a special purpose vehicle called Chennai Auto Ancillary Industrial Infrastructure Upgradation Company formed 15 years ago, with government grants and contributions from the units. “The facilities need to be substantially improved. The government can support with grants for a makeover,” says M. Balachandran, president, Ambattur Industrial Estate Manufacturers’ Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/units-in-industrial-estates-pitch-for-infrastructure-upgrade/article33647430.ece
24 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Three arrested, 31 cellphones recovered||Two suspected cellphone snatchers and another person who received the stolen phones were arrested on Saturday in Madhavaram police station limits. The police said G. Jhansi, 35, of Vilangadupakkam lost her cellphone while riding pillion on her husband’s bike on October 25 last year. On her complaint, the police traced the cellphone using the IMEI number. The user told the police that he had procured it from Irudayaraj, who ran a shop selling used phones on Sembium Road, Puzhal. On interrogation, Irudayaraj admitted that he received stolen cellphones from S. Karthikeyan, 20, and Jaison Robert, 23, of Kathirvedu, Puzhal. The duo would steal cellphones and sell them to Irudayaraj. Besides Irudayaraj, Karthikeyan and Jaison were arrested and 31 cellphones seized from them. Meanwhile, three persons were arrested in Maduravoyal police station limits. Their names were given as Manikandan, 23, of Ambattur, Karthik, 19, and Yuvaraj alias Appu, 20, of Menambedu. Five mobile phones, jewellery and a bike were seized from them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-arrested-31-cellphones-recovered/article33647401.ece
24 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Inspector suspended on extortion charge||An inspector attached to the All Women Police Station, Thousands Lights, has been placed under suspension following a criminal case against her on charges of extorting money from an accused for facilitating his discharge from a case. The police said T.V. Rajasimman Naidu filed a petition with the Metropolitan Magistrate in Egmore seeking to register a case against Gnanaselvam, woman inspector, and two other women. Following the court’s direction, Gnanaselvam, and Umarani and K.M. Vishnupriya of Hyderabad were booked under IPC Sections 379 (robbery), 384 (punishment for extortion), 420 (cheating) and 506(I) (criminal intimidation) of IPC. Mr. Rajasimman and Ms. Vishnupriya of Choolaimedu were running a business a couple of years ago. They parted ways after a dispute in sharing profits. Ms. Vishnupriya took away his two cars and cellphones. He lodged a complaint with the Chetpet police station alleging that his two cars and cellphones were stolen. The police said Ms. Vishnupriya then got in touch with Ms. Umarani of Hyderabad whom Mr. Rajasimman planned to marry (but later did not). Ms. Umarani and Ms. Vishnupriya lodged a complaint against him at the All Women Police Station, Thousand Lights, on charges of cheating and harassment even as he got married in Srirangam in January last year. Mr. Rajasimman was arrested by Ms. Gnanaselvam and remanded on the charge of cheating women. According to the police, the inspector allegedly collected a diamond ring, an expensive watch and credit cards from him while he was in remand and retained them. Later, she allegedly promised to close the case against him if he paid her Rs. 5 lakh. He reportedly paid for the inspector’s family trip to Kerala, the police sources said. Following a video about the alleged acts of the woman inspector going viral, Commissioner of Police Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal ordered an inquiry and follow-up action. Sources said Ms. Gnanaselvam had been placed under suspension after a preliminary inquiry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inspector-suspended-on-extortion-charge/article33647415.ece
24 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No court complexes on requisitioned lands: CJ||The Madras High Court Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee on Friday made it clear that he would never permit the State government to establish court complexes on requisitioned land taken on rent or lease. He said every court complex must be established only on properties that had been acquired in accordance with law after paying a fair compensation. Presiding over the first Division Bench along with Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy, he told Advocate General Vijay Narayan that the government must give up the idea of establishing an integrated collectorate complex, district court complex and an office for the Superintendent of Police for Kallakurichi district by taking land on lease. Locals’ objection When a public interest litigation petition filed by activist Rangarajan Narasimhan was listed for hearing, the A-G told the court that the government actually wanted to acquire 14.09 hectares of waste land owned by the Ardhanareeswarar temple in Veeracholapuram but the locals objected to acquisition and hence it was decided to take it on lease. Pointing out that the temple was in a shambles now due to maladministration by its erstwhile trustees and was earning a revenue of less than Rs. 10,000 per annum, the A-G said the government had now come up with a proposal to take its land on lease for a monthly rent of Rs. 1.3 lakh and also deposit three years of rent amounting to Rs. 46.80 lakh in advance. Govt. failure In reply, Mr. Narasimhan told the court that the Ardhanareeswarar temple was in a shambles now because the State had failed to appoint trustees for it since 1998. He said a Fit Person (Inspector of Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments department at Ulundurpet) was managing the temple now and it had been mismanaged for years. After hearing both sides, the judges said the court would ensure that the interests of the temple were well protected and that it would even constitute an independent committee to ensure a fair compensation. “We will consider the temple property as our property,” the Chief Justice said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-court-complexes-on-requisitioned-lands-cj/article33647445.ece
24 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||A man, woman being in a room does not indicate sexual relationship: HC||The mere presence of a man and a woman inside one roof for some time need not necessarily lead to a conclusion that they were in an illicit sexual relationship, the Madras High Court said and quashed an order dismissing from service a male constable who was found with a woman constable inside his residential quarters. Justice R. Suresh Kumar said the presence of two individuals of opposite sex inside a locked house need not necessarily lead to a presumption that they were in an immoral relationship. “This kind of presumption prevailing in the society cannot be the basis for initiating disciplinary action and inflicting punishment,” he added. The judge pointed out that the writ petitioner K. Saravana Babu had joined the Armed Reserve Police as a constable in 1997. On October 10, 1998, a woman constable had entered his residential quarters and the door was locked on the inside. Later, when others knocked the door, the woman was found standing near the kitchen. When disciplinary proceedings were initiated against the petitioner for the charge of moral turpitude, he explained that the woman constable had come home at about 7:30 a.m. asking for the keys of her house located close by and that while they were talking, someone else locked the door from the outside and then pretended to knock on the door. After referring to the defence taken by the petitioner, the judge pointed out that some of the witnesses had said the door was locked from outside too. He also agreed with senior counsel R. Singaravelan that there was absolutely no eyewitness or any other concrete evidence to prove that the two constables were found in a compromising position. “Therefore, based on such suspicion and conjectures, one cannot come to a conclusion that some unlawful or immoral activities had taken place and by virtue of that the employee/delinquent is liable to be punished with a maximum punishment of dismissal of service,” the judge said and quashed the dismissal order passed by a Deputy Inspector General of Police in 1999. After the dismissal, the petitioner had approached the Tamil Nadu Administrative Tribunal and obtained a stay order. By virtue of the stay order, he joined service but was denied promotions. After the abolition of the tribunal, his case was transferred to the High Court in 2007 and got converted into a writ petition. Taking up the writ petition for final disposal now, the judge ordered that the petitioner would be entitled to all service benefits under the relevant rules.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-man-woman-being-in-a-room-does-not-indicate-sexual-relationship-hc/article33647453.ece
24 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Goondas Act slapped on duo held for job fraud||Two persons, who were arrested for job fraud recently, have been detained under the Goondas Act. The Conventional Crime Unit of Central Crime Branch recently arrested a four-member gang for allegedly cheating job aspirants by sending fake appointment orders in government departments after receiving Rs. 6 lakh each. They had promised jobs through Tamil Nadu Public Service Commission (TNPSC). The Goondas Act has been invoked against two of them — B. Nagendra Rao, 54, of Pulianthope, and S. Ramani alias Venkatachalam, 58, of Mandaveli — on the recommendation of the investigation officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/goondas-act-slapped-on-duo-held-for-job-fraud/article33647400.ece
24 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two held for theft at men’s hostel||Two persons have been arrested for allegedly stealing laptops and cellphones from a men’s hostel in Sholinganallur. The police said Sasikumar, 26, a software professional, had gone to sleep in his room on Ponniamman Koil Street, Sholinganallur, on Tuesday morning, leaving the door ajar. When Sasikumar woke up at noon, he found that his laptop and cellphone were missing. He immediately lodged a complaint at the Semmanchery police station. A team led by Assistant Commissioner of Police John Victor scrutinised CCTV footage and traced the accused. The names of the accused were given as Balaji, 30, of Tondiarpet and Surya, 28, of Kasimedu. The police recovered two laptops and six cellphones from them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-for-theft-at-mens-hostel/article33647414.ece
24 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CBI arrests labour official on corruption charge||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Saturday arrested an official of the Ministry of Labour on charges of taking bribe for issuing a licence, sources in the agency said. Acting on a complaint, CBI’s Anti-Corruption Branch officials laid a trap and arrested Regional Labour Commissioner Sivarajan in his office soon after he received Rs. 30,000 bribe. Further investigation is on, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cbi-arrests-labour-official-on-corruption-charge/article33647421.ece
24 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||BJP national IT head attends State-level meet||BJP’s national in-charge of Information and Technology, Amit Malviya, was in Chennai to attend the State-level conference of the IT and social media cell on Saturday. The conference was attended by State BJP IT cell chief Nirmal and State President L. Murugan. Mr. Malviya also launched thozhilgurubjp.org, a website to help entrepreneurs in the State. ‘Perceptible change’ Speaking during the function, Mr. Malviya said there was a ‘perceptible change in the State with respect to the BJP. “It is just a matter of time that BJP will be the ruling party in Tamil Nadu and will integrate the State seamlessly with the rest of the country. If you recall, PM Modi has on several occasions has spoken about his association with Tamil Nadu and has quoted the great Tamil poet Thiruvalluvar during the heights of our conflict with China,” he said. Mr. Malviya accused the DMK of raking up issues that propelled them to power in the 1970s. “There are several schemes implemented by the Central government — Ayushman Bharat and Swachch Bharat — that have benefited millions in Tamil Nadu,” he said. Mr. Murugan urged the IT and social media cell members to ensure that the negative comments against the BJP posted by fake accounts online are countered appropriately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-national-it-head-attends-state-level-meet/article33647439.ece
24 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Gurumurthy served contempt notices||Advocate-General Vijay Narayan has issued notices to Thuglak ’s Editor S. Gurumurthy on two applications filed before him seeking consent to initiate criminal contempt of court proceedings against him for his comments about the judiciary at the Tamil magazine’s annual meet with its readers on January 14. The notices have been issued on the applications filed by Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam leader S. Doraisamy and advocate S. Kumaradevan seeking the Advocate-General’s consent under Section 15(1)(b) of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971. The object of the Section was to avoid filing of frivolous criminal contempt petitions in the High Court. After assigning numbers to the two petitions, the Advocate-General has issued individual notices to Mr. Gurumurthy asking him to appear either in person or through his counsel on February 16 for a detailed hearing. The Advocate-General has also asked the first applicant’s counsel V. Elangovan and the second applicant to attend the hearing.  Plea for suo motu action Yet another lawyer P. Pugalenthi had filed a criminal contempt of court petition in the High Court against the Editor. However, his counsel M. Radhakrishnan chose not to seek the Advocate-General’s consent by relying upon a Supreme Court ruling and instead impressed upon the court the need to initiate the contempt proceedings suo motu.  Mr. Gurumoorthy made the contentious remarks while answering a question from one of the readers on the judicial delay in deciding corruption cases. He said the delay was because Supreme Court judges get appointed by politicians and that they get appointed only by beseeching one person or the other and by holding on to their feet. However, the next day, he expressed regret for the remarks and clarified that his intent was to say how some candidates for judges for even the highest court go and beseech politicians for support. “But in the spur and heat of the moment, I mentioned judges instead of candidates,” he said in a statement. Further, clarifying that the remarks were completely unintended, he said: “I may add that the statement was in the course of my extempore reply to a provocative question and not in any deliberate article or writing which would show my intent.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gurumurthy-served-contempt-notices/article33647444.ece
24 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM unveils new buildings for govt. departments||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami has unveiled a skill development centre at Vaniyambadi in Tirupattur district set up at a cost of Rs. 6.25 crore. He also unveiled during the video conference meeting, new buildings for Labour and Employment Department constructed at a cost of Rs. 3.34 crore. Skill development centre The skill development centre has been set up by a joint collaboration between Tamil Nadu Skill Development Corporation and Central Footwear Training Institute, an official release said. The skill development centre, spread over 1.15 acre, would help in the training of over 2,000 persons annually, sources in the government said. Book released Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami also released the first copy of ‘Nurturing Music and Fine Arts - A Historical Perspective’ published by Tamil Nadu Dr. J. Jayalalithaa Music and Fine Arts University. Industries Minister M.C. Sampath, Commercial Taxes Minister K.C. Veeramani, Labour Minister Nilofer Kafeel, Minister for Tamil Official Language K. Pandiarajan, Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam and other senior government officials were present during these series of events, a press release from the government said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-unveils-buildings-for-government-departments/article33647449.ece
24 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM, Dy. CM don’t have locus standi to unveil Jaya’s mausoleum: Stalin||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Saturday said Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam had no locus standi to unveil a mausoleum for former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, without bringing out the truth around the circumstances which led to her death. “Nobody knows how she died and the mystery still remains four years after her death. The Armugaswamy Commission was formed to investigate the circumstances leading to her death. The DMK did not ask for the inquiry commission. It was Panneerselvam who asked for it,” he said speaking at people’s gram sabha at Adayalampattu, Maduravoyal. He said he would have appreciated the Chief Minister and Deputy Chief Minister if they had inaugurated the mausoleum after bringing out the truth behind her death. “Once the DMK comes back to power, I will bring out the truth behind her death,” he added. Mr. Stalin said he would be winding up the Gram Sabha meetings and will announce another major campaign plan on January 25. He charged the AIADMK government with massive corruption in COVID-19 related measures and in floating various tenders. Gram Sabha meeting Earlier in the day, addressing the Gram Sabha meeting at Ammayarkuppam, Tiruttani, Mr. Stalin said all the problems faced by the weavers would be resolved when DMK comes to power. He also said the DMK took various measures to tackle inflation, while the inflation had gone out of control during the AIADMK’s rule. Mr. Stalin also promised to strengthen the functioning of women self-help groups.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-dy-cm-dont-have-locus-standi-to-unveil-jayas-mausoleum-stalin/article33647429.ece
24 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HR & CE recovers temple property worth Rs. 150 cr.||The Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR and CE) department has retrieved 36,259 sq. ft. of land belonging to the Agatheeswarar Prasanna Venkatesaperumal Temple on Nungambakkam High Road. The value of the property with the building was estimated to be Rs. 150 crore, said sources in the department. The property had been leased out in 1961 to run a school. The lessee had constructed the building and had refused to pay lease amount or vacate the property. At the time of eviction, the building had a hostel, a school, godowns and shops. The prime property had been recovered after a prolonged legal battle, said Haripriya, Joint Commissioner (Chennai), HR and CE.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hr-ce-recovers-temple-property-worth-rs-150-cr/article33647397.ece
24 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PMK to announce decision on poll alliance with AIADMK tomorrow||Pattali Makkal Katchi is expected to take a decision on whether it will continue in the AIADMK-BJP alliance on January 25. A party statement on Saturday said that a governing council meeting would be held to decide on the alliance for the Assembly election. “A governing council meeting of the party will be held in the presence of PMK founder Dr. S. Ramadoss, youth wing leader Anbumani Ramadoss, Vanniyar Sangam and other members to discuss the issue of reservations for Vanniyars in continuation of meeting held on January 9,” said party president G.K. Mani. Demand modified On January 9, Dr. Ramadoss had said that the party was modifying its demand of 20% reservation for Vanniyars to ‘internal quota’ for them within the MBC quota. “Though the 20% reservation for MBCs was won by the Vanniyar Sangam, we believe that other castes in the MBCs should also be given representation. Therefore, we decided to modify our demand and seek an internal quota to gain substantial representation for the Vanniyars,” he had said. Subsequently, two senior AIADMK Ministers met Dr. Ramadoss to discuss his demands. With the AIADMK looking increasingly unlikely to agree to the demands, party sources indicate that the decision may be against an electoral alliance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pmk-to-announce-decision-on-poll-alliance-with-aiadmk-tomorrow/article33647441.ece
24 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kamal Haasan criticises govt.||Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) founder Kamal Haasan on Saturday criticised the government for not making arrangements to hold Gram Sabha meetings in the State. In a social media post, Mr.Haasan criticised the government’s response to the case filed by the MNM urging it to hold a Gram Sabha meeting. The case was heard on Friday. “The State government’s response that it has not yet decided on holding Gram Sabha meetings only shows that it is scared to face the questions from the public. MNM will continue to seek justice,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kamal-haasan-criticises-govt-over-gram-sabha/article33647434.ece
24 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Applications called for environment awards||The Department of Environment, Tamil Nadu government, has called for applications for the environmental awards for 2020. The awards are open to individuals (above 18 years of age), and organisations would be selected based on the contributions made in the field of environmental education and awareness, environmental protection and management.Applicants should fill in the activities of the past three years in the form, available at the office of the Director of Environment, Panagal building, Saidapet. The application could also be downloaded fromhttps://www.environment- .tn.gov.in/environment-awards||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/applications-called-for-environment-awards/article33647448.ece
24 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DVAC raids TUCS outlets||Sleuths of the Department of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) conducted a surprise check on the premises of the Triplicane Urban Co-operative Society (TUCS) on Friday night. The check was conducted following complaints of irregularities committed by the staff. During the check, unaccounted cash of Rs. 1,59,865 was seized from Saravanan, sales assistant, TUCS Chepauk LPG unit, and Rs. 54,370 was seized from another person who was in-charge of the Periyar Nagar, Tambaram branch. In all, Rs. 2,14,235 was seized, said a press release from DVAC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dvac-raids-tucs-outlets/article33647396.ece
24 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Eight kg gold seized, nine held at airport||Nine passengers were arrested for attempting to smuggle 8.18 kg gold worth Rs. 4.16 crore which was seized by Chennai Air Customs at Chennai airport on Friday. Seventeen passengers from Dubai were checked. Officials found 48 bundles of gold paste in the rectum of passengers and recovered 7.72 kg of gold worth Rs. 3.93 crore. The passengers were also carrying 12 gold bits (386 grams) and a gold chain of 74 grams. In another case, Kalandar Ilyas who arrived from Sharjah was held for hiding 271 grams of gold in the form of paste.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eight-kg-gold-seized-nine-held-at-airport/article33647405.ece
24 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Raids expose Rs. 120 crore unaccounted wealth||The Income Tax Department has seized gold weighing 4.5 kg and detected unaccounted income to the tune of Rs. 120 crore from the raids that it had conducted at the residence and offices belonging to evangelist Paul Dhinakaran, who heads the Jesus Calls ministry.  “The gold was found at Paul Dhinakaran’s residence,” a source from the I-T department told The Hindu . The tax sleuths are also looking at his companies and trusts that are situated across 12 countries including Israel, Singapore, U.K. and the U.S. “They have over 200 bank accounts,” the source said. On January 20, the taxmen searched offices and other properties of Mr. Dhinakaran, including Karunya Institute of Technology and Sciences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/evangelist-raid-rs-120-crore-in-unaccounted-wealth-found/article33647437.ece
24 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Shocked over attack on elephant’||DMK president M.K. Stalin sought quicker punishment for those involved in animal cruelty. In a social media post, he expressed shock over the incident of an elephant being injured by a man hurling a burning bag at it, in the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve and termed it an inhuman act. He also noted that elephants play an important role in maintaining biodiversity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-shocked-over-attack-on-elephant/article33647578.ece
24 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Regulator directs housing board to register project||Tamil Nadu Real Estate Regulatory Authority (TNRERA) has directed the Tamil Nadu Housing Board (TNHB) to register its project at Sholinganallur and execute the sale deed with an allottee immediately. The allottee, S. Vasantha, filed a petition with the real estate regulator stating that her husband Seshachalam applied to the housing board for a high income group (HIG) flat in the Sholinganallur project in 2011 and was provided with the allotment order in April 2011. Her husband died in 2012 and the allotment was transferred to her name in 2017, and an agreement of sale was signed between her and the TNHB, Besant Nagar Division. Ms. Vasantha said since the TNHB website showed the project’s status as ongoing, she sought to register the flat under the RERA Act. The project comprises 117 HIG flats, out of which 99 were to be allotted for the general public. However, the TNHB said it was a completed project and had applied for the completion certificate before the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA). It had carried out certain modifications as suggested by the CMDA and was awaiting clearance from the Director of Fire and Rescue Services Department. The process had been delayed because of COVID-19, which was beyond its control, the board said and argued that the complaint was not maintainable. The TNRERA said the Tamil Nadu Real Estate Appellate Tribunal had held in several cases that a flat had to be habitable on the date of commencement of RERA Act and the Division Bench of the Madras High Court had ruled that the application for completion certificate should have been filed before May 1, 2017 (prior to RERA Act coming into force). The fact remains that the completion certificate for TNHB’s Sholinganallur project had not been issued till date. As per Section 3 of the RERA Act, an ongoing project on the date the act came into force and for which the completion certificate had not been issued should be registered under it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/regulator-directs-tnhb-to-register-project/article33647402.ece
24 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Surgery done on woman with rare heart tumour||A 64-year-old woman with myxoma, a relatively rare tumour in the heart, along with various other comorbidities, including diabetes, systemic hypertension and coronary artery disease, was successfully operated on by doctors at Venkateswara Hospitals here. Suffered acute stroke A release by the hospital said that the woman was brought with numbness on her left limbs, shortness of breath and headache and was soon found to have suffered an acute stroke. Further evaluation revealed that the patient had a myxoma on her left atrium. The statement said the lady was critically ill and had to be treated for her comorbidities before performing a surgery for the excision of the myxoma. The release said the patient was recovering well after surgery. Highlighting that early diagnosis of myxoma was difficult and two-dimensional echocardiography was needed for the diagnosis, the statement added that it may lead to sudden cardiac arrest if left untreated, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/surgery-done-on-woman-with-rare-heart-tumour/article33647407.ece
24 January 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Chief Secretary chairs review meeting||Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam on Saturday chaired a meeting of senior officials to review the implementation of welfare schemes in various districts. Secretary of Rural Development Department Hans Raj Verma, Revenue Secretary Atulya Misra, Commissioner of Revenue Administration K. Phanindra Reddy, Public Works Department Secretary K. Manivasan and senior officials were present at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chief-secretary-chairs-review-meeting/article33647450.ece
24 January 2021||CHENNAI/THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Smart City Project construction work near Big Temple opposed||Heritage enthusiasts want the construction work near Sri Brihadeeswarar temple in Thanjavur halted immediately. They said, under the Smart City Project, the work to build a mall and parking lot near the moat of the temple was under way and that it might cause danger to the base of the architecture. As a part of the Smart City scheme, workers were digging at the old Thiruvalluvar theatre complex which is near the Big Temple. But as per the norms and guidance for the preservation of heritage buildings in India, it is mandatory to get permission from the Archaeological Department which was not done in this case, said heritage enthusiasts. S.Udhaya Shankar, president of Great Cholas Historical Research Group, said, “After digging up the earth, we could see 8th and 9th century basements over red granite rocks in that area. This might be the outer fort wall of the moat built during the reign of imperial Cholas. Hence, immediate action needs to be taken to stop the ongoing work which may over shadow our rich heritage.” He also demanded that proper research of the area be done by the Archaeological Department. The group has sent mail to the District Collector, ASI officials to take immediate action in this regard. Main identity G. Deivanayagam, former professor and founder of Department of Architecture, Tamil University, said, ‘The digging was done by heavy machinery. The entire Thanjavur fort area is a heritage zone. So, there should not be any new construction. Preservation and restoration is only allowed. The building work may even affect the Big Temple. Proper awareness should be created amongst all involved in the work. A Smart City need not stand on the ruins of our rich heritage which is the main identity of our city Thanjavur.” M.Rajendran, a retired IAS officer and historian, said a rare variety of red granite stones were used for the basement of the temple. That should not be damaged now by the digging and construction activities. “As per regulations of archaeological authority, no digging or construction is allowed within 100 meters of any heritage structure. For instance, an arch commemorating the diamond jubilee of Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly was planned to be constructed close to the entrance of Fort St. George, but was later relocated beyond the prohibited zone,” he said. Thanjavur was in continuous recorded occupation at least from 848 CE when Vijayala Chola re-established it as the capital thereby installing the famed Nisumba Sudani sculpture. However, except for the Big temple, there has been absolutely no scientific or systematic study or excavation attempted in a few isolated structures. “In this context it is shocking that despite clear evidence of an earlier extant structure clearly being seen in the sub strata, the current digging is being allowed. The ASI has to immediately take control and work must be stopped,” said S.Vijaykumar, art enthusiast and founder of the India Pride Project. A senior official of ASI said notice had been issued to the Commissioner of Thanjavur Municipal Corporation asking them to stop the work. Residents’ view While conceding that the heritage of Thanjavur needs to be preserved, a section of local residents, however, said infrastructure development was also important as much of the economic activity revolved around the tourism potential of the town. With regard to the remodelling of Thiruvalluvar theatre complex, the proposed parking lot and the mall would definitely reduce the pressure on the tourists, they claimed. (With inputs from V.Venkatasubramanian)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/smart-city-project-construction-work-near-big-temple-opposed/article33647451.ece
24 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||State needs new thinking, new govt., says Rahul Gandhi||Tamil Nadu needs new thinking and a new government, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi told a gathering at a reception organised at the SITRA-Kalapatti road junction on Saturday. “Tamil Nadu that had shown the way for the rest of the country in industrialisation had now fallen backwards. There was a lot that the rest of the country had learnt from the State. But that’s not the case anymore. And that’s why Tamil Nadu needs new thinking and new government,” he said. The Congress would work with the people to provide the government that they deserved and would be proud of. “I’m committed to you, the people of the State. I’ll work with you to help you get a government that you deserve,” he said. This was against the way the Narendra Modi government worked. The government that believed in one culture considered Tamil as subservient to its ideology, Mr. Gandhi said. But the Congress was for an idea of India where every language and culture thrived, he added. Mr. Gandhi also alleged that the Modi government was concerned about the welfare of three or four industrialists, . It was to those industrialists the Modi government tried to pledge farmers’ welfare, Mr. Gandhi charged. The former Congress president is on a tour of western districts to meet industrialists, farmers, students and entrepreneurs. Speaking at Chinniyampalayam after meeting industrialists, Mr. Gandhi said he was at the service of the people.  “You’ve given my grandmother and father so much love and affection that I’m indebted to you. That’s why I want to help you have a government that respects Tamils and takes the State on the development path,” he said. His relationship with the people was not political but familial. The Modi government thought it could control the State from Nagpur [RSS headquarters]. The Congress, on the other hand, wanted to help the people get a government that recognised the self-respect of Tamils, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/in-tn-rahul-says-state-needs-new-thinking-new-government/article33647436.ece
24 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Will never compromise on the rights of Muslims, assures CM||The Tamil Nadu government will never compromise on the rights of Muslims, no matter what the situation is, Chief Minister and AIADMK co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami told Jamaath leaders here on Saturday. As part of his two-day election campaign in the district, he addressed around 100 functionaries of the All Jamaath Federation at a wedding hall on Podanur Main Road at Kurichi Pirivu. Mr. Palaniswami said some Muslims were “afraid” of certain laws introduced by the Central government. “Nobody can chase anyone out. Everyone born in this land has the right to live here,” he said. The Chief Minister announced that the State would increase the annual subsidy for Haj pilgrimage from Rs. 6 crore to Rs. 10 crore. The government had sanctioned Rs. 5.37 crore for restoring the lake in the Nagore Dargah, which was damaged in the recent heavy rain. A building for Haj pilgrims to stay would soon be constructed in Chennai, he said. Mr. Palaniswami began his campaign on Raja Street in Coimbatore in the morning. He said the corruption charges made out against the Ministers in a memorandum that DMK president M.K. Stalin submitted to Governor Banwarilal Purohit were false. The memorandum was an “attempt to distract the public” as 13 former DMK Ministers were facing cases, he said. He dismissed the Makkal Grama Sabhas convened by Mr. Stalin across the State as a “drama”. At Selvapuram, he said land grab would increase if the DMK returned to power. He also alleged that the DMK MPs elected in 2019 did not voice the issues of the State in Parliament. Addressing voters at Kuniamuthur, Mr. Palaniswami said the DMK would “split by itself” and called on the voters to “put an end to dynastic politics” in the Assembly election. He accepted petitions from two differently abled persons at Podanur. They requested the government to provide them jobs to support their families. Speaking at Thiruvalluvar Thidal near Pollachi, the Chief Minister charged the DMK with levelling accusations against the AIADMK in the Pollachi sexual assault case for political gains. “My government protects women like a bulwark,” he said. At a meeting with the AIADMK’s IT Wing members in Pollachi, Mr. Palaniswami felicitated M. Kamalathal, the octogenarian from Vadivelampalayam on the outskirts of Coimbatore, who is renowned for selling idlis at Rs. 1 each. Sources close to her said AIADMK members invited her to meet the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/will-never-compromise-on-the-rights-of-muslims-assures-cm/article33647433.ece
24 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Rahul pitches for single GST||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi said here on Saturday that the Goods and Services Tax (GST) should be restructured and made into one tax. Responding to a question on GST at an interaction with MSME entrepreneurs, he said “We had conceptualised Goods and Services Tax (GST) as one tax and minimum tax. However, when Mr. Narendra Modi became the Prime Minister he decided to bypass negotiations and super-imposed the GST”. “The GST should be restructured. It should be one tax.” Under the COVID-19 situation, the government should have certain provisions that make GST more benign. Mr. Gandhi said he would raise this and the raw materials issue in Parliament. The Congress leader said the foundation of economic growth in India was diversity. India itself was the idea of diversity. The notion that the Prime Minister had that you could reduce diversity and grow faster, was ignorance, it was lack of understanding and lack of respect, he said. The present dispensation thought that “power should be centralised, that one man should control everything, that one organisation should control everything...you cannot have an economy without diversity,” he added. Responding to questions regarding challenges faced by the MSMEs in the international market, he said the economy was becoming difficult for MSMEs. They needed attention to become successful and evolve into larger industries in the future. Only the SMEs can help India compete with countries such as China. The MSMEs should be truly empowered. They should have access to finance. The government should not tie their hands with GST, demonetisation and say “compete with China”. Mr. Gandhi said the biggest challenge was the mindset of the political leadership. There should be a change in mindset. The GST and other compliances should be simplified for the MSMEs. On equipping students with employability skills, he said currently there was a definite unemployment problem. So, even if there were skilled people, there were no jobs for them. So the engine of the economy needed to be started. And, the education system should be designed to be more practical and have better linkage with business/industry.  The biggest challenge is the mindset of the political leadership.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rahul-pitches-for-single-gst/article33647470.ece
24 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Give equal space for women’||No country can progress if it does not give equal space for women, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi said in Tiruppur on Saturday. Interacting with industrial workers in the knitwear city, he said women played a central role in the country's development. So they have to be supported and given equal space. "Unfortunately, the organisation that controls India today is a fascist, male chauvinist organisation. Women are not even allowed in the RSS," he alleged. When asked about demonetisation, he said that there was a systematic assault on poor people in the country. The demonetisation, GST and COVID-19 response were not policy mistakes but were done on purpose to break the backbone of workers and MSMEs, he alleged. Now the three new farm laws were the demonetisation for the farmers. “We have to fight these in the organised way...our job is to make him (Prime Minister Narendra Modi) understand the power of poor people, workers and farmers,” he said. There should not be two Indias - one of the rich and doing well, and the other India that is starving. “We are interested in one India where everyone is treated properly,” he said. If there was a Congress government at the Centre, it would protect the interests of the farmers, workers, MSMEs and the poor. Mr. Gandhi also said that while he was visiting people, listening and interacting with them, the Prime Minister only discussed with a few people who were big businessmen. The Congress party is against privatisation of strategic public sector units as it believes that these units are critical to a strong country, he said in response to a question on privatisation of PSUs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/give-equal-space-for-women/article33647471.ece
24 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||D.B. Road to throw light on city’s prominent residents||D.B. Road in R.S. Puram, which the Coimbatore Corporation is shaping into a model road, will showcase a slice of history to visitors. The road will have boards displaying Thirukural and photographs and snippets of information on persons who had helped the city grow, said sources. There were 70 such boards on both sides of the road and on each of those the corporation will display information on as many persons who had contributed to the city in various fields. And, in doing so the corporation had taken the help of city historian Rajesh Govindarajulu, the sources added. Mr. Govindarajulu said he would choose names of persons who were from the city and fought for country’s independence, were businessmen, in trade and commerce, sports and arts. In short, he would present before the corporation a list of names of persons who had contributed in every sphere of activity and carved a name for themselves. The sources said the corporation hoped to complete the work in the next week so that the road could to be thrown open for traffic by January 26, Republic Day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/db-road-to-throw-light-on-citys-prominent-residents/article33647465.ece
24 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Two spotted deer gunned down||Two spotted deer were found shot dead in a reserve forest area of Mettupalayam forest range of Coimbatore Forest Division on Saturday. Though the Forest Department staff conducted a vehicle checking in the locality after getting alert about gunshots, a person suspected to have gunned down the deer managed to get away when the staff were checking another vehicle. The incident took place in a place called Kuttaipudur which comes under Nellimalai forest beat of Mettupalayam forest range. According to the forest officials, several species of wild animals, including spotted deer, come to a water body at the place which belongs to the Public Works Department. The staff in charge of the beat got information of a gunshot heard from the place around 3.30 a.m. A team of foresters, guards and anti-poaching watchers rushed to the place. They conducted vehicle checking on the Kurunthamalai temple - Thekkampatti road. “A two-wheeler with a bright headlight approached the spot when the staff was checking another vehicle. The man, who rode the scooter slowed down as if he was about to stop but suddenly sped away. He managed to get away through local routes which he could be very familiar with,” said Mettupalayam forest range officer C. Palaniraja. The staff conducted a search on the side of the road from where the scooter came and found a big sack with blood stains. They opened the sack and found two male deer dead inside. “The dead deer were aged around five and three. Both deer had lost their velvet antlers possibly after struggling for life following the gunshot,” said Mr. Palaniraja. The soft velvet-like antlers grow after the annual shedding of fully grown antlers in male deer. The staff suspect that the suspected poacher carried the sack containing the deer in the scooter and abandoned it foreseeing the vehicle check ahead on the stretch. District Forest Officer D. Venkatesh has formed two special teams led by Mr. Palaniraja and Karamadai forest range officer E.N. Manoharan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-spotted-deer-gunned-down/article33647467.ece
24 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Speeding car claims doctor’s life||A speeding car claimed the life of a doctor, D. Umashankar, at Kannappa Nagar in Coimbatore on Saturday. The police said the doctor, who belonged to Chetpet in Chennai, ran Chennai Hospitals on Sathyamangalam Road in Coimbatore. According to the police, the accident took place around noon at Kannappa Nagar where he had come to leave his car at a service centre. Chennai Hospitals’ former manager Maruthavanan was waiting for the doctor in another car. Police said that after visiting an ATM, the doctor was standing on the roadside in front of a bakery when a speeding car knocked him down. He died on the spot. The driver abandoned the vehicle and fled the spot. The doctor’s body was shifted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital for post-mortem. In December 2020, the Central Crime Branch (CCB) of Coimbatore City Police had arrested Umashankar and Maruthavanan based on a complaint from Ramachandran, the owner of the building on Sathyamangalam road in which the doctor had been running Chennai Hospitals. Ellen Hospital was functioning earlier in the building. According to the CCB, Ramachandran had leased the building to Umashankar who, however, defaulted payment of Rs. 4.95 crore. Umashankar and Maruthavanan were arrested on December 4 and later granted bail. On Saturday, the staff of Chennai Hospitals thronged the office of Coimbatore District (Rural) Superintendent of Police alleging foul play in the death of the doctor. Police said efforts were on to trace the person who drove the car.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/speeding-car-claims-doctors-life/article33647577.ece
24 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Man drowns in canal||A 56-year-old headload worker from Pollachi drowned after he accidentally fell into a canal of the Parambikulam Aliyar Project on Friday. The deceased, T. Deivaraj of Marapettai Street on Udumalpet road, went to the canal at Poosaripatti around 2 p.m. to wash his hands while returning from Gomangalam after unloading materials. He slipped into the canal and drowned, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-drowns-in-canal/article33647472.ece
24 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Man held for sexual assault||The All Women Police Station, Coimbatore West, on Friday arrested a 22-year-old man for allegedly assaulting a minor girl sexually and impregnating her. The police said that an employee of a shop near Ukkadam was arrested for the sexual assault on a 17-year-old girl. According to the police, the man got acquainted with the girl, who worked in a nearby shop. The complaint lodged by the girl said that the man sexually assaulted her by promising to marry her. The girl became pregnant and she allegedly insisted that he marry her. According to the police, the man allegedly urged the girl to abort pregnancy as a condition for marriage. He, however, refused to marry her after the termination of pregnancy, said her complaint. The girl later disclosed the ordeal to her parents after which a complaint was lodged with the Kuniyamuthur police. Judicial custody The complaint was transferred to the AWPS, West. The man was arrested and remanded in judicial custody late on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-sexual-assault-on-girl/article33647462.ece
24 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Plea to extend flyover||The Coimbatore Consumer Cause has appealed to the State government to extend the Avinashi Road flyover, which is under construction, beyond Chinniyampalayam. The Avinashi Road flyover is proposed from Uppilipalayam to Goldwins. "As promised in the manifesto in 2016, the work on express way from Upplipalayam upto Goldwins is in progress...we feel it would be more complete if the Elevated Highways ends after Chinniyampalayam (Kathir College Junction) and it would be much more beneficial and complete," said K. Kathirmathiyon, secretary of the consumer organisation. He said the flyover should be extended for two more km. The down ramp work after KMCH should be stopped immediately so that the flyover can be extended, a down ramp should be provided for Goldwins and Chinniyampalayam .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-extend-flyover/article33647457.ece
24 January 2021||COLOMBO,TAMIL NADU||Sri Lanka sets up panel to find permanent solution to fishers issue||Sri Lanka has established a committee to find a “permanent solution” to the issue of Indian fishermen “trespassing” into its territorial waters, authorities said. The committee, appointed by Minister of Fisheries and Jaffna parliamentarian Douglas Devananda, comprises representatives from the Fisheries Department, northern fishermen’s organisations and the Navy, said a statement issued on Saturday. “It is very unfortunate to hear of the loss of lives of four Indian fishermen when the Navy tried to apprehend their boats in our territorial waters,” the statement said, adding that Indian fishermen’s “illegal” fishing activities, “trespassing” the boundary [the International Maritime Boundary Line], had adversely impacted the livelihoods of Sri Lanka’s northern fishermen and affected the marine environment. The Ministry’s decision follows the death of four Indian fishermen in the Palk Strait last Monday, after their fishing vessel reportedly collided with a Sri Lankan naval patrol unit. The bodies of the four fishermen were handed over to the Indian Coast Guard on Saturday morning subsequent to the legal proceedings initiated by a magistrate court in Jaffna, the Sri Lankan Navy said. Further, following an autopsy, three of the bodies were found to be those of Indian nationals and one was identified as a person of Sri Lankan origin who lived in India. The India-Sri Lankan fisheries conflict in the Palk Strait has remained a sensitive issue for at least a decade, ever since Sri Lanka’s civil war ended and northern Tamil fishermen returned to the sea to resume their livelihoods that were disrupted during the war years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sri-lanka-sets-up-panel-to-find-permanent-solution-to-fishers-issue/article33647431.ece
24 January 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Vegetable vendors at a crossroads||Hundreds of vegetable vendors are forced to go from one place to another following the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic and the decision of corporation authorities to construct new shops in the old Gandhiji Vegetable Market. First, the authorities directed the vegetable vendors to go to Nehruji Memorial Corporation School grounds opposite the market. The business was good as long as the school remained closed. When the school reopened for students of SSLC and Higher Secondary classes, they were asked to go to Old Lorry Pettai on Palani Road. However, the authorities insisted that only those vendors who had made payments in full for the shops in the Gandhi Market, would be given space at the Old Lorry Pettai. Irked by the move, a majority of vendors approached the authorities on Friday seeking permission for all but in vain. So, the vendors put up shops on both sides of Kottaikulam Road and Taluk Office Road near the market here causing heavy traffic jam since morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vegetable-vendors-at-a-crossroads/article33647553.ece
24 January 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Remand prisoner escapes in Dindigul||Gokul Kannan, 25, a remand prisoner, from Paramakudi in Ramanathapuram district, escaped from the custody of two policemen here on Saturday. The police said the accused was arrested and remanded in judicial custody a month ago and was detained in Dindigul district jail. As he has to be produced before the court today, he was taken to a restaurant near the jail. When they were eating food, the prisoner escaped. A hunt was on to secure him. Gokul Kannan was arrested on a complaint of having stolen mobile phones from Palani Theradi. Based on his confession, Gokul Kannan was detained in prison.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/remand-prisoner-escapes-in-dindigul/article33647548.ece
24 January 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 3.52 lakh recovered; trickster held||Prakash, 33, son of Somasundaram of Nadar Mettu Street, Erode district, was arrested by a special team of police in Coimbatore and produced before a judicial magistrate court here on Saturday. Following a complaint from Poovannakrishnan, 45, and six others from Eriodu, the Dindigul Town North Police had registered a case. DSP Manimaran was investigating. According to the complainant, Prakash had lured gullible people through handbills that he would arrange loans for merchants and others through nationalised banks. Believing that to be true, the complainants had contacted Prakash. He demanded an advance, which too, they had agreed to give. On the appointed date, he came to Dindigul bus stand and received Rs. 5.40 lakh from them and told them to be ready with their identity cards and other details. However, he was not traceable thereafter. When police conducted investigations, they found that the suspect was hiding in Coimbatore and a team secured him. He admitted to have received cash from the complainants but confessed to have spent it lavishly. The police recovered Rs. 3.52 lakh and a car from him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-352-lakh-recovered-trickster-held/article33647880.ece
24 January 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Three noon meal centres in Erode to get ISO certification||Noon meal centres functioning under the Puratchi Thalaivar MGR Nutritious Meals Scheme at three government schools in the district are in the process of obtaining ISO 9001:2015 certification for following hygienic practices in cooking and storing ingredients.  The State government had in 2019 decided to obtain the certification for 100 centres that function under Social Welfare and Nutritious Meal Programme Department in the State to increase the operational efficiency and quality management of the centres. These centres provide 13 varieties of meals and egg masala to children in primary and upper primary classes. An auditing company was appointed to examine the centres based on several parameters and to give recommendations for quality improvement. A senior official of the noon meal programme said that the centres functioning at the Corporation Girls Higher Secondary School at Karungalpalayam in Erode and at the government schools at Thottampalayam in Bhavani Sagar and at Kalingiyam in Gobichettipalayam were selected and evaluated by the company. Parameters include purchase of quality vegetables and ingredients, weighing the items, storage, hygienic cooking practices, cleanliness at the centre, kitchen gardening and a few other aspects. T.D. Mala, headmistress, GGHSS, Karungalpalayam told The Hindu that second round auditing has been completed and the discrepancies pointed out were rectified. Installation of surveillance cameras, fire extinguisher, use of food thermometers, use of purified water for cooking, availability of weighing machines, use of water geysers for cleaning plates were the main parameters stressed for certification and we have fulfilled it, she said. Ms. Mala said that students pointed out the mistakes in the suggestion book, which helped the centre maintain quality. M. Maheswari, coordinator of the centre, and R. Savitha, cook, said that fresh vegetables and quality ingredients were being used for cooking. “There is no compromise on quality and hygiene at any cost here”, both said. They cook noon meal for 161 students. We do not use plastic materials for storage purpose, they said. Officials said that the three centres might receive the certification in the coming weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-noon-meal-centres-in-erode-to-get-iso-certification/article33647562.ece
24 January 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Four govt. high schools upgraded as higher secondary schools in Erode||The Government Order to upgrade four government high schools in the district as higher secondary schools was issued here recently. During the Assembly session on March 13, 2020, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had announced that 50 high schools in the State would be upgraded as higher secondary schools. According to the announcement, one school each at Osur in Anthiyur Union, Kottamalam in Talavadi Union, Nanjappa Goundan Valasu in Erode Union and Odathurai in Bhavani Union were upgraded this academic year. The schools in Osur and Kottamalam are located in hill areas. Staff strength  As per the Government Order 11 of the School Education Department dated January 18, 2021, the upgraded schools will have a headmaster and nine post graduate teachers for Tamil, English, mathematics, physics, chemistry, science, economics and accountancy. Computer trainers will also be appointed for these schools. The order said that steps should be taken to obtain funds from the Members of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLAD) or MLALAD schemes to create necessary infrastructure in these schools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-govt-high-schools-upgraded-as-higher-secondary-schools-in-erode/article33647563.ece
24 January 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||CM inaugurates police quarters||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami inaugurated through video conferencing a police quarters constructed at Rs. 22.60 crore at the Armed Reserve ground premises at Anakalpalayam village in 46 Pudur Panchayat here on Friday. The quarters, comprising 12 houses for sub-inspectors and 138 houses for policemen, is built on a total area of 9,166.26 sq ft. District Collector C. Kathiravan, Superintendent of Police P. Thangadurai, MLAs and officials were present during the inauguration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-inaugurates-police-quarters/article33647560.ece
24 January 2021||Hyderabad,TAMIL NADU||Seven members who robbed Muthoot Finance held near Hyderabad||Seven members of an armed gang who robbed 25,091 grams of gold jewellery worth around Rs. 7.5 crore and Rs. 96,000 cash in broad daylight from a Muthoot Finance Limited branch at Hosur in Krishnagiri district on Friday, were arrested on the outskirts of Hyderabad in the early hours of Saturday. The inter-State dacoity gang, which was trying to flee to Madhya Pradesh and Jharkhand via Nagpur on National Highway 44, was nabbed by the Cyberabad police near Tondupally toll plaza near Shamshabad airport in a joint operation with their counterparts in the Hyderabad and Rachakonda Commissionerates of Telangana and Krishnagiri police. The masked gang members robbed the gold ornaments on Friday morning after holding the Muthoot staff at gunpoint and took away the digital video recorder of the surveillance cameras from the branch. Then, they tied down and locked the employees inside and escaped from the scene on their newly purchased bikes. They went towards Tamil Nadu-Karnataka border where a container vehicle and an SUV were waiting for them to escape further. Local police zeroed in on a gang from north India which was involved in similar offences in other States and based on the toll gate data and technical aid, the accused vehicles were tracked on National Highway 44 moving towards Hyderabad. Soon, the Krishnagiri police alerted their counterparts in Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Maharashtra. “Though we couldn’t catch them in Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, and Andhra Pradesh, the gang was caught by the Telangana police. It was a well-coordinated operation, and there were chances of cross-firing, as the gang members were carrying firearms,” Krishnagiri Superintendent of Police Bandi Gangadhar said. As soon as they got information from Krishnagiri, the Telangana police deployed Armed Reserve parties at all the toll plazas and started monitoring the ‘targeted’ vehicles. Around 3 a.m. near Raikal toll plaza, a police team spotted an SUV with occupants of similar features as narrated by the Tamil Nadu police, and was trailing it till Tondupally toll plaza as there was a huge armed force deployment there. Cyberabad Commissioner of Police VC Sajjanar said that the accused, Rup Singh Baghal,22, a student, Shankar Singh Bayyal Baghal, 36, and Pavan Kumar Vishkarma, 22, from Jabalpur in Madhya Pradesh, Bupendhar Manji, 24, and Vivek Mandal, 32, of Ranchi, Jharkhand, who were travelling in the SUV were caught at Tondupally toll plaza. The container driver Tek Ram, 55, and helper Rajeev Kumar, 35, from Meerut in Uttar Pradesh were nabbed near Medchal. One of the prime suspects Amith alias Vivek Shukla from Indore in Madhya Pradesh, who was travelling in the container, managed to escape. The stolen gold jewellery, Rs. 93,000, seven firearms, 10 magazines, 97 live rounds, an SUV, a container and 13 mobile phones were recovered from them. “Three months ago Rup Singh and Amit went to Bengaluru to commit the offence at any of the Muthoot Finance branches. They conducted recces at several branches and finally selected the Hosur branch,” he said. In October, Amit, Shanker and others attempted to rob a Muthoot Finance branch in Ludhiana, where gang members Sujeeth Singh, Sourabh and Roshan Singh were arrested on the spot, Mr. Sajjanar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/muthoot-robbery-seven-member-gang-held-near-hyderabad/article33647442.ece
24 January 2021||Hyderabad,TAMIL NADU||Button-sized GPS trackers helped in tracking gang||Two button-sized GPS trackers kept in the packaging of pawned gold as a precautionary measure by Muthoot Finance’s Hosur branch led to the arrest of men carrying the gold in a container truck.  Sources in the Muthoot Finance said that the branch staff had kept the SIM card connected GPS trackers in two of the packages, and even though the dacoits had carried a signal jamming device, they did not check whether it was working and it turned out that it was not. This omission on their part, in a hurry to flee with the booty worth Rs. 7.5 crore, served the Telangana police favourably. “Taking a cue from previous incidents, we keep GPS trackers in a few packets when there is a lot of gold in the chest, and this came in handy for the investigators with whom we shared the links of the tracking devices,” an official told The Hindu . “Fortunately, we were able to connect to the GPS links and track the gold, after the five accused travelling in an SUV were caught near Tondupally toll plaza,” an officer associated with the investigation of the case said. The gang members were aware of the trackers as they attempted to rob a Muthoot branch in Ludhiana of Punjab. Stating that the dacoits have used ‘outstanding technology’ to commit the offence, he said the inter-State armed gang did not use SIM cards for calls. “Instead they purchased a wireless internet router of a leading telecom company and communicated through ‘untraceable’ internet calls,” the officer said on condition of anonymity. The dacoits hid the gold and firearms in a secret cavity behind the driver’s seat of the container lorry and it was hard to find, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/button-sized-gps-trackers-helped-in-tracking-gang/article33647438.ece
24 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Treat disputed period as duty, says HC||Taking cognisance of the fact that the disciplinary proceedings against a school teacher was closed without any order of punishment, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court directed the authorities concerned to send the pension proposal of the petitioner to the Chief Educational Officer, Nagercoil. The court was hearing two petitions filed in 2014 by B. Deva Shanthini of Kanniyakumari district. She sought a direction to the school authorities concerned to send her pension proposal to the Chief Educational Officer, Nagercoil, and also approve the medical leave and casual leave taken by her. It was said that while she was working in an aided school in Kanniyakumari district she had failed to sign in the attendance register for a few days. Though she was initially suspended, the suspension period was regularised and was treated as eligible leave. Since the petitioner had not agreed on the period to be treated as eligible leave the issue was not resolved. Justice RMT. Teekaa Raman directed the disputed period to be treated as duty and directed the school authorities to send the pension proposal to the Chief Educational Officer, Nagercoil, who shall forward it to the Accountant General for passing necessary orders in accordance with law without much delay. However, the court dismissed a connected petition filed by the petitioner. After she retired from service she was given re-appointment till the end of that academic year. When she refused to correct the answer sheets of the public examinations, her re-appointment was cancelled. The court dismissed the plea that challenged the cancellation of re-appointment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/treat-disputed-period-as-duty-says-hc/article33647574.ece
24 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||DMK’s promises are made only to be broken, says Minister||On the eve of election, the DMK leaders make promises that are only to be broken, said AIADMK leader and Revenue Minister R. B. Udayakumar here on Saturday. Speaking to reporters, he said that the DMK has been practising the art of finding fault with their political opponents. With elections approaching for the Assembly, they have started the work. “The public knows who has done right and who has been misleading or cheating,” he said. To a query, he said that in 2006, the DMK came to power promising to give two acres of land. ‘Did they give?’ he asked. In 2019 too, on the eve of the Lok Sabha election, the party managed a win by giving false promises, he said. During the COVID-19 pandemic, the AIADMK government had worked hard and many people were saved from the clutches of death. “Numerous welfare measures, which were announced in 2016 by our late leader Jayalalithaa, has been implemented. We will continue to protect the needy”, he said and added that the DMK cannot mislead the people this time as voters were aware of their plans. Asked about the charge that the AIADMK was corrupt, he denied it and said the Opposition were indulging in cheap politics as they could not stomach popularity of the ruling party. The people were clear and the wave was in favour of the AIADMK, he added. Earlier, he inspected the works being completed at T. Kunnathur near Thirumangalam here where a temple is being built in memory of late MGR and Jayalalithaa on a sprawling compound. Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam would inaugurate the temple where a life size statue of the two leaders would be unveiled on January 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmks-promises-are-made-only-to-be-broken-minister/article33647538.ece
24 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||DISHA meeting cancelled||The ruling party leaders could have forced the Collector to cancel the District Development Coordination and Monitoring Committee (DISHA) meeting, which was scheduled for Saturday, said Madurai MP and DISHA Chairman Su. Venkatesan here on Saturday. Along with co-chairman and Virudhunagar MP B. Manickam Tagore and Tirupparankundram MLA P. Saravanan, he told reporters that the meeting was cancelled as there were irregularities in implementing various Central government schemes. A meeting was scheduled on Saturday after consulting committee members and Collector T. Anbalagan. A 126-page report with details of projects to be discussed during the meeting was given to members. But the Collector cancelled the meeting on Friday citing ‘administrative reasons.’ ‘The Collector, who is member-secretary of the DISHA, has no right to cancel or postpone the meeting without consulting the Chairman. It is against rules of DISHA and obstructed MPs to perform their duty,’ he said. A letter has been sent to the Collector seeking explanation. Out of Rs. 110 crore allocated to Madurai district as a special fund for Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme, around Rs. 97 crore was earmarked for Tirumangalam constituency where Revenue Minister R.B. Udhayakumar is the MLA. “Even during the last meeting, it was instructed to allocate work equally for all the 10 Assembly constituencies. We are speaking on behalf of Cooperation Minister Sellur K. Raju’s Madurai West constituency too,” he said. Mr. Tagore said it was planned to discuss Jal Shakti Abhiyan for the first time during the meeting. “Only if the meeting was held, we could review implementation of the scheme. The ruling party leaders have forced the Collector to cancel the meeting as they fear that irregularities in the implementation of the project would come out,” he said. Dr. Saravanan said that many recent media reports showed that ruling party leaders were taking control of contracts for various projects with an aim to earn commissions. The MPs said that the issue will be escalated in the Parliament.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/disha-meeting-cancelled/article33647751.ece
24 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC allows termination of pregnancy of 15-year-old girl||Taking cognisance of reports by medical experts, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has permitted the termination of pregnancy of a 15-year-old girl from Virudhunagar. The court also ordered that a monthly maintenance of Rs. 5,000 be paid to the girl for 36 months. The court was hearing the petition filed by a woman who sought the termination of the pregnancy of her niece. The girl had lost her father in 2012 and was looked after by her aunt and uncle as her mother was of unsound mind. It was said that the girl had come in contact with a man, later identified as a history-sheeter. He is said to have enticed the girl into a physical relationship and she had become pregnant as a result. The gestation period was 10-11 weeks. The Medical experts opined that continuing the pregnancy may endanger the physical and the mental health of the girl and they recommended the termination of the pregnancy on medical grounds. The girl who was first unwilling agreed for the termination of pregnancy. Permitting the termination of the pregnancy, Justice G.R. Swaminathan observed that while we do celebrate life, the foremost spiritual prayer is that there should be liberation from the cycle of births and deaths. The court must put itself in the shoes of the unborn child and objectively decide if coming into this world would be in its best interest. An unborn child is also a person. In the case on hand, the father of the child has been shown to be involved in a host of criminal cases, some of which are very grave in nature, the judge said. The judge observed that the minor girl was aged 15 years and she was not in a position to maintain herself. She had cried before the court that her uncle should take her back home. Though the minor might have accompanied the accused on her own volition, technically what has been committed is an offence under the POCSO Act. If a choice is given to the foetus now in the womb of the minor, it would definitely proclaim that it would not wish to be born. “I am however spared the trouble of taking such a harsh decision, by overruling the stand of the minor because she had changed her mind in the meanwhile. She told me during video conferencing that she had agreed for the termination of the pregnancy,” the judge said. The court said that of course the pregnancy of the minor girl cannot be terminated without the consent, in writing, of her guardian. The judge directed the sample of the foetus be preserved for carrying out a medical test for the purpose of the criminal case. The case has to be fast tracked, the judge said. After the uncle of the girl, who initially refused to take her back, agreed to take her home after four weeks, the judge ordered the girl be given shelter in a welfare home till then.  [The Minor] told me during video conferencing that she had agreed for the termination of the pregnancy Justice G.R. Swaminathan High Court judge||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-allows-15-year-old-virudhunagar-girl-to-terminate-pregnancy/article33647447.ece
24 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Two held for clubbing dog to death in Madurai||Two persons, including the manager of a cooking gas cylinder distribution unit, were arrested on charges of brutally clubbing a stray dog to death in Sellur on Thursday. The police said the manager, K. Muthusaravanan, had reportedly paid Rs. 500 to a local man, Vimalraj, to kill the dog as it used to bark at him regularly. A video clip of Vimalraj repeatedly hitting the dog on its head and legs with a log went viral in the social media as he had asked someone to videograph his cruel act. He is seen bundling the dog that was wriggling in pain in a bag. K. Marimuthu (39) of Sivagami Street, who was taking care of the dog, said after Muthusaravanan had complained about the dog barking at him, he had started to leash the dog in his house. “The dog has been on our street since it was puppy and had never bitten anyone in the street. Since, Muthusaravanan had hurled stones at it, the dog had started to bark whenever he crossed our street,” he said. Marimuthu even took the dog to suburban Uranganpatti and abandoned it there four months back. “However, the dog traced its way back (for more than 12.5 km) and reached home after seven days,” he said. Deputy Commissioner of Police, R. Shiva Prasad, said that based on a complaint from the local village administrative officer, Muthumari, the Sellur police had registered a case under Section 429 of Indian Penal Code for killing the dog and under the provisions of Prevention of Cruelty against Animals Act, 1960. Both of them were arrested on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-for-clubbing-stray-dog-to-death/article33647515.ece
24 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Three youths held for assault and robbery||The police have arrested three youths, all aged 18 years, on charge of assaulting a motorist and robbing a mobile phone from him near Samayanallur road over bridge on Friday night. The police said that when S. Ramachandran (37) of Old Vilangudi, who is into cargo transport, was riding a motorbike, the trio had followed him. At around 10 p.m. one of them attacked him with a knife in which the victim sustained injuries on his head, mouth and right hand. The accused then snatched his mobile phone and fled the scene. The police arrested them. One of them has five criminal cases, including murder in Karimedu, Subramaniyapuram and Samayanallur police station limits. In a similar case, S. Manimaran (30) of Singampuneri in Sivaganga district was robbed of his mobile phone and Rs. 2,500 cash near the flyover on Sivaganga Road junction on Tiruchi-Madurai highway. The police said that when Manimaran, was driving a cargo vehicle, four robbers came on two bikes and waylaid him at around 11 p.m. on Thursday. They robbed the valuables and fled the scene. Melur police are investigating. Meanwhile, unidentified persons snatched over three sovereigns of gold chain from a woman, S. Lydia Packiam Mettilda (31) of Surya Nagar at Tallakulam on Friday. The police said that the motorbike-borne duo yanked her gold chain near the Prasanna Venkatachalapathy temple at around 1.15 p.m. Tallakulam police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-held-for-robbery/article33647541.ece
24 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Raise quota for SCs’||The Tamil Nadu Adi Dravidar Kootamaippu has passed 14 resolutions and urged the Centre and the State to bring 64 sub-castes under the Adi Dravidar community. Its resolutions will be submitted to the Chief Minister. Its chairman M. Muthuramalingam said here on Friday the demands included retrieval of panchami lands and action against those who had encroached these lands. With the government set to take caste-based census, sub-castes should be included under Adi Dravidar community. The 18 % reservation for the Scheduled Caste must be increased to 21 %. He said that all political parties must field candidates from the Adi Dravidar community in the Assembly elections and its members must be considered for key portfolios in the cabinet. Reservation in government jobs should be implemented properly. A special plan should be worked out for development of Adi Dravidar community and SC/ST Vigilance and Monitoring Committee headed by the Chief Minister should meet periodically, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/raise-quota-for-scs/article33647753.ece
24 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||7-year-old boy dies with dengue symptoms||A seven-year-old boy, who had symptoms of dengue fever, died due to viral haemorrhagic fever at a private hospital here on Thursday. However, health department officials say that it was not a confirmed dengue fever case. City Health Officer P. Kumaraguruparan said that the deceased, a resident of S. Alangulam, had suffered from fever and had very low platelet count when he was admitted to a private hospital on January 20 night. "The patient passed away on January 21 night when he was undergoing treatment at the hospital," he said. The deceased's nine-year-old brother had also suffered from fever and is currently under treatment at Government Rajaji Hospital. "The brother's platelet count is at a good level," he said. Health sources from the private hospital said that the deceased had tested positive for dengue through a non-specific test. "However, ELISA test, which is important to confirm dengue fever, couldn't be performed for the deceased patient," said a source. Dr. Kumaraguruparan said that dengue mosquito control works were happening in full swing in the affected area. "The residents must be cautious and ensure that there is no water stagnation around their homes. Similarly, if any child develops fever, then the child must be immediately diagnosed at government health facility without any delay," he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/7-year-old-boy-dies-with-dengue-symptoms-in-madurai/article33647536.ece
24 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Robber attacks man with sword||Prakash, 29, sustained bleeding injuries, when an unidentified robber hit him on his head with a sword after breaking open their house in Lake Area on Saturday. Police said the accused had broken open the lock of the iron grille gate and barged into the house near MGR Integrated bus stand. When he attempted to yank gold chain of his wife, Soundarya, she raised an alarm following which her husband woke up. As Prakash tried to resist him, the robber attacked him with the sword on his head. As the man collapsed , the robber escaped with the five sovereign of gold chain. The victim was admitted to a private hospital. police have registered a case of robbery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/robber-attacks-man-with-sword/article33647540.ece
24 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||WhatsApp message proves helpful to patient||A message passed on Whatsapp helped to provide timely help for a patient who was admitted to Government Rajaji Nagar (GRH) on Friday. Kannan, a resident of Paramakudi from Ramanathapuram district who was admitted to GRH, was in urgent need of A positive blood on Friday. He was accompanied by his sister, who sought help of blood donors. Social activists Anand Raj and S. Karthik, who was present at the hospital, helped Mr. Kannan to get A positive blood from the blood bank of the GRH. But blood bank officials instructed relatives of Mr. Kannan to donate blood in return. Kumaravel, a youth from Puliyankulam, who came to GRH to visit a patient in the nearby bed, conveyed this information on Whatsapp group seeking blood donors. Immediately, around 10 volunteers came and blood was collected from three persons. ‘All these people had come forward to donate blood,’ said Mr. Anand Raj.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/whatsapp-message-proves-helpful-to-patient/article33647754.ece
24 January 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Airport expansion discussed||Sathish Devadoss, Chairman of Confederation of Indian Industries (CII), Madurai Zone, Poornima Venkatesh, Chair, and L. Sevugan, Co-Chair, Young Indians (Yi), Madurai zone, met Madurai Airport Director S. Senthil Valavan on Thursday and discussed development of the airport. According to a press release from CII, they had placed a request to Mr. Senthil Valavan to rename the airport as Madurai international airport. They also discussed expanding the length of the runway, introducing more domestic and international routes to improve tourism and economic growth in the city. Currently, Madurai airport has got the second largest terminal in Tamil Nadu after Chennai. There are direct flights to Colombo, Dubai and Singapore, apart from domestic flights.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/airport-expansion-discussed/article33647752.ece
24 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||855 candidates get job offer at fair||A total of 855 candidates were offered jobs at a job fair, organised by the District Employment and Career Guidance Centre, here on Saturday. Cooperation Minister Sellur K. Raju distributed work orders for a few candidates. Collector T. Anbalagan was present. Deputy Director of District Employment and Career Guidance Centre N. Mahalakshmi said that around 5,600 candidates participated in the fair. More than 100 private companies, including leading organisations, participated in the job fair. Apart from those who were offered jobs on Saturday, 565 candidates have been shortlisted for further levels of evaluation. Candidates from different backgrounds, including those who had completed Bachelors in Engineering, ITI and SSLC, participated in the job fair.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/855-candidates-get-job-offer/article33647535.ece
24 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Drunken brawl leads to murder||P. Alagumalai, 56, cleanliness worker of TANGEDCO, was found murdered with head injuries in its sub-station at Avaniyapuram on Friday night. The police found that a Line Inspector Pitchaivelu, 54, working on the same premises, was behind the murder following a drunken brawl. Though Alagumalai’s duty was over by evening, he used to stay back in the office and consume liquor. On Friday, he started quarrelling with Pitchaivelu after consuming liquor. Pitchaivelu, who also consumed liquor, assaulted Alagumalai with an iron rod on his head leading to bleeding injuries. He called an ambulance. Found dead The ambulance crew found him dead and alerted the police, said the Inspector of Police (Avaniyapuram), G. Pethuraj. Pitchaivelu has been secured for questioning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drunken-brawl-leads-to-murder/article33647539.ece
24 January 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Minister inspects medical college works||Minister for Electricity P. Thangamani on Saturday inspected the construction of buildings for Namakkal Medical College Hospital here. According to officials, five blocks are being constructed for medical college, nine blocks for the government hospital and eight other blocks at a total cost of Rs. 339 crore. District Collector K. Megraj, AIADMK MLA K.P.P. Bhaskar and other senior officials were present during the inspection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-inspects-medical-college-works/article33647568.ece
24 January 2021||NEW DELHI,TAMIL NADU||Alleged SL drug trafficker travelled on fake passport||M.M.M. Nawas, the Sri Lankan national who has been arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) along with his compatriot Mohamed Afnas for alleged involvement in an international drug trafficking racket, had apparently travelled to Gulf countries from Tamil Nadu on a fake Indian passport. “Further investigations are under way to determine the facts. Both the accused had been living in Chennai under assumed identities after they fled Sri Lanka. Nawas is wanted for an attempt to murder the then Sri Lankan narcotics control bureau’s inspector, Rangajeeva, on May 9, 2017. He went underground thereafter,” said a Customs official. Nawas is said to be a key associate of Kanjipani Imran, now lodged in a Sri Lankan jail, who had direct links with Pakistan-based drug cartels. The accused arranged vessels to transport drug consignments from the Gwadar port through maritime routes to transit points in Sri Lanka and the Maldives. Payments were made through the ‘hawala’ channel via Dubai. Imran worked with Sri Lankan underworld figure Makandure Madhush. The two earlier operated from Dubai, where they were arrested in 2019 and extradited to Sri Lanka. They were held in a Colombo jail. Madhush was killed in a crossfire between the police and some drugpeddlers last October. “In the recent past, some pointmen for drug smugglers in Sri Lanka have been found operating from Tamil Nadu,” the official said, adding that a probe was under way to find out if Nawas had developed links with local criminal gangs for logistics support. Previous incident Last year, the drug enforcement agencies found that another Sri Lankan national, Angoda Lokka, a notorious drug trafficker and associate of Madhush, had been living in India since 2017. He died under mysterious circumstances in Coimbatore in July 2020. Lokka had fled Sri Lanka following an attack on a prison bus in February 2017, in which rival gang leader ‘Samayan’ was killed along with five other jail inmates and two prison officials. According to the NCB, the drug trafficking network involving Nawas has links in Afghanistan, Iran, the Maldives and Australia. The two earlier operated from Dubai, where they were arrested in 2019 and extradited to Sri Lanka. They were held in a Colombo jail. Madhush was killed in a crossfire between the police and some drugpeddlers in October last year. “In the recent past, some pointmen for drug smugglers in Sri Lanka have been found operating from Tamil Nadu,” the official said, adding that a probe was under way to find out if Nawas had developed links with local criminal gangs for logistics support. Last year, the drug enforcement agencies found that another Sri Lankan national, Angoda Lokka, a notorious drug trafficker and associate of Madhush, had been living in India since 2017. He died under mysterious circumstances in Coimbatore in July 2020. Lokka had fled Sri Lanka following an attack on a prison bus in February 2017, in which rival gang leader ‘Samayan’ was killed along with five other jail inmates and two prison officials. According to the NCB, the drug trafficking network involving Nawas has links in Afghanistan, Iran, the Maldives and Australia.  Nawas is wanted for an attempt to murder the then Sri Lankan narcotics control bureau’s inspector on May 9, 2017. A Customs official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sri-lankan-drug-trafficker-travelled-on-fake-passport/article33647345.ece
24 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Panel to address concerns over COVID-19 vaccines constituted||The Health Department has constituted a grievance redress committee to clear doubts about the efficacy of the two COVID-19 vaccines introduced in the country. Director of Health and Family Welfare S. Mohan Kumar, in a circular, said a three- member committee of doctors had been constituted to allay the fears of the public. Any false message related to the vaccines appearing on social media can be reported on the toll-free number 104. Despite the regulatory authorities confirming that the vaccines are immunogenic and safe, miscreants were spreading fake information on social media about the vaccines. Those spreading such false messages on social media would be punished, the circular said.  Meanwhile, the Union Territory on Saturday registered one death from COVID-19 and 36 new cases. As per statistics released by the Health Department, a 63-year-old woman with comorbidity conditions succumbed to the virus at the Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research (Jipmer). The death tally has gone up to 644. The region also recorded 36 new admissions from 3296 tests. Of the total new cases, Mahe region registered 17, Puducherry 16 and Karaikal three. Presently, there are 302 active cases in the four regions. So far, 38,830 people got infected, and 37,884 patients treated and discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panel-to-address-concerns-over-covid-19-vaccines/article33647551.ece
24 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Narayanasamy hits out at Centre, L-G on medical admission quota issue||Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy has accused the Centre and the Lieutenant Governor for stalling the implementation of 50% reservation in private medical colleges for students of Puducherry and the 10% quota for government school students in medical admissions. Addressing a press conference here, the Chief Minister said on March 23, 2020, the Cabinet decided to introduce a bill for providing 50% quota for local students in medical colleges. For obtaining the Centre’s approval, the Cabinet referred the file to the Lt. Governor. After much delay, the file was forwarded to the Centre. The government received a communication in December last year seeking clarification. “We could not introduce the quota system this academic year due to the delay,” Mr. Narayanasamy said. On the case of 10% reservation, the Centre had shot down the territorial administration’s right to issue a notification on the subject. There was no necessity on the part of the Lt. Governor to refer the file to the Centre, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/narayanasamy-hits-out-at-centre-on-medical-quota/article33647416.ece
24 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK east in-charge appointed||The AIADMK Tamil Nadu leadership has appointed legislator Vayyapuri Manikantan as election in-charge for the east region. The first-time party legislator represents Muthialpet constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-east-in-charge-appointed/article33647826.ece
24 January 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Bodies of T.N. fishermen brought to Kottaipattinam||The bodies of the four fishermen, who reportedly died after their boat sank when the Sri Lankan Navy tried to apprehend them a few days ago, arrived at Kottaipattinam in Pudukottai district on Saturday. The fishermen of this hamlet have been alleging that A. Mesiya, 30, V. Nagaraj, 52, N. Samson Darwin, 28, and S. Senthil Kumar, 32, were beaten to death by the Sri Lankan Navy for trespass. They hailed from Ramanathapuram district and set sail on a mechanised boat from the Kottaipattinam jetty on January 18. After the bodies came in, the fellow fishermen paid floral tributes to them. Emotionally charged relatives, women and friends, who gathered in large numbers since early morning, shed tears. Many raised slogans against the Sri Lankan Navy. The fishermen raised slogans, demanding that the State and Central governments take steps to book all those responsible for the death. “It is from here that the fishermen ventured into the sea, hoping for a good catch. Now they have been brought back dead. They were brutally killed. No one should suffer an end like this,” said M. Hasan Mohideen, a fisherman. Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar, accompanied by Pudukottai Collector P. Uma Maheswari, placed wreaths on the bodies. Mr. Vijayabaskar tried to pacify the fishermen, pointing out that Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had taken up the issue with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Later, the bodies were handed over to their relatives and transported to their villages in Ramanathapuram by ambulance. Earlier, a Sri Lankan naval vessel handed over the bodies to the Indian Coast Guard near the International Maritime Boundary Line. The bodies were then transferred to a fishing trawler and brought to Kottaipattinam.  The fishermen raised slogans, demanding that the State and Central governments take steps to book all those responsible for the death||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bodies-of-tn-fishermen-brought-to-kottaipattinam/article33647427.ece
24 January 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||16 persons injured in jallikattu||Sixteen persons were injured in a jallikattu organised at Vanniyanviduthi near Alangudi on Saturday. One among them was taken to the Alangudi Government Hospital. His condition is said to be stable. Of the 16 injured, four were bull tamers and the others spectators, police said. Meanwhile, nearly 4,000 spectators are believed to have witnessed the district's first jallikattu, according to estimates. The event was inaugurated by Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar in the presence of Collector P. Uma Maheshwari. Speaking at the event, Mr. Vijayabaskar said that the event was being organised adhering to the norms laid out by the State government. However, spectators crowded around the barricades, with some even climbing them to get a better view of the event. Personal distancing norms and wearing facemasks were ignored by most attendees. As many as 389 bulls were sent through the ‘vadivasal’ following a thorough medical check-up by veterinarians. Ambulances and doctors were also on standby. Organisers said 220 tamers took part in the event while prizes such as bicycles and utensils were given to the bull owners and tamers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/16-persons-injured-in-jallikattu/article33647524.ece
24 January 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Centre keen to promote deep sea fishing, says Union Minister||The Centre was keen to encourage deep sea fishing and had given a number of subsidies to fishermen, said Giriraj Singh, Union Minister for Fishing and Animal Husbandry, here on Saturday. Speaking at a function to give away assistance to fishermen for deep sea fishing and build infrastructure facilities, he said that the Kundugal fish landing centre had been constructed at a cost of Rs. 74 crore. This would benefit small and marginal fishermen too, he said. The Centre was keen to promote deep sea fishing not just because of geographic issues concerning Tamil fishermen with the Sri Lankan Navy, but in the larger interest of the fishermen to earn sustained income and assured livelihood. The objective of the Pradhan Mantri Mathsya Sambandh Yojana was to protect fisher-folk and provide assistance for improving their economic standards. Women SHGs were trained to cultivate ornamental fish and marine algae, officials said. Union Secretary Rajeev Ranjan, State Principal Secretary K. Gopal, Joint Secretary K. Balaji, Fisheries Commissioner J. Jayakanthan participated in the function. Collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver presided. The Minister gave away subsidy to the tune of Rs. 1.64 crore which was meant to keep boats ready for deep sea fishing, cultivate ornamental fish and marine algae.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centre-keen-to-promote-deep-sea-fishing/article33647550.ece
24 January 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Tense moments at Thangachimadam||Even as the villagers were unable to accept that their loved ones were no more after the Sri Lankan navy personnel allegedly killed four of the fishermen, uneasy calm prevailed at Thangachimadam when a vehicle carrying one of the bodies did not stop at the village but went straight to the cemetery on Saturday. Angered by the act, villagers blocked the Madurai-Rameswaram highway for about an hour. As the news spread, the SP held talks and assured to get their demand resolved following which they paid their homage. At Thangachimadam and at a few other hamlets large section of youth were seen agitated and normal life here was totally paralysed. Earlier, Collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver paid his last respects to the four fishermen, when the bodies arrived here by road from Pudukottai district on Saturday. The four fishermen, from Thangachimadam, who had ventured into the sea for fishing on January 18, should have returned to shores on January 19. They were allegedly killed in a violent manner by the Sri Lankan Navy personnel on the charge of violating territorial waters. The State government had given Rs. 10 lakh each from the Chief Minister's Public Relief Fund to all the four families and the cheques were presented by the District Collector. The government had also given an assurance to examine the modalities to give jobs to the legal heirs from each family on compassionate grounds. On behalf of the government, the officials had given assurance to conduct a fair probe into the deaths following which the family members in the hamlets received the cheques. When the bodies were brought here, the villagers were emotionally upset and many wept uncontrollably and some among the mourners shouted slogans against the Sri Lankan Navy personnel. Fishermen Association leader Sesu Raja said that the Centre should not remain a mute spectator. “The Sri Lankan authorities should take the accused to task and punish them per the laws,” he added. Many other fishermen associations in the coastal hamlet said that they would go ahead with the ‘March to Katchatheevu’ protest and demand the Sri Lankan government to return the island to India, which alone would save the fishermen from such brutal killings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tense-moments-at-thangachimadam/article33647516.ece
24 January 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||‘Will insist on repeat post-mortem’||Though the Sri Lankan government had conducted a post-mortem on the bodies of the four fishermen who died and sent them to Ramanathapuram, fishermen here are insisting that the government order a repeat post-mortem, and the DMK will insist on this demand, said party MP M.K. Kanimozhi on Saturday. The MP, who visited the families of the four fishermen at their dwellings in the coastal hamlet and presented assistance from the party to the legal heirs and told them that a permanent solution to stop such atrocities against fishermen would be taken up by the DMK with the highest authority at the Centre. The fishermen told the DMK MP that the Sri Lankan Navy personnel had been humiliating the fishermen under some pretext or the other. The killing of the four fishermen from Thangachimadam indicated that this was not to prevent the fishermen from entering into their territory. It looked like a pre-planned murder, they charged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/will-insist-on-repeat-post-mortem/article33647422.ece
24 January 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||325 tamers take part in Koolamedu jallikattu||The jallikattu season began in Salem district with the first event being held at Koolamedu here on Saturday. The event was flagged off by District Collector S.A. Raman, Superintendent of Police S. Deepa Ganiger, Chairman of the Tamil Nadu State Apex Co-operative Bank R. Elangovan, and AIADMK MLAs. Mr. Raman administered the oath to tamers and advised them to adhere to the rules of the game for the smooth conduct of the event. Physical distancing Though the crowd was less compared to previous years, physical distancing norms went for a toss. According to police, close to 500 police personnel led by an ADSP and five DSPs and personnel from the Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services were on duty at the venue. 24 injured A 60-member medical team was in charge of emergency medical care. According to health officials, the tamers underwent tests for fitness and COVID-19. Of the 325 tamers who took part in the event, 24 suffered minor injuries. A bull owner was dragged by the bull while releasing it into the arena. Eight veterinary teams under D. Purushothaman, Joint Director, Animal Husbandry, checked the fitness of the bulls. Dope tests were also conducted. About 666 bulls from Attur and neighbouring districts such as Namakkal, Kalakuruchi, Tiruchi and others took part in the event. Winning tamers and bull owners went home with cash prize upto Rs. 1 lakh, household articles, silver coins, and cycles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/325-tamers-take-part-in-koolamedu-jallikattu/article33647566.ece
24 January 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Mock poll held at Salem Collectorate||A mock poll to check the functioning of voting machines was conducted at the Salem Collectorate on Saturday. Representatives of recognised political parties took part in the process. According to election department officials, the voting machines for the mock poll were randomly selected. District Collector S.A. Raman reviewed the poll process. First level checking According to officials, first level checking was completed in 5,479 voting machines. A total of 110 voting machines including ballot units, control units and VVPAT machines were used for the mock poll here on Saturday. As many as 1,000 votes were polled on Saturday, 500 votes would be polled on Sunday and 1,200 votes on Monday. Officials said that ballot machines with 16 candidate slots were used on Saturday, and on Monday four ballot machines with 64 candidate slots would be used.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mock-poll-held-at-salem-collectorate/article33647570.ece
24 January 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Two die in road accident||Two women died and five persons suffered severe injuries in a road accident near Thalaivasal here on Saturday. According to police, about 30 persons from Oonathur were travelling in a mini van to Kalakuruchi on Saturday morning to attend a condolence. While the vehicle was moving along the banks of a pond near Oonathur, it overturned and a 38-year-old woman died on the spot. The deceased was identified as Annapurni (38) from Puthur. Another woman, Vedammal (55) from the same village, died on the way to hospital, police said. The injured were rushed to Attur and Salem government hospitals for treatment.  According to police, five persons suffered severe injuries in the incident. Thalaivasal police have registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-die-in-road-accident/article33647571.ece
24 January 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Disruption in water supply||In view of maintenance works, drinking water supply will be suspended on January 25 (Monday) in the Corporation limits. Corporation Commissioner N. Ravichandran advised the public to use water judiciously.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/disruption-in-water-supply/article33647572.ece
24 January 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Training programme for farmers||The Agricultural Technology Management Agency conducted a training programme on paddy cultivation at Sandaipettai here on Friday. According to a release, the agency has readied paddy crop over a hectare for the demonstration.. The farmers were trained in harvesting and post harvesting technologies. They were also advised on manufacturing value-added products.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/training-programme-for-farmers/article33647564.ece
24 January 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Outflow from Mettur dam increased||The discharge from Mettur Dam through River Cauvery was increased on Saturday. According to Public Works Department officials, the outflow was increased from 500 cusecs to 1,000 cusecs. The water level at the dam on Saturday was 105.96 ft, against a total scale of 120ft. The stored capacity of water at the dam was 72,780 mcft and the dam received an inflow of 1,356 cusecs. The discharge through East-West Canal of the dam was stopped recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/outflow-from-mettur-dam-increased/article33647567.ece
24 January 2021||Sivaganga,TAMIL NADU||‘BJP should be defeated’||The BJP should be defeated in the ensuing Kerala and Tamil Nadu Assembly elections, said former Union Minister and senior Congress leader P. Chidambaram said here on Saturday. Speaking at a party workers’ meeting, as a run up the elections, he said that in 2019, the BJP claimed that there was a wave sweeping across the nation in favour of Narendra Modi. It was successfully stopped in Andhra Pradesh, Kerala and Tamil Nadu then. “Similarly, the BJP should be shown its place in Tamil Nadu and Kerala in this election too,” he added. The BJP, he said, should be shown the door three years from now (at the Centre) and the AIADMK in three months here in Tamil Nadu. He further said that no party should be allowed to remain in power for 10 years or more as they would start claiming to be the permanent Prime Minister or permanent Chief Minister. In a way, the senior leader said that the Americans were clever in this case since they ensured that a person remained in power as the President for a maximum of eight years. He alleged that the AIADMK, knowing pretty well that they were going to be defeated in the election, would be determined to use all their powers; in a similar fashion, the BJP would also try all the back door methods to create confusion. The party workers should ensure that there was no room for any confusion or malpractice. Hence, it was the bounden duty for the Congress workers to rope in the victory of all its candidates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-should-be-defeated/article33647556.ece
24 January 2021||Tenkasi,TAMIL NADU||Pension benefits handed over||Adi Dravida Welfare Minister V. M. Rajalakshmi handed over pension benefits to 434 persons, who had successfully completed their service in the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation on Saturday. At a function held at Sankarankoil TNSTC depot, Collector G. S. Sameeran presided. Managing Director Thiruvambalan Pillai and other senior officials participated. The Minister said the government had kept its promises to various sections in the society. Pensioners should rest assured that the AIADMK government would continue to serve the needy and poor. As many as 434 employees, who had retired from service between 2019 April and December in the Tirunelveli region were given cheques totalling Rs. 88.58 crore, a release said. He also inaugurated road laying works within the TNSTC depot at a cost of Rs. 10 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pension-benefits-handed-over/article33647873.ece
24 January 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||NDMA holds training for volunteers||Ramesh Kumar Ganda, Joint Secretary, National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA), launched ‘Aapda Mitra,’ a concept of roping in community volunteers to help victims during natural calamity here on Saturday. Collector K. Senthil Raj, who presided, said that volunteers from the NSS and Nehru Yuva Kendra and other organisations may join and serve the needy in times of crisis. The Union government, which had launched the scheme five years ago, had now expanded it to many States. With as many as 16 districts, including 13 coastal districts, identified in Tamil Nadu, the Centre was keen to identify volunteers and impart training. The objective was to rope in only those who wanted to join the initiative and serve the people, the officials said and added that training would be given by experts from the field. The scheme would be launched next month and the officials hoped there would be a good number of response to it. After giving training, the volunteers would be given exposure to natural calamities handled by experts in Chennai and other States. The volunteers, who attended the session held at the Collectorate, were given a guide about the NDMA. The trainers spoke on the features and how being prepared to face the calamity would save lives and properties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ndma-holds-training-for-volunteers/article33647879.ece
24 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Association sets in motion trade centre project work||The Tiruchi Trade Centre Private Limited (TTCPL), the Special Purpose Vehicle formed by Tiruchi District Tiny and Small Scale Industries’ Association (TIDITSSIA) for executing the project, has got off to a start by making a token payment to SIDCO towards value of the 9.4 acre land at Panjapur on the city outskirts, following receipt of the allotment order. A four-member delegation of TIDITSSIA comprising its president R. Ilango, Secretary S. Gopalakrishnan, Treasurer P. Rajappa and former president and Chairperson of TTCPL N. Kangasabapathy called on SIDCO officials at Chennai and handed over a cheque for Rs. 18 lakh as the initial payment for the land valued at Rs. 1.14 crore. The balance amount for the land would be settled by the end of February, after which a Memorandum of Understanding will be signed for the first-phase construction. A Detailed Project Report that would be submitted to the SIDCO for construction of a 25,000 sq. ft. building to house a maximum of 2,500 persons. Provisions will be made for parking of 500 cars and over 1,000 two-wheelers, to begin with, Mr. Elango said. The TIDITSSIA has fixed Rs. 1 lakh as the value per share. It has been decided that to gain eligibility to become a director, a member will have to purchase a minimum of three shares. A cap of five shares has been fixed for each member, Mr. Elango said. For the Rs. 11 crore project, the government had sanctioned Rs. 5 crore during 2016-17 as 50% grant. The SIDCO will be releasing the fund as and when the members of TTCPL scale up their contributions. The Trade Centre that has begun to take shape will foster business opportunities for industry clusters in the entire central region to showcase their products. The district administration is understood to have promised to strengthen the small stretch of road from the Madurai National Highway, along the alignment of the semi-ring road, on a priority basis. Through the Trade Centre, the TIDITSSIA intends to project the strength of fabrication industry in Tiruchi, the textile sector in Karur, the readymade garment sector at Puthanatham, marine sector in Nagapattinam and other products the central districts are known for.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiditssia-sets-in-motion-preparation-for-trade-centre/article33647534.ece
24 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||NRCB develops new technology for drying ripe banana||The National Research Centre for Banana (NRCB), Tiruchi, has developed a new drying technology which could be an alternative to the highly sophisticated spray and freeze drying of ripe banana. This could be a feasible solution for utilisation of over ripe, market rejects bananas for producing cost efficient banana powders and come as a boon to small food industries and farmers producers organisations and companies, S.Uma, Director, NRCB, said in a press release. The natural matrices of ripe banana powder contain a high amount of carbohydrates and bio-active compounds with potential pre-biotic beneficial effects on human health and can be used as functional ingredient in food preparation. “With conventional driers, generally, ripe banana pulp takes long time to dry, due to their dense physical structure and high sugar content. The technology developed by ICAR- NRCB, makes the banana pulp more porous, that will facilitate quicker drying,” she said. Ripe banana powder can be used in food product formulations like pudding, fudges, pan cakes, bakery fillings along with refined wheat flour. It can also be used as a flavouring ingredient for making low fat yogurt, ice cream, fruit toffee and fruit bar. It can also be suggested for compaction into tablet forms for neutraceutical consumption. The institute has also developed technologies for sugar free banana juice with basil seed suspension, central stem based low calorie juices, encapsulation methods to tap the natural colour from the male flower and low sodium pickles from stem, peel and flower, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nrcb-develops-new-technology-for-drying-ripe-banana/article33647530.ece
24 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Public toilets remain inaccessible||Residents of various areas within the city complain of public toilets in their areas being inaccessible. Some of the facilities, which were constructed under the Swachh Bharat Mission, remain locked up unable for use, residents say. At Manickapuram, a residential locality near Melapudur in the city, a toilet complex was constructed recently. However, it has never been utilised by the public, people living nearby say. "We are informed that the toilet complex featured special installations for the differently-abled, and even a shower. But we have never seen it," a resident said. The complex faces an empty plot where open defecation and urination is common, they added. A total of 358 community toilets and 50 public toilets are present within city limits according to corporation sources. However, the number of functional ones are unknown, they said. Some toilets remain closed due to lack of sufficient hands to maintain it. "We are not able to get any workers to clean the facilities on a regular basis, and that's why it is closed," a corporation official told The Hindu . Meanwhile, L. Chandrasekar, District President, BJP Arts and Culture Cell, claimed that on conducting an independent survey, he found that at least 153 localities in the city had incidences of open defecation. As many as 42 toilets were abandoned while four new ones were locked up after construction. "Is this because they are ignorant or are they apathetic? It is not possible that so many toilets are being unused without the knowledge of officials in the civic body," he said. The situation is worse for women, who do not have a safe space to defecate, he added. He has written a petition to the Chief Minister requesting his intervention in the matter, and seeking the creating of district level committees to ensure that the 'Open Defecation Free' status is an on-ground reality, he said. "The committee consisting of social activists, voluntary organisations and government officials must track and keep a check the functioning of public toilets and other sanitation issues," he said. A report must be filed by the committee following which the concerns can be solved, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/public-toilets-remain-inaccessible/article33647520.ece
24 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Corporation sets up control room for surveillance||The Tiruchi City Corporation has begun the groundwork to set up an Integrated Command and Control Centre at the civic body's main office on Bharathidasan Salai. The centre would have control of all smart features, including surveillance cameras, smart street lights fitted in the city, senior officials said. As an initial step, an Integrated Command and Control Centre (ICCC) building is being constructed on the main office campus at a cost of Rs. 1.86 crore. An area of 8,000 square feet is being utilised to construct an exclusive centre for this purpose. A Tiruchi-based contractor has been roped in, and work to clear the area of bushes and weeds and rocks using an earthmover is underway. Following the construction of the building, the implementation of the project would begin by May this year, a senior official of the civic body said. A plan of Rs. 12. 32 crore has been drawn up, and a five-year-contract has been handed over to a Coimbatore-based company for operations and management. The implementation would involve a Command and Control Room with a video wall to monitor CCTVs across the city, a crisis management room with a helpline and an auxiliary support room. In addition, the ICCC would control public Wi-Fi, an emergency call button, surveillance cameras, Public grievance system, smart street lights and drone-based monitoring, all of which are planned to be launched in the city. The project is being undertaken under the Smart Cities Mission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-sets-up-control-room-for-surveillance/article33647526.ece
24 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Delay in rebuilding Fort Station Road||The delay in the building a new road overbridge (ROB) of the Fort Station Road, near the Maris Theatre, has resulted in a sharp increase in traffic volume on Karur Bypass Road in the city. While the Southern Railway maintains the ROB, the Tiruchi City Corporation carried out the repair and maintenance of the approaches to the bridge on Fort Station Road on both sides until recently. The eastern arm of the road suffered extensive damage due to the rain in August. Since it was found that the damaged road was not safe for heavy vehicular traffic such as buses and lorries, the civic body erected a bar across the road, thereby preventing the movement of heavy vehicles on the road. Small vehicles such as cars and bikes are only allowed. Though the civic body had initially planned to relay the road by tapping funds under the Smart City Mission in 2019, it changed its plan and decided to seek funds from the State government. It again changed its decision and sent a proposal to hand over the road to the State Highways (Project) for relaying and maintenance. Considering the importance of rebuilding the road, Collector S. Sivarasu took up the issue to the State government for taking over of the road by the State Highways. It was expected that the State government would give the green signal for the project before the end of 2020. Though the State government is said to have accepted the proposal in principle, it is yet to issue an order. Since traffic on the Fort Station Road was restricted, all buses bound for Chathiram Bus Stand and on return direction are plying via Karur bypass road, thereby causing heavy congestion the road. This causes traffic snarls frequently. During peak hours, vehicles are moving at a snail pace. It has doubled the duration of travelling time between Shastri Road-Salai Road junction and Chathiram Bus Stand. Restless motorists have urged the Tiruchi City Corporation to find a solution as early as possible. “Almost six months have passed since the Fort Station Road was closed for heavy vehicle movement. There is still no sign for starting the project on rebuilding the damaged road. The issue should be resolved before this month. Otherwise, nothing will happen until the State elections are over,” says N. Jamaludeen, a consumer activist. Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian told The Hindu that the Collector had been following the proposal. Steps would be taken to complete the transfer of road as early as possible. An official of the State Highways (Project) said that the proposal was under the consideration of the department. It would be formalised once the GO was issued which was expected soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/delay-in-rebuilding-fort-station-road/article33647517.ece
24 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||IWS scores a century in technical programmes||The pandemic period has been conducive for the Indian Welding Society, a leading entity devoted for skill development in the field, to complete 100 programmes on virtual platform, taking the support of other organisations and professional bodies. Converting the challenges posed by the lockdown into opportunities, IWS partnered with Messe Dusseldorf India, Messe Essen, Fronius India, Centre for Materials Joining and Research, and Indiawelds; and other professional bodies like Institution of Engineers, Indian Institute of Metals, Computer Society of India, and Indian Institute of welding, besides a host of educational institutions and student forums in engineering colleges to pursue its objective of knowledge dissemination effectively during the pandemic period. These events evoked very good response from participants not only from India but also from USA, Singapore, UAE, Saudi Arabia, and Dubai among other countries. IWS has also signed Memorandums of Understanding with K.S. Rangasamy College of Technology and Ramco Institute of Technology to offer credit course in welding technology for engineering students, and with PACR polytechnic college to offer an industry based elective in welding technology for its final year students. "This is being done for the first time”, R Padmanabhan, President (IWS) and Executive Director (BHEL) said, inaugurating the 100 th online technical programme on Thursday. The IWS had, during the last eight months, conducted and co-organised the events drawing experts from all over the globe. Significantly, more than 85 events were conducted without any fee for the participant. The knowledge sharing exercises, he pointed out will play a large supportive role for the Make in India and Aatma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan programmes of Government of India to make the country self-reliant, Mr. Padmanabhan said. V.V. Kamath, Managing Director of Fronius India, said there was novelty in the panel discussions organised on specific themes, bringing togehter CEOs, technocrats on a single platform to discuss the issues faced by the industry. IWS and Fronius also conducted an all women panel discussion on the eve of Independence day. N Rajasekaran Hon. Secretary said IWS has also conducted two online courses at heavily subsidised rates for fresh engineers on welding technology. More than 40 young engineers joined the course from all parts of the country. He exuded hope that the information about the online courses that could be accessed at www.iwsevents.com would benefit young minds in large numbers. Himanshu Gandhi, Vice-President, Fronius India, spoke of the impact of the welders’ skill competition conducted for the workforce of rolling stock companies in India. A Santhakumari, Hon. Treasurer (IWS), said two flagship events — the India Essen Welding and Cutting Show and concurrent International Welding Symposium during September 8 – 10, 2021 at Mumbai — would be of immense utility to the welding fraternity. The 100th technical programme that had 190 participants from across the country witnessed Amlan Saha of Fronius India speaking on “Weld overlay solutions for wear protection”. In his lecture he elaborated on modern high productive advanced overlay methods like hot wire TIG (Tungsten Inert Gas), Tandem TIG, and Cold Metal Transfer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iws-scores-a-century-in-technical-programmes/article33647518.ece
24 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||65 fresh cases, no death reported in central region||Six-five more persons tested positive for COVID 19 in districts in the central region on Saturday. Tiruvarur district reported a rise in cases with 26 patients testing positive. Only eight cases were reported in the district on Friday. In Nagapattinam, 14 patients tested positive while in the other six districts in the region, less than 10 fresh cases were reported. Thanjavur reported nine fresh cases and Tiruchi seven. Most patients who tested positive were local index cases, asymptomatic patients and their contacts. Meanwhile, five patients who had been undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital were discharged after recovering from the viral infection. Karur reported three fresh cases. Among the patients who tested positive were residents from Mookanankuruchi and Nayakanur. Ariyalur, Perambalur and Pudukottai reported an equal number of cases with two patients testing positive in each. The patients were all isolated cases or primary contacts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/65-fresh-cases-no-death-reported-in-central-region/article33647527.ece
24 January 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Officials inspect Oyyamari road to check wrong side driving||A joint team of officials from City Traffic Police, State Highways and National Highways Authority of India inspected the Oyyamari road here on Friday in the wake of wrong side driving resorted to by several motorists on this stretch. The officials discussed ways and means of checking wrong side driving which could lead to accidents on this stretch. A senior police officer said a suggestion mooted during the field inspection was to close the opening near the Regional Transport Office East office where the motorists turn and resort to wrong side driving on this stretch. The officer said the State Highway officials had sought some time to carry out the works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/officials-inspect-oyyamari-road-to-check-wrong-side-driving/article33647521.ece
24 January 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Gang attacks man||A whistleblower of Surampatti near Musiri sustained injuries after he was attacked by a gang on Friday. According to sources, there had been enmity between D. Ramachandran (36) and Kodi (42), president of Surampatti over the former frequently petitioning authorities against him. Ramachandran was said to have presented a petition to the Collector recently, levelling charges of misappropriation of funds, meant of rural employment guarantee scheme, and a few other schemes in the village, against Kodi. Onlookers transported him to the Government Medical College Hospital in Tiruchi. Based on a complaint, the Musiri police have registered a case and arrested 5 persons, including the secretary of Surampatti panchayat.   A special team of police from Tiruchi City secured a suspect from Vadamadurai near here on Friday. Police said that following a complaint from Rajendran (68) of Tharanallur Agraharam in Tiruchi a case was registered. The complaint was that on December 13, 2020 when he had locked his papad making unit at 7.30 p.m. and went out, some miscreants had gained entry and decamped with Rs. 4 lakh cash, eight sovereigns of gold jewels and an expensive mobile phone. Based on specific clue, the police came to know that one of the suspects was hiding in Vadamadurai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gang-attacks-man/article33647522.ece
24 January 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Kangeyam farmers continue protest||Farmers, who are on a hunger strike in Kangeyam demanding adequate release of water for the Vellakoil branch canal under the Parambikulam-Aliyar Project (PAP) said that they petitioned Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami in Coimbatore on Friday.  According to P. Velusamy, one of the members of the PAP-Vellakoil Branch Canal Water Protection Committee, the representatives submitted the petition to Mr. Palaniswami, who said that he would look into their demands. On Friday, a section of farmers also held talks with District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan. However, the farmers continued their protest on Saturday as no action was taken regarding their demands, he said. Sit-in planned The farmers are planning to stage a sit-in protest at the Public Works Department office on Tiruppur Road in Kangeyam on Monday. With around 25 farmers staging hunger strike, their protest entered the fifth day on Saturday. Meanwhile, BJP State Agriculture Wing president G.K. Nagaraj said in a statement that Minister for Animal Husbandry Udumalai K. Radhakrishnan must intervene in the issue and work for an amicable solution. Committees formed In a press release, Mr. Vijayakarthikeyan said that committees have been formed to monitor alleged siphoning off water from the PAP canal. The committees will include officials from the PWD, Revenue Department and the district police, he said.  Minister for Animal Husbandry Udumalai K. Radhakrishnan must intervene in the issue and work for an amicable solution. G.K. Nagaraj BJP State Agriculture Wing president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kangeyam-farmers-continue-protest/article33647458.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Rape, lies and video leaks||An old farmhouse at Chinnappapalayam near Pollachi, the epicentre of Tamil Nadu’s most recent sex and abuse scandal, is deserted. It belongs to K. Thirunavukkarasu, 28, of Makkinampatti, a budding financier, and it was the main hangout of a group of youngsters from Pollachi. The investigation by the Pollachi town east police of a complaint filed by a 19-year-old girl on February 24, 2019, revealed that the isolated house was more than a hangout. The next day’s arrest of Thirunavukkarasu’s friends N. Rishwanth, 26, alias Sabarirajan of MGR Nagar; N. Sathish, 30, of Suleeswaranpatti; and T. Vasanthakumar, 25, of Pakkothipalayam turned out to be the tip of the iceberg. The girl’s complaint said Rishwanth called her up around 12.30 p.m. on February 12, 2019, when she was in college and asked her to come to the Unjavelampatti bus-stop to speak to her in person. Thirunavukkarasu and Rishwanth, whom she knew through a school friend and later got acquainted with, were waiting in front of a bakery as she reached Unjavelampatti at 1 p.m. Thirunavukkarasu drove the car on Dharapuram Road, while Rishwanth and she sat behind. Soon, two more persons boarded the car, whom she later identified as Sathish, who sat next to Thirunavukkarasu, and Vasanthakumar, who sat beside Rishwanth. As the girl pressed Rishwanth about what he wanted to speak to her about, Thirunavukkarasu stopped the car on a mud road near the gate of a mill. The complaint said Rishwanth forcibly removed her upper clothing and Sathish filmed it with his mobile phone. The men told her that they had the video of the incident and if she did not go with them whenever they summoned her, apart from giving them money when they asked for it, they would release the video. They held out the same threat while asking her not to disclose the incident to anyone. The men then snatched her one sovereign gold chain before leaving her in the deserted area. She narrated the incident to two men who came to the place on a two-wheeler, and they arranged an autorickshaw for her to reach college, said the complaint. The girl disclosed the ordeal to her parents on February 24, after Rishwanth, Vasanthakumar and Sathish met her two to three times and demanded money, her complaint said. The four men were booked under Sections 354 A (sexual harassment and punishment for sexual harassment), 354 B (assault or use of criminal force to woman with intent to disrobe), 392 (punishment for robbery) of the IPC; Section 66 E (punishment for violation of privacy) of the Information Technology Act; and Section 4 (penalty for harassment of women) of the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Harassment of Woman (TNPHW) Act. The police could not trace Thirunavukkarasu then. In a twist to the case, a group of men allegedly assaulted the brother of the girl on February 26, reportedly to force him to withdraw his sister’s complaint. The same day the police arrested T. Senthil, 33, P. Babu, 27, and K. Vasanthakumar, 20, all natives of Pollachi, in connection with the assault. The police arrested ‘Bar’ Nagaraj, an office-bearer of the AIADMK’s Amma Peravai for ward 34 in Pollachi, the next day for his role in the assault. The party expelled him on March 11. On March 5, the police arrested K. Thirunavukkarasu, accused of heading the gang. The threads begin to unravel A few videos of sexual assaults of women, which were allegedly shot in the farmhouse, were leaked. In these videos, girls were seen begging for mercy from the perpetrators. The case then snowballed into a scandal with reports speculating that the gang could have sexually assaulted and blackmailed several women. Political parties, students’ federations, women’s forums and political organisations started a series of protests seeking justice for the victims and a fair investigation into the scandal. Things got murkier when the then Coimbatore Rural Superintendent of Police, R. Pandiarajan, disclosed the name of the complainant at a press conference in March. “The disclosure of the name of the complainant by the Superintendent of Police, who is supposed to protect her identity, was a major setback. This could have discouraged other women from coming forward with complaints against the accused. This thwarted a good start to the investigation,” says A. Radhika of the All India Democratic Women's Association, one of the organisations campaigning for justice. With more pressure mounted on the police to unravel the various threads, the State government transferred the investigation from the Coimbatore Rural Police to the CB-CID, even as the political parties, including the DMK, wanted a CBI probe. On March 25, 2019, R. Manivannan, 31, alias Mani, surrendered before the Chief Judicial Magistrate Court in Coimbatore for his role in the assault on the girl’s brother. The CB-CID later named Manivannan as the fifth accused in the sexual assault case and arrested him. CBI takes over investigation “Following the arrest of Manivannan and in pursuance of various leaked videos examined, the CB-CID altered the FIR and invoked Section 376 (punishment for rape) against the five accused,” said an official who was part of the investigation. While the CB-CID investigation was under way, the Central government ordered a CBI investigation into the two cases, on a request from the Tamil Nadu Home Department, through a government order on March 16. Subsequently, the CBI’s Special Crime Branch, Chennai, re-registered two FIRs, copies of which are with The Hindu , in the sexual assault case and the case of assault on the girl’s brother on April 26. The agency filed its first chargesheet against the five men in the sexual assault case on May 24, arraigning them for offences under Sections 354 A, 354 B, 376 and 392, read with 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention), of the IPC: Sections 66E and 67 (punishment for publishing or transmitting obscene material in electronic form) of the IT Act; and Section 4 of the TNPHW Act. After pursuing the case of alleged assault on the girl’s brother, the CBI submitted a report before the Chief Judicial Magistrate court, seeking to close the investigation. “The court did not accept the CBI’s report. As the Chief Judicial Magistrate’s post is vacant, we will submit a petition raising objection to the CBI’s report,” said S. Gopalakrishnan, counsel for the girl’s brother. “Though there was no visible progress in the case in 2020, the CBI has been doing its work, mainly to find out other victims and strengthen its case,” said a source privy to the investigation. Meanwhile, the CBI obtained the court’s permission to collect the voice samples of the accused and subject them to a forensic analysis to ascertain whether their voices matched with those heard in some leaked video clips of sexual assaults. The groundwork of the agency yielded results when three more women who were allegedly sexually assaulted by the accused turned up to give their statements before a magistrate in December 2020. The agency arrested AIADMK Pollachi town students’ wing secretary K. Arulanantham, 34, P. Babu alias ‘Bike’ Babu, 27, of Vadugapalayam, and Haron Paul, 29, of Achipatty, on January 5 this year. Babu was also involved in the case of assault on the brother of the first complainant. Even as the Opposition parties, led by the DMK, accused the government of protecting the accused, the AIADMK expelled Arulanantham from the party. Political ramifications With the Assembly election round the corner, the three arrests, especially that of Arulanantham, triggered a storm, with the Opposition parties circulating his photos with Ministers and top AIADMK leaders in social media. This is the second time the same case has stirred a storm and prompted questions of women’s safety in the State. The AIADMK failed to retain the Pollachi Lok Sabha constituency, losing it to the DMK in the 2019 general election. Commentators put the defeat down to the impact of the case. With yet another election approaching and campaigning heating up, they reckon that the case may again impact the outcome in the region. “My government protects women like a bulwark,” Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said at a campaign event near Pollachi on Saturday, responding to the charges levelled against the party. “The investigation and the trial should be conducted quickly. As demanded before, a detailed investigation should be conducted into the unnatural deaths and suicides of women in the Pollachi region. The quashing of the provisions of the Goondas Act invoked against the accused points to the government’s lethargic approach towards the case during the police and CB-CID investigation,” Ms. Radhika said. Given the need for protection of the identity of the survivor and the witnesses and the political repercussions of the case, the Mahila Court in Coimbatore has kept the documents related to the case in its custody. “We are happy with the progress of the inquiry. We hope the CBI will bring forth all those involved in the case,” the first complainant’s brother said, responding to the three recent arrests. CBI sources and a few officials who were earlier part of the investigation declined to comment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rape-lies-and-video-leaks/article33647395.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Sri Lankan drug trafficker travelled on fake passport||The two earlier operated from Dubai, where they were arrested in 2019 and extradited to Sri Lanka. They were held in a Colombo jail. Madhush was killed in a crossfire between the police and some drugpeddlers in October last year. “In the recent past, some pointmen for drug smugglers in Sri Lanka have been found operating from Tamil Nadu,” the official said, adding that a probe was under way to find out if Nawas had developed links with local criminal gangs for logistics support. Last year, the drug enforcement agencies found that another Sri Lankan national, Angoda Lokka, a notorious drug trafficker and associate of Madhush, had been living in India since 2017. He died under mysterious circumstances in Coimbatore in July 2020. Lokka had fled Sri Lanka following an attack on a prison bus in February 2017, in which rival gang leader ‘Samayan’ was killed along with five other jail inmates and two prison officials. According to the NCB, the drug trafficking network involving Nawas has links in Afghanistan, Iran, the Maldives and Australia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sri-lankan-drug-trafficker-travelled-on-fake-passport/article33647468.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Sri Lankan drug trafficker travelled on fake passport||“Nawas is wanted for an attempt to murder the then Sri Lankan narcotics control bureau’s inspector, Rangajeeva, on May 9, 2017. He went underground thereafter,” the official added. Nawas is said to be a key associate of Kanjipani Imran, now lodged in a Sri Lankan jail, who had direct links with Pakistan-based drug cartels. The accused arranged vessels to transport drug consignments from the Gwadar port through maritime routes to transit points in Sri Lanka and the Maldives. Payments were made through the ‘hawala’ channel via Dubai. Imran worked with Sri Lankan underworld figure Makandure Madhush. The two earlier operated from Dubai, where they were arrested in 2019 and extradited to Sri Lanka. They were held in a Colombo jail. Madhush was killed in a crossfire between the police and some drug peddlers in October last year. “In the recent past, some pointmen for drug smugglers in Sri Lanka have been found operating from Tamil Nadu,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sri-lankan-drug-trafficker-travelled-on-fake-passport/article33647423.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Erode reports 27 new cases||The 27 fresh COVID-19 cases reported in Erode district on Saturday took the district’s tally to 14,195. A total of 20 persons were discharged from various treatment centres. As many as 131 persons are under treatment. Salem district reported 16 new cases. According to health officials, all cases were indigenous, including six cases in Salem Corporation limits. Namakkal district reported 10 new cases, all indigenous. Forty- seven persons tested positive for the disease in Coimbatore district on Saturday.  The district had 498 active cases as on Saturday, and 64 persons returned to their homes after recovering from the disease. The district did not report any death due to the disease on the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/47-new-cases-in-coimbatore/article33647461.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Putting together||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/putting-together/article33647547.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Follow rules||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/follow-rules/article33647559.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Submerged in misery||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/submerged-in-misery/article33647876.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Water, water everywhere||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-water-everywhere/article33647882.ece
24 January 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘Shortage of books to explain Kannada classics to younger generation’||There is a severe scarcity of books that explain old Kannada classics to the younger generation, S.S. Angadi, professor of Kannada in Hampi Kannada University, said in Belagavi on Saturday. He was speaking at the release of 50 books as part of the 54th anniversary celebrations of Sapna Book House at its office in Kolhapur Circle. Dr. Angadi, who has been working on reinterpreting all Kannada classics into modern Kannada, said that he had released six books till now, by authors such as Pampa, Ranna, Poona, Janna, Raghavanka, and Harihara. His latest book Sarala Basava Raja Devara Ragale will hit the stands on Monday. He recalled the writers, critics, and historians from Belagavi district who had contributed significantly to Kannada literature. Dadasaheb S. Chougale, one of the authors whose book was released, said that the drive to spread love and build harmony among communities motivated him to write and paint. He said that it was the fundamental duty of a writer to record the life around him and suggest solutions to the economic- political and social problems in the society. Dilawar Ramdurg, theatre personality, spoke of the influence of the native folk arts on both the writers. He spoke against people who argued that literature was not an essential society building tool. M.V. Raghu, general manager of the publishing house, said the space above the book shop was freely available for literary and cultural associations to organise functions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shortage-of-books-to-explain-kannada-classics-to-younger-generation/article33647584.ece
24 January 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||KSE seeks action against Siddaramaiah||K.S. Eshwarappa, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister. challenged D.K. Shivakumar, KPCC president, to take disciplinary action against former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah for saying openly that he would become the next Chief Minister. Mr. Shivakumar keeps asking the BJP high command to take action against our leaders and members. But he avoids taking action against his own party colleagues. Mr. Siddaramaiah is going around declaring that he would be the next CM. Does Mr. Shivakumar has the guts to initiate action against Mr. Siddaramaiah?” “The Congress is a divided house. There are so many factions headed by various leaders there. Both Mr. Shivakumar and Mr. Siddaramaiah claim that they will be the next CM. The Congress workers are confused. They don’t know whom to believe. But then, the Congress will never come to power and neither of these leaders will become the CM,” he said. The Congress is a sinking ship and those who want to climb up the political ladder have come over to the BJP, he said. Two-tier system Mr. Eshwarappa has favoured a two-tier panchayat raj system over the present three-tier system. A two-tier system would be better as it saves money. The BJP government is in favour of it. Its feasibility would be discussed in the next Cabinet meeting. However, changing the system woulqd require a constitutional amendment. We are planning to recommend to the Union government to bring such an amendment, he said. He was speaking after inaugurating the newly built administration block and chambers of ZP chief, vice-president, and standing committee members in Dharwad on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kse-seeks-action-against-siddaramaiah/article33647585.ece
24 January 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Vatal wants ban on MES||Vatal Nagaraj, Kannada activist, has urged the State government to ban the Maharahstra Ekikaran Samiti for its alleged “anti–State activities, provocative speeches by its leaders, and its attempts at fomenting violence”. At a protest against MES and Shiv Sena in Belagavi on Saturday, he said that the pro-Marathi party was trying to create divisions among people who spoke Kannada and Marathi. He warned of a State-wide agitation if the government did not ban the party immediately. Later, police arrested Mr. Nagaraj along with Sa Ra Govindu, activist, and other protesters. They were all released later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vatal-wants-ban-on-mes/article33647586.ece
24 January 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||Haven’t met disgruntled MLAs: Ramesh Jarkiholi||Ramesh Jarkiholi, Irrigation Minister, has clarified that he has not held any political meetings with disgruntled MLAs. In a press release he asked media houses “to retain the trust reposed in them by the people by not telecasting false news”. “I have travelled extensively in Hassan and Chikkamagaluru to inspect pending irrigation projects. I have visited work sites in Yettinahole and interacted with villagers. I have also met some MLAs to discuss issues regarding projects in their constituencies. However, these meetings were not political in any way. For me, the irrigation development of the State is more important than politics. I have noticed the news on TV and felt that they are baseless and far from truth. Media houses should contact me directly before broadcasting such news items,” he said. There was speculation that some disgruntled MLAs had met him requesting him to lobby with the party high command for ministerial berths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ramesh-jarkiholi-says-he-hasnt-met-any-disgruntled-mlas/article33647591.ece
24 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||SSLC answer scripts to have QR code||For the first time, the answer scripts for SSLC students will be affixed with QR code. The Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board (KSEEB) has decided to introduce this step to prevent malpractice. The exam is tentatively scheduled to take place from June 14 to 27. With the QR code, students will not be able to use answer scripts of other students or add their own sheets. The code will have all the particulars of the student, which includes the name, roll number, and the subject name of the examination, said an official. This will help authorities easily identify to which student the script belongs to even if there are errors made while writing the roll number. Helps identification “Very often when students ask for additional sheets, the papers get misplaced during evaluation or the student does not tag them properly and we cannot locate them. Putting the QR code will help in identifying to which student the answer sheet belongs to,” an official said. The decision was taken at a recent meeting of the board. Improved quality Apart from cracking down on malpractice, the board also plans to improve the quality of answer scripts for the 2021 examination. “We will ensure that the answer papers are A4 size with 70 GSM paper,” a senior official of the Department of Public Instruction stated. Each answer script will have 24 pages for all papers, barring mathematics which will have 36 pages. With the size of the answer sheets being increased, students will get three lines extra per page. Overall, the students will get two pages extra in the main answer booklet. Number of sheets up According to KSEEB officials, only 2% of students ask for additional sheets. The number of pages in the additional sheets has also been increased from 4 to 24 pages. The move has been welcomed by students, parents, and school managements. “It is good that the board is streamlining the process to eliminate manual errors,” said Sujata S., mother of an SSLC student.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sslc-answer-scripts-to-have-qr-code/article33647350.ece
24 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Second consignment of 1,46,240 Covaxin doses arrives in State||Karnataka on Saturday received the second consignment of 1,46,240 doses of Covaxin. With this, the State has got 1,66,240 doses of Covaxin, developed by the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech. The fresh consignment has been stored in the walk-in coolers at the State vaccine store near Anand Rao Circle. The first consignment, of 20,000 doses, was sent to the State on January 15 and was distributed for use in the districts of Hassan, Chikkamagaluru, Shivamogga, Davangere, Ballari, and Chamarajanagar. Over 17 lakh in all Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare), told The Hindu that the State had so far received 17,18,240 doses of vaccine, including 15,52,000 doses of Covishield that were sent in two consignments. “We have got more than 17 lakh vaccine doses in the State warehouses for the more than eight lakh health workers registered so far. So this will cover both their doses,” he said. Additional doses “We are yet to work out the allocation of the additional Covaxin doses. So far, 2,060 healthcare workers have been vaccinated with Covaxin. Both vaccines are completely safe and the concerns regarding Covaxin are unwarranted,” he said. Pointing out that the State had stepped up measures to clear misconceptions and reduce vaccine hesitancy, Mr. Akhtar said, “Overall, 1,84,154 healthcare workers have been vaccinated in the State so far. Our aim is to complete the first dose of vaccination of the registered workers at the earliest.” Only in Bengaluru Urban Meanwhile, on Saturday vaccination was held only in Bengaluru Urban. State Deputy Director (Immunisation) Rajani Nageshrao said vaccination was undertaken only in Bengaluru for data reconciliation. Of the total 10,065 beneficiaries targeted for vaccination on the eighth day (Saturday) after the drive began, 3,669 got vaccinated, registering a coverage of 36%. Overall, the State has achieved 56% coverage, with 1,84,154 of the targeted 3,28,478 beneficiaries vaccinated so far. Nine Adverse Events Following Immunisation (AEFI) have been reported so far in the State. No adverse events were reported on Saturday.  We are yet to work out the allocation of the additional doses. So far, 2,060 health workers have been vaccinated with Covaxin Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/second-consignment-of-146240-covaxin-doses-arrives-in-state/article33647360.ece
24 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Sasikala improving; sister-in-law Ilavarasi also tests positive||The condition of V.K. Sasikala, aide of the former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister late Jayalalithaa, who tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday, was better on Saturday. She was shifted to the COVID-19 ICU at the Victoria Hospital, from the Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospital, on Thursday. Meanwhile, her sister-in-law J. Ilavarasi has also tested positive for COVID-19. According to Ms. Illavarasi’s advocate Asokan, she tested positive on Friday and was given initial treatment at the prison hospital. She was later shifted to the Trauma and Emergency Care Centre, the dedicated COVID-19 facility on Victoria Hospital premises. Mr. Asokan said both Ms. Sasikala and Ms. Ilavarasi were put in one barrack and there were no other occupants. Doctors at Victoria Hospital, where Ms. Sasikala is being treated in the COVID-19 ICU, said her symptoms had reduced and she was conscious, alert, and well oriented. Her oxygen consumption too had reduced. On Saturday, she was maintaining 97% oxygen saturation with four litres of oxygen, said Ramesh Krishna K., Medical Superintendent of Victoria Hospital. She was hospitalised on Wednesday evening, owing to fever, breathlessness, and cough, and was diagnosed with severe acute respiratory illness (SARI). Although her initial COVID-19 test result returned negative, a repeat RT-PCR test and TRUNAT were done, after her CT Thorax showed features suggestive of severe respiratory infection. The samples then returned positive for COVID-19. Asymptomatic Dr. Ramesh Krishna said Ms. Illavarasi was stable and asymptomatic. “Her chest CT shows minor changes. However, she is maintaining 98% oxygen saturation without any oxygen support. She has diabetes and hypertension,” he said. He added that she was being treated as per standard COVID-19 protocol. She has been put up in a special room owing to security reasons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sasikala-improving-sister-in-law-ilavarasi-also-tests-positive/article33647361.ece
24 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Yediyurappa retaining Energy, Bengaluru Development portfolios creates heartburn||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa retaining key portfolios of Bengaluru Development and Energy, even after Cabinet expansion and reshuffle of portfolios, has not gone down well within the Cabinet, especially among Bengaluru city MLAs. Apart from political aspirations of certain Ministers being stymied, legislators and Ministers have also now raised administrative concerns. “Now that there is a full-fledged Cabinet, first time since the government was formed, we expected the Chief Minister to let go the key departments. The Chief Minister presently holds Finance, Energy and Bengaluru Development Departments and the experience of the last year and a half has shown that he has been unable to give adequate focus on all the departments,” said a senior Minister, who did not wish to be named. “There are seven Ministers from the city in the Cabinet and not one to handle the city?” another Minister questioned. Meanwhile, two of the new Ministers inducted into the Cabinet lobbied hard to be assigned the Energy Department and are upset over the “low profile” portfolios assigned to them, sources in the party said. At a recent legislators meeting, Bengaluru MLAs complained of “step-motherly treatment” to their constituencies and they not being consulted on issues. This was only bringing to the fore a long-held complaint against the Chief Minister — that he is too preoccupied to focus on the city, despite holding the Bengaluru Development portfolio. In an attempt to correct this perception, the Chief Minister recently chaired a review meeting at BDA, formed a high-powered committee led by the Chief Secretary to oversee city development works. The Chief Minister made two key moves over the last month to erase this image — notification of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike Act, 2020, a dedicated law for the city’s governance, and “Bengaluru Mission 2022”, a time-bound programme to address city’s challenges, as city Minister. However, both have faced criticism of being cosmetic. While this may be a matter of debate, the two moves have made little difference to the primary grouse of legislators from both ruling and Opposition parties — of not knowing whom to approach for city-related issues. Congress MLA Krishna Byre Gowda said, “As an MLA from the city, I do not know whom to approach for city issues. The Chief Minister, who holds the portfolio, is extremely busy this year especially fighting the pandemic. There is no one else looking at these issues.” That the BJP high command made C.N. Ashwath Narayan Deputy Chief Minister (Dy.CM), and a much junior to R. Ashok who earlier held charge as both city Minister and Dy.CM, has led to one-upmanship in the government on who holds sway over city affairs. This played a key role in Mr. Yediyurappa retaining the charge of Bengaluru Development, sources said. Intense competition Similarly, intense competition among the newly inducted Ministers for the Energy portfolio also prompted the Chief Minister to retain the department, sources close to him said. However, others in the Cabinet said the real reason was that the Chief Minister was indeed keen on retaining these “plum” portfolios.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/yediyurappa-retaining-energy-bengaluru-development-portfolios-creates-heartburn/article33647383.ece
24 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Despite govt. nod to hire 7,000 guest faculty, colleges need more||Although the State government has given its nod to hire 7,000 lecturers as guest faculty for 430 first grade colleges, there will be shortage of staff. The Department of Collegiate Education (DCE) has said it will need another 7,000 guest faculty members. “We sent a proposal for 14,000 guest lecturers over two months ago. The Finance Department has approved appointment of 7,000 guest faculty members and has sent some queries for the remaining and we have sent our response,” a senior official of the department said. Deputy Chief Minister and Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan said that they would pursue the matter with the Finance Department and ensure that the remaining 50% guest faculty members are appointed. College lecturers, meanwhile, have been complaining that their workload has increased since the offline classes resumed on November 17 for final year students. This is because some lecturers have to conduct online as well as offline classes for students. In offline classes also, lecturers have to spilt the classes in batches and conduct classes as they have to maintain physical distancing as part of the SOP owing to COVID 19. The classes for intermediate semesters began on January 15. A lecturer of a first grade degree college in the city said, “Many of the senior lecturers are not tech-savvy and ask us to conduct online classes on their behalf. We do not mind the increase in workload to a certain extent, but often we have to schedule some of our online classes even after 7 p.m. We are all exhausted and cannot continue working like this. The government should immediately appoint new guest faculty members.”  We sent a proposal for 14,000 guest lecturers over two months ago. The Finance Department has approved appointment of 7,000 guest faculty members and has sent some queries for the remaining and we have sent our response.OfficialDepartment of Collegiate Education||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/despite-govt-nod-to-hire-7000-guest-faculty-colleges-need-more/article33647369.ece
24 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Aspirational middle class driving politics today: Ashwath Narayan||The new aspirational middle class has been setting the agenda of the nation and politics today and Bharatiya Janata Party responded to this new phenomenon and did well, said Deputy Chief Minister C. N. Ashwath Narayan on Saturday. He was speaking after releasing the book “Middle Class, Media and Modi: The Making of a New Electoral Politics” authored by Nagesh Prabhu, Deputy Editor, The Hindu . Economist R.S. Deshpande said the book filled a critical gap in understanding the middle class and their political behaviour, an area that has not received much attention. “The four characteristics that define the new middle class are: aspirations, being observant, aware of their power and being expressive within a small group. Dr. Prabhu’s book comes out with a new methodology to assess their political behaviour,” he said. Dr. Prabhu said it was often assumed that the middle class was not politically aware and active, but the book challenged this notion. “While the Congress birthed the new middle class, they failed to understand their aspirations. BJP caught the pulse of the new middle class and Narendra Modi who has repeatedly identified himself as coming from the middle class has successfully animated them and created a new electoral politics,” he observed. T.V. Mohandas Pai, Chairman, Manipal Global Education, said all developed and fast-growing countries were marked by a large middle class and said the new middle class in the country will continue to dominate and set the agenda for the politics in the country for a long time to come. Congress leader B.L. Shankar, guest at the function, raised concerns over the present political climate where anyone critical of the government is either mocked or humiliated. “A strong Opposition is necessary for a functional democracy and it is good for even the government of the day,” he observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/aspirational-middle-class-driving-politics-today-ashwath-narayan/article33647381.ece
24 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Traffic management authority on the cards||The Home Department has proposed that a traffic management authority be set up to tackle the growing problem of vehicular congestion on Bengaluru’s roads. Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai made this announcement while inaugurating the 32nd National Road Safety Month on Saturday. Mr. Bommai said the traffic management authority would work with civic agencies such as the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike and other stakeholders. “The Finance Department has approved the use of 50% of the fine amount collected towards this, but the Home Department will ask for more allocation,” he said, adding that the government had identified 12 high-density corridors across the city where vehicular traffic can be improved. Work on the corridors will begin soon. The Minister said the role of the traffic police was not restricted to just collecting fines, but also bringing about traffic discipline among motorists and thereby reducing accidents and fatalities. “We have asked the Public Works Department and the highway authorities to pitch in and work to identify blind spots and improve road safety,” he added. He also acknowledged the growing number of vehicles on the road, which was putting pressure on the existing infrastructure. City Police Commissioner Kamal Pant, Joint Commissioner of Police B.R. Ravikanthe Gowda and senior civic officials were part of the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/traffic-management-authority-on-the-cards/article33647357.ece
24 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Property tax: BBMP mops up Rs. 2,460 crore||Collection of property tax, one of the biggest revenue sources for the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), had slowed down a bit following the outbreak of COVID-19 in the city. However, with renewed efforts being made to collect more property tax, the civic body has been able to mop up around Rs. 2,460 crore as of January 13. Following the pandemic outbreak, the civic body, with its coffers running low, was in dire need of revenue. Though the civic body sets a target of collecting Rs. 3,500 crore from the 19 lakh-odd properties under the tax net, it falls short each year. BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad had directed revenue officials to identify the top 100 defaulters, apart from collecting arrears from property owners who have not paid for more than one year. According to information available, the top 100 defaulters owe nearly Rs. 131 crore while arrears amount to more than Rs. 600 crore. Revenue officials said the civic body had already issued hundreds of notices and warrants to the defaulters. “We are better placed this year when compared with the same period last year. While the total taxcollected in the 2019–20 financial year was Rs. 2,397 crore, we have surpassed that figure this year. By the end of March, we hope to collect another Rs. 400 crore,” a senior official said. Meanwhile, the State Cabinet recently approved an amendment to the Karnataka Municipal Corporations Act, 1976, based on the Centre’s direction to revise property tax on residential properties and vacant sites in municipal areas in the State. This will apply to Bengaluru as well. A new proposal to hike the property tax based on this is likely to be sent to BBMP Administrator Gaurav Gupta, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/property-tax-bbmp-mops-up-rs-2460-crore/article33647351.ece
24 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bus bay to come up at K.R. Puram junction||A bus bay will come up at K.R. Puram junction, one of the busiest in the city, after BBMP officials removed an encroachment on Saturday. According to the civic body, a temple had been illegally constructed on 21 guntas of land at Benniganahalli. The encroachment clearance was undertaken by the Joint Commissioner, BBMP Mahadevapura zone, along with the tahsildar of Bengaluru East, upon directions from the BBMP Commissioner. “The approximate value of the property is Rs. 50 crore. This land will be used to construct a bus stand which will ease the congestion on K.R. Puram flyover,” a statement from the BBMP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bus-bay-to-come-up-at-kr-puram-junction/article33647356.ece
24 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||62-year-old habitual offender arrested||The Bagalagunte police have arrested a 62-year-old habitual offender who allegedly broke into at least three houses over the last few months. The police recovered gold and silver jewellery valued at Rs. 7lakh from the accused, identified as Lurdanath. “He hails from Tamil Nadu and has been arrested in the past for similar offences. However, after he came out on bail, he continued to commit house break-ins, the police said. Lurdanath is a plumber by profession, and would scout houses that were locked while on the job. “He was arrested on Friday by the beat police when they saw him near Dasarahalli metro station. The beat police identified him and brought him to the station for inquiry,” said a police officer. A detailed inquiry led him to confess to three house break-in and theft. Based on the information provided, the police recovered the gold and silver jewellery which he had pawned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/62-year-old-habitual-offender-arrested/article33647365.ece
24 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bengaluru civic body digitises its property records||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has digitised records of all its properties and prepared a database, complete with all details, including location and extent. This is now available on its website. The civic body has a total of 6,815 properties across the city, most of which are in the three core zones — East, West and South. Over the past few months, the civic body’s estate department has taken up comprehensive scanning of all the property records, old and new registers related to the properties and removed duplications. BBMP’s Special Commissioner (Estates) J. Manjunath told The Hindu that surveys on ground had also been taken up to mark the boundaries of the civic body’s properties. “All the digital records have been uploaded on the website. Fencing will be taken up, wherever required, depending on the budget availability and on priority,” he said. That apart, for the first time, the civic body has also begun to issue property identification (PID) numbers to its properties. Over the past three months, PIDs had been issued to around 1,100 properties, which include parks and playgrounds, lakes, and open spaces. “Efforts are also being made to update the asset register. The BBMP has issued TDR (transferable development rights) for land needed for various projects. These are also constantly being updated in the asset register,” said Mr. Manjunath. After the seven city municipal councils (CMCs), one town municipal council (TMC) and 110 villages were added to city corporation, properties owned by the erstwhile local bodies came to the BBMP. However, given the possibility that there still may be properties that have not been handed over to the BBMP yet, directions have been issued to ward engineers and revenue officials to identify all land that belonged to the erstwhile local bodies. “Once identified, we will take over such properties and update the database,” he said. Meanwhile, the BBMP is also keen on increasing revenue from its 324 leased properties. Of these, 24 have been leased to educational institutions, 22 to religious institutions, 43 to various government departments, and 235 for commercial purposes. “We are keeping a close watch on the leased properties. If we are able to ascertain that the properties are used for purposes apart from what they were leased for, we will initiate action to cancel the lease agreement,” the Special Commissioner said.  Lease norms He also said that the civic body had decided to update the lease norms and revise the rates at the current guidance value. Many of the BBMP’s properties have been leased at really low rates. The lease period of 119 properties have expired. “We are renewing the lease only if they agree to the revised norms. So far, the lease of 12 properties have been renewed, 27 have been taken back, and 48 proposals are under consideration,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/civic-body-digitises-its-property-records/article33647353.ece
24 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Leopard spotted in apartment complex||A leopard was caught on CCTV cameras strolling around an apartment complex in Begur, causing panic. It emerged that the incident took place early on Saturday. It was spotted again at night. The widely circulated video footage shows the leopard crossing what appears to be an internal road of the Prestige Song of the South apartment complex. S.M. Shivaratreshwara, Range Forest Officer, K.R. Puram range, told The Hindu that the leopard was caught on CCTV camera at 5.30 a.m. But by the time forest officials arrived half an hour later, it was nowhere in sight. It was spotted again at 8.45 p.m. jumping out of the compound from the same route. Officials are at the spot and said that if spotted again, they would take the Wildlife warden's permission and try to tranquilize and capture it. “We reached around 6 a.m., but the leopard may have jumped the compound and escaped. We spotted pug marks near the compound. Other agencies such as the police also stayed put till 10.30 a.m., but there was no other development. Now we will have one team at night to keep a watch. People have been asked to avoid walking alone for a few days,” he said. The officer also said the leopard was suspected to have strayed in from the nearby Bannerghatta park. “It may have come looking for food. We did not find any signs of hunted animals. The apartment has around 50 acres of space with a lot of bushes and rock hill. The leopard may have wandered off. But we want to be sure, so we will keep a watch and capture it if it returns,” he added. Earlier this month, a leopard was spotted at the residential quarters of Chamarajanagar Institute of Medical Sciences. The big cat, which had got to the first floor of the residential complex, retreated down the stairs and disappeared.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/leopard-spotted-in-apartment-complex/article33647339.ece
24 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Covaxin consent forms in Kannada soon||Following complaints that consent forms for Covaxin were only available in English, the State has got the consent forms translated into Kannada. “We have asked all the Deputy Commissioners and District Health Officers to make sure that Kannada consent forms are made available to those who do not want English forms,” Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare), told The Hindu on Saturday. He said the complaints had been brought to the notice of Bharat Biotech, the company developing Covaxin. “We have got the forms translated in coordination with the company. The forms will be available from next week,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covaxin-consent-forms-in-kannada-soon/article33647597.ece
24 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Tandav: FIR against makers, actors||The K.R. Puram police have registered an FIR against the director, producer, and key actors of the web series Tandav for allegedly hurting religious sentiments. Complaint The FIR was filed based on a complaint from a Bengaluru-based social worker, Kiran Aradya. With the controversial scenes removed recently, the police have now sought legal opinion for further investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tandav-fir-against-makers-actors/article33647366.ece
24 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HDD expresses solidarity with Kisan Sansad||Former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda has written to lawyer Prashanth Bhushan expressing regret over not being able to attend the Kisan Sansad being held over the weekend, while expressing moral support for the event. Arguing that the Centre did not hold winter session of Parliament to avoid a discussion on the issues of farmers, a group of activists, jurists and politicians are holding Kisan Sansad in Delhi on Saturday and Sunday. The sansad is seen as an attempt by farmers’ outfits to reach out to more people. “Although I’m not there physically, I assure you, I’m there in spirit,” said Mr. Gowda in the letter to Mr. Bhushan. He reiterated his reservation with the three farm laws passed by the Centre as Ordinances “without proper discussion” and the manner in which the protesting farmers have been treated by the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hdd-expresses-solidarity-with-kisan-sansad/article33647375.ece
24 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Consent forms in Kannada soon||Following complaints that consent forms for Covaxin were only available in English, the State has got the consent forms translated into Kannada. “We have asked all the Deputy Commissioners and District Health Officers to make sure that Kannada consent forms are made available to those who do not want English forms,” Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare), told The Hindu on Saturday. He said the complaints had been brought to the notice of Bharat Biotech, the company developing Covaxin. “We have got the forms translated in coordination with the company. The forms will be available from next week,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/consent-forms-in-kannada-soon/article33647358.ece
24 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||902 fresh cases, three deaths in State||A day after COVID-19 cases dropped drastically, Karnataka on Saturday reported 902 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 9,35,478. With three deaths, the toll rose to 12,193. This is apart from 19 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 542 persons were discharged on Saturday, taking the total recoveries to 9,15,924. Of the remaining 7,342 active patients, 157 are being monitored in the ICU. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 1.04%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 0.33%. Bengaluru Urban reported 527 cases taking its tally to 3,96,827. With one death coming from Bengaluru, the toll in the district rose to 4,376. Active cases in Bengaluru touched 4,850.  86,410 tests As many as 86,410 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 79,523,347 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total tests are 1,64,85,599.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/902-fresh-cases-three-deaths-in-state/article33647362.ece
24 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Art Park Bengaluru’ today||‘Art Park Bengaluru’, an event curated by artist S.G. Vasudev, will take place at Ranga Shankara on Sunday from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Nineteen artists will sketch at the venue, allowing visitors to watch them make art from start to finish. Started in 2014, ‘Art Park Bengaluru’ aims to introduce locals to the many art activities that regularly take place in the city. It also increases people’s exposure to contemporary visual art. About the event, Ranga Shankara’s founder Arundhati Nag said, “Vasudev has been with us in our journey from before Ranga Shankara was born. From our logo to the iconic installation commemorating our sponsors, his artwork has filled and still fills Ranga Shankara. We are very happy to be hosting his initiative ‘Art Park Bengaluru’ and having young artists fill our space.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/art-park-bengaluru-today/article33647354.ece
24 January 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||BHEL bags award||BHEL has won the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India award for excellence in financial reporting in infrastructure, construction sector category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bhel-bags-award/article33647374.ece
24 January 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Farmers abandon male calves at cattle fair||With no takers for male calves at the cattle fair in Channarayapatna on Saturday, farmers abandoned 31 animals, forcing the taluk administration to take care of them. Hundreds of farmers participate at the weekly cattle fair held at APMC market yard in the town on every Saturday. Many farmers had brought male calves expecting some buyers. However, there were no merchants interested in purchasing them, reportedly because of the new stringent anti-cow slaughter law. The farmers returned home leaving the animals at the APMC ground. For hours, the animals had none to take care of them. Representatives of Raitha Sangha and Dalit organisations, who noticed stray dogs trying to pounce on the calves, rescued them and carried them in a vehicle to the tahsildar’s office. Channarayapatna tahsildar J.B. Maruthi made arrangements for the temporary care of the animals and shifted them to a goshala at Mysuru. Mr. Maruthi, speaking to The Hindu , said, “The animals had no food and water for a few hours. When they were brought to our office, I instructed the officers of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Department to provide them with milk. Later, we shifted them to Mysuru.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmers-abandon-male-calves-at-cattle-fair/article33647390.ece
24 January 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Farmers protest in Ballari; police stop them in Belagavi||Opposing the new farm laws, including the APMC Act, and extending support to the ongoing agitation on the border of Delhi, hundreds of farmers took out a protest rally in Ballari on Saturday. Around 50 tractors and bullock carts were part of the rally which was organised by the Chaganur-Sirwar Neeravari Jameenu Horata Samiti and the Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha. The rally began from Sangam Circle in the city marched through the major streets in the city covering Gadagi Chennappa Circle, Bengaluru Road, Teru Beedi, Brucepet Circle and HRG Circle to finally reach the office of the Deputy Commissioner. The police attempted to prevent the farmers from taking out the procession but, the farmers did not heed the request. They, in response, began playing drums and raising slogans against the Union government. Leaders Chaganur Mallikarjun Reddy and R. Madhav Reddy told the police not to prevent the farmers who were peaceful in their protest. It led to a heated debate between the police and farmers creating a chaotic situation for a while. Finally, the police allowed the farmers to take out the procession. “The Union government has amended the farm laws to safeguard the interests of big capitalists in farm sectors and not that of farmers. The farmers are already in trouble thanks to deepening agrarian crisis caused by the anti-farmer policies of the successive governments. These new laws would further worsen their condition. We want complete repeal of these laws,” a farmer leader said during the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmers-protest-in-ballari-police-stop-them-in-belagavi/article33647583.ece
24 January 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Govt. must order inquiry by High Court judge into Shivamogga blast: Ugrappa||V.S. Ugrappa, former MP, has demanded that the government order an inquiry by a sitting High Court judge into the blast in a stone quarry near Shivamogga. Addressing a media conference in Ballari on Saturday, the Congress leader also demanded the resignation of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and Rural Development and Panchayat Raj minister K.S. Eshwarappa to ensure a free and fair investigation. “The blast of an explosive-laden truck in a stone quarry near Shivamogga has killed five people. The death toll is expected to rise considering the critical condition of the injured. Hundreds of buildings are damaged. A free and fair investigation by a sitting judge of the High Court would unearth the real culprits behind the incident. The stone miners in Shivamogga district are, in one way or the other, closely associated with BJP. If the two political heavyweights in the district – Mr. Yediyurappa and Mr.Eshwarappa – remain in power, the investigation tends to be influenced by their power. I, therefore, demand their resignation for having a free and fair investigation,” Mr. Ugrappa said. He also criticised the government for its “failure” in gathering information about the procurement and management of explosives used in stone mining. Tapal Ganesh, Marenna, Hanuma Kishore, Nagarajgouda, J.K. Naidu, Tayappa, Kumaremma and other leaders were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-must-order-inquiry-by-high-court-judge-into-shivamogga-blast-ugrappa/article33647581.ece
24 January 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||‘Janata Parade’ in Kalaburagi on Jan. 26||The district unit of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha Vedike will organise a ‘Janata Parade’ in Kalaburagi city on January 26 to protest against the new farm laws. Vedike organiser B.R. Patil, addressing presspersons here on Saturday, said that farmers from across the district will participate in the parade from the APMC yard to the Deputy Commissioner’s office and submit a memorandum addressed to the President. Farmer outfits, labourers, and progressive thinkers will participate in the parade.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/janata-parade-in-kalaburagi-on-jan-26/article33647587.ece
24 January 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Suraksha drive’: City police accused of high-handedness||A group of five students claimed that they played football at the Balmatta ground and had come to a tea stall to drink tea at about 9 p.m. on Friday night. A group of city police then picked them up in a vehicle and brought them to the mini Town Hall. “We play every day and don’t create any nuisance daily. We were just picked up and brought here for no reason,” one of the students said. With no cash or mobile phone, the five students were forced to walk all the way after the police released them after taking their names and address. A final year Bachelor of Food Technology student of a college in the central part of the city, who was not part of the five-member group of students, claimed that he had finished his studies and had come to drink lime tea at Balmatta when police picked him up and took to the town hall. “I am really hurt by the way I was treated by the police,” he said. These were among the 100-odd people picked up by police as part of ‘Manglauru Suraksha drive’ against people consuming alcohol and smoking in public late in the night. They are also rounding up those wandering on the road and those found on the beach during the late hours. Many claimed that they were wrongly picked by the police on Saturday. “I had offloaded some goods at Kottara Chowki and had come to a hotel in Lalbagh along with my driver to pack dinner. While driver managed to escape and go away with the lorry, I was caught by police around 9 p.m. and brought here. I do not have any money and I do not know where to go,” said Lakshmana from Kalaburagi, who was waiting outside the gate in Town Hall. There were a few labourers like Lakshmana who had been brought to the mini Town Hall. Four youths, who had just finished their field survey for a cigarette firm, were also picked up from Bejai. “It hurts when a police officer says that we will be rounded up if there is chain theft in our area. This is not the way we should be looked upon,” said the 21-year-old man, who hails from Udupi.  Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar said the drive is to act against persons creating nuisance at public places by consuming liquor and smoking. “This drive is to stop unnecessary late night wandering. Apart from stopping acts of public nuisance, we are preventing attacks and other crimes in the wee hours,” he said. The police will not target those returning home after work and houseless labourers, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/suraksha-drive-city-police-accused-of-high-handedness/article33647769.ece
24 January 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Olive Ridley eggs found at Kodi beach being conserved||About 100 eggs of Olive Ridley turtles found at Kodi beach in Udupi district are being conserved now. This is thanks to the initiative of fishermen, the Department of Forests and FSL India, an international volunatry organisation working towards turtle conservation. The beach is about 35 km away from Udupi city. After fishermen Babu Mogaveera and Ganapathi Kharvi spotted the eggs near the Kodi lighthouse on Friday, they called up the FSL India members and the department. A department official said that the eggs have been spotted at the particular beach after a gap of about three years. A hatchery has been set up to protect the eggs. Steps are being taken to protect the eggs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/olive-ridley-eggs-found-at-kodi-beach-being-conserved/article33647762.ece
24 January 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Doctors urged to write for Wikipedia with India focus||The Karavali Wikimedians User Group, having those who write mainly for the Kannada, the Tulu, and the Konkani editions of Wikipedia, on Saturday appealed to doctors to contribute India-specific articles on medical sector. Addressing presspersons on the occasion of 20th anniversary of the site, secretary of the group and editor of Vishvakannada.com U.B. Pavanaja said that doctors should come forward to write on diseases, management of diseases, medicine, medical tests, and other aspects relating to the medical sector with an India-specific focus. If they write in English, others can translate for the respective editions of Wikipedia. The doctors can also help Wikipedia writers by suggesting appropriate words in regional languages while translating technical medical words and medical terminologies. Those doctors who can write in Kannada can also write for the Kannada edition of Wikipedia. Mr. Pavanaja said that wikimedians have launched Special Wikipedia Awareness Scheme for The Healthcare Affiliates (SWASTHA) in the country. He said Wikipedia which went live on January 15, 2001, has completed 20 years. The Kannada edition of the site has completed 17 years and the Tulu edition is five-years-old. So far, 24 Indian language editions of Wikipedia have gone live. The president of the group Vishwanatha Badikana said that the process of forming Wikipedia associations in colleges in the coastal belt has begun. The group has entered into a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Canara College in the city to promote Wikipedia activities by organising workshops, training activities to write for the site and the like. It will also sign agreements with other colleges in the coming days. With this a hub to promote Wikipedia activities can be created. Women’s articles K.T. Dhanalakshmi, president, Wikiwomens Mangaluru, said that 400 articles related to women have been written in Mangaluru so far. Kishor Kumar Rai Sheni, treasurer of the group, spoke on the growth of the Tulu edition. The group celebrated the 20th anniversary of Wikipedia by organising a function in Tulu Bhavana. Krishnamohan, a doctor, from Moodbidri spoke on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/doctors-urged-to-write-for-wikipedia-with-india-focus/article33647589.ece
24 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Exposing tribal children to the fine arts||At a time when the entire nation was focussing on online education because of COVID-19, a few tribal students from remote areas of Uttara Kannada district, where access to Internet was limited, got hands-on education on arts and crafts from a group of green enthusiasts. With about 75% forest cover, Uttara Kannada is perhaps the only district in the State whose greenery is still intact. There live people of tribal communities belonging to Halakki, Siddi, Kudubi, and Gouli. The resource persons, under the banner Sahyadri Sanchaya, a Mangaluru-based body fighting for environmental issues, dropped in to remote areas of Joida, Yellapura, and Ankola from different parts of the State and held camps on nature between December 3 and January 15. “We conducted 27 camps, covering about 500 children studying in government schools in the villages,” the convener of Sahyadri Sanchaya, Dinesh Holla, told The Hindu . The resource persons, about 20 of them, dropped in from Mangaluru, Puttur, Bengaluru, Hubballi, Ballari, and Kottigehara, he added. “We taught them arts, crafts, line drawing, dance, singing, mimicry, kite making and kite flying, in addition to guiding them on improving their handwriting,” said Mr. Holla, who is an international kite flyer and artist. The students were also enlightened on environmental protection. Panambur Vasudeva Aithal, an NRI living in the United States, sponsored all the camps conducted for primary and high school students, he said. Books and fees In addition to receiving study material, the students were given story books. Some resource persons also paid the school fees of some students whose parents were in penury, Mr. Holla said, adding that none of the camps were conducted inside any school buildings. Bhaskar Naik, a teacher at the government primary school at Nandolli, near Yellapura, said that the off-school activities exposed the children to a number of skills which they had been deprived of. They also helped boost their confidence levels. Prompted by the initiative, Mangalore Chemicals and Fertilisers Ltd. is now donating furniture worth Rs. 5 lakh to 13 government schools in those areas, Mr. Holla said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/exposing-tribal-children-to-the-fine-arts/article33647364.ece
24 January 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Apherasis machine gets another use at Wenlock||An apheresis machine, which was installed primarily for plasma therapy of critical COVID-19 patients at the Government Wenlock Hospital, has now been put to use for other therapeutic treatment. The machine was procured at a cost of Rs. 24 lakh and installed at the Regional Blood Transfusion Centre of the hospital in October, 2020. Mangaluru City South MLA D.Vedavyas Kamath pushed for plasma therapy at the hospital as he claimed it provided a lease of life for critical COVID-19 patients. As the process of seeking license to start the plasma therapy was on, the Union government decided against doing the therapy for the critical COVID-19 patients. Hence, the machine has been put to use for other treatments. On Wednesday, this machine was used for the first time for therapeutic plasmaphersis for a 60-year-old person, who is diagnosed with Guillian-Bare (GB) Syndrome. Under therapeutic plasmapherasis, the blood is passed through the apheresis machine where the plasma is removed and fresh plasma is inserted. “This is the treatment for GB syndrome and other neurological problems. For the first time we have used the apharesis machine for this process,” Sadashiva, the Medical Superintendent of the hospita told The Hindu stating that its use is cost effective. Therapeutic plasmaphersis was earlier conducted using dialysis machine along with some filters and this took more time, he added. Sharath Kumar, the head of the Regional Blood Tranfusion Centre, said therapeutic plasmapherasis was done as per the requirement of neurologist and physician treating the 60-year-old patient. It was done in two sittings since Wednesday at the ward attached to the Centre, he added. Apart from plasmapherasis, the Apharesis machine is also being used at the Centre for plateletpherasis (separation of platelets) and leukapherasis (separation of white blood cells), Dr. Kumar said.  This is the treatment for GB syndrome and other neurological problems. For the first time we have used the apharesis machine for this process Sadashiva, Medical Superintendent, Government Wenlock Hospital||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/apherasis-machine-gets-another-use-at-wenlock/article33647771.ece
24 January 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Tulu wiktionary in incubation stage’||The Tulu wiktionary (an online free dictionary) is in incubation stage. It needs “vibrant participation” by wikipedia writers to go on live, said U.B. Pavanaja, editor, Vishvakannada.com, which is the first Kannada online magazine, and also the Secretary of Karavali Wikimedians User Group here on Saturday. Speaking to presspersons, he said that now he said that the Tulu wiktionary now had 700 words. The mandatory requirement for the wiktionary to go live will be a minimum of 500 words. But it has to be made more vibrant to go live, he said adding that the Tulu edition of Wikipedia went live on August 6, 2016. The president of the group Vishwanatha Badikana said that the group has documented the ‘sidda vesha’ folk performance and uploaded its images and videos on the wikimedia commons. In addition, the coastal belt’s ‘kambala’ (slush track buffalo race) performance has also been documented uploaded in wikimedia commons. The group has also set up its own library to which Karnataka Tulu Sahitya Academy has contributed books worth Rs. 9,000, he said. Mr. Pavanaja said that the group conducted two online training sessions on writing to Wikipedia, during the lockdown last year. Some of those who participated in the same have continued to write for Wikipedia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tulu-wiktionary-in-incubation-stage/article33647766.ece
24 January 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Beary parishat seeks release of scholarships||The Akhil Bharath Beary Parishat said recently that it will launch a hunger strike if the government did not sanction scholarships to minority community students within a fortnight. Addressing presspersons, the honorary president of the parishath Yusuf Vokthar said that though a number of students have applied for the scholarships the government has not yet sanctioned them. The Karnataka Minority Development Corporation (KMDC) has not yet invited applications for availing education loan during the current academic year under Arivu scheme. It has created a situation where many students might be forced to drop their education midway. He said that the government not releasing the scholarships to students who are already facing difficulties due to the impact of COVID-19 has compounded their problems. Mr. Vokthar said that the Department of Minorities has not invited applications to apply for overseas scholarships in the current academic year. It has also put many students into trouble. He said that the government, till last financial year, was providing minorities of below poverty line (BPL) families Rs. 1 lakh as subsidy if they availed home loan upto Rs. 5 lakh from the nationalised banks. Now it is not providing the same to Muslims. But the same provision has been continued to Christians. The subsidy provision for Muslims should be restored.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/beary-parishat-seeks-release-of-scholarships/article33647758.ece
24 January 2021||mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Man held for sexual assault||A man from Ombattukere in Ullal was arrested on Saturday for allegedly sexually assaulting a woman and her two minor daughters. The accused is Siddique, 41. The woman and her two daughters had been threatened allegedly by Siddique’s supporters for lodging a complaint with the police. He has been accused under Sections 376 (sexual assault) and 392 (robbery) of the IPC, and under various provisions of the POCSO Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-held-for-sexual-assault/article33647596.ece
24 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Briefly||Sangeetha Parishath, Mangaluru will organise Carnatic concerts at Ramarkishna Mutt here on January 31 from 4 p.m. There will be vocal performances by students of Nada Sudha Sangeetha Vidyalaya and Sangeetha Ranga. It will be followed by rendering of Tyagaraja’s Pancharathna kritis by Madhuru P. Balasubrahmanyam.     Dakshina Kannada Sahitya Parishat has invited poems for the multi-lingual ‘kavi gosthi’ to be organised during the three day 24th Dakshina Kannada Sahitya Sammelan in the city from February 12. Poems should reach the parishath’s office at Sri Krishna Complex, M. G. Road by January 30. Poems written in Kannada, Tulu, Konkani, Sanskrit, English, Beary, Kodava, Hindi, Marathi, Arebhashe, Malayalam and the like can be sent, a release said.     Mangalore Management Association will host a talk on ‘manage to stay fit and healthy’ at SDM College of Business Management here on February 5 at 6 p.m. Rashmi D’Souza Rasquinha, consultant ENT surgeon and nutrition therapist will speak on the topic.     The council of Mangaluru City Corporation will hold its meeting on January 29 at 11 a.m. Mayor Diwakar will preside over. (EOM)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/briefly/article33647759.ece
24 January 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Coffee growers to join Jan. 26 protest||Coffee growers from Kodagu, who are seeking minimum support price (MSP) for coffee, will join the farmers’ protest scheduled to be held in Bengaluru on January 26 against the Centre’s farm bills. The coffee growers are seeking to draw attention to their predicament over coffee prices remaining stagnant for more than 20 years while the costs they incurred on labour and other agricultural inputs including fertilizers have increased manifold. “One 50 kg bag of robusta coffee used to fetch Rs. 3,000 in the mid- and late nineties. The price has remained unchanged more than two decades later also” said Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha (KRRS) leader from Kodagu Manu Somaiah. Coffee growers are putting up with the stagnant prices of coffee while shouldering the burden of rising costs of labour and other agricultural inputs, he said and sought to know why the State is refusing to extend MSP to coffee when neighbouring Kerala was extending the same to its growers. “About a week ago, we held a meeting and decided to press for our demand for MSP for coffee”, said Mr. Somaiah. “When Kerala, which produces barely 20 per cent of the country’s coffee production, can extend MSP, why can’t Karnataka, which accounts for more than two-thirds of India’s coffee production do the same?”, he questioned. He said their appeals for MSP are met with the standard reply that coffee was a commercial crop that is not entitled for support price. “But, when Kerala government can do it, what logical explanation can Karnataka government give?”, he asked. The coffee growers of Kodagu have been at the receiving end of nature’s fury during the last three years when the region was struck by landslides and floods, causing widespread damage to the crop. Mr. Somaiah recalled that the coffee growers were receiving remunerative prices when it was regulated by Coffee Board till the early nineties. But, it shifted to open market policy soon thereafter on the same promise that the present farm bills are assuring - that the farmers will earn more. But, it was not to be, he regretted adding that the prices are now determined by the trading in New York and London Stock Exchanges. Mr. Somaiah said the coffee growers in Kodagu are also upset with the State government and Centre over the falling price of black pepper, which is grown as inter-crop. The price of black pepper had reached Rs. 900 per kg till the Centre started allowing imported pepper from Vietnam and other countries to flood the domestic market and bring down the prices to the level of Rs. 300 per kg, he lamented. The coffee growers of Kodagu are joining forces with the farmers from the rest of the State, who are planning to gather in Bengaluru on January 26. The coffee growers from Kodagu will gather at Kutta on January 25 before leaving in about 150 vehicles towards Bengaluru. The coffee growers will hold demonstrations in Ponnampet and Gonikoppa before spending the night in Mandya and proceeding to Freedom Park in Bengaluru on January 26.  Growers say coffee prices have remained stagnant for more than 20 years while costs incurred on on labour and other inputs have increased.  When Kerala can extend MSP, why not Karnataka, they ask.  Due to open market policy, prices are now determined by the trading in New York and London Stock Exchanges.  Coffee growers from Kodagu will gather at Kutta on January 25 before leaving in about 150 vehicles towards Bengaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/coffee-growers-to-join-jan-26-protest/article33647368.ece
24 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Now, big cats of Mysuru zoo to be fed chicken instead of beef||With the anti-cow slaughter ordinance becoming a law in Karnataka, beef has been replaced with chicken in the diet of the big cats of Mysuru zoo. However, veterinarians will be keeping a close watch on the tigers, lions, leopards and other carnivores at the zoo for any changes in their behaviour or other physiological parameters. The over 125-year-old Mysuru zoo, which attracts lakhs of tourists every year, houses about 35 to 40 big cats in its enclosures. Though beef was the mainstay of their diet, the enforcement of the anti-cow slaughter ordinance led to the closure of beef shops in Mysuru earlier this week. The zoo requires about 350 kg of beef every day. For the last few days, the zoo authorities started feeding the carnivores chicken as an alternative, said zoo director Ajit Kulkarni. However, the quantity fed to each carnivore had been reduced by 20% in view of the higher fat content in chicken, he added. Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests B.P. Ravi, who is also the Member Secretary of Zoo Authority of Karnataka (ZAK), said the carnivores of Bengaluru Bannerghatta Biological Park had been provided chicken for about three to four months between April to July last year during the COVID-19 lockdown when beef was not available. During this period, veterinarians had drawn the blood samples of these carnivores in Bannerghatta and compared the haematology with the samples of blood drawn from the carnivores in Mysuru zoo that were on the usual diet of beef. “Though there was not much change in the parameters, a noticeable difference was the weight put on by the Bannerghatta carnivores fed on chicken. So, the veterinarians reduced the quantity of chicken supplied to them,” he said. However, Mr. Ravi said a question mark still hangs over how the change in diet will impact the carnivores long-term. The veterinarians will keep a close watch on the physiological parameters and behavioural changes.  Meanwhile, the bird flu scare in different parts of the country has become a source of concern for the zoo authorities. If the supply of chicken is disrupted as a result of bird flu, the immediate worry for the authorities will be the financial burden. If beef and chicken are both not available, shifting to mutton, which is about three to four times more expensive, will be prohibitively expensive, said Mr. Ravi. The authorities are also exploring the possibility of feeding the carnivores sea fish as a substitute food.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/now-big-cats-of-mysuru-zoo-to-be-fed-chicken-instead-of-beef/article33647388.ece
24 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Adivasis of Mysuru submit a wish list||In the run-up to the State Budget, slated to be presented sometime in February, the tribal leaders of Mysuru district have spelt out a wish list for the comprehensive development of the community. This is a regular exercise that has been undertaken for the last few years to make their voice heard. The tribals have also urged Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to present a ‘mini-tribal budget’ exclusively for the welfare of Adivasis in the State. Drawing attention to the agricultural budget passed by him a few years ago, S. Sreekanth of Development through Education (DEED), a Hunsur-based NGO fighting for the cause of the marginalised forest-dwelling communities, said the comprehensive development of Adivasis required a separate budget. “This is not so much about the size of the budget outlay, but it is more of an effort to bring in an element of focus and seriousness on improving the living conditions of the Adivasis,” he said. 17-point agenda The tribal leaders who met recently in Hunsur, in what was billed as a ‘tribal parliament’, have come out with a 17-point agenda for their welfare and the same has been recast as a demand for inclusion in the forthcoming State Budget. Mr. Sreekanth said the government has to take up the rehabilitation of 3,418 tribal families in Hunsur and H.D. Kote, as per the recommendations of the Muzsaffar H. Assadi committee report. The committee was constituted on the directions of the High Court of Karnataka and the State government would stand guilty of contempt of court in case it failed to implement it, he said. The report was submitted six years ago and there has been no progress on its implementation, Mr. Sreekanth added. Funds sought Similarly, the tribal leaders have sought allocation of funds for the implementation of the Forest Rights Act and have pointed out that the applications of more than 5,000 tribal families under the Act have been rejected. In a bid to seek focussed development of Adivasis, the tribal leaders have sought the clubbing together of Sargur, Periyapatna, H.D. Kote, Hunsur, K.R. Nagar, and Saligrama into a separate tribal district. This is because of the concentration of Adivasis in these areas, according to Mr. Sreekanth. The tribals have also sought a rollback on the minimum qualifying age for old-age pension under the government’s Sandhya Suraksha from 65 years to 60 or lower. Underlining the imperatives of strengthening tribal religion and their traditions, DEED has sought the recognition of Adivasi heads who officiate in various rites as priests and the sanctioning of a monthly allowance for them from the Muzrai Department. Mr. Sreekanth said traditional tribal practices and culture were weakening in the absence of support, and thus institutional backing was required. Other demands include shoring up the standards of Ashrama schools meant for tribal children, the establishment of a tribal university, and documenting and creating a database of tribal folk, culture, practices, and their traditional knowledge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/adivasis-of-mysuru-submit-a-wish-list/article33647783.ece
24 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Akka Mahadevi’s birthplace will be developed into a holy site, says CM||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Saturday said Udutadi, the birthplace of the 12th century saint-poetess Akka Mahadevi, in Shivamogga district was being developed into a holy site. He added that his government was committed to developing all other places in the State that promote the ‘Sharana’ philosophy. Speaking after unveiling a 12-ft statue of Akka Mahadevi at J.P. Nagar, off the Outer Ring Road here, the Chief Minister said a sum of Rs. 25 crore was being spent on developing Akka Mahadevi’s birthplace, which is part of the Shikaripura constituency that Mr. Yediyurappa represented in the Assembly. The works at Udutadi were in progress and the place would also be developed into a centre for spirituality and meditation, he said, adding that the foundation stone for the “new Anubhava Mantap” was laid recently at Basavakalyan, the place where the 12th century poet and philosopher Basaveshwara lived. Mr. Yediyurappa said the Basavakalyan project had been taken up at a cost of Rs. 500 crore. He added that the former MP Basavaraj Patil Sedam had been entrusted with the task of monitoring the work. Recalling Akka Mahadevi’s struggle for giving equality to women and empowering them, Mr. Yediyurappa said the poetess was the first to raise her voice over atrocities against women. Describing Akka Mahadevi as the “first poetess of the land”, he said she was one of the foremost persons spreading “Vachana Sahitya”, besides giving a thrust to the Sharana movement. Reciting her stirring poem in Kannada “ Bettada Melondu Maneya Maadi, Mrugagalige Anjidodhe Enthaiaya ”, Mr. Yediyurappa said her vachanas were inspirational and thought-provoking. Library opened A library, built at a cost of Rs. 13 lakh by the J.P. Nagar Sharana Vedike with support from various donors, organisations and Mysuru City Corporation, was also inaugurated on the occasion. It throws light on the saint’s life. Minister in-charge of Mysuru district S.T. Somashekar, who inaugurated the library, said Akka Mahadevi’s vachanas were ever relevant. S.A. Ramdas, MLA, said the philosophy of Akka Mahadevi and Allama Prabhu has continued to guide generation after generation in the past 800 years. He advised the organisers to introduce her principles to schoolchildren. Mr. Ramdas said all efforts would be made to turn the place where the statue was unveiled into a tourist site. On the occasion, children of the members of J.P. Nagar Sharana Vedike who scored 90% and above in SSLC and PU in the past two years were felicitated. The Chief Minister later received a memorandum from school and college students seeking the cancellation of a licence given for running a liquor outlet on Akka Mahadevi Road in J.P. Nagar. The Chief Minister also inaugurated a Basava Bhavan, built by the Hebbal-Vijayanagar Basava Samiti at Vijayanagar here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/akka-mahadevis-birthplace-will-be-developed-into-a-holy-site-says-cm/article33647371.ece
24 January 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||DC’s office, clock tower need immediate attention: expert||The Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH) has said that two heritage edificeswhich dominate the city’s landscape and skyline need immediate attention and restoration, failing which there is a threat to these structures. Though Mysuru has upward of 500 heritage structures and not all of them are in good shape, INTACH has drawn attention to the Silver Jubilee Clock Tower and the existing DC’s office building and said that works should be taken up in earnest to minimise further damage. N.S. Rangaraju, Convenor of INTACH Mysuru, said that the moulding below the metallic finial in the DC’s office has suffered considerable damage and has to be restored failing which it will be exposed to rain and lead to seepage. Prolonged exposure will weaken the dome of the building. Mr. Rangaraju, who is also a member of the Heritage Experts Committee for Mysuru, said that the lime mortar claddings have peeled off and conservation and repairs should be initiated immediately lest it leads to further damage of the building which was completed in 1895. Likewise, pressure is building up to expedite the repairs of the Silver Jubilee Clock Tower which has developed cracks and has been the subject of many inspections by experts. Mr. Rangaraju said the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) has sought the assistance of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI). “The need of the hour is to create a metallic scaffolding that does not touch the structure and help inspect the top to assess the damage afresh before preparing a Detailed Project Report’’, said Mr. Rangaraju who was also the dean of the Department of Ancient History and Archaeology, University of Mysore. He said recently they studied the top of the structure using a drone and there are cracks in the structure which was completed in 1927. The clock tower is 75 ft. tall and the earthing to protect it from lightning needs to be redone. The entire exercise is expected to run into lakhs of rupees and have to be taken up on a priority basis, Mr. Rangaraju added. The clock tower was constructed to mark the silver jubilee of the reign of Nalwadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dcs-office-clock-tower-need-immediate-attention-expert/article33647785.ece
24 January 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||‘NEP instils national pride in students’||Nearly 1,000 students of the National Institute of Engineering (NIE) in the city received their provisional degree certificates at the Graduation Day programme held here on Saturday. This was the 10th Graduation Day of NIE, which was established in 1946 and was granted academic autonomy by the Visvesvaraya Technological University in 2007. In all, 1072 students under the autonomous scheme received their degrees. G. Hemantha Kumar, Vice-Chancellor, University of Mysore, delivered the graduation day address and said that the New Education Policy (NEP) – 2020 has visualised an education system where the younger generation people are instilled deep-rooted pride in being Indian, not only in thought, but also in spirit, intellect and deeds besides developing knowledge, skills, values and dispositions that support responsible commitment to society. Referring to the pandemic, Prof. Hemantha Kumar said that the crisis has been surmounted and has been handled better than most developed countries. The country has gained the attention and respectability of the world because of the achievement in various fields. But the goal of wiping out every tear from every eyes remains unfulfilled, he added. Describing the new graduates as an asset to the State and the nation, Prof. Hemantha Kumar expressed hope that many of them would become entrepreneurs and become job providers rather than job seekers. The NIE management also felicitated 41 BE, 25 M.Tech and 3 MCA gold medallists besides felicitating 7 faculty members for getting PhD. K. Raghuveer, Principal, NIE, and R.S. Rajkumar, President, NIE Board of Management, were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nep-instils-national-pride-in-students/article33647787.ece
24 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Nagesh Bettakote appointed V-C of music university||Nagesh V. Bettakote has been appointed Vice-Chancellor of Karnataka State Dr. Gangubai Hangal Music and Performing Arts University in the city. He was the acting V-C for the past two years and his appointment as full-time V-C was confirmed by the government on Friday. Speaking to The Hindu , Prof. Bettakote said there were myriad challenges pertaining to the music university, which is one of its kind in the State and the country. He said that as per the norms, the university should have extension centres and he would tie up with private academies to create new centres so as to reach more students across the State. The university receives funds from the government and is yet to qualify to get funds and resources from the University Grants Commission (UGC). “My priority is to secure the 12 B approval and notification from the UGC, which will make it fit to receive development grants from the commission and the MHRD, Government of India,” he said. The university, which has 300 students, is also plagued by staff shortage and should have a minimum of seven departments and 35 full-time teachers, and an equal number of non-teaching staff, to qualify for 12 B notification. Prof. Bettakote intends to approach the government to sanction additional staff to pave way for the university’s growth. The varsity has not received any funds during the current financial year and its staff have not received salaries in the last four months. The new V-C intends to set right this issue “My first priority is to get the extension centres approved, besides seeking nod for the appointment of additional staff before approaching the UGC for 12 B recognition,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nagesh-bettakote-appointed-v-c-of-music-university/article33647373.ece
24 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||ZAK seeks exemption from law||The Zoo Authority of Karnataka (ZAK) has requested the government to exempt the nine zoos under its jurisdiction from the anti-cow slaughter ordinance. It is learnt that the ZAK’s request has been moved through the Department of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Sciences. The zoos under ZAK including Mysuru zoo and Bengaluru Bannerghatta Biological Park require a total of 1,400 kg of beef daily to feed the tigers, lions, leopards and other carnivores. Though buffaloes above the age of 13 are permitted to be slaughtered under the new law, their availability in the State is limited. Hence, a request has been sent to the government to exempt the zoos from the ordinance. ZAK incurs an annual expenditure of around Rs. 6.5 to Rs. 7 crore towards supplying beef to all carnivores in the 9 zoos. If the authorities are forced to supply mutton to animals, they fear the bill will cross Rs. 18 crore per annum. The large zoos - Mysuru zoo and BBP – are self-financed. Any additional expenditure on the food of the animals, particularly at a time when the footfall has drastically declined, will further erode their financial stability.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/zak-seeks-exemption-from-law/article33647385.ece
24 January 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Charulatha Somal takes over as new DC of Kodagu||IAS officer Charulatha Somal took charge as the new Deputy Commissioner of Kodagu district on Saturday. Kodagu Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer Bhanwar Singh Meena, who was officiating as in-charge Deputy Commissioner of the district, handed over charge to the new Deputy Commissioner. An official statement said Ms. Somal had earlier served as the Chief Executive Officer of Kodagu Zilla Panchayat. Ms Somal replaces Annies Kanmani Joy, who recently left for the U.S. on long leave to join her husband, an Indian Foreign Service officer posted in Washington DC, along with her daughter, the press release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/charulatha-somal-takes-over-as-new-dc-of-kodagu/article33647790.ece
24 January 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||MCC official dead||T.B. Kumar Naik, 55, Deputy Commissioner (Revenue), died following a heart attack on Friday. He is survived by his wife and a daughter. The last rites took place at T.B.Kavval in Chikkamagaluru district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mcc-official-dead/article33647789.ece
24 January 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Road safety month observed in Raichur||The 32nd national road safety month was observed in Raichur on Saturday. Shivanagowda Patil, Deputy Superintendent of Police, who inaugurated the event, appealed to the public to follow road safety measures and rules to avoid road accidents. Vishal G.P., Regional Transport Officer, said that every driver of a vehicle should have a permit for the vehicle. Referring to incidents in which many children below the age of 18 were involved, he said that parents will be held responsible and legal action will also be taken against them in case of such instances where children were found driving. Dundappa Biradar, Pranesh Kulkarni, S.C. Nagawanda, C.P.I. Veerareddy, Mallanagowda,and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/road-safety-month-observed-in-raichur/article33647588.ece
24 January 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||‘Officials have not prevented illegal sand extraction’||Alleging that officials failed to prevent illegal sand extraction in Raichur district, Raghavendra Kushtagi, founder of Janasangam Parishat, has given a week’s deadline to the district administration to curb the practice and said that otherwise his organisation would conduct protests outside the DC office. Addressing a press conference in Raichur on Saturday, Mr. Kushtagi said that the contractors are extracting outside permitted areas. However, government officers have not been taking action against such contractors, he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/officials-have-not-prevented-illegal-sand-extraction/article33647594.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Hampana counters police statement||Hampa Nagarajaiah, who was questioned by the Mandya police over his critical remarks on Prime Minister Narendra Modi, has expressed dissatisfaction over the press statement issued by the police on the issue. “As a writer, I’m concerned with the language and nuances. I’m troubled by the deliberate distortion of my statement by the police and the context in which it was made,” said Dr. Nagarajaiah. The statement released by K. Parashurama, SP, Mandya, while expressing regret over a senior citizen scholar having to come to the police station to record his statement, had made it appear like he was not “summoned.” “I was asked by the sub-inspector to go to the police station, face an inquiry and record my statement. It is not as if I went to the police station voluntarily,” Dr. Nagarajaiah said. The Mandya SP’s statement says Dr. Nagarajaiah in his statement to the police said he had only spoken about the farmers’ protest, but “had immense respect for our Prime Minister and he was a tall national leader that all of us are proud of.” Dr. Nagarajaiah has taken objection to this, saying the statement from the police seems to suggest he had backtracked from his criticism of the Prime Minister and the government’s policies “which is a misrepresentation.” “Answering the allegation that I have made derogatory statements against the Prime Minister, I had indeed denied that and said I do have respect for Mr. Modi. But I have also said that my criticism of the Prime Minister was not unparliamentary and I would stand by it. I have not backtracked on my statement. The police misrepresenting my statement is very troubling,” he said. Dr. Nagarajaiah, inaugurating the taluk sahitya sammelan in Mandya on January 17, had criticised Mr. Modi stating that his “handling of the farmer’s protest at the Delhi border was not befitting his stature” and said his “revengeful attitude” of trying to “undermine Opposition leaders by misusing agencies, trying to mock and defame them was not the right attitude of any leader in a democracy.” Further, commenting on the “gap between the rhetoric he speaks and his deeds”, he had said that people have come to think of the Prime Minister as gomukha vyaghra (cow-faced tiger).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hampana-counters-police-statement/article33647384.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Crushing activity in the area to be reviewed||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has said an impartial investigation would be held into the blast at Hunasodu in Shivamogga taluk and those responsible will be booked. Speaking to presspersons after visiting the blasting site on Saturday, he clarified that the crushers located at the site had permission from the government. However, nobody was allowed to conduct mining in the area. “The investigation will look into the transportation of explosion and its use at the site,” he said. Further, he said the area was part of the eco-sensitive zone and the district administration had sent a proposal to review allowing crushing activity in the locality. The government would review it. During his visit to the spot, local people submitted a memorandum demanding that crushing and mining activities be stopped in the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/crushing-activity-in-the-area-to-be-reviewed/article33647379.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||At work||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/at-work/article33647773.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Dry run||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dry-run/article33647378.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Engagements||Mangaluru  State Bank of India: Akshy Sridhar, Commissioner, Mangaluru City Corporation inaugurates SBI home and car loan utsav, St Sebastian Hall, Bendoorwell, 10 a.m.   Udupi  District Legal Services Authority: National Girl Child Day, Kaveri, Senior Civil Judge and Member Secretary, District Legal Services Authority inaugurates, Labour Colony, Beedinagudde, 4 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/engagements/article33647760.ece
24 January 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Adalats for public at 3 places in Alappuzha||Grievance redressal adalats titled Santhwana Sparsham will be held in three places in the district. Public Works Minister G. Sudhakaran said the adalats would be conducted as per the decision of the State Cabinet. On Saturday, he reviewed the preparations for conducting the adalats in the district. Venues On February 1, adalat will be held at Lajanathul Muhammadiya School, Alappuzha, for the people of Cherthala and Ambalappuzha taluks. The second adalat, for the people of Kuttanad and Chengannur taluks will be held at Father Thomas Porukara Central School at Champakulam on February 2. On February 4, adalat will be held at Cooperative Bank auditorium, Mavelikara for the people of Mavelikara and Karthikappally taluks. Deadline Besides Mr. Sudhakaran, Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac, Food and Civil Supplies Minister P. Thilothaman, MPs, MLAs and other officials will be present at the adalats. The Minister said that people should submit their complaints online on or before January 28 for consideration at the adalats. Complaints could also be submitted through Akshaya Centres for free. Website The adalats will be held from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. It will be conducted in accordance with COVID-19 protocols. A special cell will be formed at the district collectorate for the smooth conduct of the adalats. People can submit their complaints athttps://cmo.kerala.gov.in/||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/adalats-for-public-at-3-places-in-alappuzha/article33647714.ece
24 January 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||YMCA all set for a facelift||The British-era built headquarters of the Young Men’s Christian Association (YMCA) in Alappuzha is all set to get a facelift. Michael Mathai, president, YMCA, Alappuzha, said the structure would be renovated without losing its heritage value. The renovation work would be inaugurated by Alappuzha Diocese Bishop Fr. James Anaparambil on January 26 at 9.30 a.m. The Alappuzha YMCA was formed in 1904. The present building (Old block) was constructed in 1912 and formally opened on August 12, 1913 by the then president A.T. Forbes. Mr. Mathai said as part of renovation, a new art cafe, library and reading room, guest rooms, and an open stage would be set up. Of the two basketball courts, one would be converted into a floodlit indoor stadium. The table tennis arena would be expanded. Besides, the facilities of basketball, table tennis, music, drawing and painting, chess academies and hostel would be improved, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ymca-all-set-for-a-facelift/article33647713.ece
24 January 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Earnings mushroom for this entrepreneur||Shije Varghese, a homemaker from Eramalloor in Alappuzha, got into mushroom cultivation in 2007 since she wanted to use her spare time productively. Fourteen years later, she has bagged the best mushroom farmer award of the State government. From mushroom cultivation to spawn production and providing training to budding mushroom farmers, the 54-year-old entrepreneur earns between Rs. 1 lakh and Rs. 1.5 lakh a month. “I had lots of free time and was feeling unoccupied. When I talked to my family about starting an enterprise, they supported me but could not pinpoint an area to begin with. The turning point came when I attended a training programme organised by the Rural Technology Centre, Aroor, on mushroom cultivation,” she says. Ms. Varghese, who practises organic farming, started mushroom cultivation on an experimental basis with five to 10 beds on the balcony of her house. She now owns a multi-storey shed, which can house 2,000 beds of Oyster mushroom and Milky mushroom at a time. The biotech system helps cultivate Oyster mushrooms round the year, while tissue culture labs help produce spawn. “We have gone through several testing situations and have emerged successful. On one occasion, 200 of our mushroom beds developed fungal infection. We did not lose heart and came up with practical solutions,” she says. Her husband, T.J. Thankachan, son, Anto Joseph, and daughter, Rose Mary, lend her ample support in the endeavour. Brand name The brand name Coonfresh helps her market mushroom and value-added products across the State. Ms. Varghese trains people on mushroom cultivation and says her aim is to equip small-scale farmers find a source of income through different forms of mushroom cultivation, spawn production and organic waste conversion. With COVID-19 restrictions in place, she is using digital platforms for training. Raichel Sophia Alexander, Assistant Director of Agriculture, termed Ms. Varghese farm a ‘model farm.’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/earnings-mushroom-for-this-entrepreneur/article33647724.ece
24 January 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Two held on charge of cutting sandalwood trees||The Sulthan Bathery police arrested two persons at Beenachi near Sulthan Bathery on Friday night on the charge of cutting sandalwood trees. The accused, Muhammed Raffi (40) and Fayis (23) of Tirurangadi in Malappuram district, were arrested on a tip-off during a vehicle inspection at Beenachi. During the interrogation, the duo allegedly revealed that they had earlier cut sandalwood trees from private plantations in Sulthan Bathery and Ambalavayal police station limits and transported them to Mongam in Malappuram district. The police also seized a car that was used for transportation and a saw used to cut sandalwood trees. They would be produced in the First Class Magistrate Court at Sulthan Bathery, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-held-on-charge-of-cutting-sandalwood-trees/article33647660.ece
24 January 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||250 families to get title deeds||The Wayanad district administration is preparing to hand over deeds of land to 250 families in the district. The deeds including Land Tribunal pattayam (100), Devaswom pattayam (15), land assignment pattayam (6) and and possession certificates related Forest Rights Act (60) have been prepared and they would be handed over at a “pattaya mela” to be held in the district by the end of January, District Collector Adeela Abdulla said. The district administration had organised six “pattaya melas” in five years and land deeds had been given to 2,923 families, Ms. Abdulla said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/250-families-to-get-title-deeds/article33647657.ece
24 January 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Man beaten up by mob dies in Kasaragod||A 49-year-old man died after being beaten up by a mob for allegedly abusing a woman. According to the police, the deceased was identified as Rafeeq, a native of Chemmanad here. The incident took place near a private hospital in Kasaragod on Saturday afternoon. It is alleged that Rafeeq misbehaved with a woman, a resident of Kumbala, at a private hospital in the city. The son of the woman was being treated at the hospital. The woman was standing in front of the medical shop. Rafeeq who stood behind the woman, allegedly misbehaved. When she reacted and questioned him over his misbehaviour, he allegedly fled. However, the young woman chased him. Drivers and others at a nearby auto stand saw this and joined the chase. They allegedly manhandled him after catching up with him. Rafeeq, who was exhausted, was brought before the woman. However, he fell down unconscious. The locals felt that Rafeeq was merely acting. But soon realising that he was not well, they rushed him to a nearby hospital, but he was pronounced brought dead. ‘No marks of torture’  The police have registered a case of unnatural death. There were no marks of torture on the body and if the cause of death was declared as torture in the post-mortem, a case of murder would be registered, the police said. As soon as the incident took place, the police tried to check the CCTV footage of the hospital but the camera was not working. Rafeeq, who was in the Gulf, had returned home two years ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-beaten-up-by-mob-dies-in-kasaragod/article33647656.ece
24 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||New traffic plan rolled out to decongest Vyttila junction||The traffic police rolled out a new traffic movement plan on Saturday to decongest Vyttila Junction, which has been witnessing snarls even after a six-lane flyover was commissioned a fortnight ago. As per the plan, vehicles coming from Kadavanthra and wanting to cross over to the Thripunithura road or to the Vyttila Mobility Hub were redirected from the northern side of S.A. Road to the southern side. Barrels were placed to divide the lane on the southern side equally into two lanes, following which the redirected vehicles were allowed to proceed through what was earlier the fast track and those moving from other directions towards Kadavanthra were confined to the rest of the road width. This smoothed traffic flow in the west-east direction, since motorists were otherwise being redirected through the Vyttila underpass and service roads to cross over to the other side. That used to cause much delay and hassles for motorists and pedestrians alike, said Francis Shelby, ACP of City Traffic Police (East), who supervised Saturday’s traffic rearrangement. The plan worked out well and opened up more space for vehicles. Moreover, the queue of vehicles in different directions was limited to less than 100 m, as compared to much longer queues earlier. In addition, vehicles from the Kadavanthra side wanting to enter the Vyttila hub were redirected through the hub’s exit, after dividing the exit into two lanes by placing barrels. The two-way movement of vehicles too went on without hassles, except for a brief while when shoddily-placed overhead cables that came in the way of vehicles exiting the hub, had to be removed, he added. Signal system Saturday’s reforms will, in all probability, continue, after analysing traffic movement through the junction in the coming week. There was temporary relief to acute congestion caused by the bottlenecked space near the free-left turn on the Palarivattom side leading to the Vyttila Mobility Hub. A total of 18 police personnel were deployed to manually regulate traffic from Saturday noon to evening, following which the signal system was controlled manually. Automatic signalling will be reinstated after analysing the movement of vehicles in different directions, based on which signal timings would be reworked, said Mr. Shelby. The police have also reminded the Public Works Department (NH wing) of the need to make alterations in the roundabout and a few traffic islands beneath the flyover’s central span. TRURA demand Meanwhile, the Thripunithura Rajanagari Union of Residents’ Associations (TRURA) has demanded easier access to the junction for vehicles coming from the Eroor side through the RSAC Road that begins from near the Vyttila hub.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-traffic-plan-rolled-out-to-decongest-vyttila-junction/article33647685.ece
24 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Left councillor quits party after standing committee elections||M.H.M. Ashraf, the councillor representing Kochangadi, resigned from the CPI(M) party membership soon after the chairpersons of the standing committees were elected at the Kochi Corporation on Saturday. Despite resignation from the party, he would continue to back the Left Democratic Front (LDF) in the council, said Mr. Ashraf, who was a member of the Mattancherry local committee of the party. ‘Registering protest’ He said his resignation was a way of “registering his protest against the party which had not acknowledged his consistent support”. He had contested independently from the same division in 2010 and backed the LDF in the council when he won the seat. This time, he chose to contest as a member of the party. But, the party had neglected him, he said. He maintained that his resignation was not a consequence of the party selecting J. Sanilmon for the post of chairperson of the town planning standing committee. “The resignation was submitted only after I cast my vote for Mr. Sanilmon in the election and the LDF’s hold over the standing committees was consolidated, though a whip was not issued for the election,” he said. The LDF had promised chairperson positions to Mr. Sanilmon and T.K. Ashraf, the two Independents whose support took the front’s tally in the 74-member council to 36 seats, over the United Democratic Front’s 32. In the election to the seat reserved for women in the works standing committee last week, Mr. Ashraf’s vote was invalid, which gave the UDF a majority in the committee along with the support of the BJP councillors. In a first in the corporation, a BJP councillor, Priya Prashant, will helm one of the standing committees – the tax appeal committee, to which four out of five BJP councillors were elected. The LDF will head six standing committees — JD(S) councillor Sheeba Lal will be chairperson of the welfare committee; T.K. Ashraf was elected chairperson of the health committee; P.R. Renish will head the development committee; Mr. Sanilmon will head the town planning committee; V.A. Sreejith will be chairperson of the education and sports committee; and Deputy Mayor K.A. Ansiya will head the finance committee. RSP councillor Sunitha Dixon is chairperson of the works standing committee, the only committee in which the UDF has a majority. Sharing of post In an effort to accommodate senior LDF councillors, the chairperson posts of two committees will be divided over the council’s five-year term. In the development committee, Mr. Renish will hold the chairperson’s post for two-and-a-half years, after which CPI councillor C.A. Shakkeer will take the position. In the welfare committee, Ms. Lal is set to be chairperson for two years, after which C.D. Valsalakumari will take her place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/left-councillor-quits-party-after-standing-committee-elections/article33647699.ece
24 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||An agriculture farm that sowed seeds of change||The Aluva Government Seed Farm, in its 101st year of operations, has had many firsts to its credit. Among them is its status as India’s first comprehensive organic seed farm, driven by the vision of local produce and healthy eating. The farm was commissioned in 1919 and named ‘Krishi Padasala’ (a school for agriculture) under royal patronage. It has grown since then and, this year, the seed farm won the Haritha Keerthi Award, instituted by the Agriculture Department, for the best government farm in the State. The agricultural officer at the farm, Lissymol J. Vadakkot, has been recognised for her contribution to turning the farm into a one-stop shop for farmers. The scenic 13-acre farm is located on an island in the Periyar river and has set an example for comprehensive farming experience. There is a live paddy museum, with traditional varieties of rice in Kerala being cultivated as a field class for visitors. The importance of promoting traditional Kerala rice varieties came during the centenary year 2019-20, said Ms. Vadakkot. Since then, varieties such as Raktasaali, Golden Njavara, Japan Violet, Vellathondi, Vadakkan Vellarikaima and Jaiva have been cultivated at the farm for creating awareness. The farm has also been regularly supplying seeds to farmers. The agricultural officer said Jaiva was close to the traditional salt-resistant Pokkali variety, while the Japan Violet was a north Kerala variety and that the plants were violet in colour. The demand for traditional varieties was such that only Kaima and Jaiva seeds were available at the seed farm at present, added Ms. Vadakkot. The farm has also been following integrated agriculture with local breeds of cows such as Kasaragod Kullan, Malabari goats and Kuttanad ducks providing manure for the farm. There is also an aqua farm, that cultivates genetically improved farmed tilapia (GIFT).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-farm-that-sowed-seeds-of-change/article33647688.ece
24 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||KGMCTA to join protest over salary arrears||The Ernakulam unit of the Kerala Government Medical College Teachers’ Association (KGMCTA) will join a State-wide protest on Monday against non-payment of arrears after the revision of salary. Salary was to be revised in 2016, and an order was issued in September 2020 declaring the revision, said Dr. Unmesh A.K., president of the Ernakulam unit, KGMCTA. “But the revision is only with effect from January 2020, leaving out the arrears due to us for four years. We waited for a while and anticipated an announcement in the budget, but the government has remained silent,” he said. A protest is scheduled on Monday, but it will not impact classes or medical services, he said. On January 29, the teachers will go on strike for three hours, and no outpatient services or classes will be held during that time, though COVID treatment and emergency services will not be disrupted, he said. If their demand remained unmet, the teachers would go on a relay hunger strike on February 5. The strike notice was issued on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kgmcta-to-join-protest-over-salary-arrears/article33647700.ece
24 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||1,083 new COVID cases||For the second consecutive day, the district recorded over 1,000 new COVID-19 cases, with 1,083 people testing positive on Saturday. Kottuvally recorded a spike with 52 new cases. Kizhakkambalam registered 34 cases, Manjapra 30, and Thrikkakara 27. Five health workers and a police officer have also been infected. The source of infection of 80 people could not be traced. With 1,038 recoveries on Saturday, the active case load is 11,129. Of the people recovering from the infection here, 8,555 are at home, 49 are at the Government Medical College Hospital, 73 at PVS Hospital and 758 at private hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1083-new-covid-cases/article33647691.ece
24 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Kochi port handles record cargo in Dec.||The Cochin Port Trust handled a record 3.20 million tonnes of cargo in December 2020, a monthly record volume for it. The volume is a 10.55 per cent growth over December 2019, said Cochin Port Trust chairperson M. Beena, in a message to the employees and officials of the port trust. Container movement too touched a consistent 60,000 TEUs consecutively in the four months leading to December. The surge in the movement of cargo is being looked upon as new shoots in the port business after the plans of 2020 were washed away in the COVID-19 pandemic. The growth in cargo movement is “charting a new growth trajectory. However, we need to find new vistas for revenue generation by optimum utilisation of resources available to us,” the chairperson told the port community. The losses caused by the pandemic had pushed the port into the red. But the port was expected to make a recovery by the end of 2021, the chairperson said. Meanwhile, figures from the Indian Ports Association showed that ports across the country suffered owing to the pandemic and its impact on the global economy. The average fall across the major ports in the country is nearly nine per cent for the period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kochi-port-handles-record-cargo-in-dec/article33647701.ece
24 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Santhwana Sparsam adalat||Ministers V S. Sunil Kumar, E.P. Jayarajan, and G.Sudhakaran will attend the grievance redress forum, Santhwana Sparsam, being organised here on February 15, 16, and 18. Grievances of people from Kochi and Kanayannur taluks will be considered on February 15; those from Aluva and Paravur will be considered on February 16, and grievances from people in Kothamangalam, Muvattupuzha, and Kunnathunadu will be considered on February 18, said a press release here. The complaints can be registered from Monday either online by the complainants or through Akshaya centres. No complaints regarding Life Mission, police or floods will be considered. Special arrangements will be made to accept complaints from Adivasi areas. A help desk will be opened at the district headquarters. A five-member team will be constituted to look into the grievances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/santhwana-sparsam-adalat/article33647686.ece
24 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||One held on charge of theft||The North Police arrested a man on the charge of stealing batteries and spare parts of parked buses and bronze utensils from a house on SRM Road in the city. The arrested man was identified as Ansar, 32, of Manapattiparambu near Kaloor. He was allegedly caught in CCTV images while stealing batteries and spare parts from a bus parked at Manapattiparambu on December 10. Following this, the police reached his house but he gave them the slip and went into hiding. Later, he was arrested on Saturday. On interrogation, he reportedly confessed to have stolen bronze utensils with antique value from a house that had been remaining closed for months since the family was away in Bengaluru. He reportedly sold the utensils in an antique shop at Cheranalloor. The police recovered the utensils and batteries. He was produced in court and remanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-held-on-charge-of-theft/article33647689.ece
24 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||7 booked after assault video goes viral||Seven youngsters, all except one of them juveniles, were booked by the Kalamasserry police after a video of them assaulting a 17-year-old went viral on social media. An 18-year-old among the accused was arrested and released on bail. The rest were sent back to their homes with their parents who were summoned to the police station. The accused and the victim were friends and hailed from the same neighbourhood in Glass Factory Colony in Kalamasserry. The incident took place on a vacant plot in the colony on Thursday and one of the assailants captured the video of the brutal assault and posted it on social media. “The 17-year-old victim was cornered by the rest, his friends, alleging that he was having an affair with the sister of one of the accused and for talking about their smoking habits. We will submit a social background report on the juvenile accused to the Child Welfare Committee after verifying their antecedents,” said P.R. Santhosh, Station House Officer, Kalamasserry police. All the seven accused were charged with Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous means or weapons), 341 (wrongful restraint), 506 (criminal intimidation), 146 (rioting), and 149 (unlawful assembly) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/7-booked-after-assault-video-goes-viral/article33647690.ece
24 January 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Mulamkadakam temple suffers damage in fire||Mulamkadakam Devi Temple, one of the ancient temples in Kollam, suffered major damage in a fire that broke out in the early hours of Saturday. Though the fire didn't reach the sanctum sanctorum, parts of the conical roof in East gopuram and the wooden panel on which ‘Ananthasayanam’ was carved were gutted in the fire. The framework of wooden wall plates and rafters of ‘pattambalam’ and ‘navagrahas’ of the centuries old temple were also partially destroyed. Three Fire and Rescue units from Chamakkada and Kadappakada were pressed into service and it took the firefighters more than one hour to extinguish the flames. It was motorists who were passing through the road who reported the incident and alerted the authorities about the fire. As per primary assumption, fire from the ‘kedavilakku’ kept in the temple or short circuit could have caused the accident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mulamkadakam-temple-suffers-damage-in-fire/article33647719.ece
24 January 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Certificate programme in martial arts||SRC Community College under the State Resource Centre has invited applications for its six-month certificate programme in martial arts. Qualification required is SSLC. Kalaripayattu and Kung-fu will be part of the curriculum. For more details visit www.srccc.in or call 9447683169.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/certificate-programme-in-martial-arts/article33647716.ece
24 January 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||New facilities for Kottayam MCH||The Government Medical College Hospital (MCH) in Kottayam is all set to get a major facelift in February with projects worth Rs. 91.85 crore, including a new cath lab, CT scanner, and a surgical gastro section. A decision on opening these projects to the public was made during a review meeting convened by State Health Minister K.K. Shylaja on Saturday. Rajan N. Khobragade, Principal Secretary of Health, A. Ramla Beevi, Director of Medical Education, and P.P. Mohanan, Principal of Kottayam MCH, were present. Twenty-eight projects worth Rs. 55.85 crore were on the final phase, the Minister said, and sought their completion at the earliest. The works on the second phase of the cardiology block too would be launched. Directions were issued to commence full-scale operation of the cardiac, anaesthesia, gastro surgery and emergency medicine units, besides giving a proposal to replace the existing cath lab and CT scanner. The upcoming projects include accommodation facility for house surgeons, speciality hospital for children, new medical ward, PCR lab, MRI scanning unit, linear accelerator, skill lab, and a multi-disciplinary research unit, among other things. Cardiology block The State government has already accorded administrative sanction of Rs. 36 crore for the construction of a new 200-bed cardiology and cardiothoracic block with financial assistance from NABARD. Surgical block The Chief Minister had recently inaugurated the first phase of works on a surgical block at a cost of Rs. 134.45 crore and a medical and surgical store at a cost of Rs. 3 crore at the hospital. The surgical block, coming up with an estimated investment of Rs. 564 crore, is included in the master plan for the development of the institution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-facilities-for-kottayam-mch/article33647720.ece
24 January 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||702 test positive in Kottayam||As many as 702 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Saturday. Of the new cases, 699 persons contracted the virus through local transmission. The fresh cases also included 78 children and 123 persons aged above 60. With 73 cases, Kottayam municipality led the tally, followed by Kurichy with 47 cases. With 403 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 6,445 active cases. Kollam district reported 684 new cases of COVID-19 and 195 recoveries on Saturday. While 673 patients contracted the infection through local contact, others include five NRIs, one person from another State, three health workers and two cases with no known source, from East Kallada and Kundara. The infected health workers are from Thevalakkara, Thodiyoor, and Karunagapally. The district currently has 12,441 persons under observation. 557 in Pathanamthitta As many as 557 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta on Saturday. Of the new cases, 540 persons contracted the virus through local contact and among these, the contact source of 36 cases were yet to be identified. Among the local bodies, Ezhamkulam reported 33 cases, followed by Adoor with 27 cases. The disease claimed three more lives in the district and the victims were identified as 67-year-old Pandalam native, 63-year-old woman from Ezhamkulam, and a 64-year-old Ranni native. With 204 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 5,957 active cases. 474 in Alappuzha In Alappuzha, 474 new COVID-19 cases and 390 recoveries were reported on Saturday. The new cases include 465 patients who contracted the disease through local transmission, while the source of infection of four persons remains unknown. Five people who came from abroad also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district stands at 4,369.  (With inputs from Kollam, Pathanamthitta, and Alappuzha bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/702-test-positive-in-kottayam/article33647722.ece
24 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Clamour for animal quarantine facility in Malabar gets louder||Despite the steady growth in export and import of livestock and related products, an Animal Quarantine and Certification Service to facilitate trouble-free transit of consignments is yet to be a reality for stakeholders in the northern Kerala region. The requirement of a spacious area with costly testing equipment to comply with the Foreign Trade Policy is reportedly preventing the authorities from setting up such a facility in any of the airports or ports in the Malabar region. As Animal Quarantine (AQ) clearance is must for the international transit of livestock products and pets, the facility is a basic requirement here for service providers and buyers. Considering the risk of the spread of infectious diseases, consignments carrying livestock are thoroughly checked by the authorities to prevent the entry of any uncertified animals or products. However, plant quarantine service is now available at the Kozhikode International Airport, which helps importers and exporters quickly clear formalities. Stakeholders seek a similar system in Kozhikode through which they can easily handle procedures for the safe transit of livestock and related products. Such a service is also expected to benefit a large number of non-resident Keralites who wish to bring home their pets. ‘Near Beypore Port’ “We are going to take up the demand with the authorities. What we seek is the opening of a good Animal Quarantine and Certification Service anywhere near the Beypore Port,” says Munshid Ali, member of Trade Facilitation Council, Cochin Customs. Even for the export and import of edible fish items, certification by this wing is necessary for the further clearance of the Customs Department, he adds. In the case of pets like dogs and cats, the main purpose is to certify that they are free of all clinical signs of infections and symptoms of infectious diseases. No transit will be possible if animals are found carrying the symptoms of distemper, parvovirus infection, skin diseases or leptospirosis. Such tests to screen animals can be conducted only with the support of a fully equipped lab and quarantine facility. S. Sarin, an NRI from Kozhikode, said the lack of the facility forced many of his NRI friends and families to abandon their pets while returning to their home State. “Those who make use of the checked baggage service are now landing at airports outside the State and come home by road or rail service by spending huge money,” he says Spices export Meanwhile, spices exporters in the Malabar region are demanding permission for competent local research institutes to certify spice products. They seek better utilisation of the existing testing facilities available at the Indian Institute of Spices Research, Kozhikode, and the Directorate of Arecanut and Spices Development instead of depending on the service of other distantly located firms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/clamour-for-animal-quarantine-facility-in-malabar-gets-louder/article33647658.ece
24 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Vaccination drive: Health dept. to finish first phase by Feb. 12||The Health Department hopes to conclude the first phase of the COVID-19 vaccination drive in Kozhikode district by February 12. A week after the launch of the drive on January 16, around 4,000 health workers have been vaccinated here so far. Vaccination district-level nodal officer T. Mohandas told The Hindu that 100 people were given the jab at the centre attached to the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, on Saturday. The drive had been held on last Saturday, Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Friday as well. He said that more vaccination centres would be added in the coming days. According to sources, they would be at the MCH, Baby Memorial Hospital, Malabar Medical College, Meitra Hospital, and IQRAA Hospital. As many as 800 people were vaccinated on January 16. On the second day, the number came down to 652 and it fell further to 571 the next day. As many as 904 and 924 people got the injection on the fourth and fifth days, respectively. The initial plan was to hold the vaccination drive on Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Friday. No vaccination would be held on Wednesday as routine immunisation is being held on the day. Hundred people each were to be vaccinated at each of the 11 centres in the district. However, the State-level steering committee on vaccination decided to increase the number of centres and hold the programme on more days in view of the slow pace of the drive across Kerala. Around 35,000 health workers have registered for it in Kozhikode district in the first phase. Meanwhile, sources claimed that at least some of the health workers had not been able to attend the drive because they were given the message to reach the centre just a day in advance. The schedule for vaccination is being prepared by district-level officials now through www.cowin.gov.in. However, since a day’s schedule is being prepared just a day before, the attendance is less than expected. The State-level steering committee is learnt to have approved the proposal to give a 48-hour notice now. Also, other registered health workers shall be vaccinated if a particular person fails to turn up. But, it is not clear if the second proposal is practical as most of them could be engaged in other duties, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vaccination-drive-health-dept-to-finish-first-phase-by-feb-12/article33647664.ece
24 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Marine ambulance for Kozhikode coast||A marine ambulance, the long awaited emergency service to reach out to fishermen in case of an accident, is going to be a reality in Kozhikode coast. The customised boat made at Cochin Shipyard will reach the Beypore Port on January 29. According to Fisheries Department officials, the boat will be flagged off from Kochi by Fisheries Minister J. Mercykutty Amma on January 28. The full-time service of two paramedical staff and four rescue guards will be available in the ambulance, they add. Facilities The custom-made rescue boat, completed at a cost of Rs. 6 crore, has many advanced features to attend to 10 rescued persons at a time. It has a length of 22.5 metres with a maximum speed of 14 knots. There are facilities such as examination and nursing room, medical bed, mortuary freezer and medical lockers. Though the ambulance will be anchored at Beypore, its service will be available across the northern Kerala coast during emergency situations. With this, there are three marine ambulances now to assist see rescue operations along the Kerala coast. In the absence of such a service, fishermen had been heavily dependent on the service of the coast guard and other rescue forces. Many a time, it was local fishing boats which were used for emergency sea rescue operations on receiving alerts. The absence of basic life-support facilities in such boats had come as a challenge for fishers even after successful rescue operations. A fisherman from Puthiyappa said the initial hours of care after the rescue was crucial for the survival of victims. “Only trained health workers will be able to handle it properly and complete the successful rescue mission. The marine ambulance will definitely be a solution,” he said. At the same time, some of the fishermen associations said the permitted operational area of 12 nautical miles was hardly sufficient for any successful rescue operation and such a short distance could be covered even by local rescue boats. According to them, operational permits should be given to cover a wider area as it only would help manage serious incidents. Arrangements are in place to accord a reception under the leadership of people’s representatives on the arrival of the rescue boat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/marine-ambulance-for-kozhikode-coast/article33647662.ece
24 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Active caseload surges above 7,500||Active COVID-19 case pool in Kozhikode district surged to 7,524 on Saturday when 814 people tested positive for the virus on Saturday. The district has the highest number of fresh cases after Ernakulam. According to the District Medical Officer, there were 792 locally acquired infections and the source of 20 others was not known. As many as 6,463 samples were tested and the daily test positivity rate is 12.59%. A total of 534 people recovered from the infection. Kozhikode Corporation had 128 cases of local transmission while Unnikulam had 33, Chelannur and Feroke 32 each, Kunnamangalam 28, Chorod and Vadakara 27 each, and Kizhakkoth and Meppayyur 26 each. While three deaths were reported from the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, between Friday and Saturday, another person was brought dead and later diagnosed with COVID pneumonia during the period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/active-caseload-surges-above-7500/article33647665.ece
24 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||‘Santhwana Sparsham’ adalat next month||The State government’s ‘Santhwana Sparsham’ adalat to help people in distress will be held in Kozhikode district on February 1,2, and 4. According to a release on Saturday, Ministers K.T. Jaleel, T.P. Ramakrishnan, and A.K. Saseendran will chair the event. It will be held in Koyilandy taluk on February 1, Vadakara taluk on February 2, and Kozhikode and Thamarassery taluks on February 4. People can submit their petitions online or through Akshaya Centres between January 24 afternoon and January 28 evening. There will not be any application fee. New complaints as well as those which have not been solved so far will be considered. District Collector S. Sambasiva Rao, who chaired a meeting on Saturday to review the preparations, said that a five-member team of officials from Revenue, Civil Supplies, Local Self-Administration, Social Justice and Agriculture departments would be deputed to examine the complaints.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/santhwana-sparsham-adalat-next-month/article33647659.ece
24 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Portal opened for CM@campus||CM@campus, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s interaction with students who have excelled in the higher education sector, will be held on the Calicut University campus on February 11. M. Nasar, university Pro Vice Chancellor, on Saturday opened an online portal for nomination and registration of college students. A release said that students who register from Calicut University, Thunchath Ezhuthachan Malayalam University, Kerala Agricultural University, and Kerala Kalamandalam Deemed to be University will participate in the event online. Fifty per cent of them would be women. Those who have excelled in academics, research, arts and culture, National Service Scheme, National Cadet Corps and sports would be selected, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/portal-for-cmcampus-opened/article33647653.ece
24 January 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||MYL offers legal help to Kappan||The Muslim Youth League (MYL) has offered legal help to Siddhique Kappan, the New Delhi-based Malayali journalist jailed in Uttar Pradesh under the provisions of the Unlawful (Activities) Prevention Act. This was conveyed to Raihanath Siddique, Mr. Kappan’s wife, when she visited Panakkad Syed Munavvar Ali Shihab Thangal, State president, and P.K. Firos, general secretary, on Saturday. Haris Beeran, Supreme Court lawyer, who was present at the meeting, informed her that a special counsel would be arranged at the apex court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/myl-offers-legal-help-to-kappan/article33647661.ece
24 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Use VVN for school infra, say KV parents||A section of parents of Kendriya Vidyalaya (KV) students in the State have sought usage of the Vidyalaya Vikas Nidhi (VVN) for the infrastructure development of the respective school. VVN is the fee collected for school development and overall welfare of students. For Classes 1 to 12 it is Rs. 500 a year. Single girl children are exempted from Class 6. The money raised as computer fee is also credited into the VVN account. K.A. Jacob, general secretary, Kendriya Vidyalaya Parents Association, told The Hindu that the fee collected from each student was going to an account in a nationalised bank. He claimed that it was not clear if the funds were being used for the development of each school. “Though the teacher-student ratio is 1:45, authorities have been found to be increasing the number to 1:50 and 1:60. This could lead to students not getting enough attention from teachers. There has been no improvement in facilities such as science and computer labs as well as benches and desks in classrooms either,” he alleged. The Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan (KVS) had not been collecting the VVN from students in Kerala for around five years since 2014 after the Supreme Court stayed it following a petition filed by parents. In November 2019, however, the stay was vacated and the parents were asked to remit the arrears of around Rs. 32,000. Mr. Jacob claimed that the 41 KVs in the State had cumulatively collected around Rs. 25 crore between January and December last year as arrears. KVS authorities could not be reached for comments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/use-vvn-for-school-infra-say-kv-parents/article33647741.ece
24 January 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Digitalization of school ordered||The Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has ordered that the digitalization project of Government Moyan Model Girls Higher Secondary School here should be completed in 100 days. The digitalization project, started more than six years ago at an estimated cost of Rs. 8 crore, has been lying unfinished for various technical reasons. The Commission has ordered that the empowered committee be convened within two weeks, and plans be chalked out for the completion of the project in 100 days. Theft alleged The Commission has also ordered that the Deputy Director of Education (DDE) inquire into the complaint about the theft of electronic equipment from the school and initiate action against the guilty. A division bench of the Commission comprising chairman K.V. Manoj Kumar and member C. Vijayakumar further ordered modification of the furniture set up by the project implementing agency Habitat Technologies Group in such a manner as to help the students sit without strain for long periods. A section of parents from the school had approached the Commission seeking its intervention for the project’s completion. The multi-crore digitalization project introduced by Shafi Parambil, MLA, in 2014 stopped midway as it faced many hurdles. With 4,800 girls in its rolls, Moyan school is one of the largest girls schools in the State. Parents were complaining that their children were being denied the fruits of digitization as most other schools had already embraced digitalization as part of the government plan. The Commission observed that the empowered committed with the additional chief secretary of general education as its chairman had failed to make constructive interventions for the project’s completion. Shafi Parambil, MLA, Additional Chief Secretary of Finance, Director of General Education, Higher Secondary Education Director, and Palakkad District Collector are members of the empowered committee. Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education (KITE) director is the project director. Political tone A section of parents had complained against non-inclusion of the school head or the PTA members in the empowered committee. The issue had turned into a dispute with the entire project being perceived from a political perspective. Parents opposing Mr. Shafi Parambil claimed that the project should have been made part of the KITE’s digitalization programme. The pareants also complained that because of the digitalization project, the school lost much of its existing furniture and electronic equipment. “We already had 40 classrooms with projectors and laptops, and they were removed as part of implementing this digitalization project. And all of them are missing now,” said school management committee chairperson Nazeema Jafar. Furniture The PTA had opposed setting up of fixed benches and desks by replacing the old furniture. They claimed that the new furniture would be dangerous for the health of the children.  The project, launched more than six years ago at a cost of Rs. 8 cr., has been lying unfinished||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/digitalization-of-school-ordered/article33647862.ece
24 January 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Palakkad Collector given farewell||The Victims Information Sensitisation, Welfare and Assistance Society (VISWAS) accorded a farewell to outgoing president and District Collector D. Balamurali here on Friday evening. Newly appointed Collector Mrunmai Joshi was the chief guest at the function. She assumed office as the new president of the VISWAS, a unique non-governmental organization providing assistance for the victims of crimes and excesses. VISWAS president V.P. Kuriakose presided over the function. Vice president S. Santhadevi, treasurer B. Jayarajan, Fr. Jose Paul, M.P. Sukumaran, K. Raju, C. Sreekumar, N. Rakhi, Deepa Jayaprakash, Ikbal Kunisseri, R. Devi Kripa and Praful Dal spoke. VISWAS secretary P. Premnath welcomed..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/palakkad-collector-given-farewell/article33647864.ece
24 January 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||234 cases in Palakkad||As many as 234 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Palakkad district on Saturday. When 136 of them got the disease through direct contact with infected persons, there were 92 cases without an identifiable source of infection. Four cases had come from other States. There were two health workers among the newly infected persons. District health officials said that 178 people recovered from the disease on Saturday.  Meanwhile, vaccination against COVID-19 continued in the district. As many as 1,290 health workers were given the vaccine on Saturday. District officials said that 5,052 health workers were administered the vaccine since the vaccination was launched on Saturday last.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/234-cases-in-palakkad/article33647824.ece
24 January 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Webinar on poet-critic Ravi’s works to be held today||The Tamil Cultural Research Centre here will conduct an international webinar on poet-critic K. Ravi’s works on Sunday. Sudha Seshayyan, Vice Chancellor of Tamil Nadu Dr. MGR Medical University, will inaugurate the webinar in the morning. E. Sundaramoorthy, former Vice Chancellor of Tamil University, Thanjavur, will preside over the function. K.A. Rajaram, director of the Tamil Cultural Research Centre, will deliver the keynote address. B. Rajendran, Vice Chancellor of Alagappa University, Karaikudi, will deliver the valedictory address in the afternoon. Papers will also be presented.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/webinar-on-poet-critic-ravis-works-to-be-held-today/article33647825.ece
24 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Exert pressure on Centre, CM tells MPs||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has asked Members of Parliament (MPs) from Kerala to put pressure on the Centre to include the immediate needs of the State in the Union Budget. Addressing the MPs online on Saturday in the wake of Parliament’s Budget session, the Chief Minister appealed to them to intervene to get the nod for the Kochuveli-Kasaragod semi-high-speed railway corridor aimed at speedy movement across the State. Mr. Vijayan urged them to take up with the Centre the proposed Tripunithara bypass in the Bharatmala scheme and the new National Highway from Palani to Pampa, the base camp of Sabarimala. The Chief Minister said the Centre’s Point of Call status was needed to open the Kannur international airport for flight operation of foreign carriers. Kannur airport Kannur should also be included in the Association of South East Asian Nations Sky Policy and steps should be taken to allow big aircraft in the Karipur international airport. The meeting was told that the State had so far got only Rs. 3,413.8 crore as GST compensation out of the total Rs. 12,100 crore due from the Centre. The MPs were asked to take up with the Centre the setting up of an All India Institute of Medical Sciences at Kinaloor in Kozhikode. The MPs’ attention was sought to the eight projects costing Rs. 115 crore submitted to the Centre for administrative sanction after they were included in the Central Road Infrastructure Fund for 2020-21. CM seeks help The Chief Minister sought the help of the MPs to get approval of Railways to lay the cable of K-Phone in places where the railway line passes through.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/exert-pressure-on-centre-cm-tells-mps/article33647728.ece
24 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CM: Kerala to be made a knowledge economy||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said the government will transform Kerala into a knowledge economy and added that the democratisation of digital space was the first step towards this initiative. He was inaugurating an international webinar jointly organised by the Gulati Institute of Finance and Taxation (GIFT) and Global Network for Economics of Learning, Innovation, and Competence Building Systems (Globelics) on the theme ‘Kerala Transforming to a Knowledge Economy’ with the participation of representatives from 22 countries. The Chief Minister said the government also aimed at making the State a centre of world-class excellence in higher education. The State was rapidly embarking on the necessary projects.  Global job portal  Presiding over the function, Finance Minister and GIFT chairman T.M. Thomas Isaac said the fact that the economic base of Kerala remained largely unchanged was a crisis and a change was needed. he government is trying to make two major interventions in the field of knowledge by setting up a global job portal and promoting knowledge-based industries. Emeritus Professor Bang Ake Lundwal of Alberg University School of Business in Denmark was the chief guest. State Planning Board vice chairman V.K. Ramachandran; Kerala Development and Innovation Strategic Council chairman K.M. Abraham; Deepu Zakaria, joint secretary, Group of Technology Companies; and K.J. Joseph, director of GIFT and president of Globelics were among those who spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-kerala-to-be-made-a-knowledge-economy/article33647845.ece
24 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||More initiatives to manage waste: Mayor||The city Corporation will launch more initiatives to manage waste along with taking forward all the ongoing systems for the purpose, Mayor Arya Rajendran said in a press release here on Saturday. She said the current administration was committed to continuing the successful community-level waste collection and processing programmes that were implemented in the previous terms. The Corporation will implement the waste-management-at-source programmes laid out in the Left Democratic Front (LDF)’s manifesto for the local body elections. Kitchen bins The Mayor said the Corporation had successfully carried out various waste-management-at-source initiatives after the closure of the centralised treatment plant at Vilappilsala. In the past eight years, 565 Thumboormuzhi-model aerobic bins had been installed across the city for community-level waste management. Kitchen bins had also been installed at several houses. Material recovery centres and resource recovery centres had been set up for the collection of non-biodegradable waste. The health wing, consisting of more than 1,300 sanitation staff and other employees, had played a major role in managing the city’s waste. All the wards in the Corporation and all the houses needed to get the benefits of these services. Available data indicated that there was room for improvement in the collection and processing of non-biodegradable waste.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-initiatives-to-manage-waste-mayor/article33647858.ece
24 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||LIFE Mission hits a milestone||A total of 2,51,046 houses have been completed under the State government’s Livelihood, Inclusion, Financial Empowerment (LIFE) housing project. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan is expected to make the official declaration regarding the 2.5 lakh milestone later this month. The latest milestone comes less than a year after two lakh houses were completed under the project. According to officials of the LIFE Mission, work on 36 flat complexes is progressing in various parts of the State, out of which 10 will be completed by May. The rest will be completed before the end of the year. “This year, we hope to add around 40,000 more houses to our tally. We have also received more than 8 lakh applications after the latest call. For processing these applications, field inspections will have to be carried out. At least, 3 to 4 lakh eligible beneficiaries can be found from this list,” U.V. Jose, Chief Executive Officer, LIFE Mission, said. Most houses in capital As per the data on completed houses till January 18, the maximum number of 37,828 houses have been completed in Thiruvananthapuram district, while Palakkad has 28,853 completed houses. The figures include houses constructed under the three phases of the LIFE project, the houses under the Pradhan Mantri Awaas Yojana (PMAY)-LIFE project and those being executed through the Fisheries and the Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes Departments. In addition to the 36 flat complexes under construction, 14 other complexes are being constructed under the Care Home project of the Cooperative Department and six others by various agencies and local bodies. The initial plan was to complete the 36 flat complexes by the end of last year, but the COVID-19 outbreak came as a roadblock. Most of the workers, of which a majority are from outside the State, become unavailable following the pandemic outbreak. The work was restarted only a few months back. The controversies over the flat project at Wadakkanchery being executed by the UAE-based Red Crescent, the only flat project being constructed through sponsorship and being implemented by another agency, also acted as a dampener. With pre-fabricated technology being used to construct the flat complexes, work has been progressing faster, compared to the usual construction methods.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/life-mission-hits-a-milestone/article33647746.ece
24 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Factional fight in NCP threatens to boil over||The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) in Kerala appears to be on the cusp of a split. A group of NCP State leaders have petitioned the national leadership against Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran for holding a faction meeting. Simultaneously, efforts are on in the Left Democratic Front (LDF) to prevent the NCP dispute over the proposal to cede the Pala seat to Jose K. Mani of the Kerala Congress (M) from boiling over. The incumbent Pala legislator Mani C. Kappan was loath to hand over the constituency to Mr. Mani. In contrast, Mr. Saseendran, another veteran NCP leader, was "sympathetic" to Mr. Mani's demand. Mr. Saseendran's stance reportedly has the imprimatur of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] leadership. The Saseendran "faction" feels an accommodation with Mr. Mani would perhaps bring rich dividends for the NCP, including a Rajya Sabha seat, that would enhance the party's national profile. NCP State general secretary Mathews George and NCP national secretary N.A. Muhammad Kutty had held a meeting with Mr. Saseendran in mid-January. NCP State president T. P. Peethambaran, who is averse to the idea of yielding the Pala seat to Mr. Mani, was absent. Mr. Kappan has reportedly not taken kindly to the "secret" conclave. His supporters have termed it an insurrection against the NCP leadership and petitioned party president Sharad Pawar. They feel Mr. Saseendran is eager to please the CPI(M) and has capitulated to its demands. The CPI(M) has turned increasingly "predatory" and could stake a claim to the Elathur constituency currently held by Mr. Saseendran. Onus on LDF The LDF is reportedly mindful that a "rebellious Kappan" in Pala could impede its plan for a sweep in Christian politics dominated central Kerala. The United Demcratic Front could rally around Mr. Kappan to punish Mr. Mani for disavowing the Opposition and jumping ship to join the LDF. Moreover, the optics of a split in the NCP could dent the LDF's image as a cohesive political front in some measure. An LDF meeting here on January 27 might weigh the NCP issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/factional-fight-in-ncp-threatens-to-boil-over/article33647743.ece
24 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Wild elephant found dead||A wild elephant was found dead at a rubber plantation in a forest fringe area in Kallar on Saturday. The animal’s calf that refused to leave her side for several hours has been shifted to the elephant rehabilitation centre at Kottoor. The carcass of the female elephant, estimated to be around 40 years old, was spotted by the forest staff at the 26th Mile in Kallar around 7 a.m. The animal and her female calf had apparently strayed from their herd to the human habitation. The forest officials stood witness to heart-rending scenes as the calf refused to move away from her mother’s remains for close to five hours. She could be seen attempting to lift the elder elephant’s trunk in a sad, futile bid to wake her up. Finally, the baby elephant, believed to be aged around one-and-a-half years, was shifted after being administered sedatives.  According to K.I. Pradeep Kumar, Divisional Forest Officer, Thiruvananthapuram, the elephant was found to be suffering from a pulmonary disease. The mortal remains were later cremated in the interior forests. On arriving at Kottoor, the calf was found to be healthy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wild-elephant-found-dead/article33647855.ece
24 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Cases cross 6,000 mark again||The State has reported 6,960 new COVID-19 cases with Saturday marking the fifth consecutive day when the daily caseload remained above the 6000 mark. The new cases were reported when 61,066 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The test positivity rate stood at 11.40%. The cumulative case burden has climbed to 8,84,242 and cumulative recoveries to 8,08,377 with 5,283 recoveries reported on Saturday. Death toll Meanwhile, the death toll has jumped to 3,587 with 23 more recent deaths added to the official list on Saturday. One more person has tested positive for the U.K. variant of the virus in the past 24 hours, taking the number of persons diagnosed with the variant to 11. In all, 69 persons who arrived in the State from the U.K. tested positive for COVID-19. Of this, 45 persons have recovered. Active cases The active case pool stands at 72,048. Of the newly reported cases, 73 persons had travelled to the State from elsewhere, while locally acquired infection accounted for 6,339 cases. In 499 cases, the source of infection could not be traced. Ernakulam continues to top the list with 1,083 cases, followed by Kozhikode (814), Kottayam (702) and Kollam (684). Pathanamthitta reported 557 cases, Malappuram 535, Thiruvananthapuram 522, and Alappuzha 474 and Thrissur 401 cases. Kannur reported 321 cases, Wayanad 290, Idukki 256, Palakkad 234 and Kasaragod 87. In all, 49 health workers figured in Saturday’s list. Quarantined As of Saturday, 2,11,824 persons are quarantined in the State. Of this, 1,99,889 are in home/institutional quarantine while 11,935 are hospitalised. A total of 1,282 persons were admitted to hospitals on Saturday alone.  As many as 61,066 samples have been tested in the past 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cases-cross-6000-mark-again/article33647736.ece
24 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Efforts on to nab escapee convict||Having nabbed one of the two prisoners who evaded arrest for a month since their escape from the Open Prison at Nettukaltheri, the Thiruvananthapuram Rural police have intensified efforts to apprehend the other convict. Sreenivasan, 49, of Kollemcode in Kanyakumari, was caught from a textile mill in Tirupur on the basis of a tip-off.   According to Neyyar Dam Inspector Renjith Kumar, a lookout notice that was circulated on the WhatsApp groups of his colleagues at the mill and others in the region proved decisive. A Shadow police team has been keeping vigil in the area since Sreenivasan had jumped the prison along with fellow prisoner Rajesh Kumar of Veeranakavu on December 23. Soon after the incident, the police pursued the possibilities of Sreenivasan having fled to Tirupur where he had previously remained in hiding when he violated parole conditions and absconded for seven years in the past. Following his arrest, he was remanded in judicial custody. He will be subsequently transferred to the Poojappura Central Prison where he has been undergoing life term for murdering a pregnant woman. The police are now exploring leads that Rajesh Kumar, who had raped and murdered a 15-year-old girl in 2012, could also be in Tamil Nadu. The police suspect the convict to have gone to Thirunelveli, Tiruchi, Madurai, and Theni.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/efforts-on-to-nab-escapee-convict/article33647849.ece
24 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Distribution of free food kits begins||Even as the second phase distribution of free food kits for the next four months commenced on Saturday, the general manager of the Kerala State Civil Supplies Corporation (Supplyco) has warned the employees against any attempts to sabotage the government initiative. General manager R. Rahul’s warning figures in the guidelines issued on January 21 for the distribution of food kits. In a circular, the general manager, who is in charge of food kits, says “some centres” may try to undermine the government’s performance and urges the employees to be vigilant. The State has decided to continue the distribution of free food kits through ration shops for another four months till April . In addition to ensuring the quality of food items, officials have been asked to ensure timely delivery of kits to ration shops. They should ensure that labels are present as per regulations. During the first phase distribution from September to December, jaggery and pappad distributed in the kits had triggered controversies due to poor quality. The kits will have to be given to 89,50,114 ration card holders in the State. In November, 83 lakh free kits were distributed and 81 lakh in December. Nine items figure in the food kit distribution from Saturday through 1,000 outlets. The priority is to those having AAY cards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/distribution-of-free-food-kits-begins/article33647727.ece
24 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Work on 10 railway overbridges begins||Works amounting to Rs. 25,000 crore are currently progressing under the Public Works Department (PWD), Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. He was speaking after inaugurating the construction of 10 railway overbridges in different parts of the State through a videoconference on Saturday. Places The railway overbridges are being constructed at Chirayinkeezhu, Maliyekkal (Karunagapally), Iravipuram, Guruvayur, Chirangara (Chalakudy), Akathethara (Malampuzha), Vadanamkurissi (Pattambi), Tanur-Theyyala, Chelary-Chettipadi (Thiroorangadi), and Koduvalli (Thalassery). Mr.Viayan said that the construction of these overbridges was being taken up as part of the levelcrossing-free Kerala plan to ensure an uninterrupted road network. The traffic blocks in these areas due to railway crosses would be a thing of the past when the rail overbridges would become a reality. The Roads and Bridges Development Corporation has taken up the work amounting to Rs. 251.48 crore from the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB). Time frame The works are expected to be completed within one year. The construction of the overbridges is being done as steel-concrete composite structures. Mr.Vijayan said 8,383 kilometres of road works would be completed this year. Some of the projects that were nearing completion would become harbingers of change in the public transport sector, he said. Public Works Minister G.Sudhakaran presided over the function. Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac was the chief guest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/work-on-10-railway-overbridges-begins/article33647734.ece
24 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Chennithala: LDF will face setback in polls||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala has said that the Left Democratic Front (LDF) will face a severe setback in the forthcoming Assembly elections. He was speaking while inaugurating Statewide dharnas organised by the United Democratic Front (UDF) in each Assembly constituency in protest against the alleged anti-people policies of both the Central and the State governments. The Congress leader participated in the demonstration held at the Nanthencode junction in the Vattiyurkavu constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chennithala-ldf-will-face-setback-in-polls/article33647854.ece
24 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital sees a spike in cases as 522 test positive||The COVID-19 case graph in Thiruvananthapuram continued to rise as 522 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Saturday. Raising the spectre of yet another spike in the capital district, as many as 2,286 people have been diagnosed with the disease since January 19. While 428 people have recovered from the disease, the number of active cases stood at 4,019. While most of the cases have been attributed to local transmission, six health workers are among those newly diagnosed with the disease. A total of 1,773 people were placed in quarantine while 1,612 others were permitted to conclude self-isolation after testing negative for the virus. There are currently 21,114 people quarantined at houses and 55 in various institutions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/capital-sees-a-spike-in-cases-as-522-test-positive/article33647857.ece
24 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||SC/ST panel takes suo motu case||The Kerala State Commission for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes has registered a suo motu case over reports that the last rites of a person belonging to a Scheduled Caste were stopped in Pudoor grama panchayat in Attappady. The commission has directed the District Collector to ascertain the veracity of the reports and submit findings within two days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/scst-panel-takes-suo-motu-case/article33647733.ece
24 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Police submit action plan for polls||The police will submit an action plan on security arrangements for the upcoming Assembly elections by next week. Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) Teeka Ram Meena held discussions with senior police officers on Saturday. Mr. Meena said the security arrangements had to be finalised before the visit of the Election Commission officials here. The police action plan will take into account the need for more than 15,000 auxiliary polling stations for the elections. ADGP Manoj Abraham presented a preliminary report. Officials of the Income Tax, Sales Tax, Forest Department and Central Reserve Police Force were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-submit-action-plan-for-polls/article33647738.ece
24 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Centre for transplant programmes||KIMSHEALTH East will be a centre for all transplant programmes of kidney, liver, heart, and lungs, a centre of excellence for normal and high-risk delivery, foetal medicine and perinatology, and immunisation service for all age groups, among other things. Set up in 4.6 lakh sq ft on 10 floors at a cost of Rs. 300 crore, the new venture has ultramodern operation theatres, 75-bed ICU, and 170 fully AC rooms. The tower will stand as a monument for a new health-care delivery system, M.I. Sahadulla, group chairman and MD, KIMSHEALTH, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/centre-for-transplant-programmes/article33647853.ece
24 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||‘Utsavam’ to be held in February||Kerala Tourism will organise Utsavam, an annual traditional arts festival, which will showcase a wide range of tribal and folk arts in February in all districts. Exponents and troupes of folk, tribal and ritualistic art forms will present a wide range of tribal and folk arts. The event is aimed at popularising the State’s traditional art forms, some of which are on the verge of decline. Applications Applications from those interested in presenting the art forms should reach Deputy Director (Marketing), Kerala Tourism, before January 30. Applications should be addressed to Deputy Director (Marketing), Park View, Thiruvananthapuram-695033. Details can also be obtained by telephone 0471-2560426.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/utsavam-in-february/article33647717.ece
24 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Child rights panel directive on mark list||The Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has directed that higher secondary students whose marks change after revaluation be issued a new mark list within 10 days of submitting the old one. At present, the old mark list has to be signed and sealed by the Principal and submitted to the higher secondary directorate. The failure of many students to get admission to higher education courses owing to delay in getting the new mark list needs to be corrected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/child-rights-panel-directive-on-mark-list/article33647744.ece
24 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Riji John new KUFOS Vice Chancellor||Governor Arif Mohammed Khan has appointed K. Riji John (above), Dean, Fisheries, Kerala University of Fisheries and Ocean Studies (KUFOS), as Vice Chancellor of KUFOS. The tenure is from the date on which he assumes office till he attains the age of 65.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/riji-john-new-kufos-vice-chancellor/article33647726.ece
24 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Deadline for Mizhiv 2021 submission is January 31||Entries for Mizhiv 2021, an online video contest organised by the Information and Public Relations Department for the public, can be submitted till January 31. To register, visitwww.mizhiv.kerala.gov.inThe first prize is Rs. 1 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/deadline-for-mizhiv-2021-submission-is-january-31/article33647730.ece
24 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||New chairperson for board of orphanages||V.M. Koyamaster Kinassery has been unanimously selected chairperson of the Board of Control for Orphanages and Other Charitable Homes under the Social Justice Department at a meeting of the board here on Saturday. A.M. Ariff, MP, presided over the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-chairperson-for-board-of-orphanages/article33647731.ece
24 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KSEB to expand doorstep delivery||The Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) will expand doorstep delivery of services related to the State-run power utility to the consumers, Electricity Minister M.M. Mani has said. He sought the cooperation of KSEB employees in this regard. Pay revision would be implemented in the KSEB in a time-bound manner. Mr. Mani also sought the cooperation of the employees for the time-bound implementation of the Nilaavu scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kseb-to-expand-doorstep-delivery/article33647737.ece
24 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Application invited for New Media course||The Kerala Media Academy’s Institute of Communication is launching a six-month new media and digital journalism diploma course (evening batch). Twenty-five persons each will be admitted to the Kochi and the Thiruvananthapuram centres. Application forms can be downloaded fromwww. keralamediaacademy.org. For details, call 0484 2422275, 2422068, 0471 2726275.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/application-invited-for-new-media-course/article33647846.ece
24 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||K. Byjunath to become SHRC member||District and Sessions Judge, Kalpetta, K. Byjunath is set to become the judicial member of the Kerala State Human Rights Commission (SHRC). A recommendation made by a selection panel comprising the Chief Minister, the Speaker, and the Leader of Opposition in this regard has been submitted to the Governor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/k-byjunath-to-become-shrc-member/article33647848.ece
24 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Literary award for Sreekumaran Thampi||Filmmaker and lyricist Sreekumaran Thampi has been chosen for this year’s Pandalam Kerala Varma literary prize in honour of his contributions to Malayalam literature.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/literary-award-for-sreekumaran-thampi/article33647850.ece
24 January 2021||THRISSUR,KERALA||First meeting of Thrissur Corpn. council held||The first meeting of the newly elected Corporation council was held here on Saturday. The first half-an-hour of all council meetings will be dedicated for discussions on issues, said Mayor M.K. Varghese. No files will be placed in the council without the knowledge of standing committees, he said. Sent again Some of the agendas of the previous council, which were not considered by the committees, have been sent again for their consideration on demand from the opposition, Mr. Varghese said. “After the election, all councillors, irrespective of their political colour, are people’s representatives,” he reminded the members. Demanding co-operation of all members he said that he will try to present a democratic and transparent rule. Addressing the council, Opposition leader Rajan Pallan alleged that in the last five years, the corporation witnessed an autocratic rule by making all the five standing committees mere puppets. The back seat driving will not be allowed this time, he said. BJP councillors did not participate in the meeting. LDF parliamentary party leader P.K. Shajan said that the LDF-led ruling will be democratic and transparent by taking all councillors into confidence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/first-meeting-of-thrissur-corpn-council-held/article33647822.ece
24 January 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||401 fresh cases in Thrissur||A total of 401 COVID-19 cases were reported in the district on Saturday while 412 people recovered from the pandemic. There are 4,955 active cases in the district and 116 people from the district are undergoing treatment in hospitals in other districts. So far 84,083 COVID-19 cases have been reported from the district and 78,576 people have recovered. According to the official statistics, 388 people, including six health workers, contracted the disease through local contact on Saturday. Of them, 73 people are above the age of 60 and 13 children are below the age of 10. In all, 3,615 people are under home care. In all, 126 people were admitted to the hospital for treatment of COVID-19 on Saturday. Meanwhile, 515 health workers received COVID vaccine on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/401-fresh-cases-in-thrissur/article33647819.ece
24 January 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Postal honour for palm leaf manuscripts||The Department of Posts, Kerala Postal Circle, released a special cover on ‘Palm leaf Manuscripts’ at Gururayur post office on Saturday. Pradipta Kumar Bisoi, Secretary & Chairman, Postal Service Board, New Delphi, released the cover by handing it over to V. Rajarajan, Chief Postmaster General, Kerala Postal Circle. Postmaster General (Central Region) Mariamma Thomas and Director of Postal Services (Central Region) Archana Gopinath were present on the occasion, a press release issued here today said . Kerala’s Palm leaf Manuscripts are treasures of immense wisdom and traditional knowledge on innumerable topics such as literature, science, medicine and mathematics, the speakers observed. As a symbolic representation, a piece of palm leaf with the word ‘Taapal’ inscribed in vattezhuthu, granda and modern Malayalam scripts is affixed on the special cover. The image used in the special cover is a mathematical palm leaf manuscript in vattezhuthu numerals. The Department of Posts hopes that will be more research and studies to unravel the traditional knowledge hidden in them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/postal-honour-for-palm-leaf-manuscripts/article33647860.ece
24 January 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||KAU to launch 12 new crop varieties||Kerala Agricultural University will dedicate 12 new crop varieties developed by it to the farm community in the State. Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar will launch the crop varieties at a function at the KAU Central Auditorium, Vellanikkara, on Monday. The new crop varieties include two rice varieties — KAU Mithila and KAU Manu Varna — and five vegetable varieties — KRH 1, KAU Nithya, KAU Deepika, KAU Vaika and KAU Suruchi. The Minister will also release a new cashew variety KAU Nihara, coconut variety Kerasulabha, pepper variety Panniyur 10, vetiver variety Bhoomika, and Bajra Napier hybrid Susthira. He will also inaugurate new research and academic facilities and digital applications for extension and administration developed at various KAU units across the State. The programme will be held in the virtual mode observing the COVID-19 and green protocols. The new research facilities include a national-level quality control lab for honey; centre for value addition - techno incubation centre; centre for formulation of convenient foods at the College of Agriculture (CoA), Vellayani; seed bank, bio-control laboratory, and a mushroom spawn production laboratory at CoA, Vellanikkara. An agricultural information centre at Vengeri and common facilitation centres at the KVKs at Kottayam and Wayanad will also be opened.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kau-to-launch-12-new-crop-varieties/article33647742.ece
24 January 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Will contest if party demands: Muraleedharan||Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan has said that he will contest the upcoming Assembly elections if the party demands. “The party will discuss about candidates at the State committee meeting to be held on January 28. The NDA will contest all 140 seats. There is no ban on film actors contesting the election,” he said here on Saturday. BJP president J.P. Nadda will visit the State on February 3 and 4, the Minister said. Mr. Muraleedharan was here to inaugurate the Thrissur Mandalam Padana Sibiram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/will-contest-if-party-demands-muraleedharan/article33647820.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Batting for democracy||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/batting-for-democracy/article33647655.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Coir splendour||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/coir-splendour/article33647740.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Joining hands||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/joining-hands/article33647852.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Back in reckoning||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/back-in-reckoning/article33647748.ece
24 January 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||SEC behaving like an Oppn. leader, says MP||State Election Commissioner N. Ramesh Kumar is behaving like an Opposition leader, Hindupur MP Gorantla Madhav has alleged. “By Mr. Ramesh Kumar’s own admission, as the SEC is adopting 2019 electoral rolls for the local body elections, 3.19 lakh people will be deprived of their right to vote,” Mr. Madhav told The Hindu on Saturday. “Why is Mr. Ramesh Kumar in a hurry to hold the elections now by putting the lives of government employees at risk and by depriving 3.19 lakh voters of their right to exercise their franchise? Why did he not conduct the elections since 2018?” Mr. Madhav questioned. Likening him to a referee in a football match, Mr. Madhav said the SEC should ensure that not a single voter was deprived of his / her voting right. “Let all the government employees be vaccinated against COVID-19 and let the transfer of school teachers be completed so that they can take up electoral duties in March or April,” the MP said. Poll buzz in DPO “It is the responsibility of the government to protect the health of the citizens. Hence, it is not in a hurry to conduct the elections. But the opposition parties are behaving in a weird manner,” Mr. Madhav said. Meanwhile, the District Panchayat Office in the city was a beehive of activity with top officials rushing in and checking the voters’ list and short-listing the names of employees to be enlisted for electoral duty in case the nominations for the first phase of elections are held on January 25 (Monday). As per the notification, elections to the 1,044 gram panchayats will be held in four phases. In all, 184 gram panchayats of 13 mandals in Penukonda revenue division will go to the polls in the first phase. In the second phase, 169 panchayats of 12 mandals in Kadiri revenue division will go to the polls. In the third phase, voters in 322 panchayats in 19 mandals of Dharmavaram and Kalyandurg revenue divisions will exercise their franchise. In the final phase, people of 19 mandals in 369 panchayats of Anantapur revenue division will cast their vote.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sec-behaving-like-an-oppn-leader-says-mp/article33647805.ece
24 January 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pandemic deprives RTC of its festival revenue||Even as the cases are on the decline, the impact of the pandemic continues to be felt on many sectors. Bearing the brunt is the Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation(APSRTC), which, despite the festive season, has reported a sharp decline in revenues this Sankranti compared to last year. While the corporation had earned Rs. 22 crore in the State during Sankranti holidays in 2020, it has registered Rs. 13 crore this time. In Anantapur, the RTC operated 108 buses earning Rs. 37.09 lakh compared to last year’s Rs. 1.16 crore. “We had covered 2.78 lakh kilometers around this time last year. After the pandemic began, the demand fell flat. However, we are slowly recovering now,” Anantapur RTC Regional Manager Sumanth R. Adoni told The Hindu . The occupancy ratio in the 2020 calendar year fell to 68% from 80% in 2019. The corporation operated buses on 950.12 lakh km and earned Rs. 292.39 crore in 2019. The earnings fell to Rs. 110.99 crore in 2020 when the buses covered 362.20 lakh km. Earning per kilometer also marginally fell from Rs. 30.77 to Rs. 30.61. Slow rise in demand Despite a slow increase in demand post lockdown, the RTC has restored services on 320 routes out of 350 in Anantapur, and out of 865 schedules, 742 are operational, he added. Out of 195 hired vehicle schedules, 182 have been restored, while accounting for an overall 86% of services. Lack of train services to Tirupati and Vijayawada has given an opportunity to the RTC to increase its number of buses from 28 in pre-COVID times to 36 for Tirupati and from 30 to 34 for Vijayawada. Referring to the recent video on social media, where girls from Nagireddypalli and Pillapalli requested buses to their school in Brahmasamudram, Mr. Sumanth said there were eight services between Kalyandurg and Brahmasamudram, with 100% concession for girls and 65% concession for boys. All the services were restored and are running for the benefit of students during their school timings, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pandemic-deprives-rtc-of-its-festival-revenue/article33647304.ece
24 January 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two youth held for serial chain snatching in Chittoor||The Chittoor police on Saturday nabbed two youth and recovered gold ornaments worth Rs. 10 lakh and two motorcycles from them, while they were moving suspiciously at the bypass road on the outskirts of the town. Interrogation revealed that the duo was allegedly wanted in seven chain-snatching and two motorbikes lifting cases in and around Chittoor during the last three months. Addressing a press conference here, Deputy Superintendent of Police (Law and Order) N. Sudhakar Reddy, and Circle-Inspector (Chittoor West) C. Lakshmikanth Reddy said the accused, identified as Mohammad Sayeed (23) of Punepalle of Penumuru mandal of Chittoor district, and Tajamul Pasha of Hydersab Majid of Karnataka, were allegedly involved in a series of chain-snatching offences under Chittoor West limits, including four on a single day last week. Two women who were victims of their chain-snatching had fallen down from motorcycles and sustained injuries in Yadamarri and Puthalapattu mandals. The police obtained clues on the accused through CC camera footage at vulnerable junctions, leading to their arrest. The officials said the accused used to target women riding two-wheelers and those riding pillion. They were also allegedly involved in ganja peddling, the police officers said. Criminal cases were booked under various sections of the IPC and the accused were shifted to the Chittoor sub-jail on remand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-youth-held-for-serial-chain-snatching-in-chittoor/article33647305.ece
24 January 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chinta flays TDP, BJP for ‘communal politics’||Former Union Minister and Congress Working Committee (CWC) member Chinta Mohan on Saturday termed the agitations of the Bharatiya Janata Party(BJP) and the Telugu Desam Party(TDP) over Ramateertham episode propagandistic, and said that it was unfortunate that the two parties had stooped to “inciting public for their vested interests”. Speaking to the mediapersons at Tirupati, the CWC member said that at a time when people were reeling under the impact of a collapsing economy, the BJP and TDP were engaged in mindless agitations in the name of padayatras and dharma parirakshana yatras. “It is regrettable that just for vote bank politics, they are dragging the sacred texts into their political rhetoric,” he said. With over one thousand notified temples and one lakh small temples in the State, providing security to each and every temple was not possible. The focus should instead be on providing ‘roti, kapda and makaan’ to people, which is need of the hour, he said. The former Minister also flayed the Union government for its stubborn stand on the farmers’ issue. He expressed concern at the shelving of the Dugarajapatnam port project, and held Mr. Chandrababu Naidu for undoing it, who wrote a letter to the Centre for shelving it when he was the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chinta-flays-tdp-bjp-for-communal-politics/article33647801.ece
24 January 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||VRO in ACB net||A Village Revenue Officer(VRO) at the Tehsildar office at Bangarupalem mandal headquarters was allegedly caught red-handed while accepting a bribe of Rs. 3,000 from a farmer for issuing a pattadar passbook on Saturday. According to the ACB officials, the VRO, identified as Nagaraja Naidu, had reportedly been demanding Rs. 5,000 each from a group of farmers for processing their passbooks. One of them, Venkatesh, had approached the ACB sleuths, who had laid a trap for the accused. A case has been registered and the accused was shifted to Nellore for producing before the ACB court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vro-in-acb-net/article33647800.ece
24 January 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telangana Governor offers prayers at Kanipakam||Telangana Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Saturday offered prayers at the temple of Lord Varasiddhi Vinayaka Swamy at Kanipakam, 12 km from here. Accompanied by her family members, Ms. Tamilisai Soundararajan reached Kanipakam from the Renigunta airport. Later, addressing the media, the Governor said she prayed for the safety of the people of Telugu States in this hour of pandemic. She further said that the vaccines were absolutely safe and that people of different target categories should voluntarily come forward to get the jab. Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar, Deputy SP N. Sudhakar Reddy, Puthalapattu MLA M.S. Babu and temple authorities received the Governor at the temple. Later, the Governor left for Tirumala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telangana-governor-offers-prayers-at-kanipakam/article33647807.ece
24 January 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Road safety rally held||Additional Superintendent of Police(SP) Tirupati E. Supraja on Saturday flagged off the 32nd National Road Safety rally at Tirupati, a joint event of the police and the transport departments. The rallypassed through all the prime junctions of the Tirupati Municipal Corporation. Ms. Supraja said that it was a grim fact that road accidents had killed more people than COVID.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/road-safety-rally-held/article33647306.ece
24 January 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||It is not the ideal time: Botcha||Ministers and YSRCP MLAs have accused State Election Commissioner (SEC) N. Ramesh Kumar of being adamant on conducting local body elections when the State is in the midst of the vaccination drive against COVID-19. Addressing the media at the party central office on Saturday, Minister for Municipal Administration Botcha Satyanarayana alleged that Mr. Ramesh Kumar was speaking like a political leader with some personal agenda and acting unilaterally. “The SEC has the responsibility of conducting the elections. Public health is the main concern of the government and it is not the ideal time for conducing the elections,” he observed. “Who will be held responsible if anything happens to the employees or people during polls? What is it that will be lost if elections are postponed by three months,” he questioned. Meanwhile, at a separate press conference, YSRCP MLA Ambati Rambabu flayed Mr. Ramesh Kumar for going ahead with the elections before his retirement despite the government making it clear that people’s lives were important. “Mr. Ramesh Kumar has no concern for the lives of the government employees who will be discharging their electoral duties. Why did he not conduct the elections in 2018 when the TDP was in power?” Mr. Rambabu asked. “Mr. Ramesh Kumar addressed the media from behind a protective glass. He, however, has no concern for the lives of employees,” he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/it-is-not-the-ideal-time-botcha/article33647809.ece
24 January 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||34 protesters released on bail in Divi’s Labs case||Thirty-four protesters, including a woman, who were arrested in connection with the incident where the machinery at a proposed pharma unit by the Divi’s Laboratories was set on fire at Thondangi mandal in East Godavari district, were released on bail on Saturday. On December 18, 36 protesters were arrested in the case. Two of them were granted bail and released from the prison a few days back. Peddapuram DSP A. Srinivasa Rao told The Hindu that the 36 protesters were booked under various charges, including attempt to murder, for their involvement in the incident. Thirty-four protesters were granted bail and released from Kakinada, Tuni and Rajamahendravaram prisons on Saturday. Meanwhile, members of the Left parties expressed their solidarity with the protesters outside the Kakinada sub jail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/34-protesters-released-on-bail-in-divis-labs-case/article33647307.ece
24 January 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ensure door-delivery without glitch, officials told||East Godavari Joint Collector G. Lakshmisha on Saturday asked the ground-level staff to ensure that the commodities are delivered at the doorstep of the beneficiaries of the Public Distribution System through the Mobile Dispensary Vehicles (MDV) from February 1 without any glitches. In a training camp conducted for the MDV operators, he said: “The MDV operators have been given the task of explaining the new system, raising awareness on the e-PDS, weighing mechanism and the delivery system.” Mr. Lakshmisha also asked them to map data of beneficiaries. Joint Collector (Development) Ch. Kirthi and other officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ensure-door-delivery-without-glitch-officials-told/article33647828.ece
24 January 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Take action against Giddalur MLA for abetting suicide of JSP activist’||Jana Sena Party (JSP) president Pawan Kalyan on Saturday demanded that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy take stern action against YSRCP MLA from Giddalur Anna Ram Babu for allegedly abetting the suicide of Vengaiah Naidu, a JSP activist in Prakasam district. Vengaiah Naidu had only questioned the MLA about the bad condition of roads at Singampalli, near Bestavaripeta, the JSP president said after paying floral tributes to Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose on his birth anniversary. Vengaiah had ended his life allegedly unable to bear the harassment of YSRCP activists in the village days after the “angry MLA” chided him for questioning about the condition of roads. The downfall of the “intolerant YSRCP government,” which had come to power with an overwhelming majority, had started, Mr. Pawan said while consoling the bereaved family of the party activist. Heart-rending scenes were witnessed when Mr. Pawan Kalyan handed over a cheque for Rs. 8.50 lakh to Vengaiah’s wife. “Is it a crime to demand an elected representative to develop the constituency?” he asked. Mr. Pawan Kalyan promised to take care of the education of Vengaiah’s children – a son aged four and a daughter aged three. He said the MLA could have promised to look into the matter, or at best kept quiet. “But he went to the extent of abusing the JSP worker. Are we in a feudal State. I don’t expect Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy to suspend the MLA, or at least admonish him. But the MLA will not be allowed to go scot-free as and when the JSP comes to power in the State,” Mr. Pawan Kalyan said. Later, the JSP activists called on Prakasam SP Siddharth Kaushal, who promised to ensure an impartial probe into the circumstances that lead to the suicide of the party activist.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/take-action-against-giddalur-mla-for-abetting-suicide-of-jsp-activist/article33647816.ece
24 January 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Withdraw cases against 13 persons in Singarayakonda incident: Pawan||Jana Sena Party (JSP) president Pawan Kalyan on Saturday urged the police to withdraw the cases filed against 13 persons, who included six journalists, for allegedly carrying out a false propaganda in the social media in connection with the arch incident pertaining to Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple at Singarayakonda. Taking up the cudgels on behalf of the journalists, Mr. Pawan told the media here that the journalists concerned could have erred in their haste to file a report on the incident, which had happened close on the heels of the series of attacks on the places of worship across the State. ‘Why this bias?’ “The police should be large-hearted to withdraw the cases. It is too much to arrest those who had unwittingly forwarded the message they received in the social media,” he said. He wondered why no action had been taken against the ruling YSRCP leaders and activists for “abusing judges in the social media and attributing casteist motive to their judgments.” In this context, Mr. Pawan advised the police to focus on cracking more serious cases such as the murder of Y.S. Vivekananda Reddy, former MP and uncle of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, and the rape and murder of a girl from Kurnool. Cautioning the Jana Sainkis to be careful while forwarding messages in the social media and reacting to sensitive issues, he said, “Law is not taking its own course as it is making the weak weaker and the strong stronger in many cases.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/withdraw-cases-against-13-persons-in-singarayakonda-incident-pawan/article33647811.ece
24 January 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘No major differences with BJP’||Jana Sena Party (JSP) president Pawan Kalyan has said that there are no major differences with the BJP. Addressing the media here along with Nadendla Manohar, JSP Political Affairs Committee chairman, Mr. Pawan Kalyan said the party had taken a conscious decision to sail with the saffron party. “Minor misunderstandings, if any, that crop up from time to time will be amicably sorted out,” he said, adding that differences of opinion were quite common.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-major-differences-with-bjp/article33647810.ece
24 January 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘YSRCP government neglecting Vamsadhara Phase-2 project’||Uttarandhra Melukolupu founder president and BJP senior leader Pakalapati Sanyasi Raju and former Srikakulam MP Kanithi Viswanatham on Saturday expressed concern over the neglect of the Vamsadhara Phase-2 project by the YSR Congress Party government in the last two years. Though it was the lifeline for the development of the district, the government had failed to complete canals, distributary network and construction of another barrage which would ensure irrigation facility for 1.07 lakh acres with the utilisation of 16.048 tmcft water, they said. Addressing a media conference here, Mr. Sanyasi Raju said that the A.P. government had failed to convince Odisha for taking up a joint survey to identify 106 acres of land that should be acquired for the construction of Neradi barrage. “Issues of North Andhra region are being neglected by the successive Chief Ministers for the last 65 years, none of them from the North Coastal region. Justice can be assured only when the post is given to North Andhra on rotation basis. All parties should announce their CM candidate from this region at least in 2024 general elections,” said Mr. Sanyasi Raju. Linking of rivers Mr. Viswanadham sought immediate linkage of Vamsadhara-Nagavali-Bahuda rivers and Vamsadhara and Godavari rivers in future. “The government should establish agro-based industries in all the 38 mandals to stop the exodus of people from rural areas to different parts of the country in search of a livelihood. Nearly 5.3 lakh people who left for other States would come back when opportunities are created locally,” said Mr. Viswanatham. BJP district president Attada Ravibabji urged the government to construct fishing jetties in Bhavanapadu, Kalingapatnam, Baruva and Akkupalli to ensure a decent livelihood for fishermen community. He also sought a four-lane road connecting all the coastal areas in North Andhra for the speedy development of the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-government-neglecting-vamsadhara-phase-2-project/article33647831.ece
24 January 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Postpone local polls: APNGOs||APNGOs Association State associate president Chowdary Purushottam Naidu on Saturday asked the State Election Commission (SEC) to postpone the panchayat elections as a majority of the officials and employees were scared to participate in the electoral process. Addressing the media here, Mr. Purushottam Naidu said the “adamant attitude” of the SEC posed a threat to the lives of the employees and the electorate as well. Association’s Srikakulam wing president Hanumanthu Sairam condemned the disciplinary action proposed against officials and employees who would not be available for electoral duties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/postpone-local-polls-apngos/article33647812.ece
24 January 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Corporation sought for Sondi community||Navyandhra Sondi Caste Welfare Association president N. Koteswara Chowdary urged the State government on Saturday to establish an exclusive corporation for the community. Mr. Koteswara Chowdary submitted a report outlining the socioeconomic conditions of the members of the community to Deputy Chief Minister Dharmana Krishnadas in Srikakulam. Mr. Krishnadas assured him that he would bring the issue to the notice of the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/corporation-sought-for-sondi-caste/article33647833.ece
24 January 2021||Staff Reporter GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tennis tourney on Jan. 26, 27||Sportmax Tennis Cup 2021, a tennis tournament, will be held at Delhi Public School on January 26 and 27. Pro chairman of the DPS, Chukkapalli Ramesh released the tournament poster on the school premises on Saturday. The tourney is being organised in U-12 , U-16 (Boys) , U-16 (Open Girls) categories. The DPS has two synthetic flood light tennis Interested should enrol themselves on or before January 25 by dialing 7730893444.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tennis-tourney-on-jan-26-27/article33647891.ece
24 January 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||SBI ‘Wealth Hub’ unit launched||State Bank of India’s Managing Director (Retail and Digital Banking) Challa Sreenivasulu Setty launched India’s 151st ‘Wealth Hub’, Tirupati’s fifth unit, at the TTD administrative building branch here on Saturday. He formally declared the hub open in the presence of MCT Commissioner P.S. Gireesha, the bank’s Chief General Managers Giridhara Kini (Wealth) and Sanjay Sahay (Amaravati circle). Wealth Hub is the bank’s channel to offer personalised banking and investment services to its High Net worth Individual (HNI) clientele through a dedicated team of relationship managers. “The bank has 64 major centres with a network of 151 wealth hubs and five e-wealth centres in the country, serving 2 lakh clients, which we propose to increase to 2.5 lakh by March this year”, Mr. Sreenivasulu Setty said. Mr. Gireesha spoke on the need for banks to reach out to the customers in view of the ever increasing competition. As part of its corporate social responsibility, the bank donated a four-wheeler to a voluntary organisation involved in charitable activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sbi-wealth-hub-unit-launched/article33647310.ece
24 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Poll notification draws flak from the government, Opposition welcomes it||The issue of notification for the first phase of gram panchayat elections by State Election Commissioner N. Ramesh Kumar on Saturday came in for severe criticism by the YSR Congress Party (YSRCP), while the Opposition parties insisted that the elections should be held as per schedule in compliance with the High Court order. Speaking to mediapersons at Punganur in Chittoor district, Panchayat Raj & Rural Development Minister Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy criticised Mr. Ramesh Kumar’s unilateral action in issuing the election notification when the matter had not yet been adjudicated by the Supreme Court. He questioned the propriety of Mr. Ramesh Kumar’s decision that the elections should be held at a time when the government was engaged in a massive COVID-19 vaccination drive. Assembly Speaker Thammineni Seetharam said in Srikakulam that Mr. Ramesh Kumar should tell who was responsible for the delay in holding the elections which were supposed to be conducted way back in 2018, and wondered if he was aware of the Right to Life and Personal Liberty that was enshrined under Article 21 of the Constitution. TDP State president K. Atchannaidu commented that the YSRCP was fearing the outcome of the elections and that it was anti-Constitutional on Mr. Ramachandra Reddy’s part to say that the employees would not cooperate with the SEC for holding the elections. ‘Violation of model code’ In a letter to Mr. Ramesh Kumar, TDP general secretary Varla Ramaiah said the manner in which the YSRCP-led State government indulged in a smear campaign against the State Election Commission (SEC) reflected the blatant violations of the Model Code of Conduct and its (government’s) stubbornness in not following court orders. BJP State general secretary S. Vishnuvardhan Reddy told mediapersons that the government was treating the State Election Commission with disdain, thereby vitiating the spirit of the Constitution. ‘Defiant attitude’ He took strong objection to the defiant attitude of employees and faulted top officials of the government for not attending the video-conference held by Mr. Ramesh Kumar on Saturday evening and observed that the YSRCP was not permanent whereas the government and its machinery were. Meanwhile, AP Non-Gazetted Officers' Association president N. Chandrasekhar Reddy said the employees could not be forced to participate in the election process and that Mr. Ramesh Kumar was brushing aside their concerns and issuing veiled threats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/poll-notification-draws-flak-from-the-government-opposition-welcomes-it/article33647814.ece
24 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police unravel silver lion idols theft case of Kanaka Durga temple||The Special Investigation Team (SIT), in association with Vijayawada City Police, has solved the sensational silver lion idols theft case of Sri Durga Malleswara Swamyvaarla Devastanam (Kanaka Durga temple). The police arrested Jakkampudi Saibaba alias Jakkamsetti Sai, native of Gollavanitippa village, Bhimavaram mandal in West Godavari district, and jewel trader and receiver Mutha Kamalesh of Tanuku town. Briefing newsmen here on Saturday, Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu said the accused, Saibaba, a notorious thief and wanted in several temple theft cases, allegedly committed the theft in Kanaka Durga temple, and stole the three silver lions from the chariot during the lockdown period. The accused, an agriculture labourer and a worker at aquaculture ponds, was allegedly committing thefts in looting temples since 2008. He reportedly confessed to have committed more than 20 offences and was arrested by Kovvur and Nidavavole police in 2011. In June last year, Saibaba visited Kanaka Durga temple and observed the chariot and the silver lions without any security. After a few days, he procured two iron rods, came to Vijayawada pulled up three lion idols with an idon rod, kept them in a bag and escaped from the spot. He sold the three lion idols and sold them for Rs. 35,000 in a jewellery shop in Tanuku. Police arrested the accused as well as the shop owner, who procured the booty, said SIT head and DIG G.V.G. Ashok Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-unravel-silver-lion-idols-theft-case-of-kanaka-durga-temple/article33647315.ece
24 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||NDRF celebrates ‘Parakram Diwas’||National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) 10th Battalion Commandant Zahid Khan has recalled the services of Netaji Subash Chandra Bose in the freedom struggle. Mr. Khan, along with Second-in-Commandant Luv Kumar and Deputy Commandants Sukhendu Datta and Zafirul Islam garlanded the portrait of Netaji, on the occasion of his 125th birth anniversary, at its base camp on ANU Campus in Guntur district, on Saturday. The Commandant inaugurated a blood donation camp organised in association with Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS). Mr. Khan and Luv Kumar donated blood.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ndrf-celebrates-parakram-diwas/article33647894.ece
24 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Over 13,000 vaccinated, 22 AEFI cases reported||As many as 13,162 beneficiaries among the frontline workers have received the vaccine dose against COVID-19 across the State on Saturday. So far 1,44,906 beneficiaries were vaccinated since January 16 when the drive began in the State. On Saturday, the drive was carried out at 731 session sites. At 720 sites, 12,807 beneficiaries were given Covishield vaccine while at 11 sites 355 beneficiaries were given Covaxin shots. For the first time, many Adverse Events Following Immunisation (AEFI) cases were reported. Of the 22 AEFI cases reported across the State, 16 were from Guntur district, three cases were reported in Vizianagaram, two in Visakhapatnam and one in Prakasam district. All the cases were reported at the session sites where Covishield was administered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/over-13000-vaccinated-22-aefi-cases-reported/article33647890.ece
24 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor pays tributes to Subash Chandra Bose||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan paid floral tributes to Netaji Subash Chandra Bose on his 125th birth anniversary at Raj Bhavan on Saturday. He recalled the struggled waged by Subash Chandra Bose, who formed Azad Hind Fauj, against the British forces. Mr. Harichandan recalled the slogan of Netaji to the youth ‘Give me blood, and I shall give you freedom’. Subhash Chandra Bose's unparalleled contribution to the nation makes him immortal in our memories, said Rayapati Gopalakrishna, Correspondent of RVR & JC College of Engineering in Guntur. Addressing a programme organised to mark Netaji's birth anniversary, Mr. Gopalakrishna said Netaji was one of the most celebrated leaders in the Indian history due to his revolutionary ideas of freedom.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/governor-pays-tributes-to-subash-chandra-bose/article33647892.ece
24 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State’s lone death registered in Vizag||The State reported one more COVID-19 death and 158 infections in the 24 hours ending Saturday morning. The lone death was reported from Visakhapatnam district. The overall toll, therefore, increased to 7,147 while the tally reached 8,86,852. With 172 patients recovering during the period, the total number of recoveries increased to 8,78,232. The rate of recovery was put at 99.03%. The number of patients undergoing treatment was put at 1,473. The overall positivity rate of the 1.28 crore samples tested was 6.91%. In the last one day, 43,770 samples were tested. The tests per million ratio crossed 2.40 lakh and reached 2,40,293. East Godavari reported 35 new infections, the highest tally in a day, while Nellore and Vizianagaram reported one case each. The tally of new infections was as follows: West Godavari (28), Krishna (23), Visakhapatnam (18), Guntur (12), Anantapur (11), Chittoor (10), Kadapa (7), Kurnool (5), Srikakulam (5) and Prakasam (2). The overall district-wise tallies were as follows: East Godavari (1,24,162), West Godavari (94,160), Krishna (48,470), Visakhapatnam (59,620), Guntur (75,383), Anantapur (67,604), Chittoor (86,928), Kadapa (55,212), Kurnool (60,770), Srikakulam (46,091), Prakasam (62,150), Nellore (62,281) and Vizianagaram (41,126).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/states-lone-death-registered-in-vizag/article33647803.ece
24 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Collector donates Rs. 25,000 for Ram mandir||District Collector A. Md. Imtiaz has donated Rs. 25,000 towards the construction of Ram mandir in Ayodha, here on Saturday. He handed over the cheque to RSS State chief Barath in the presence of former Minister Kamineni Srinivas and RSS district president Srinivas at his office. The team was collecting donations in the district and visited the Collector as part of it. Mr. Kamineni Srinivas said that Mr. Imtiaz’s gesture sends a good message of communal harmony across the country, according to a release. Mr. Imtiaz said that Sriramachandra was an ideal personality and ensured the welfare of people and took care of governance in Rama Rajya, as per the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/collector-donates-rs-25000-for-ram-mandir/article33647889.ece
24 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ongoing farmers’ agitation unconstitutional: Ram Madhav||Senior BJP leader Ram Madhav has termed the ongoing farmers’ agitation outside New Delhi as unconstitutional. The BJP leader was here on Saturday to launch his book, ‘Because India Comes First: Reflections on Nationalism’, and attend a meeting organised by the youth forum, Towards Better India. Mr. Ram Madhav went ahead to say that every industrialist, or entrepreneur, had the right to decide what they intend to manufacture and where and how to sell. “But the farmers do not enjoy that privilege. They have to depend on a handful of middlemen who control the mandis. The three farm Acts try to address this issue and liberate the farmers from such middlemen. But a small section of them is unable to understand this,” he observed. Snipe at YSRCP govt. Taking a dig at the YSRCP government, Mr. Ram Madhav said, “Forming a government through good majority is good, but it should not become a ‘majoritarian government’, as it is against the very essence of democracy.” In the parliamentary form of democracy, opportunity should be given even to the last man and he should be heard, he said. Talking about Parakram Diwas (Bravery Day), Mr. Ram Madhav said the Union government had decided to name Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose’s birth anniversary (January 23) as Parakram Diwas. Mr. Ram Madhav urged the youth to keep the nation first and work towards Prime Minister Modi’s dream of ‘Atma Nirbhar Bharat’. “We will achieve $5 trillion economy. At present, we are the fifth largest economy in the world, but we are below the 150th rank when it comes to per capita income. We can improve our per capita only when the youth believe in becoming self-reliant,” he said. Vice-Chancellor of Central University, Vizianagaram, T.V. Kattimani, spoke and released the book. When all other States are marching forward and news of investments in them are pouring in, Andhra Pradesh is going backwards, said BJP leader Ram Madhav. Speaking to the media after launching his book here on Saturday, he said, apart from three capital issue and vandalising of idols in temples, there is nothing in news for the State. The majority given by people to YSR Congress Party is being dangerously misused, he said. Both the Union government and the BJP are awaiting the CM’s decision and action taken on the accused who had vandalised the idols in temples, Mr. Ram Madhav said. On local body elections, he said when elections are being held in other places, why is the State government reluctant. The State government cannot bypass the State Election Commissioner and elections must take place at any cost, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ongoing-farmers-agitation-unconstitutional-ram-madhav/article33647908.ece
24 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police Commissioner: all police stations in city women-friendly||With an aim to break the psychological barrier that prevents women from going to police stations, all the police stations in the city were made women-friendly in the city. Exclusive women help desks were arranged at all the 23 stations in the city under the instructions of Police Commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha. The police announced it through their social media handles. According to the Police Commissioner, women without fear can directly approach these help desks in police stations, in case of any need.  Women police personnel will be performing duties at these help desks and they would receive women and take their complaints, he said. He also urged women to encourage other women to approach police stations freely and without fear in case of any problem, and spread the message that police stations are women-friendly. He said that this was one among many initiatives, which were brought as part of women-friendly policing. “Disha counselling centre – Women in Need is another initiative which was brought by the police for women in city. Confidentiality is one aspect which is very important to many women. The centre functioning from Swarna Bharathi Stadium has been playing a crucial role in resolving problems of many women,” he said. The Police Commissioner also said that women police constables have been moving at various tourist places, hospitals, bus stations, colleges, bus stands and other public places, where they are creating awareness among girls and women over various types crimes in the city, how to prevent them and also how to contact police in case of any distress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-commissioner-all-police-stations-in-city-women-friendly/article33647904.ece
24 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Arrangements reviewed for Republic Day||Joint Collector M. Venugopal Reddy on Saturday reviewed the arrangements being made for Republic Day scheduled to be held at the Police Parade Grounds. Instructing the officials to make elaborate arrangements for the function, he said that District Collector V. Vinay Chand will hoist the national flag and will receive guard of honour from the police during the programme. He instructed the District Educational Officer (DEO) B. Lingeshwar Reddy to arrange cultural programmes by schoolchildren. Mr. Venugopal Reddyasked the GVMC to provide drinking water and toilets at the venue. VMRDA and the Horticulture Department officials were asked to focus on stage decoration. The Joint Collector asked the APEPDCL to ensure uninterrupted power supply during the programme. Joint Collector R. Govinda Rao, DRO A. Prasad, officials from the GVMC, the VMRDA and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/arrangements-reviewed-for-republic-day/article33647895.ece
24 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plea to take up development works||Visakhapatnam MLA (South) Vasupalli Ganesh Kumar has sought GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana to take up various development works in South constituency. He submitted various development proposals worth Rs. 700 crore to her here on Saturday. Ms. Srijana said that the proposals would be studied and also assured that definitely some money would be sanctioned. She asked the Engineering Department officials to go through the proposals and initiate action. She also asked the Chief Medical Officer of Health K.S.L.G Sastry to ensure roads and drains are cleaned every day near King George Hospital, Rangireeju Veedhi, Relli Veedhi, Kobbarithota and Old City areas. She also said that estimates would be prepared for modernisation of dhobi khanas, grave yards, Indira Priyadarshini Stadium, Nehru Bazaar, road extension works from Jagadamba to Old Post office, apart from setting up hawkers zone in South constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/plea-to-take-up-development-works/article33647897.ece
24 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vehicle drivers told to use helmet, seat belt||Officials from the Transport Department and general public took part in a walkathon and a bike rally, which were organised as part of the ongoing 32nd National Road Safety Month at Anandapuram, here on Saturday. Deputy Transport Commissioner G.C. Raja Ratnam attended the programme as a chief guest and took part in the walkathon. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Raja Ratnam stressed on the need to wear helmet and seat belt while driving vehicles. He said that a number of two-wheeler road accidents and deaths in the district were being reported just because of negligent driving and not wearing of helmets. He said that many families are being affected due to road accidents.  'Golden hour’ The DTC said that this year, the Transport Department in association with the Police Department has been conducting awareness campaigns over road safety on a massive scale. Holding placards stressing on the importance of wearing helmet and seat belt, the officials also created awareness about 'golden hour'. The officials said that a road accident victim can be saved by administering timely medical aid. Motor Vehicle Inspectors and staff were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vehicle-drivers-told-to-use-helmet-seat-belt/article33647902.ece
24 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Revoke G.O. on property tax, VCCI urges CM||The Vizagapatam Chamber of Commerce and Industry(VCCI) has submitted a representation to the Chief Minister urging him revoke the G.O. on property tax, as it would burden the common man. Addressing a media conference along with members of the Federation of the Andhra Pradesh Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FAPCCI), Resident Welfare Associations, Confederation of Real Estate Developer's Associations of India (CREDAI) and Tax Payers Forum, here on Saturday, the VCCI members said that it was not the right time to increase any taxes, as people are struggling and yet to come out of the pandemic situation. The State government in November, last, had passed an order that property tax, with effect from April 1, will be collected on capital value of the property. The percentage varies from 0.10% to 0.50% for residential and 0.20% to 2% for commercial properties. They pointed out that the rental values all over the State fell by 20% for residential buildings and 50% for commercial buildings. In fact, many commercial establishments closed and owners are not getting any income on these properties. They said that many States have slashed the tax rates by 50%, keeping in view the economic situation. The members said that majority of the business establishments were already in deep financial crisis and unemployment is huge. Though the Minister of Municipal Administration assured that the increase will be maximum to an extent of 20%, people are not in a position to pay any additional taxes. Any move to hike property taxes would come as an added jolt, they said. The VCCI members said that in the representation they have asked the CM to continue the rental value system for tax and to consider the increase of property tax not more than 10% from April 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/revoke-go-on-property-tax-vcci-urges-cm/article33647906.ece
24 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Worker buried alive in heap of coal||One worker was buried alive when coal in a hopper fell on him at an industry here on Saturday. The deceased was identified as B. Vasu (50), a resident of Gajuwaka. The incident occurred at Alufluoride Limited in Mulagada in Mindi region, in the city. The company produces aluminium fluoride. According to Inspector of Factories Sudhakar, the incident occurred when the worker had gone inside a hopper that processes pulverised coal to the charging unit. One of the nozzles in the hopper was blocked and he had gone inside it to clear the block. At that moment, the coal present inside fell on him and he was buried under it. The police have registered a case and investigation is on. The body has been sent for post-mortem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/worker-buried-alive-in-heap-of-coal/article33647909.ece
24 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||SEB seizes 7,680 spurious liquor bottles near Padmanabham||Officials from the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) on Saturday conducted raids at Reddipalli village in Padmanabham mandal and seized about 7,680 spurious liquor bottles. Based on credible information, Enforcement and Intelligence teams under the supervision of ADCP SEB V. Ajitha intercepted a vehicle and and recovered 160 boxes containing 7,680 liquor bottles. SEB officials said that so far eight accused have been identified in the case and two of them were already sent in remand. Further investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/seb-seizes-7680-spurious-liquor-bottles-near-padmanabham/article33647898.ece
24 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Visakha Museum reopens||GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana asked the Curator of Visakha Museum B. Sanyasi Naidu to come up with new ideas to develop the museum. She reopened the museum, which was closed since the last eight months in view of the COVID-19, here on Saturday. Interacting with the visitors, Ms. Srijana appealed to them to wear masks and ensure physical distancing in view of the coronavirus. The GVMC Commissioner distributed chocolates to children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/visakha-museum-reopens/article33647896.ece
24 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Youth ‘drowns’ in Ananthagiri||A youth aged around 20 years reportedly drowned in a waterbody at Ananthagiri mandal in Visakhapatnam agency on Saturday. According to the Ananthagiri police, they had received a call from a hospital in S.Kota, Vizianagaram district at around 8.15 p.m. that a youth was admitted to the hospital in a critical state due to drowning and he died while undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/youth-drowns-in-ananthagiri/article33647905.ece
24 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||PG counselling date extended||Convener of the AP Post-Graduate Engineering Common Entrance Test (APPGECET 2020) Prof. P Srinivasa Rao said that the last date for registration for GATE/GPAT qualified and eligible candidates to participate in the counselling for admission into M.Tech, M.Pharm, and Pharm.D (PB) courses is extended up to January 24. For payment of registration fee and submission of online applications, candidates are advised to visit the portalhttps://sche.ap.gov.in/ pgecet/gate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pg-counselling-date-extended/article33647311.ece
24 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Yoga therapy regular sessions from today||The Department of Yoga & Consciousness (Yoga Village), Andhra University, will be conducting Yoga therapy regular sessions from January 24. This sessions will be conducted under the guidance of Assistance Professor R. Tulasi Rao and Yoga therapist G. Lakshman. People who are in need of therapy treatment for back pains, knee pains, spondylitis, obesity and any health discomforts may contact the department - 939 8019 922, said the officials. For further details, people can contact 7993241701 and 9849630856.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/yoga-therapy-regular-sessions-from-today/article33647901.ece
24 January 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||IGNOU urges students to use video programmes||Indira Gandhi National Open University’s Regional Director S. Rajarao has urged students pursuing various courses to utilise video training programmes to write their exams confidently. He said that IGNOU had tried its best to utilise social media platforms, YouTube, WhatsApp and other digital facilities, to teach lessons under the supervision of experts and senior academics. Mr. Raja Rao visited various study centres located in Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts in the last few days to make academicians reach maximum number of students living in rural areas with the support of digital platforms. “In spite of the impact of lockdown and COVID-19, study centres continued to extend their support to youngsters to pursue their studies without any hindrance. As the exams are likely to begin for various courses in a few months, the students should utilise video training programmes uploaded in digital platforms. We also requested them to get guidance from nearest study centres affiliated to various reputed colleges in North Andhra region,” Mr. Raja Rao said. He said that online admission process would continue for various master programmes, diploma and certificate courses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ignou-urges-students-to-utilise-video-programmes/article33647829.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Preparing for R-Day||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/preparing-for-r-day/article33647900.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Crisis deepens||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/writing-on-the-wall/article33647818.ece
24 January 2021||Devarakonda,TELANGANA||Devarakonda’s lifeline and tragedy||Thirty-six-year-old Kottam Mallesham, driver of the auto-rickshaw that collided head-on with a truck resulting in the death of nine persons, including his 30-year-old wife Chandrakala, and 56-year-old mother Peddamma, apart from himself, on Thursday, had transported scores of men and women from the village in the past 10 years. “He would take bags of paddy, cotton and fertiliser, and passengers. He also offered free service if someone needed medical care, when ambulances took time to reach the tanda. It was a multi-purpose vehicle,” says Saidulu, showing the first house at Chinta Bavi’s entrance, and said it belonged to Mallesham’s extended family. The middle seat of Mallesham’s auto-rickshaw resting along the house wall, like a small sofa upside down, was visible. Saidulu, the neighbour, said the seat was removed to accommodate more people on the auto-rickshaw’s floor. In all, there were 20 people in it at the time of accident, and they had been commuting to Rangareddygudem village for paddy transplantation for more than a fortnight. Twenty, for an auto-rickshaw that is painted as ‘4 in All’ before being passed by the Regional Transport Authority, is a huge number. But in Devarakonda, 20 passengers in the auto-rickshaws is a daily practice. Interaction with several drivers of the ‘4 in All’ rickshaws tell that the vehicles are a success because the State RTC buses do not serve passengers in the many interior villages and tandas. For instance, 20 residents of Chinta Bavi choose one of the seven ‘4 in all’ from the village to visit Devarakonda at Rs. 15 per head, rather than reach Polepally junction four kilometres away on foot and take the bus for almost the same charge per-head. And in cases of per-day hire, such as pick and drop agricultural workers to work sites drivers earn up to Rs. 1,500. According to L. Venkata Narayana, a part-time driver in Chinta Bavi, the last time an RTC bus arrived in the village was in 1997, when there were no roads. “After the bus got stuck in deep mud and its driver left, officials later rejected service to Chinta Bavi,” he said. “The ‘4 in All’ is a success because it gives good mileage – 28-30 kmpl and it is multi-purpose. Including the driver, three in the front, four on each side in the middle seat and luggage in the rear is allowed by police,” he explains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/devarakondas-lifeline-and-tragedy/article33647633.ece
24 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Centre not allocating major projects to TS, says KTR||Telangana Industries and IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao on Saturday said the State was not being considered by the Centre for projects such as industrial corridors and high speed rail connectivity despite performing well on various benchmark indices. It is disappointing to note that the good rankings notwithstanding, the State is not in the reckoning when it comes to allocation of projects. “They go somewhere else,” the Minister said, adding it is a number’s game and the State has only 17 (Lok Sabha) seats. Mr. Rao, speaking at the presentation of excellence awards of the Federation of Telangana Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FTCCI), said the Centre should support and encourage progressive States like Telangana that did well on development fronts, initiated pioneering measures and completed globally large projects like the Kaleshwaram lift irrigation scheme at breakneck speed. The State’s proposals for industrial corridors from Hyderabad to Nagpur, Warangal, Ramagundam and Bengaluru had not received support. Lip service was of little help, he said, referring to how Telangana received praise from union ministers. Hoping the upcoming Union Budget to benefit the State, Mr. Rao said Telangana had sought more electronic manufacturing clusters, support for Hyderabad Pharma City and Kakatiya Mega Textile Park and clarity on status of Hyderabad ITIR project. Stronger States will lead to a stronger country, he said, reiterating the need for a vaccine testing and certification lab in the State. He listed out various industry-friendly measures initiated by the State, including the TS-iPASS policy under which 13,826 project proposals entailing investment of Rs. 2.04 lakh crore and creating 14 lakh direct employment opportunities had been cleared. “We will continue to grow, reform and create benchmark for the country,” he said, assuring the gathering that the State will evolve better models of incentives and ideas to attract more investments. On industrial incentives, he said Rs. 1,500 crore was allocated in the 2020-21 State budget for the purpose. “Unfortunately, we could not deliver because of pandemic, lockdown and revenues going haywire. But I am sure in the coming [State] budget we will ensure all industrial incentives are cleared,” he said. The Minister urged entrepreneurs to avail themselves of the additional incentives the State extended to units by employing more locals. FTCCI president Ramakanth Inani said various schemes and assistance under Atmanirbhar Bharat for MSMEs proved “insufficient and ineffective” and many continue to reel under the crisis triggered by the pandemic. Industries Secretary Jayesh Ranjan spoke. A FTCCI release said from just two categories at the time of their institution in 1974, the awards are presented under 22 now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/centre-not-allocating-major-projects-to-ts-says-ktr/article33647635.ece
24 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Poor awareness on rights of elderly in TS||Legal measures to bring relief to the elderly seem to have been marred by a lack of awareness of the laws. In Telangana, just 5.1% of people aged 60 and above are aware of the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act, revealed Longitudinal Ageing Study in India (LASI)-Wave 1 report brought out by the International Institute for Population Sciences (IIPS). The legislation details the circumstances in which property transfer can be void to protect the interests of senior citizens, medical support offered by State governments, monthly allowances from children, etc. The study is an investigation into health, economic, and social well-being of India’s growing elderly population. Along with nation-wide data, fact-sheets for States and Union Territories was also released. LASI is a partnership between IIPS, Harvard T. H. Chan School of Public Health and University of Southern California. The report also contains details of percentage of elderly having health insurance, living alone or with spouses, children or others, those satisfied with their life, awareness about government pension schemes, and other crucial aspects. In Telangana, 2,475 individuals were interviewed. The field work was conducted from July to November 2018. According to the Telangana fact-sheet, 2.1% of the elderly have experienced ill-treatment one year prior to the study and 10.5% of them live alone. An assumption attached to taking care of aged parents is that they could be a financial burden. However, the study indicated that 2.4% of senior citizens provided financial support. Around 39% have health insurance coverage and 8% were admitted as in-patients in 12 months prior to the survey, with the mean hospital expenses coming to Rs. 27,319. Principal investigator of the study, IIPS professor T.V. Sekher said since data for each State and Union Territory is available, it can be used to fine-tune programmes. “Suppose, awareness about old age pension is low, you can do something there,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/poor-awareness-on-rights-of-elderly-in-ts/article33647620.ece
24 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Ration supply only with mobile OTP, IRIS authentication||The household supply – ration, food security, annapurna, antyodaya – cardholders in the State would get the supply of commodities allotted to them with the help of IRIS or mobile OTP authentication from February 1, instead of biometric system that has been in practice so far due to the COVID-19 pandemic. According to officials of the Civil Supplies Department, all the cardholders should get their Aadhaar cards linked with their mobile phone numbers so that they could get OTP to get the allotted commodities issued. The decision has been taken following the direction of the High Court - issued in response to a petition filed against the use of biometric system during the pandemic situation - stating that it could help spread the virus. In Hyderabad and the erstwhile Rangareddy districts, the ration cardholders would get their allotted commodities only with the help of OTP generated through their mobile phone linked to the Aadhaar card as the IRIS verification facility is not available there. From Feb. 1 In a statement, Chief Rationing Officer of Hyderabad B. Bala Maya Devi said commodities would be issued only with the help of mobile OTP authentication in all the 670 fair price shops in Hyderabad from February 1. She also suggested all the cardholders whose Aadhaar cards are not linked to their mobile phone numbers to get them linked to get the commodities issued. As on January 23, there are 87,44,251 ration cards in the State covering a population of 2,79,39,937. In Hyderabad, the number of cards is 5,80,680. In Rangareddy it is 5,24,656; in Medchal-Malkajgiri it is 4,94,881; in Vikarabad 2,34,940. The three districts have areas of erstwhile Rangareddy district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ration-supply-only-with-mobile-otp-iris-authentication/article33647638.ece
24 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||State of nation in focus on HLF day 2||It was a reality check as authors Aakar Patel and Harsh Mander spoke about their books and the state of nation on the second day of Hyderabad Literary Festival (HLF) on Saturday. Mr Mander, whose book ‘Locking Down the Poor’ was recently published, said his goal was to document the epochal event that followed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement of lockdown in the country. “The idea of the lockdown, whether it was necessary... I wanted to show how these decisions were taken. About the public policy choices we made. The economy is contracting. This kind of contraction which will have a long-term impact and what it means to the poor... I needed to tell the story,” he said in conversation with economist Amir Ullah Khan. “The idea of telling the story while it is unfolding to a middle-class society and state which has shown a spectacular lack of compassion was very important,” said Mr Mander. In another session, Mr. Patel spoke about his book ‘Our Hindu Rashtra’ drawing parallels with Pakistan and other South Asian countries. “What is it that we mean when we say Hindu Rashtra? We have done what other South Asian nations have done. They tried to privilege the majority in some way. What they have fallen back on is persecution of their minorities,” said Mr. Patel in conversation with HLF director Ajay Gandhi. He compared India with Pakistan and its experience of privileging the majority. Continuing the non-fiction strand, Kishwar Desai delved on how she wrote the biography of Devika Rani called ‘The Longest Kiss’. “Had it not been for the lockdown, this book might not have been written,” said Ms. Desai as she narrated episodes from the life of Devika Rani and how her movies created a great buzz in other countries before globalisation. The title of the book comes from the 1933 bilingual film Karma, which had a four-minute kissing sequence between Devika Rani and Himanshu Rai. The day’s programming was topped by a tribute to legendary singer S.P. Balasubrahmanyam, who passed away recently due to complications of COVID-19. Anchored by Swapna, the programme featured singers who recreated songs by Mr. Balasubrahmaniam in many languages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-of-nation-in-focus-on-hlf-day-2/article33647626.ece
24 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Two GPS trackers helped police in tracking stolen gold||Two button-sized GPS trackers kept in the packaging of pawned gold as a precautionary measure by Muthoot Finance’s Hosur branch led to the arrest. Telangana police was able to track them down, thanks to their technological know-how. Sources in Muthoot Finance said that the branch staff had kept the SIM card-connected GPS trackers in two of the pawned gold packages as a precautionary measure, and even though the tech-savvy dacoits had carried a signal jamming device, they did not check whether it was working and it turned out that it was not. This small neglect on their part in a hurry to flee with the booty worth Rs. 7.5 crore helped the Telangana police. “Taking a cue from previous incidents, we keep GPS trackers in a few packets when there is a lot of gold in the chest, and this latest technology initiative came handy for the investigators with whom we shared the links of the tracking devices,” an official said. “Fortunately, we were able to connect to the GPS links and track the gold, even after the five accused travelling in an SUV were caught near Tondupally toll plaza,” an officer associated with the investigation said, adding that the gang members were aware of the trackers as they attempted to rob a Muthoot branch in Ludhiana also. Stating that the ‘illiterate’ dacoits used ‘outstanding technology’ to commit the offence, he said the inter-State armed gang did not use SIM cards for calls. “Instead they bought a wireless Internet router of a leading telecom company and communicated through ‘untraceable’ Internet calls,” the officer said on condition of anonymity. The dacoits hid the gold and firearms in a secret cavity behind the driver’s seat of the container lorry and it was hard to find, he said. They managed to reach Anantapur in a Tata Sumo, and from there they hired another Sumo till Shamshabad. “At the taxi stand, they agreed to pay Rs. 7,000 till Shamshabad. I did not ask them any details, as I don’t know Hindi and they cannot speak Telugu or Kannada,” taxi driver Narayana Swamy said, adding that when they were about to reach the destination, police intercepted the vehicle. From Hyderabad, they planned to go to Nagpur where weapon dealer Lulya Pandey of Jabalpur was waiting for the booty. “There, they were supposed to decide their future plan, including distribution of gold and hideouts,” police said. Lulya arranged six country-made pistols and a firearm made at ordnance factory in Dum Dum, Kolkata, and ammunition for the gang.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-gps-trackers-helped-police-in-tracking-stolen-gold/article33647610.ece
24 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Netaji Fund receipt set for auction today||A rare document acknowledging the receipt of Rs. 100 towards Netaji Fund is set to go under the hammer tomorrow. Dated September 15, 1944, the receipt, which is the size of a Rs. 500 currency note, has Indian Independence League (IIL) as the letterhead. “I bought this in Hong Kong two years ago for a small amount of money. They didn’t know its importance. Today is Subhash Chandra Bose’s birth anniversary, so I thought I should auction this,” said Musham Damodaram who has been collecting rare currency and documents for past 20 years. IIL was set up in 1920s to help fight for India’s independence by Indian expats living in South East Asia. Later, it merged with Azad Hind army started by Subhash Chandra Bose. The Rs. 100 contribution was made by a R.M.A.M Chidambaram Pillai in Myaungmya, now in Myanmar. “The floor price is Rs. 1 lakh and I expect it to go up as this document is very rare. It can also be exported as it is less than 100 years old,” said Mr. Damodaram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/netaji-fund-receipt-set-for-auction-today/article33647628.ece
24 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Guidelines to avail 20,000 litre free water supply benefit||Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) has, through a press statement, informed that consumers will be eligible for the promised 20,000 litres per month free water supply only when they link their Customer Account Numbers with Aadhaar, as per the guidelines issued by government. While domestic connections in slums are not required to fix meters, other domestic connections will have to have functional meters for eligibility for the scheme. In order to establish Aadhaar link for slum residents, the Board is training its meter readers to visit homes, while all other domestic consumers will have to visit Mee Seva centres or the water board’s website for the linkage. Name corrections as per the Aadhaar are allowed on the website, the statement said. For more clarifications in this regard, consumers may call the customer relationship management centre at 155313 between 9 a.m. and 9 p.m. For supplying of mechanical meters, the Board has empanelled a total of 24 metering agencies, the details and contact numbers of which have been displayed on the Board’s website under the Free Water Supply Scheme tab. Price of the meters, including GST and fixing charges, range between Rs. 1,498 and Rs. 2,147 depending on the size of the connection. The domestic slum connections whose Aadhaar authentication is completed, and the other domestic connections with functional meters as on December 1, 2020, and Aadhaar linkage by April 1, 2021, are eligible for the scheme with effect from December 1, 2020. For those fixing meters after December 1, 2020, and Aadhaar authentication by April 1, 2021, bills with rebate will be issued with effect from the date when meter is fixed. For connections without functional meters by March 31, 2021, and for which Aadhaar authentication is not completed, bills will be issued as per existing tariff from December 1, without charging interest for four months, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/guidelines-to-avail-20000-litre-free-water-supply-benefit/article33647614.ece
24 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Bird flu scare jolts the poultry industry||The bird flu scare has hit poultry traders, especially retailers, hard. This, despite recent assurances by the State government that there is no trace of the flu in Telangana. After the flu was reportedly found in some states, the ripple effect has been felt in Telangana. As per estimates, consumption of chicken and eggs has declined approximately by about two-thirds of the usual. Drop in sales “We started observing a drop in sales just a few days before Sankranti festival,” said Md Kaleem, a retailer from Devarakonda Basti in Banjara Hills. “There has been a dip in demand and per kilo live chicken price by Rs. 20 to Rs. 30. The sale of eggs too has seen a drop. It seems customers are being too careful,” he added. According to director of Veterinary and Animal Husbandry department V. Lakshma Reddy, the State sees a consumption of 6 lakh chicken per day. However, due to the flu scare, the consumption has gone down by two-thirds. “This is due to panic and fear. There is nothing to worry about. We have kept a strict vigilance in districts such as Asifabad, Kamareddy, Nizamabad and Nirmal, apart from other places. The government has ensured that no poultry comes to Telangana from Maharashtra. The animal husbandry department is working with the forest department in connection with tracking migratory birds. Here also there is no issue,” Mr. Reddy assured. Production scaled back He also said that while approximately 5 crore eggs are produced per day, a little over 3 crore is consumed in Telangana and the rest is sent to other states. Those who have been in the poultry business for decades pointed out that given the massive drop in demand, poultry farmers, too, have scaled back on production to mitigate losses. They blamed the drop in demand due to disinformation. “There is no compromise in terms of administering vaccines or the feed given to chickens. Because we have scaled down, there is a reduction in actual losses. But, chicken price has fallen at the farm level by 15%,” said Ravinder Reddy from the Telangana Poultry Breeders’ Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bird-flu-scare-jolts-the-poultry-industry/article33647617.ece
24 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Centre extends time for CMR collection of last Rabi||The Central Government has agreed to extend the date for collection of custom milled rice levy of the last (2019-20) Yasagni/Rabi season by the Food Corporation of India (FCI) till February-end this year following a requested by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. In a statement issued here on Saturday, Minister for Civil Supplies Gangula Kamalakar said against handing over 43 lakh tonnes of custom milled rice (CMR) to the FCI by December-end, the rice millers could give only 37 lakh tonnes till that time. As the FCI authorities have been delaying the decision on extending the date for collection of CMR for the last Yasangi season, the Chief Minister had taken the matter to the Centre’s notice and got it resolved. The Minister asked the rice millers in the State to complete handing over of the remaining 6 lakh tonnes of CMR for the last Yasangi season by the time extended by the Centre now. Stating that Chief Minister’s vision had helped the cultivation of paddy and production of rice in the State in higher extent every year, the Minister said the procurement of paddy for the 2020-21 Vanakalam (Kharif) season is nearing end. Of the 6,505 purchase centres opened for the purpose, 6,139 had already been closed and the purchases are still going on in the remaining 366 procurement centres, he said. Mr. Kamalakar explained that a total of 48.42 lakh tonnes of paddy worth Rs. 9,136 crore had been purchased from about 10.92 lakh farmers. Of the purchased produce, 28.2 lakh tonnes belonged to common grade (variety) and 20.22 lakh tonnes was of superfine (‘sannalu’) varieties at minimum support price. An amount of Rs. 8,696 had already been credited to the bank accounts of farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/centre-extends-time-for-cmr-collection-of-last-rabi/article33647637.ece
24 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Complete Dindi in 6 months, Palamuru-RR by year-end’||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has instructed engineers of the water resources department to speed up works on Palamuru-Rangareddy and Dindi lift irrigation schemes aimed at providing irrigation facility and meeting drinking needs in the rain-shadow and fluoride-hit areas of combined Mahabubnagar and Nalgonda districts. In a review meeting held here on Saturday, he wanted the engineers to complete major works of Dindi in the next six months and of Palamuru-Rangareddy works by the year-end. He told the officials that the two projects shall not face any scarcity of funds and the government would allocate sufficient funds for them in the coming budget too. “The State Government has taken a historic decision to ensure speedy execution of works by empowering the officials/engineers at different levels to sanction emergency works with limited expenditure without the necessary of waiting for decisions at state-level”, the Chief Minister noted. Stating that nowhere in the country such a transfer of power was given, the Chief Minister said Engineer-in-Chief could approve works up to Rs. 25 crore a year with each work not exceeding the cost of Rs. 1 crore. Similarly, Chief Engineers could approve works up to Rs. 5 crore a year with with the cost of every work taken up not exceeding Rs. 50 lakh. Further, Superintendent Engineers could sanction works worth Rs. 2 crore per year with the cost of each work not exceeding Rs. 25 lakh, Executive Engineers up to Rs. 25 lakh with each work not exceeding Rs. 5 lakh and Deputy EEs up to Rs. 5 lakh with each work not exceeding Rs. 2 lakh, the Chief Minister said and suggested proper utilisation of the facility to take up urgent works and complete them in time. The Chief Minister directed the officials to merge the ‘Maskuris’, village-level panchayat workers, with the Water Resources Department and utilise their services as ‘Lashkars’ after giving necessary training in project/water resources management. During the component-wise review of Palamauru-Rangareddy project, the Chief Minister enquired about the status of Narlapur reservoir and pump-house, Narlapur-Yedula canal, Yedula pump-house, Yedula-Vattem canal, Vattem reservoir, Vattem-Karivena canal, Karivena reservoir, Kairvena-Uddandapur canal including tunnel. The Chief Minister instructed Principal Secretary (Finance) K. Ramakrishna Rao to release Rs. 2,000 crore immediately to clear Palamuru-Rangareddy and Dindi projects’ pending bills. He directed the District Collector of Nagarkurnool, Nalgonda and Rangareddy to pay compensation to those whose lands were being acquired for the two projects. He wanted payment of compensation as per the laws and complete the land acquisition at the earliest. He also instructed Principal Secretary (Water Resources) Rajat Kumar to order the motors required for the two projects from BHEL and monitor their installation/erection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/complete-dindi-in-6-months-palamuru-rr-by-year-end/article33647640.ece
24 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Property Tax Parishkaram every Sunday||GHMC is conducting ‘Property Tax Parishkaram’, a weekly programme for resolution of various disputes with regard to assessment of property tax, on all Sundays between January 24 and March 28. The programme will be conducted at all circle offices between 9.30 a.m. and 1 p.m. on 10 Sundays, namely January 24, 31, February 7, 14, 21, 28, March 7, 14, 21 and 28, a press statement from GHMC informed. In the present financial year, only Rs. 1,247.27 crore property tax has been collected against a target of Rs. 1,900 crore. In view of this, the corporation has taken a decision to enhance revenue without increasing property tax. Towards this direction, efforts are being made to bring more properties into the purview of assessment, to address disputes pertaining to the assessment and other such actions, the note said. The weekly dispute resolution programme will have zonal commissioners, deputy commissioners and other officials who will address the assessees’ issues. Also, special counters will be opened at every circle office to receive complaints pertaining to property tax disputes. More importance will be given for revision petitions, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/property-tax-parishkaram-every-sunday/article33647606.ece
24 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Postal covers on State handicrafts released||Governor Dr. Tamilisai Soundararajan released special covers on four unique handicrafts of Telangana with geographical indication (GI) tag brought out by the Department of Posts here on Saturday. The special covers released are on Cheriyal paintings, Nirmal paintings, Gadwal saris and silver filigree work of Karimnagar, unique to Telangana. Additional Director General of Posts-New Delhi A.K. Poddar, Chief Postmaster General of Telangana Circle S. Rajendra Kumar and other dignitaries attended the programme at the Raj Bhavan here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/postal-covers-on-state-handicrafts-released/article33647607.ece
24 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Tension at Ministers’ meeting||Tension mounted at an awareness meeting for sarpanches in the presence of Ministers E. Dayakar Rao, S. Niranjan Reddy and V. Srinivas Goud at Mahbubnagar on Saturday. In response to a ‘chalo Mahbubnagar’ call given by sarpanches association of erstwhile Mahbubnagar district, its members went in a rally to the function hall where the meeting was organised. The sarpanches did not enter the hall but gathered outside and raised anti-government slogans. They placed a copy of their demands in front of a statue of Ambedkar and continued their protest. The Ministers who were already at the venue by then sent for the sarpanches but to no avail. Finally, Tourism Minister Srinivas Goud walked up to them and invited the crowd inside. Having entered inside, they did not take chairs but squatted on the floor. Panchayatraj Minister Dayakar Rao appealed to them to take their seats as he had come only to hear their problems. A section of sarpanches later allowed the proceedings to commence. Some of their leaders aired their grievances saying the joint cheque issuing power which they shared with upa-sarpanches is an insult to sarpanches. The government did not keep its promise of reducing the minimum age for sanction of old age pensions from 65 to 57 years nor implemented double bed room housing programme in right earnest, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tension-at-ministers-meet/article33647641.ece
24 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Honour Pingali Venkaiah’s legacy: VHR||Former PCC president V. Hanmanth Rao has urged the government to celebrate the centenary of Pingali Venkaiah who designed the national flag. He said it is an honour for Telugus that the national flag was designed by a Telugu man and the services of the freedom fighter should be recalled and celebrated. A fitting recognition would be to plan year-long celebrations of the national flag centenary from April 2022, he said. Meanwhile, Mr. Rao said Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao should think of the future of BC students and not just forget them after sanctioning buildings for the communities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vhr-honour-pingali-venkaiahs-legacy/article33647645.ece
24 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||DCCBs urged to deploy mobile banking apps||The Telangana State Cooperative Apex Bank (TSCAB) has been told to prepare a mobile app to provide improved banking services to the farming community through the branches of District Cooperative Central Banks (DCCBs), on the lines of commercial banks. The suggestion was made by Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar here on Saturday during a high-level committee meeting organised by the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (Nabard). He also asked the officials of the Cooperation Department and TSCAB to conduct a workshop for the benefit of DCCB employees to help them offer improved banking services to the farming community. Pat for officials Complimenting the officials for completing the computerisation of 795 Primary Agricultural Cooperative Credit Societies (PACS), the Chief Secretary said there is a need to strengthen the functioning of the DCCBs as well as stepping up their services. He also wanted the officials to prepare a brief report on the report submitted by the high-level committee on the strengthening of the cooperative system in the State. New branches Asking the TSCAB and DCCB officials to conduct feasibility study on establishing new branches of DCCBs, Mr. Somesh Kumar said that it would help them extend DCCB services to all villages keeping in mind the fact that penetration of commercial banks in the rural areas is still very low and there is a huge potential for offering banking services in villages and improve their business. The Chief Secretary said along with the feasibility report on setting up new branches of DCCBs, the brief report on strengthening the cooperative system in the State would be submitted to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dccbs-urged-to-deploy-mobile-banking-apps/article33647348.ece
24 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Fulfil medical college promise in Sangareddy’||Sangareddy MLA T. Jayaprakash Reddy urged Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to sanction medical college in Sangareddy, as he had promised earlier, since there were rumours of his son K.T. Rama Rao replacing him soon. At a press conference here, he said if Mr. K.T. Rama Rao becomes the Chief Minister, as is being propagated by the TRS party MLAs and also the Ministers, the medical college will never become a reality. “He will not be committed to the college as it is your promise. So sanction the college before leaving the chair or else you will be remembered as a failed Chief Minister,” Mr. Reddy said referring to the Chief Minister. Mr. Jayaprakash Reddy said he had been fighting for the medical college since five years after Mr. Rao made the promise. If Mr. Rao’s promise has not fruitified even after 5 years, how can he expect Mr. Rama Rao to fulfil it when he has not made any promise. People of Sangareddy should not be denied a medical college -- which he said was shifted to Siddipet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fulfil-medical-college-promise-in-sangareddy/article33647644.ece
24 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||ISB bags top rank for MBA programme||The Indian School of Business (ISB) has been ranked number one in India and globally 44th in The Economist Full-time MBA Ranking 2021. For the ranking, alumni from Post Graduate Programme (PGP) class of 2019 and students from the PGP class of 2020 were surveyed, a press release issued by ISB on Friday informed. First time ISB participated in The Economist ranking for the first time. The Economist ranked the programmes as per four broad categories — new career opportunities, personal development and educational experience, salary, and potential to network, with subsets in each category, the release said. Dean Rajendra Srivastava said the ranking is testimony that ISB is at the forefront in offering the finest management education.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/isb-bags-top-rank-for-mba-programme/article33647618.ece
24 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||221 more test positive for coronavirus||Telangana recorded 221 COVID-19 cases on Friday, taking the total number of infections to 2,93,056. While 30,005 people were tested, results of 499 are awaited. With two fresh deaths, the toll is 1,588. The new cases include 36 from GHMC region, 17 from Karimnagar, 16 from Medchal-Malkajgiri and 14 from Rangareddy. No case was reported from Narayanpet or Rajanna-Sircilla. Since March 2 last year, 76,32,980 people have been tested. Of the total positive cases, 3,569 are active while 2,87,899 have recovered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/221-more-test-positive-for-coronavirus/article33647622.ece
24 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Yashoda division bags award||Yashoda Hospitals’ Division of Interventional Pulmonology, led by Hari Kishan Gonuguntla, has won ‘Best Image Contest 2021’ held by World Association for Bronchology and Interventional Pulmonology (B&IP). Hospital group director Pavan Gorukanti said Dr. Hari Kishan has been appointed national representative to the European Association for B&IP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/yashoda-division-bags-award/article33647623.ece
24 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||page 4 Venkaiah Naidu addresses officer trainees (with photo)||Vice President M. Venkaiah Naidu on Saturday addressed trainee officers attending the special foundation course for All-India Service officers and Central Civil Services officers at M. Channa Reddy Human Resource Development Institute on the occasion of 125th anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. Terming ‘parakram’ or courage as the most defining character of Bose’s personality, Mr. Naidu praised the Centre’s decision to celebrate the former leader’s birthday as ‘Parakram Divas’ to inspire countrymen. Bose turned the prisoners of war into freedom fighters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/page-4-venkaiah-naidu-addresses-officer-trainees-with-photo/article33647612.ece
24 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Conversation with Ram Madhav on his book (briefly)||Forum for Nationalist Thinkers is organising a talk with Ram Madhav, former national general secretary of BJP, on his new book ‘Because India Comes First’ at Taj Deccan on January 24 at 4 p.m. Senior journalist T.S. Sudhir will lead the conversation and MLC N. Ramchadra Rao will preside.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/conversation-with-ram-madhav-on-his-book-briefly/article33647613.ece
24 January 2021||Medak,TELANGANA||‘It will be profitable farming’||Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy said that farming should be profitable and that the Centre is taking steps in that direction. Addressing a gathering after inaugurating the administrative building at Krushi Vignana Kendra at Tunki in Kowdipally mandal along with Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh senior leader Bhayyaji Joshi on Saturday, Mr. Reddy said that farming sector was neglected in the past.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/it-will-be-profitable-farming/article33647646.ece
24 January 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||NDRF fire mock drill at BDL||A fire mock drill was held at BDL Banur by NDRF to test the preparedness of coordinating agencies, stakeholders and create awareness among employees, according to Assistant Commandant, NDRF, Damodar Singh. Fire broke out due to some unknown reason in an assembly building in the premises of Bharat Dynamics Limited (BDL). The entire building (ground and first floor) is engulfed in fire and dense smoke. Due to heavy smoke, one person is unconscious and trapped in first floor and another dead in ground floor. A message is also received from reliable agencies that some radio active source is kept in the area. The emergency siren is blown immediately and message is conveyed to the fire station of BDL. Standard Operating Procedure for operation of emergency siren is 3 times. Every time siren is blown for 25 seconds and 5 seconds off is given. As soon as the message is received, CISF Fire Crew rushed as first responders. After reaching the area, fire crew kept the vehicle in up wind direction. Shift in-charge assessed the area and gave direction to lay one delivery hose and started fire fighting with the help of hand controlled branch. Meanwhile, two of the crew wearing three layer fire fighting suit and breathing apparatus set searched the area for any trapped personnel. Search team has extricated a casualty and the casualty is being shifted to Medical First Responder (MFR post) for providing first aid and further movement to hospital. One fireman with Compressed Air Foam (CAF) extinguisher back pack system entered the building and tackled the ground floor fire. The CAF extinguisher has a capacity of nine litres. Propellant used is compressed air pressurised at 300 bar. It operates at a pressure of 38 Bar, 12 metres is the effective range, 28 seconds is the working time. Fire crew also extricated a victim from first floor of the building with the technique Fireman Lift with the help of extension ladder. At this juncture, NDRF team took charge. One of them wearing three layer permeable suit detected the radio active source (dummy) with the help of different Chemical Biological Radiological and Nuclear (CBRN) detectors, and others wearing Non-Permeable suit shielded the source as per norms and shifted the source to safe zone. All the victims are extricated and decontaminated while BDL and CISF fire wings tackled the fire and first floor rescue of the affected area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ndrf-fire-mock-drill-at-bdl/article33647840.ece
24 January 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Brf||One person was arrested in Sangareddy on Saturday for allegedly printing and circulating fake currency. According to DSP A. Balaji, D. Yugandhar Mastan Rao had received a Rs. 2,000 note in his shop on January 7 from an unidentified customer. When he found the currency to be fake, he lodged a police complaint. Later, CCTV footage and investigation led to the arrest of U. Raju Prasad of Alladurg in Medak. He was arrested twice in the past by Patancheru and Bachupally police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brf/article33647838.ece
24 January 2021||SURYAPET,TELANGANA||Uttam: arbitrary sanction of municipal funds by collector||Nalgonda MP and TPCC chief N. Uttam Kumar Reddy on Saturday alleged that District Collector T. Vinay Krishna Reddy has been sanctioning funds in an arbitrary manner and misusing Section 26 of the Municipal Act. ‘Politicisation’ In what he described as ‘politicisation of administration’, Mr. Uttam, who was in Suryapet to attend the municipal general body meet, said, “District Collectors are sanctioning funds without following the rule book in an arbitrary manner to just please their political bosses.” According to the provision he cited, Section 26 of the Telangana Municipalities Act, 2019, deals with ‘empowering the chairperson with certain emergency powers’. “The chairperson can direct the execution of any work or the doing of any act in anticipation of Council sanction with the approval of the District Collector when there is such emergency which is necessary for the service or safety of the public, and direct that the expense of such work be paid from municipal fund and report the action taken to the Council at its next meeting.” He said, “Out of the 40 proposals, 30 were sanctioned under Section 26, which is not fair.” Media meet Meanwhile, he spoke to the media outside the municipal hall and condemned the policy of ‘no entry for mediapersons’ into the meeting hall by the ruling body. He reiterated that as the Nalgonda MP, he was striving for development of his constituency, and recently, got Rs. 11 crore sanctioned for a 400 kv substation for Suryapet. “However, there is no transparency in release and spending of funds by local administration, and the elected local body representatives are also not having a say in the way the funds are spent,” the Congress leader alleged. ‘Speak up’ The Congress chief also urged councillors to speak up against irregularities in sanction of funds, and for their rights in allocation of funds for the development of respective wards.  District Collectors are sanctioning funds without following the rule book in an arbitrary manner to just please their political bosses. And elected local body representatives are also not having a say in the way the funds are spent in the district. Uttam Kumar Reddy  Nalgonda MP and TPCC chief||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/arbitrary-sanction-of-civic-funds/article33647631.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Unappealing gold rush||The only redeeming aspect of Bangaru Bullodu is Allari Naresh, who with all his earnestness, tries to hold things together when a half-decent plot gets diluted with ribald comedy and spirals downhill. Naresh plays the lead character Bhavani Prasad, a bank employee and grandson of the village goldsmith (Tanikella Bharani). He is weighed down by family responsibilities and later, with moral responsibility failing, the family risks losing its reputation. He enacts the serious portions and the few comic sequences required of him quite well, but the script is a huge letdown. There are different threads to this story, which, if leveraged well, could have made for a part-fun, part-serious comic social drama. But the tone keeps shifting from the serious to the mundane, desperately trying to bring in some laughs, in vain. There’s a secret surrounding the jewels that adorn the village deity and the veteran goldsmith hopes to set things right, with the help of Prasad. The two have to constantly watch their backs even at home, with Prasad’s older brothers (Satyam Rajesh and Prabhas Srinu) addicted to gambling. Their card games take them to strange places and make them do strange things, like one of them pretending to be a corpse to escape the police. Forget being funny, the segments are boring. In trying to find a solution to his grandfather’s problem, Prasad gets entangled in a web of deceitful acts. Since the story involves a family of goldsmiths, every other character that pops up has something to do with jewellery. Posani Krishna Murali enters as the money lender who would even keep a snake as surety for money! To this mix, add the craze for an NRI groom. Kanaka Mahalakshmi (Pooja Jhaveri as Posani’s daughter) dreams of a luxurious life abroad. Much later, there’s a fun sequence involving an NRI family harping on Godavari culture and tradition, and the snake. The comedy in the film falls mostly into the slapstick category. When the deity’s jewels go missing and a shrewd cop vouches to catch the culprit, the story perks up. By the time the mystery is solved, Bangaru Bullodu becomes a test of patience.  (For the longer review, check www.thehindu.com)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/unappealing-gold-rush/article33647630.ece
24 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||This will be a historic parade: farmer leader||Kirti Kisan Union president Nirbhai Singh Dhudike, who presided over a meeting of the Punjab farmers’ union, said that more than one lakh tractors are expected to arrive from Punjab and others will be coming from Haryana, Uttarakhand and other States for the tractor parade on January 26. Mr. Singh said the focus of the three-hour-long meeting was to discuss preparations for the parade. A central committee has been formed to oversee arrangements, and volunteers will be deployed to ensure smooth facilitation of tractors along the parade route. “This is going to be a historic rally. We will have around 2,500 volunteers who will facilitate the tractor rally on Republic Day. In case anyone needs assistance or help during the rally, these volunteers will not only assist them but will also be responsible for smooth facilitation of the tractors in an organised and disciplined manner,” he said. The volunteers will also attend to emergencies, if any. “Each volunteer will be given a badge, a jacket and an identity card. They will follow the tractors on jeeps. Some of them might even join farmers on the tractors, if required. They will also help in distribution of essential items such as water and edibles. Each tractor will have a group of four-five farmers on it,” he said. Another farmer leader said the central committee formed to handle arrangements for the rally, will operate from a control room and around 20 members will be part of the panel. There will be various sub-committees, including a traffic control team and volunteers’ team and more. He added that 40 ambulances will be stationed along the route of the tractor parade.  We will have around 2,500 volunteers who will facilitate the tractor rally on Republic Day... Each volunteer will be given a badge, a jacket and an ID card Nirbhai Singh Dhudike Kirti Kisan Union president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/this-will-be-a-historic-parade-farmer-leader/article33647499.ece
24 January 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||IAS officers in Odisha adopt schools to improve quality||Senior IAS officers in Odisha have come forward to adopt Odia-medium schools to improve quality education and basic infrastructure. More than 20 IAS officers would be mentoring schools making the initiative one-of-its-kind in the country. “The basic objective is to transform a school into a very good one and ensure quality education through interaction with teachers, students and school administrators,” said Bhupendra Singh Poonia, State Project Director of Odisha School Education Programme Authority and Member Secretary of ‘Mo School’ programme on Saturday. “As they hold very senior positions, the officers are better placed to coordinate with different departments, community and alumni associations and access funds from corporate social responsibility and district mineral foundations to fill the gap,” said Mr. Poonia. They could also extend career counselling and motivational talks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/ias-officers-in-odisha-adopt-schools-to-improve-quality/article33647511.ece
24 January 2021||Mumbai,||6 dead as vehicle falls into gorge||At least six people, including five women, were killed and 18 others injured when the vehicle they were travelling in fell into a 400-feet deep gorge in Nandurbar district on Saturday, a police official said. The accident took place around 10.30 a.m. on the hilly stretch of Khadki ghat, approximately 10 km from Toranmal hill station. Twenty-four people, most of them labourers, were heading to Danduka in Ahmedabad from Khadki and other neighbouring villages in Nandurbar district in a Mahindra Max. “While passing through the ghat section, the driver lost control of the vehicle. It went backwards and fell into the gorge,” said Nandurbar Superintendent of Police Mahendra Pandit. Among the injured, the condition of seven is serious, while nine were discharged after first aid, Mr. Pandit said. The injured are being treated in the civil hospital in Nandurbar and Toranmal rural hospital, the police said.  Rs. 5 lakh compensation The Maharashtra government has announced an ex-gratia relief of Rs. 5 lakh each to the kin of the deceased. As per a statement issued by the Chief Minister’s Office, the deceased were Adivasis from Dhadgaon tehsil. “The government will bear the cost of the treatment of the injured people,” it said. The Chief Minister spoke to Nandurbar district Guardian Minister K.C. Padvi and the district administration and has assured help.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/6-dead-as-vehicle-falls-into-gorge/article33647708.ece
24 January 2021||Mumbai,||NCP to launch outreach campaign to boost base||The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) on Saturday announced it would be launching a public outreach campaign aimed at expanding the party’s support base. Irrigation Minister and NCP State president Jayant Patil said the first phase of the campaign will begin on January 28 and office-bearers will cover 3,000 km over the next 17 days to interact with party officials and workers. Mr. Patil said Vidarbha and Khandesh (north Maharashtra) will be covered in the first phase. The party will assess the political situation in 14 districts in these two regions and 82 Assembly constituencies. A total of 135 meetings of workers and 10 public rallies will be held. All senior leaders, and office-bearers of the party’s various organisations have been urged to join it. Mr. Patil said the party has always laid emphasis on communication, coordination and transparency. He said, “Though we are a part of the ruling alliance in the State government, each ally has a right to expand its base.” Mr. Patil said the NCP had earlier conducted a digital campaign to collect contributions from workers to expand its base. “More than seven lakh workers have already sent their feedback on this campaign,” he said. The move comes following the gram panchayat polls and the party’s claims that it has increased its rural base. Elections to municipal councils and municipal corporations are due to be held in the State. Mumbai Congress chief Bhai Jagtap has said the party is aiming to contest all 227 wards in the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/ncp-to-launch-outreach-campaign-to-boost-base/article33647709.ece
24 January 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Haj House in Kharghar||The City and Industrial Development Corporation (CIDCO) has allotted 6,000 square metres of land in Kharghar to build a Haj House for pilgrims travelling from the upcoming Navi Mumbai International Airport. CIDCO said on Friday it received a letter from the Additional Secretary, Union Ministry of Minority Affairs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/haj-house-in-kharghar/article33647710.ece
24 January 2021||New Delhi,||DDA scheme sees 46,500 applications in 3 weeks||Anew housing scheme of the Delhi Development Authority has seen nearly 46,500 applications within the first three weeks of launch. Under the new scheme, 1,354 flats across Jasola, Dwarka, Vasant Kunj and Rohini are on offer. The flats vary across categories — from EWS, LIG (Low Income Group) to MIG (Middle Income Group) and HIG (High Income Group) — based on prices. As of Tuesday, the data provided by senior DDA officials showed that around 8,550 applicants have submitted their applications while 2,325 have completed the payment process. Interested stakeholders are required to deposit an application fee. While those in the EWS category are required to pay Rs. 25,000, those applying under the LIG category are required to pay Rs. 1 lakh, and those applying under the MIG and HIG categories have to pay Rs. 2 lakh. Out of total flats on offer, around 1,200 are newly constructed flats while the rest of them are from older inventories. Principal Commissioner of Housing at the DDA, Rajiv Gandhi said: “The flats in Vasant Kunj are the ones from the older scheme. Around 100 such flats are from previous inventories and they include units that were surrendered by people for various reasons.” In earlier housing schemes, the DDA had faced several issues such as flats remaining unsold due to connectivity issues, lack of infrastructure in the locality and size of the flats. However, officials said that the newly constructed flats are well-connected and have seen a surge in demand. The 215 HIG 3-BHK flats offered by the urban body in Jasola Pocket 9B are located within a few metres of the Jasola Vihar Shaheen Bagh Metro Station on the Delhi Metro’s Magenta Line. Equipped with modern facilities, these flats owners will not face last-mile connectivity issues, officials said. “The new flats are modern and in multi-storey buildings. This time, the response has been great and even the locations are in great demand. Those interested in a South Delhi address will also be able to get flats in Jasola and Vasant Kunj. Even in Dwarka, a lot of investment is taking place, including the convention centre and other projects carried out by the DDA such as the golf courses,” said Mr. Gandhi. The application portal for the housing scheme will be active till February 16, according to the DDA. The land-owning agency has also made the provision for inspections by interested stakeholders at each of the sites where they can visit the model flats. According to the DDA, eligible applicants would be considered for allotment through a computerised draw based on the random number technique. “The draw shall be held in the presence of independent observers and the process streamed online,” officials said.   The land-owning agency has also made the provision for inspections by interested stakeholders at each of the sites where they can visit the model flats||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/dda-scheme-sees-46500-applications-in-3-weeks/article33647505.ece
24 January 2021||New Delhi,||6,967 health workers in Delhi vaccinated on fifth day of drive||On the fifth day of vaccination in the city on Saturday, a total of 6,967 healthcare workers were vaccinated, which is the highest till now. Also, there were 24 adverse events following immunisation (AEFI), said the Delhi government spokesperson. The number of people vaccinated on Saturday was 86% of the target of 8,100 for the day, with some centres achieving 100% turnout, officials said. Several hospitals, including Delhi government-run Lok Nayak, Rajiv Gandhi, State Cancer Institute, and GTB hospitals, reported 100% achievement of the targeted vaccination, the officials said. On the first day of vaccination on January 16, 4,319 healthcare workers were vaccinated. On Monday, the figure was 3,598, on Tuesday it was 4,936 and 5,942 on Thursday. Of the 24 AEFI on Thursday, 23 were “minor” cases and one was “severe” category. Also, 23 AEFI were from using Covishield and one from Covaxin and while 22 cases from using Covishield were “minor”, one was “severe”. The increase in the number of vaccinations is due to better trust, change in policy allowing people not in the daily list of beneficiaries to also get vaccinated, according to officials. Also, currently, the vaccination is being undertaken only in 81 healthcare facilities and workers in other hospitals have been allowed to get vaccinated in these centres at least in some of the 11 districts. “This has also led to more people getting vaccinated,” an official said. The city is currently inoculating about 2.4 lakh healthcare workers, whose names have been registered with the government, and it is voluntary. The vaccination will now continue from Monday. The vaccination drive is likely to pick up the pace in the coming days with the Delhi government increasing the number of centres to over 175, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/6967-get-jab-on-day-5-drive-achieves-86-of-daily-target/article33647508.ece
24 January 2021||New Delhi,||‘DDA owes Rs. 2,000 cr. to North, South civic bodies’||The AAP on Saturday alleged that the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) under the Central government owes more than Rs. 2,000 crore to theh North Delhi Municipal Corporation and the South Delhi Municipal Corporation. “AAP demands that the BJP should immediately disclose why they have not taken any initiative to get this money from the DDA because both civic bodies and the DDA are under the BJP,” said AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj. “The DDA owes around Rs. 857 crore to the BJP-ruled North Corporation till March 31, 2018. Based on this figure, if we calculate the number today, then it becomes Rs. 1,200 crore. Similarly, the DDA owes around Rs. 535 crore to the SDMC. If we calculate all the zones then it comes that the DDA owes around Rs. 2000 crore to the North body and the SDMC,” he added. Mr. Bharadwaj said that the party wants to know from Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta the steps taken to bring this money from the DDA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/dda-owes-rs-2000-cr-to-north-south-civic-bodies/article33647501.ece
24 January 2021||New Delhi,||Active cases in Delhi fall below 2,000||The national capital recorded 197 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the tally to 6,33,739, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Saturday. The death toll has risen to 10,799 after 10 more fatalities were reported in a single day. A total of 76,868 tests were done in 24 hours. Of the total cases, 6,21,060 people have recovered and there are now 1,880 active cases. The test positivity rate was 0.26% on Saturday, and the overall positivity till now is 6.16%, as per the bulletin. Out of the total 9,053 beds available for COVID-19 treatment in the city, 8,199 beds are vacant. There are only 806 people under home isolation and 854 patients in hospitals. The case fatality rate till now is 1.7%. Also, there were 1,810 containment zones in the city as of Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/active-cases-fall-below-2k-197-new-infections/article33647500.ece
24 January 2021||noida,||3 new infections recorded in Gautam Buddha Nagar||Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddha Nagar recorded three new cases of COVID-19 on Saturday, pushing the district’s infection tally to 25,306, as per official data. The active cases in the district have come down to 55 from 70 the previous day, while the recovery rate surged to 99.42%, according to the data released by the UP Health Department. Ninteen more patients were discharged during the period, taking the overall recoveries to 25,160, the fifth highest in the State. The death toll in Gautam Buddha Nagar stands at 91 and the mortality rate is 0.35%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/gautam-buddha-nagar-sees-three-fresh-covid-19-cases/article33647506.ece
24 January 2021||Srinagar,||NC opposes L-G’s new policy||Senior National Conference (NC) leader and Member of Parliament Hasnain Masoodi on Saturday opposed the J&K Industrial Land Allotment Policy approved by Lieutenant-Governor Manoj Sinha on Friday. “Such policy decisions should have been left for the popular State government to approve,” Mr. Masoodi, also the convener of the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, said. ‘Long term effect’ Mr. Masoodi said his party was dismayed with the new policy. “Such decisions have a long term bearing on the industrial outlook of J&K. A coterie of bureaucrats cannot replace a vital and vibrant legislature,” he said. He said such decisions, in a democratic set-up, are initiated by taking counsel from those associated with small and large scale industries. “A Bill is discussed in the Cabinet and then tabled in the legislature for further discussions. In this case, the entire process has been skipped,” he alleged. He warned that the scheme was meaningless in absence of a peace initiative. “Hundreds of lives have been lost in about a hundred encounters, quite a few in urban areas. The government does not even muster courage to restore the Internet at the speed available in other parts of the country,” he added. The L-G administration on Saturday decided that the new policy proposes zoning of industrial areas at block and municipality level “after taking into consideration various factors including the existing level of industrial development, location of the proposed zone, and level of urbanisation”. “The Jammu and Kashmir Industrial Land Allotment Policy 2021-30 will also cover land allotment for health institutions, medi-cities and educational institutions or edu-cities,” an official spokesman said. It was approved that the Land Allotment Committee will decide and allot industrial land to the applicant within 45 days in cases of projects worth Rs. 200 crore, Rs. 50-200 crore and up to Rs. 50 crore, respectively. “The policy aims at achieving inclusive growth through sustainable industrialisation and employment generation,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/nc-opposes-l-gs-new-policy/article33647510.ece
24 January 2021||Washington,||Biden govt. to review U.S.-Taliban deal||The Biden administration said it will review a landmark U.S. deal with the Taliban, focusing on whether the insurgent group has reduced attacks in Afghanistan, in keeping with its side of the agreement. Washington struck a deal with the Taliban in Qatar last year, to begin withdrawing its troops in return for security guarantees from the militants and a commitment to kickstart peace talks with the Afghan government. But violence across Afghanistan has surged despite the two sides engaging in those talks since September. President Joe Biden’s newly appointed National Security Adviser, Jake Sullivan, spoke with his Afghan counterpart Hamdullah Mohib and “made clear the United States’ intention to review” the deal, said National Security Council spokeswoman Emily Horne in a statement late on Friday. Specifically, Washington wants to check that the Taliban is “living up to its commitments to cut ties with terrorist groups, to reduce violence in Afghanistan, and to engage in meaningful negotiations with the Afghan government and other stakeholders,” she said. It added that Mr. Sullivan “underscored that the U.S. will support the peace process with a robust and regional diplomatic effort, which will aim to help the two sides achieve a durable and just political settlement and permanent ceasefire.” Mr. Sullivan also discussed the U.S.’s support for protecting recent progress made on women and minority groups’ rights as part of the peace process. When contacted, the Taliban said they remained “committed to the agreement and honour our commitments”. “We expect the other side to remain committed to the agreement too,” Mohammad Naeem, the group’s spokesman in Qatar, said. Kabul welcomes move Washington’s move was met with a sigh of relief from officials in Kabul after months of speculation over how the new administration would potentially recalibrate the Afghan policy. Mr. Mohib tweeted that during the call the two sides “agreed to work toward a permanent ceasefire and a just and durable peace” in the country. Another top Afghan government official lambasted the Taliban’s failure to live up to the February 2020 deal, saying the agreement had failed to achieve its stated goals. “The agreement so far, did not deliver a desired goal of ending Taliban’s violence and bringing a ceasefire desired by the Afghans,” Sediq Sediqqi, Deputy Interior Minister and former spokesman to President Ashraf Ghani said on Twitter. “The Taliban did not live up to its commitments.” Deadly attacks and high-profile assassinations have increased in recent months, particularly in Kabul where several journalists, activists, judges and politicians have been murdered in brazen daylight attacks. The Taliban have denied responsibility for these killings, but Afghan and U.S. officials have blamed the group for the murders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-govt-to-review-us-taliban-deal/article33647204.ece
24 January 2021||Riyadh,||Saudi Arabia intercepts ‘hostile target’||Saudi Arabia intercepted a “hostile target” over Riyadh on Saturday, said state media in the kingdom which has come under repeated attack from Yemen’s Iran-backed Houthi rebels since 2015. An explosion was heard in the Saudi capital at around 11:00 a.m. (0800 GMT), AFP correspondents reported. “I heard a loud sound and thought that something had fallen from the sky,” said one resident, who lives in the Al-Sulaimaniyah district of Riyadh. “The whole house was shaking.” The Saudi-led coalition, which backs Yemen’s internationally recognised government against the Houthis, said it had “intercepted and destroyed a hostile air target going towards Riyadh”, without elaborating, according to state-run Al Ekhbariya television station. Riyadh’s King Khaled International Airport said there were a number of flight delays, but it was not immediately clear if they were linked to Saturday’s incident. Saudi Arabia has been repeatedly targeted by the Houthis since its intervention in the Yemen war in 2015. It is rare, however, for drones and missiles launched by the Houthis to reach the kingdom’s capital — about 700 km from the Yemeni border. The Shia rebels have yet to comment on the incident, which comes only days after Joe Biden was sworn-in as U.S. President. According to the new U.S. Secretary of State, Antony Blinken, the Biden administration will revisit the designation of Houthi rebels as terrorists. Mr. Blinken said he would “immediately” review the labelling of the insurgents, fearing the move was worsening a humanitarian crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/saudi-arabia-intercepts-hostile-target/article33647209.ece
24 January 2021||Lahore,||Pak. court jails Hafiz Saeed’s 3 aides in terror financing case||A Pakistani Anti-Terrorism Court has sentenced three leaders of Mumbai attack mastermind Hafiz Saeed’s Jamaat-ud-Dawah (JuD) terrorist organisation to six months in prison in a case of terror financing. Saeed’s brother-in-law Hafiz Abdur Rehman Makki, JuD spokesperson Yahya Mujahid and Zafar Iqbal were handed down the six-month imprisonment each by the Anti-Terrorism Court (ATC) Lahore. With Friday’s sentencing, the collective imprisonment of Mujahid and Iqbal has climbed to 80 and 56 years respectively. The verdicts against them will run concurrently in the terror financing cases registered by the Counter-Terrorism Department (CTD) of the Punjab police. “ATC-II Presiding Judge Arshad Hussain Bhutta announced the verdict in FIR No 32 of 2019 against Zafar Iqbal, Abdul Rehman Makki and Yahya Mujahid,” a court official said. The three convicts were present in the court when the judge announced the verdict.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pak-court-jails-hafiz-saeeds-3-aides-in-terror-financing-case/article33647207.ece
24 January 2021||WASHINGTON,||Trump impeachment trial to begin on February 8: Schumer||Opening arguments in the Senate impeachment trial for Donald Trump over the Capitol riot will begin in the second week of February, the first time a former President will face such charges after leaving office. Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer announced the schedule late on Friday after reaching an agreement with Republicans, who had pushed for a delay to give Mr. Trump a chance to organise his legal team and prepare a defence on the sole charge of incitement of insurrection. “Once the briefs are drafted, presentation by the parties will commence the week of February 8,” Mr. Schumer told colleagues on the Senate floor. The February start date also allows the Senate more time to confirm President Joe Biden’s Cabinet nominations and consider his proposed $1.9 trillion COVID relief package — top priorities of the new White House agenda that could become stalled during trial proceedings. “We all want to put this awful chapter in our nation’s history behind us,” Mr. Schumer said about the deadly January 6 Capitol siege by a mob of pro-Trump supporters. “But healing and unity will only come if there is truth and accountability. And that is what this trial will provide.” House Speaker Nancy Pelosi will send the article of impeachment on Monday, with Senators sworn in as jurors on Tuesday. But opening arguments will move to February. Mr. Trump’s impeachment trial would be the first of a U.S. President no longer in office, an undertaking that his Senate Republican allies argue is pointless, and potentially even unconstitutional. Democrats say they have to hold Mr. Trump to account.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-impeachment-trial-to-begin-on-february-8-schumer/article33647211.ece
24 January 2021||Los Angeles,||Iconic TV show host Larry King passes away||The iconic talk show host Larry King, one of the most recognisable figures on U.S. television as he quizzed everyone who was anyone over a career spanning 60 years, died Saturday at the age of 87. The company he co-founded, Ora Media, did not state a cause of death but media reports said Mr. King had been battling COVID-19 for weeks and had suffered several health problems in recent years. Mr. King, with his trademark suspenders, black rim glasses and deep voice, was best known for a 25-year run as a talk show host on CNN’s Larry King Live . “For 63 years and across the platforms of radio, television and digital media, Larry’s many thousands of interviews, awards, and global acclaim stand as a testament to his unique and lasting talent as a broadcaster,” Ora Media said in a statement posted on Twitter. Mr. King’s long list of interviewees ranged from every U.S. President since 1974, world leaders Yasser Arafat and Vladimir Putin, and celebrities such as Frank Sinatra, Marlon Brando and Barbra Streisand. In an emotional last Larry King Live show in 2010, tributes included one from President Barack Obama, who in a video message called Mr. King “one of the giants of broadcasting”. Tributes from the media, politicians and Hollywood stars poured in, led by Mr. Putin, who hailed the interviewer’s “great professionalism and unquestioned journalistic authority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/iconic-tv-show-host-larry-king-passes-away/article33647206.ece
24 January 2021||COLOMBO,||Sri Lanka Minister contracts virus after endorsing potion||Sri Lanka’s Health Minister, who has faced criticism for consuming and endorsing a herbal syrup made by a sorcerer, has tested positive for COVID-19. Thousands of people gathered in long queues in December in the village of Bandara to obtain the syrup after he claimed a goddess appeared to him in a dream and gave the recipe to save humanity from the novel coronavirus. A Health Ministry official on Saturday confirmed that Pavithra Wanniarachchi became the highest-ranking official to be infected with the virus. She has been asked to self-quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lanka-minister-contracts-virus-after-endorsing-potion/article33647202.ece
24 January 2021||Paris,||New warning on vaccine supplies sparks EU concern||A warning from AstraZeneca that initial supplies of its COVID-19 vaccinations to Europe will be lower than expected has sparked new concern over the rollout of inoculations. Friday’s announcement by the British firm followed another last week by Pfizer, which said it would delay shipments of its vaccine for up to a month. EU has not yet approved the vaccine from AstraZeneca and the University of Oxford, but is expected to take a decision by January 29. AstraZeneca said that if EU approval is granted, the “initial volumes will be lower than anticipated”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/new-warning-on-vaccine-supplies-sparks-eu-concern/article33647283.ece
24 January 2021||Islamabad,||Pak. man killed during TikTok stunt on rail track||A young man was hit and killed by a train in Pakistan while being filmed walking along the tracks for a TikTok stunt, police and rescue officials said on Saturday. The accident happened on Friday in the Shah Khalid neighbourhood of Rawalpindi city, near the capital Islamabad. Hamza Naveed, 18, was walking next to the tracks while a friend filmed him, Raja Rafaqat Zaman, a spokesperson for the local rescue agency, said. “The moving train hit him while he was posing for a video and walking on the railway track,” Mr. Zaman said. Taking selfies and making videos for social media is wildly popular in Pakistan, as in many other countries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pak-man-killed-during-tiktok-stunt-on-rail-track/article33647208.ece
24 January 2021||New Delhi,||Telcos seek clarity on onus of security breach post NSD roll-out||Telecom firms have asked the government to clarify about the entity that will be held liable in the event of a security breach in the network post implementation of the National Security Directive (NSD) in the telecom sector, according to sources aware of the development. Telecom operators have given their input to the government in a meeting called by the National Security Council Secretariat (NSCS) about one-and-a-half weeks back, industry sources told PTI . ‘Work on road map’ “A meeting was called to work on the road map for trusted products by the NSCS,” said an official with a private operator. “Senior regulatory officials of telecom service providers attended the meeting and gave their inputs. Telcos wanted the government to come out with clear guidelines [as to] who [would] be responsible for any breach in the network if the government is making a list of trusted products that have to be deployed in the network,” said the official. Under the current rules, telecom operators are held responsible for any security breach in their network. Another private operator representative said two private mobile service providers wanted the government to ensure price competitiveness among vendors in case equipment from China was barred from the networks. “It was suggested that the price competitiveness can be maintained by way of reducing import duties. Nokia and Ericsson have told government officials that the prices of their gear would come down as they manufacture in India and [hence] save on import duty,” the representative said. In a bid to tighten the security of the communications network, the Centre had, on December 16, announced the National Security Directive for the telecom sector, which will mandate service providers to purchase equipment from trusted sources. Notably, Chinese gearmaker Huawei has had run-ins with governments in Canada and the U.S. The U.S. has alleged Huawei did not comply with its cybersecurity and privacy laws leaving the country and the citizens vulnerable to espionage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/telcos-seek-clarity-on-onus-of-security-breach-post-nsd-roll-out/article33647195.ece
24 January 2021||New Delhi,||UltraTech Q3 net more than doubles on housing, infra||Aditya Birla group firm UltraTech Cement on Saturday reported over two-fold jump in consolidated net profit to Rs 1,584.58 crore in the December quarter, compared with Rs. 711.17 crore a year earlier, UltraTech Cement said in a BSE filing. Revenue from operations rose 17.4% to Rs. 12,254.12 crore. Total expenses declined 6.29% to Rs. 10,190.03 crore in the third quarter of FY21. Volumes grew 14% to 22.82 million tonnes, it said. “Recovery from the COVID-19-led distruption... has been fuelled by quicker demand stabilisation, supply-side restoration and greater cost efficiencies,” the firm said in a statement. While rural and semi-urban housing continues to drive growth, the pick up in the government-led infrastructure aided incremental cement demand. “Pent-up urban demand is expected to improve with the gradual return of the migrant workforce,” it added. Though fuel prices have risen in recent months, operational efficiencies and tight control over costs contributed to the company’s 26% operating margin. “Focus on reducing debt continues. Net debt reduction during Q3 was Rs. 2,696 crore and year-to-date, it was Rs. 7,424 crore,” it said. During the quarter, UltraTech’s Board approved capita expenditure of Rs. 5,477 crore towards increasing capacity by 12.8 mtpa (million tonnes per annum) with a mix of brownfield and greenfield expansion in the fast-growing markets of the east, central and north regions of the country. “This expansion is in addition to the company’s 6.7 mtpa capacity addition that is currently underway in Uttar Pradesh, Odisha, Bihar and West Bengal, which has picked up the pace and is expected to get commissioned by financial year 2022, in a phased manner,” it said.  “With strong rural growth, revival in manufacturing sentiment, buoyancy in GST and tax collections, UltraTech expects demand to grow on the back of the government’s push on infrastructure projects.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ultratech-q3-net-more-than-doubles-on-housing-infra/article33647197.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Metro orders took a bad hit’||Major disruption in construction activity during the lockdown severely impacted the lifts and elevators business, as most migrant labourers were forced to return home. However, with the realty sector picking up, sales began returning to normal in December. Johnson Lifts hopes to reach pre-Covid sales figures by April 2021, executive director V. Jagannathan said in an interview. Excerpts:  What has been the impact of COVID-19 on your business beginning April? The builder segment is a major contributor to the lifts business and migrant workers form a majority of the workforce in the real estate sector. Due to COVID-19 and the lockdowns, migrant workers moved to their hometowns, thereby affecting construction activity. Hence, Q1 sales dipped, but [things] improved in Q2, supported by the government stimulus. There was further improvement in Q3, showing positive signs of an early revival. What challenges did the company face? How did you manage? The major challenge was a sudden drop in business and reduced liquidity in the real estate sector. Big builders faced a cash crunch that directly affected us; secondly, manpower migration in our industry during the lockdown started to be very expensive. In spite of that, we ensured that services were provided to hospitals round the clock and high-rise residential buildings, [besides] ensuring uninterrupted functioning of lifts for passenger use. Due to the pandemic, there was uncertainty all around with regard to revival of economy. Besides, nobody was sure when this pandemic would. Another major challenge for us was complying with government regulations during the lockdown and in different stages of unlocking. With regard to customers, educating them on safe lift-use procedures was a major task. When it came to manufacturing, increase in input cost of raw materials took a toll on us. The entire supply chain got affected. Providing a safe work environment to employees at offices pan India and at sites was a big challenge. Have you reached pre-Covid levels in sales? How long will it take? We had progressed to normal sales in December 2020 and by April 2021 we should reach pre-Covid sales figures month on month. What is the current order book position? During FY20, we had order booking close to 13,000 units and a turnover of close to Rs. 2,000 crore. Currently, we are at 80% of last year’s business and our order book is close to 12 months of our sales volume. Are you getting fresh orders from metros or tier 2 cities? Business was drastically down in metro cities and hence we have started to dive deep into tier 2 and tier 3 cities as well. Enquiries have been there in all three categories such as metros, tier 2 and tier 3 cities, but the [impact] was high in metro. As soon as the unlocking happened, the pent-up demand in tier 2 cities got finalised first, with a delay in metro cities. All the more, since projects in metros are large in size, there was greater delay in restarting and in fresh orders/activity. However, infrastructure projects such as airports and metro stations, where our presence is very high, maintained continuous activity and presented new opportunities. What is the capex for FY22? Our original capex plan for FY22 was around Rs. 20 crore. Since we expect the market to be stable in FY21 we are maintaining the same with no downward revision. What is the status of exports? Johnson predominantly caters to neighbouring countries like Sri Lanka, Nepal, Bhutan and to Central Asia and African countries. Impact on sales was only marginal compared with India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/metro-orders-took-a-bad-hit/article33647188.ece
24 January 2021||Chennai,||Demand rising in leisure segment: Oriental Hotels||Oriental Hotels Ltd., an associate firm of The Indian Hotels Company, is witnessing a growth in demand in leisure and a gradual increase in corporate business segments, according to a top company executive. Announcing standalone financial results for the quarter ended December 31, it said net loss stood at Rs. 7.63 crore as against a net profit of Rs. 4.65 crore seen a year earlier. Revenue dipped to Rs. 43.53 crore from Rs. 85.09 crore. “All our hotels resumed operations in a staggered manner after the lockdown was eased. We are witnessing a growth in demand especially in the leisure segment and a gradual pick up of corporate business,” company MD Pramod Ranjan said. ‘Spending deferred’ Occupancy levels at the hotels were increasing ‘month-on-month’, he said in a statement. During the COVID-19 enforced lockdown, the company undertook a series of measures to ensure adequate liquidity and cost optimisation. Cash conservation measures have included deferral of discretionary spending and capital expenditure unless absolutely required, he said. “We expect a recovery in business to be driven by domestic leisure and business tourism and limited international travel. We do not expect any significant challenge to our supply chain,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/demand-rising-in-leisure-segment-oriental-hotels/article33647189.ece
24 January 2021||New Delhi,||Prepared to meet surge in demand: Coal India||State-owned Coal India Ltd. (CIL) on Saturday said it was prepared to meet any surge in demand for coal from the power sector. The statement follows power demand touching an all-time high of 187.3 GW on Friday. “CIL is well geared to meet any surge in demand for the dry fuel from the power sector, especially on the back of close to 63 million tonnes’ stock at its pitheads,” the public sector unit said in a statement. The company is also pushing for increased production, to shore up supplies to coal-fuelled power plants. In this backdrop, close to 67% of the total coal-fired power generation in the country depends on CIL’s supplies. Of the 199 GW of coal-based power programmed for generation per day during the ongoing fiscal, 133 GW is scheduled from CIL-linked coal. Average coal-based power generation of power per day, which was 2.795 BU till Friday, spurted up to 3.072 BU, a jump of almost 10%. Coal-based power generation remains consistently high over other categories.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/prepared-to-meet-surge-in-demand-coal-india/article33647192.ece
24 January 2021||Bengaluru,||‘Cybersecurity trends turned unpredictable after COVID’||The pandemic and the worldwide adoption of remote working resulted in cybersecurity undergoing years’ worth of transformation in a matter of months and therefore it is tough to understand the current cybersecurity landscape and predict security trends, PwC India said on Friday. The effects of the COVID-19 crisis that began last year are still visible across the cybersecurity landscape, making it difficult to predict security trends for 2021. Considering the unprecedented events of last year, any predictions for the immediate future cannot be definitive, the firm said. Rising geopolitical tensions worldwide have resulted in governments and enterprises increasingly focusing on cybersecurity to protect their assets from cyberattackers. Instances of cyberattacks by national/state actors targeting critical infrastructure and nationally important establishments are becoming more common, said Siddharth Vishwanath, partner and cyber advisory leader, PwC India. “In 2021, there will be an increased focus among countries on developing stricter cybersecurity regulations and efforts to build both defensive and offensive capabilities,” he said. On data, he said that the importance of data had risen meteorically, with online transactions/interactions becoming a larger part of daily lives in the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cybersecurity-trends-turned-unpredictable-after-covid/article33647184.ece
24 January 2021||MUMBAI,||Okinawa unveils EV for delivery firms||Okinawa, an electric vehicle manufacturer, has announced the introduction of Okinawa Dual, a B2B electric two-wheeler in India priced at Rs. 58,998 . The two wheeler is customised to meet the varied needs of delivery companies and will be used for last-mile logistics. With dual loading capacity on the front as well as the rear, the vehicle has been designed to cater to delivery of heavy items such as gas cylinders, heavy hardware equipment, water cans as well as day-to-day items such as groceries and medicines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/okinawa-unveils-ev-for-delivery-firms/article33647185.ece
24 January 2021||MUMBAI,||Tata Motors introduces Altroz variant||Tata Motors has announced the introduction of the i-Turbo variant along with iRA-connected car technology for its premium hatchback Altroz iRA at an ex-showroom price starting Rs. 7.7 lakh. “In FY 21, our market share in the hatchback category has increased by 5.4% compared with the last fiscal and we have captured 17% market share in the premium hatch segment. We are confident that the new Altroz range will cater to the evolving needs of the Indian customer,” Shailesh Chandra, president, Passenger Vehicles Business Unit, Tata Motors said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tata-motors-introduces-altroz-variant/article33647186.ece
24 January 2021||New Delhi,||Apollo raises Rs. 1,170 cr. via QIB route||Apollo Hospitals on Saturday announced raising Rs. 1,169.99 crore through allotment of shares to qualified institutional buyers (QIBs). The Fund Raising Committee on Saturday “approved allotment of 46,59,498 equity shares of face value Rs. 5 each to eligible qualified institutional buyers at the issue price of 2,511 per equity share, i.e., at a premium of 2,506 per equity share aggregating to Rs. 11,699.99 million, pursuant to the issue,” Apollo Hospitals Enterprise said in a filing with the BSE. The issue opened on January 18, 2021 and closed on January 22, 2021, the healthcare major said in the filing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/apollo-raises-rs-1170-cr-via-qib-route/article33647190.ece
24 January 2021||New Delhi,||‘Halwa’ ritual held, Budget app unveiled||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Minister of State for Finance Anurag Thakur and senior officials of the Finance Ministry on Saturday participated in the symbolic ‘Halwa Ceremony’ that marks the beginning of compilation of budget documents. The ceremony used to mark the launch of the printing exercise for the Budget. This will be the first time since independent India’s first Budget on November 26, 1947, that the documents will not be physically printed. The Finance Minister also launched the ‘Union Budget Mobile App’ for access of Budget documents by Members of Parliament and the general public. The app facilitates access to 14 Budget documents as prescribed by the Constitution, the Ministry said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/halwa-ritual-held-budget-app-unveiled/article33647193.ece
24 January 2021||Chennai,||‘Decision to go for victory instinctively taken’||“If you believe in something, you’ve got to be prepared to die for it.” M. Sundar’s message in his WhatsApp status. Washington’s father Sundar, a pace bowling all-rounder who was in the Tamil Nadu squad in the 90s, is his inspiration. “He has gone through so much in life, is so tough that he has shown the right path for me,” the 21-year-old rising young star told The Hindu on Saturday. Heroic display Washington’s performance in the epic Test at the Gabba is heroic. Three wickets in the first innings, including Steve Smith “bowling to a plan”, a fluent 62 when India was in the dumps in the first innings, dismissing David Warner and unlucky not to send back Smith in the second innings, and his game-changing 22 on the final day. Taking us to the decisive moment on day five at the Gabba, Washington said, “It was a tense day and I watched every ball and, at that point, thought if India batted 98 overs for a draw it would be huge.” Then, India lost wickets. “I had my pads on and Ajinkya [Rahane] and Rohit [Sharma] started teasing me.” And then he walked in with India still needing more than 60. Washington took us right to the heat of the battle when he and Rishabh Pant met for a mid-pitch conversation. “Pant asked ‘Who do you think will bowl the next over?’. ‘Cummins’ replied Washington. Then Pant said, ‘But he has already bowled plenty in this spell,” recalled Washington. Instinctive decision The decision to go for victory was “instinctively taken” said Washington. “There were more than 50 runs to go and, I thought, if we could get 25-30 runs quickly, then Australia would be under pressure and the rest of the runs would come easily.” That really was the genesis of India breaching Fortress Gabba. Washington decided to counter-attack dangerous Cummins. “I knew Cummins would bowl two bouncers and the rest of the deliveries would be short pitched.” Cummins landed one short and Washington, light on his feet and quick with his reflexes, hooked him for an audacious six. The next ball was steered for four and the sluice gates were open again. “The plan worked,” he said. Under attack in the pressure-cooker atmosphere, Australia panicked. Washington had decisively swung the match. Nervous night He conceded to being a tad nervous before the Test, after bowling coach B. Arun broke the news about him playing. “That night I went to bed around 10.30 p.m. but could not sleep till it was 1.30.” Once the Test began, his trademark composure was back. He bowled with control and Washington’s driving through the off-side was brilliant.. And he flicked Starc with grace. “Starc was fast, Cummins nippy and Hazlewood moved it both ways.” Here, Washington took us to a little story on the tour. “I was not finding my batting rhythm, not getting my head and body position right during nets. But suddenly it all fell in place when I practised during the Sydney Test. I carried that to Brisbane.” The rest is history.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/decision-to-go-for-victory-instinctively-taken/article33647326.ece
24 January 2021||Galle,||Anderson’s spell keeps Sri Lanka in check||England paceman James Anderson returned his best figures of six for 40 in Asia to help bowl out Sri Lanka for 381 on day two of the second Test here on Saturday. The tourists were 98 for two at stumps after Lasith Embuldeniya struck early to remove the openers. Skipper Joe Root, on 67, and Jonny Bairstow, on 24, were batting as England trails by 283 runs. Anderson denied wicketkeeper-batsman Niroshan Dickwella a century after sending him back on 92 to claim his 30th five-wicket haul and second in Sri Lanka — his previous best was five for 75 in Galle in 2012. Anderson, who replaced Stuart Broad in the team for this Test, bowled 29 overs with 13 maidens before Sri Lanka was bowled out in an extended second session with Dilruwan Perera scoring a defiant 67. All the 10 wickets went to pacemen with Wood taking three. But it was spin in the final session with left-arm orthodox Embuldeniya sending back Dom Sibley, for nought, and Zak Crawley, for five, in quick succession.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/andersons-spell-keeps-sri-lanka-in-check/article33647320.ece
24 January 2021||KOZHIKODE,||KCA to conduct T20 league for women||Kerala's women cricketers will soon have a league of their own. The Kerala Cricket Association (KCA) will conduct a T20 league next month at Alappuzha. Five teams will compete in the tournament on a double round-robin basis. The top two finishers will play the final. Sponsors Twenty First Century Media and Dream11 are the sponsors, who had already signed an MoU with the KCA for a men's league. “The women's league will be held right after the men's event,” S. Ramesh, who heads KCA's game development and operations, told The Hindu on Saturday. “We will be able to announce the tournaments once we get the clearance from the Kerala government. We are hopeful because cinemas and bars have all reopened after the lockdown.” The league will no doubt be a big boost for the women's game in the State. And it could not have come at a better time: Kerala has been making rapid strides. Three years ago, it won the National Under-23 title. It was for the first time that a Kerala team was winning a National title in cricket, in the men's or women's section. Suman Sharma was the coach of that team and continues to be in charge. “It will help the experienced players, of course, but more importantly it could unearth some new ones,” she said. “At the moment I am working with about 30 players; I would like to widen that base.” Keeping in touch Suman, who was the coach of Velocity at the Women's T20 Challenge at Sharjah latst Novermber, said she had been in constant touch with the Kerala players during the lockdown. “I give them tasks and they have training sessions,” she said. “But there is nothing like playing a competitive match. So the T20 league is something to look forward to.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kca-to-conduct-t20-league-for-women/article33647672.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Blasters and Goa play out a scrappy draw||There was plenty of drama... a lucky goal, a goal being disallowed and a controversial red card. And in the end, Kerala Blasters and FC Goa finished with a 1-1 draw in the Hero Indian Super League at the GMC Stadium, Bambolim, on Saturday night. Jorge Mendoza gave third-placed Goa the lead in the 25th minute while K.P. Rahul headed in the Blasters equaliser in the 57th with both goals coming off set-pieces. After the scrappy match, the 13th for both teams, Goa stayed in third spot with 20 points while Blasters climbed two rungs, to seventh, with 14 points. Jorge Mendoza was unlucky to hit the woodwork in the sixth minute but he enjoyed a large slice of luck when he gave Goa the lead in the 25th minute. The Spaniard’s freekick from the left deflected off Sahal Abdul Samad’s head and entered the goal. Goalkeeper Albino Gomes jumped but it was just out of his reach. Fifteen minutes later, the Blasters’ Bakary Kone appeared to have scored the equaliser but the goal was disallowed as the assistant referee had spotted a handball. Near the hour mark, the young forward Rahul struck the equaliser off a perfect Facundo Pereyra corner kick. He soared over the rest of the crowd and his header bounced and went into the goal. Goa was down to 10 men in the 65th minute after defender Ivan Gonzalez was given the marching orders after receiving two yellow cards.  The result: Kerala Blasters 1 (K.P. Rahul 57) drew with FC Goa 1 (Jorge Ortiz Mendoza 25).   Sunday’s matches: Jamshedpur vs Hyderabad, 5.00 p.m.; Bengaluru vs Odisha 7.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/blasters-hold-fc-goa/article33647322.ece
24 January 2021||Coimbatore,||Team TVS Racing raring to go||Team TVS Racing had dominated the first two rounds, and they promise an even stronger show in the third round of the MRF MOGrip FMSCI INRC Rally of Coimbatore at the Kethanur windmill farm on Sunday. The riders had a feel of the stages on Saturday. “It’s a challenging rally track. It has the traction in some section and in a few others it is slippery,” said Bengaluru’s D. Sachin, who expects a fight to the finish with TVS teammate Samuel Jacob (Udupi). “There are some long stages as well and you can go high speed but one has to be cautious of the tight turns as well. A lot of focus is required. “It’s the first race of the year and I am really excited. This is the longest stage we have had. It will be a real test between man and machine,” said Aishwarya Pissay. Shyam Kothari of GodSpeed Racing, the man behind the show, was pleased with the record number of entries. “We refused about 20 entries because we needed to have the provision of avoiding any incidents happening.” MRF’s Regional Sales Manager Gautham Hari flagged off the event from the Suguna Kalyana Mandapam on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/team-tvs-racing-raring-to-go/article33647331.ece
24 January 2021||Coimbatore,||Amir Sayed steals the show, wins four races||Chennai’s Ashwin Datta (Dark Don), the championship leader, inched a bit closer to the title with two podium finishes in the FLGB4 class of the 23rd JK Tyre National Racing Championship at the KMS circuit here on Saturday. In the JK Tyre Novice Cup, it was Amir Sayed (MSport) who stole the show winning four races in a row to seal the championship. There was none to challenge the 16-year-old from Kottayam. Put the youngster at the back of the grid and he is still up there to take the flag and finish on top of the podium. It was with such command that he drove today. Amir’s mother (Marcela) from South America was quietly watching those winning moments from the sidelines. “I am his biggest fan and supporter. I am very happy to see the joy in his face. It’s very fulfilling, but a lot of hard work has gone into it,” she said. Even as Amir was enjoying his moment, Ashwin was busy beating the best in his class. He finished second and first in two races, while his teammate A. Sandeep Kumar completed a fine double and positioned himself well for the final day challenge.  The results (provisional):   FLGB4: Race 1: A. Sandeep Kumar (Dark Don) 17:32.376; 2. Ashwin Datta (Dark Don); 3. T.S. Diljith (Dark Don). Race 2: 1. Ashwin 14:35.521; 2. Sandeep Kumar; 3. Diljith.   JK Tyre Novice Cup: Race 1: 1. Amir Sayed (MSport) 13:08.679; 2. Chetan Surineni (Momentum); 3. Neym Rizvi (MSport). Race 2: 1. Amir; 2. Chetan; 3. Neym.   Race 3: 1. Amir 13:33.497; 2. Chetan; 3. Dhruvin Gajjar (DTS). Race 4: 1. Amir 13:36.512; 2. Aman Chaudhary (DTS); 3. Chetan .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/amir-sayed-steals-the-show-wins-four-races/article33647333.ece
24 January 2021||Hyderabad:,||Akido should make amends||Trainer K. Satheesh’s ward Akido, who ended third in his last outing, should make amends in the Step A Side Plate (Div. I), the main event of Sunday’s (January 24) afternoon races. Rails will be announced one hour before the first race.  STEP A SIDE PLATE (Div. I) (1,400m), Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat.II) — 1.45 p.m.: 1. Akido (8) Akshay Kumar 56, 2. Baudelaire (2) Suraj Narredu 56, 3. Epsom (1) Kuldeep Singh 56, 4. Indian Glory (9) Mukesh Kumar 56, 5. Magic Mark (6) Ajeeth Kumar 56, 6. Sye Ra (5) Afroz Khan 56, 7. Yesterday (7) R. Laxmikanth 56, 8. Zamazenta (10) Arshad Alam 56, 9. Golden Amaris (3) A.A. Vikrant 54.5 and 10. Inside Story (4) B.R. Kumar 54.5.  1. AKIDO, 2. BAUDELAIRE, 3. INSIDE STORY   SANGAM PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), rated up to 25 (Cat. III) — 2.15: 1. Astronaut (1) Ajeeth Kumar 60, 2. Bob Campbell (3) Ashad Asbar 60, 3. Break The Ice (7) C.P. Bopanna 60, 4. Fleur (9) Akshay Kumar 60, 5. Honourable Guest (5) P. Gaddam 60, 6. Let It Be Me (4) Abhay Singh 60, 7. Millennia (2) Kuldeep Singh 60, 8. Smarty (11) Surya Prakash 60, 9. Star Of Fashion (10) B.R. Kumar 59.5, 10. Dillon (13) C. Umesh 59, 11. Negress Princess (6) Afroz Khan 59, 12. Bedazzled (8) Mukesh Kumar 58.5 and 13. Acadian Angel (12) Santosh Raj N.R. 57.  1. FLEUR, 2. DILLON, 3. SMARTY   STEP A SIDE PLATE (Div. II) (1,400m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II) — 2.45: 1. Ashwa Migsun (2) Suraj Narredu 56, 2. Dream Station (7) C. Umesh 56, 3. Horse O’War (4) Mukesh Kumar 56, 4. Jarvis (1) Surya Prakash 56, 5. My Master (5) B.R. Kumar 56, 6. Paladino (6) A.A. Vikrant 56, 7. Pedro Planet (3) Arshad Alam 56, 8. Galwan (10) Akshay Kumar 54.5, 9. Mireya (8) Kuldeep Singh 54.5 and 10. Muaser (9) Afroz Khan 54.5.  1. GALWAN, 2. ASHWA MIGSUN, 3. HORSE O’WAR   CROWN TREASURE PLATE (1,400m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III) — 3.15: 1. Chuckit (8) Mukesh Kumar 60, 2. Mark My Day (5) B.R. Kumar 57.5, 3. Lacrosse (1) Suraj Narredu 57, 4. Aerial Combat (4) Akshay Kumar 55.5, 5. Whiskey Martini (2) C. Umesh 54, 6. Always Success (7) Kuldeep Singh 52.5, 7. Due Diligence (3) Surya Prakash 52.5, 8. That’s My Speed (9) Gopal Singh 51.5, 9. Stormy (10) Ashad Asbar 51 and 10. Turf Monarch (6) R. Manish 51.  1. LACROSSE, 2. CHUCKIT, 3. DUE DILIGENCE   SALARJUNG PLATE (1,400m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat.II) — 3.45: 1. N R I Symbol (10) A.A. Vikrant 60, 2. Blazer (3) Arshad Alam 56.5, 3. City Of Wisdom (1) P. Gaddam 56.5, 4. Esteva (8) Abhay Singh 55, 5. Ayur Shakti (6) Kuldeep Singh 54.5, 6. N R I Valley (4) Akshay Kumar 53, 7. Tetra Rama (2) Suraj Narredu 53, 8. Mr. Shanghai (11) Ajeeth Kumar 52.5, 9. Exclusive Art (12) Ashad Asbar 51, 10. Shiloh (5) R.S. Jodha 51, 11. Crazy Horse (9) B.R. Kumar 50.5 and 12. Linewiler (7) Afroz Khan 50.5.  1. TETRA RAMA, 2. BLAZER, 3. N R I VALLEY   GREENER PLATE (1,200m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III) — 4.15: 1. Amyra (6) Akshay Kumar 60, 2. Star Racer (14) Ashad Asbar 59, 3. Hurricane (10) Abhay Singh 58.5, 4. Augenstern (5) Mukesh Kumar 57.5, 5. Blazing Speed (3) Ajeeth Kumar 57, 6. Art In Motion (13) Arshad Alam 56.5, 7. Vijays Simha (9) Suraj Narredu 55.5, 8. Battle Ready (2) A.A. Vikrant 54, 9. Charcoal (1) C. Umesh 54, 10. Exponent (8) B.R. Kumar 54, 11. Misty River (11) Surya Prakash 54, 12. India Gate (4) R. Manish 53.5, 13. Flying Queen (7) Koushik 53 and 14. Royal Green (12) P. Gaddam 53.  1. VIJAYS SIMHA, 2. AMYRA, 3. MISTY RIVER   SANGAM PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), rated up to 25 (Cat. III) — 4.45: 1. Certitude (4) Suraj Narredu 60, 2. Glendale (13) Afroz Khan 60, 3. Jo Malone (6) Mukesh Kumar 60, 4. Mahavi (10) Koushik 60, 5. New Role (5) C.P. Bopanna 60, 6. Princess Shana (7) Surya Prakash 60, 7. Royal Valentine (11) Abhay Singh 60, 8. Silver Set (1) Akshay Kumar 60, 9. Golden Lace (Ex: Vlatava) (8) Santosh Raj N.R. 59.5, 10. Prime Gardenia (2) Ajeeth Kumar 59.5, 11. Big Day (9) B.R. Kumar 59, 12. Hashtag (3) C. Umesh 58.5 and 13. Moka (12) A.A. Vikrant 57.5.  1. CERTITUDE, 2. JO MALINE, 3. SILVER SET  Day’s Best: GALWAN  Double: LACROSSE – CERTITUDE  Jackpot: 3, 4, 5, 6 & 7. Mini Jackpot: (i) 1, 2, 3 & 4. (ii) 4, 5, 6 & 7. Treble: (i) 2, 3 & 4. (ii) 5, 6 & 7. Tanala: All races.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/akido-should-make-amends/article33647336.ece
24 January 2021||rome,||Struggling Roma wins seven-goal thriller||Embattled Roma gained some relief with a 4-3 win over visiting Spezia in Serie A on Saturday. Lorenzo Pellegrini scored the winner two minutes into stoppage time.  The results: LaLiga: Huesca 0 drew with Villarreal 0.   Serie A: Roma 4 (Mayoral 17, 52, Karsdorp 55, Pellegrini 90+2) bt Spezia 3 (Piccoli 24, Farias 59, Verde 90).   Bundesliga: Freiburg 2 (Demirovic 14, Jeong 37) bt Stuttgart 1 (Wamangituka 7); Bayer Leverkusen 0 lost to Wolfsburg 1 (Baku 35); Arminia Bielefeld 1 (Cordova 36) lost to Eintracht Frankfurt 5 (Silva 25, 33, Kostic 27, Nilsson 51-og, Jovic 75); Mainz 3 (Niakhate 24, 35, Barreiro 50) bt RB Leipzig 2 (Adams 15, Halstenberg 30); Augsburg 2 (Niederlechner 17, 47) bt Union Berlin 1 (Ingvartsen 25).   Friday: LaLiga: Levante 2 (Gomez 62, Roger 83) drew with Real Sociedad 2 (Alcaraz 73, Plano 78).   Serie A: Benevento 2 (Viola 31, Lapadula 49) drew with Torino 2 (Zaza 51, 90+3).   Bundesliga: Borussia M’Gladbach 4 (Elvedi 11, 32, Bensebaini 50, Thuram 79) bt Borussia Dortmund 2 (Haaland 22, 28).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/struggling-roma-wins-seven-goal-thriller/article33647337.ece
24 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Duhan and Shruti emerge champions||Seventeen-year-old Chirag Duhan gave a hint of his class and fire power in beating top seed Nishant Dabas 6-4, 6-3 in the boys’ final of the ITF grade-4 junior tennis tournament at the DLTA Complex here on Saturday. The 14-year-old Shruti Ahlawat demonstrated her big game as she beat Rutuja Chaphalkar 6-4, 6-2 for the girls’ title. Coached by Pundreek Chaturvedi, Shruti, in her maiden appearance in the ITF under-18, did not drop a set in eight matches, including three in the qualifiers. Duhan has been give a solid foundation by coach Gaurav Sharma over the years and the towering boy showed the improvement by beating tough players like Karan Singh and Ajay Malik without dropping a set. As national coach Zeeshan Ali pointed out, the Indians have a bunch of ITF junior events over the next few weeks to try and improve their world rank so as to get ready for the Grand Slams. Balram Singh, member of the national selection committee, gave away the prizes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/duhan-and-shruti-emerge-champions/article33647480.ece
24 January 2021||Pune:,||Juliette may score||The five-year-old grey mare Juliette, who won very well in her last start, may score over her rivals in the Western India Race Horse Owners’ Association Eclipse Stakes Of India, the main attraction of Sunday’s (January 24) Mumbai races to be held at Pune. Rails will be announced one hour before the first race.  TOROLOCO PLATE (Div. II) (1,600m), Cl. V, rated 4 to 30 — 12.30 p.m.: 1. In Contention (2) Trevor 60.5, 2. Minx (6) Chouhan 60.5, 3. Patriots Day (3) Kaviraj 59.5, 4. She Is On Fire (4) Santosh G 59, 5. Trinket (5) Bhawani 59, 6. Springbok (10) Aniket 58, 7. Irish Eyes (7) Nazil 57, 8. Chezza (1) Merchant 53, 9. War Of Attrition (8) Zeeshan 52 and 10. Big Ben (9) Parmar 50.  1. IN CONTENTION, 2. MINX, 3. TRINKET   GREAT INVESTMENT PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), Cl. V, rated 4 to 30 — 1.00: 1. Flash Force (4) Peter 61.5, 2. Istanbul (5) Merchant 61.5, 3. Sovereign Star (2) Gagandeep 61.5, 4. Edge Of Tomorrow (7) Ranjane 61, 5. Isle Of Skye (8) Trevor 61, 6. Pepper (11) Sandesh 61, 7. Aira (10) Bhawani 60, 8. Michelangelo (12) T.S. Jodha 60, 9. Mythical Power (3) Aniket 60, 10. Blue Blood (6) M.S. Deora 59.5, 11. Spice (1) Shailesh Shinde 59.5 and 12. Shadows (9) S. Amit 51.5.  1. ISLE OF SKYE, 2. PEPPER, 3. AIRA   AROMA PLATE (1,600m), Cl. III, rated 40 to 66 — 1.30: 1. Notoriety (2) Chouhan 59, 2. One Wish (1) Sandesh 58, 3. My Precious (6) A. Prakash 57, 4. Oui Sauvage (3) Neeraj 56.5, 5. Antarctica (---), 6. Dreams (7) T.S. Jodha 53 and 7. Sandman (5) Trevor 53.  1. ONE WISH, 2. NOTORIETY   EMPERADO PLATE (Div. I) (1,000m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46 — 2.00: 1. Exotic Queen (10) Aniket 61, 2. Godsword (6) J. Chinoy 60.5, 3. Julio Cesaro (7) Peter 59.5, 4. Mighty Warrior (3) Bhawani 59, 5. Enlightened (9) T.S. Jodha 58.5, 6. Abraxas (2) Kaviraj 57.5, 7. Ms Boss (8) Sandesh 57.5, 8. Safdar (5) S.J. Sunil 57.5, 9. Clark Kent (1) Nazil 56.5, 10. Stick To The Plan (11) Kuldeep 55, 11. Lady Lanette (4) Santosh G 54.5, 12. Luminosity (14) S. Amit 54.5, 13. Carlos (12) Zeeshan 54 and 14. Isinit (13) Merchant 53.  1. EXOTIC QUEEN, 2. ENLIGHTENED, 3. LADY LANETTE   TOROLOCO PLATE (Div. I) (1,600m), Cl. V, rated 4 to 30 — 2.30: 1. Spanish City (9) Ayyar 62, 2. Venezuela (Late King Cyrus) (4) Chouhan 62, 3. Corus (7) Vishal Bunde 61.5, 4. Kingsway (11) Santosh G 61.5, 5. Royal Castle (10) J. Chinoy 60.5, 6. Arrecife (5) Peter 60, 7. Magical Journey (3) Bhawani 60, 8. Naxos (1) Kaviraj 60, 9. Rudimentary (8) Trevor 60, 10. Brianna (6) Nazil 58 and 11. Soldier Of Fortune (2) Merchant 55.5.  1. VENEZUELA, 2. SPANISH CITY, 3. KINGSWAY   SMASHER PLATE (2,000m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46 — 3.00: 1. Summer Night (9) Sandesh 59, 2. Ladida (11) T.S. Jodha 58.5, 3. Seasons Greetings (7) Chouhan 58.5, 4. Historian (13) Vishal Bunde 58, 5. Benevolence (1) Kishore Kadam 56.5, 6. Power Of Thor (6) Kaviraj 56, 7. Brazos (12) Parmar 55.5, 8. Cabo Da Roca (5) Dashrath 55, 9. Irina (3) Neeraj 55, 10. Its a Deal (10) Merchant 55, 11. Socrates (2) Trevor 54, 12. Dagger’s Strike (8) Nazil 53.5 and 13. Tiberius (4) Mosin 53.5.  1. SEASONS GREETINGS, 2. SUMMER NIGHT, 3. CABO DA ROCA   CAMPANERO PLATE (1,200m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only — 3.30: 1. Ahead Of His Time (8) Trevor 56, 2. Alejandro (11) Bhawani 56, 3. Alfayiz (10) Zervan 56, 4. Caprifla (6) Dashrath 56, 5. Euphoric (3) Shailesh Shinde 56, 6. Executive Decision (13) V. Jodha 56, 7. Souza (2) Chouhan 56, 8. Walking Brave (1) Neeraj 56, 9. Amalfitana (7) S. Kamble 54.5, 10. Circus Queen (12) Sandesh 54.5, 11. Dragoness (9) Parmar 54.5, 12. Fortune Cookie (4) R. Ajinkya 54.5 and 13. Midas Touch (5) T.S. Jodha 54.5.  1. AHEAD OF HIS TIME, 2. DRAGONESS, 3. SOUZA   WESTERN INDIA RACE HORSE OWNERS’ ASSOCIATION ECLIPSE STAKES OF INDIA (Gr. 2) (2,000m), (Terms) 4-y-o & over — 4.00: 1. Juliette (7) Sandesh 59, 2. Roberta (4) Chouhan 57, 3. Raees (6) T.S. Jodha 55.5, 4. Vulcan (2) Dashrath 55.5, 5. Victorious Sermon (5) Zervan 54, 6. Truly Epic (8) Parmar 52.5, 7. Wizard Of Stocks (3) Neeraj 52.5 and 8. Parisian (1) Trevor 51.  1. JULIETTE, 2. ROBERTA, 3. WIZARD OF STOCKS   A CAMPBELL TROPHY (1,000m), Cl. III, rated 40 to 66 — 4.30: 1. Sharareh (8) Bhawani 61, 2. Sea Quest (4) Peter 58, 3. Pokerface (6) Nazil 57, 4. Namaqua (7) Parmar 56, 5. Impala (1) Kaviraj 55, 6. Menilly (9) Sandesh 55, 7. Wild Fire (11) Aniket 55, 8. Memorable Memories (2) Dashrath 53.5, 9. Red Carnation (10) Ayyar 53.5, 10. Slam Dunk (5) Merchant 52 and 11. Untitled (3) Shubham 51.  1. MENILLY, 2. MEMORABLE MEMORIES, 3. SHARAREH   EMPERADO PLATE (Div.II) (1,000m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46 — 5.00: 1. Falconette (12) Dashrath 59, 2. Turmeric Tower (8) J. Chinoy 57, 3. Myrcella (5) Zeeshan 56, 4. Aegon (3) T.S. Jodha 55.5, 5. Dawnstar (11) S. Amit 52.5, 6. Sussing (2) Peter 52.5, 7. Sufiyah (4) Parmar 52, 8. Willows (10) Neeraj 52, 9. Gabriel (13) Santosh G 51.5, 10. Little More (Late Finalist) (1) Kaviraj 51.5, 11. Suarez (6) Kuldeep 51.5, 12. Phoenix Spirit (9) Raghuveer 51, 13. Who Dares Wins (14) Nirmal 50.5 and 14. Xponential (7) Merchant 50.  1. AEGON, 2. TURMERIC TOWER, 3. LITTLE MORE   GREAT INVESTMENT PLATE (Div. II), (1,200m), Cl. V, rated 4 to 30 — 5.30: 1. Anoushka (3) Ayyar 60, 2. Gusty Girl (3) Ayyar 60, 3. Star Sincerity (7) Neeraj 59.5, 4. Taleem (1) S. Amit 59.5, 5. Dharasana (2) Sandesh 59, 6. Tristar (4) Nazil 59, 7. Moment Of Madness (10) T.S. Jodha 58.5, 8. Curfew (5) Nirmal 58, 9. Jaipar Honey (6) Raghuveer 56, 10. Thea’s Pet (12) Kaviraj 56, 11. Gandalf (11) Peter 53 and 12. Highland Wind (8) Zeeshan 50.  1. DHARASANA, 2. TRISTAR, 3. GANDALF  Day’s Best: ONE WISH  Double: ISLE OF SKYE — AEGON  Jackpot: (i) 3, 4, 5,6 & 7. (ii) 7, 8, 9, 10 & 11. Treble: (i) 4, 5 & 6. (ii) 5, 6 & 7. (iii) 8, 9 & 10. Tanala: All races. Super Jackpot: 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 & 11.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/juliette-may-score/article33647775.ece
24 January 2021||BANGKOK,||Impressive run of Indian doubles teams ends||The Indian men’s and mixed doubles teams lost in the semifinals of the Toyota Thailand Open on Saturday. The pair of Satwiksairaj Rankireddy and Ashwini Ponnappa produced a spirited performance before going down narrowly to top seeds Dechapol Puavaranukroh and Sapsiree Taerattanachai 20-22, 21-18, 12-21 in a 57-minute battle. The impressive run of Satwiksairaj and Chirag Shetty also came to an end after a close 18-21, 18-21 semifinal defeat to World No. 9 Malaysian combination of Aaron Chia and Soh Wooi Yik in men's doubles. “The quality of the last two games were good. I think we played one of the best matches of our careers against these top players,” said Satwiksairaj. “We ended up making a couple of crucial mistakes, starting with my serve. We then lost points one after the other. After we changed sides, they got smarter and changed their strategy,” Ashwini said. “We were happy to play in the semifinals, but we didn't play our best today. “I think if we'd been able to take a few points and converted the first game, the scenario would have been different,” Chirag said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/impressive-run-of-indian-doubles-teams-ends/article33647317.ece
24 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Harikrishna still joint second||P. Harikrishna (3.5 points) drew with Poland’s Radoslaw Wojtaszek in 43 moves to retain the joint second spot behind leader Nils Grandelius (4) after six rounds of the Tata Steel Masters chess tournament at Wijk aan Zee on Friday. Against Wojtaszek, a former ‘second’ of Viswanathan Anand, Harikrishna could not get any advantage with white and eventually settled for a draw following perpetual checks in a rook-and-pawn endgame.  Other results (sixth round): Nils Grandelius (Swe, 4) drew with Fabiano Caruana (USA, 3.5); Jan-Krzysztof Duda (Pol, 2.5) drew with Magnus Carlsen (Nor, 3.5); Jordeen van Foreest (Ned, 3.5) bt David Anton Guijar (Esp, 2); Andrey Esipenko (Rus, 2.5) drew with Anish Giri (Ned, 3.5); Alexander Donchenko (Ger, 1.5) lost to Alireza Firouzja (FIDE, 3.5); Maxime Vachier-Lagrave (Fra, 2.5) drew with Aryan Tari (Nor, 2.5).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/harikrishna-still-joint-second/article33647318.ece
24 January 2021||Noida,||Sandeep stuns Narsingh||Narsingh Yadav and controversies seem to be made for each other. Coming back to action after completing a four-year doping ban, the wrestler was in the spotlight on day one of the freestyle wrestling National championships here on Saturday, for a brief while, before it shifted to 21-year-old Sandeep Singh, who upset all calculations and predictions to win the 74kg category. Narsingh was clearly rusty and tentative despite a win by technical superiority (difference of 10 points) in the first round against 19-year old Gourav Baliyan, the defending champion in this category but switching to 79kg last year who moved back down with an eye on Olympic qualification. Talking point But it was his quarterfinal bout against former Asian champion Amit Dhankhar that became the talking point of the day. Leading 3-1 before losing a point for passivity, Narsingh was stunned by a last-second turn by Dhankar in the face-off between two men on a comeback trail. Initially denied the turn, several minutes of reviews and replays later, the referees agreed Dhankhar had beaten the clock, winning 4-3 and leaving Narsingh stoned. Unlike Baliyan, however, Sandeep justified his decision to move down a rung. Not in anyone’s list of favourites to win the most competitive category, the defending champion from Punjab’s Mansa district in the 79kg scalped Dhankhar and Jitender Kumar en route to the title. He did so in contrasting fashion — defeating Dhankhar by technical superiority with more than 90 seconds left and shocking Jitender in the dying seconds in the final. Jitender, considered the successor to Sushil Kumar in the category, has been off colour for an entire year and, coming back from a knee injury, was cautious and defensive. The result has thrown open the 74kg — where India is yet to qualify for Olympics — and Sushil Kumar’s way back to claim it has only become tougher.  The results: 57kg: 1. Pankaj (SSCB), 2. Aman (Har), 3. Rahul (Del) and Shubham (Har); 61kg: 1. Ravinder (SSCB), 2. Suraj (MAH), 3. Naveen (RSPB) and Sonba Tanaji (SSCB); 74kg: 1. Sandeep Singh (Pun). 2. Jitender (RSPB), 3. Amit Dhankar (Har) and Vijay (Har); 92kg: 1. Praveen (RSPB)., 2. Prithviraj (Mah), 3. Lovpreet Singh (Pun) and Gopal Yadav (RSPB); 125kg: 1. Sumit (RSPB), 2. Dinesh Dhankar (Har), 3. Pratyaksh (Har), Anil Kumar (Raj).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sandeep-stuns-narsingh/article33647335.ece
24 January 2021||Los Angeles,||Sexton digs Nets’ grave again||Collin Sexton carried Cleveland Cavaliers to a second straight win over Brooklyn Nets on Friday, scoring 25 points and dishing out nine assists in a 125-113 win. Just two nights ago he had posted a career-high 42 points against the same Nets.  The results: Phoenix Suns lost to Denver Nuggets 130-126 (OT); San Antonio Spurs lost to Dallas Mavericks 122-117.   Philadelphia 76ers bt Boston Celtics 122-110; Toronto Raptors bt Miami Heat 101-81; LA Clippers bt Oklahoma City Thunder 120-106.   Sacramento Kings bt New York Knicks 103-94; Detroit Pistons lost to Houston Rockets 103-102; Indiana Pacers bt Orlando Magic 120-118 (OT).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sexton-digs-nets-grave-again/article33647316.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Azaan stars for Vultures CC||Thota Mohammed Azaan’s 163 was instrumental in Vultures CC’s 148-run win over Sir Syed Cricketers in the quarterfinal stage of the KSCA (Group I) under-19 inter-club tournament.  The scores (quarterfinals): Vultures CC 296/6 in 50 overs (Thota Mohammed Azaan 163, R. Smaran 38, Vishwas 58) bt Sir Syed Cricketers 148 in 46.4 overs (N. Sumanth 38, Gyan Somaiah 52, S.M. Shamanth 3/24).   Jawahar SC (1) 265/7 in 50 overs (Amod S.Kaluve 72, V. Prithvi 73, Kruthik Krishna 52 n.o., Aneeshwar Gautam 4/32) bt Jawans CC 210 in 44.5 overs (M. Arsalaan 54, Aneeshwar Gautam 87, S.B. Sanket 4/52, S. Sree Roopesh 4/43).   Cambridge CC (1) 305/4 in 50 overs (Aashish Mahesh 27, Shashank Krishnamurthy 27, Dheeraj Somaiah 74, Jay Borah 39, Harshil 77 n.o., Hrishith Shetty 50 n.o.) bt Herons CC 213 in 44.1 overs (Aditya Mani 64, Mohsin Khan 72, Shreevathsa R.Acharya 3/29, K.N. Anish 3/63).   Vijaya CC 222 in 44.5 overs (Thippa Reddy 40, Vijaya Raj 43, Yashovardhan Parantap 76, Paras Gurbax Arya 3/33) bt Swastic Union CC (2) 150 in 40.1 overs (Yashwant 40, N.A. Chinmay 34, Arjun Nair 5/38).    K. Shashank’s match-haul of 12 for 59 helped Combined Mofussil register a thumping ten-wicket win over Mofussil XI in the KSCA SA Srinivasan Memorial under-23 tournament on Saturday. Elsewhere, Combined City XI, aided by half-centuries from Jayesh Babu (59), Abul Hasan Khalid (83) and Aman Khan (78), upstaged Bangalore Zone’s 336 to secure the first-innings lead in a drawn encounter.  The scores: Mofussil XI 79 & 69 in 25.1 overs (Abhilash Shetty 3/13, K. Shashank 6/34) lost to Combined Mofussil XI 122 & 27 for no loss in 7.3 overs.   Bangalore Zone 336 drew with Combined City XI 358/9 in 82.5 overs (Mohammed A.Jawad 39, Jayesh Babu 59, S.A. Rishi Bopanna 45, Abul Hasan Khalid 83, Aman Khan 78, S.S. Sankalp 3/76).   Bangalore City XI 330/6 & 77/5 in 18.1 overs (K. Rohit 47) drew with President’s XI 255 in 60.2 overs (Jeswanth Acharya 31, Lochan Appanna 83 Prajwal Pavan 39, Prajwal Krishna 35, Kartikey Wadhwa 3/73, Shaun Tristan Joseph 3/41).    Top seed Rishi Reddy defeated Madhwin Kamath 6-3, 6-2 in the final to clinch the singles title in the Rs. 1 lakh prize money AITA Men’s Championship which concluded at the PBI-CSE Tennis Academy, Padukone-Dravid Centre for Sports Excellence here on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/azaan-stars-for-vultures-cc/article33647329.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Aniketh hits unbeaten century||Aniketh Kumar cracked a century (192 n.o., 193b, 30x4, 1x6) for International CC against Time CC on the first day of the A2-Division two-day league cricket championship here on Saturday.  The scores: A2 Division two-day league (first day): Brother XI 88 in 53.2 overs (Avinash 34, Kapil 3/10) lost to HPS Begumpet 89/2 in 24.4 overs (Gaurav 43 n.o.).   International 307 in 76.5 Overs (Aniketh Kumar 192 n.o., Arsalan 3/14, Manish 3/37) vs Time 3/0 in 6 overs.   New Star 257 in 77.2 overs (Md Ibaaduddin Khan 30, Mirza Mudassir Baig 78, K. Sai Krishna 32, Yasir Arafath 30, Syed Rasheed 4/53) vs Tirumala 8/0 in 5 overs.      V. Thirumurugan and Rishita B. Reddy won the boys’ and girls’ titles in the AITA Championship Series under-14 tennis tournament here. In the boys’ final, Thirumurugan defeated Showrya Syamala 4-6, 7-5, 6-3 while in the girls’ title clash, Rishita put it across Ika Raju 6-4, 3-6 7-5. IGS Constructions managing director Iftekhar Shareef gave away the prizes.  The results: Finals: Boys: U-14: V. Thirumuragan bt Showrya Syamala 4-6, 7-5, 6-3. Doubles: V. Hrishik & Showrya Syamala bt Rahul Lokesh & Anish Jain 6-1, 6-3.   Girls: U-14: Rishita B. Reddy bt Ika Raju 6-4, 3-6, 7-5. Doubles: D. Laxmi Siri & K. Rithika bt Ika Raju & Rishitha B. Reddy 2-6, 7-5, 10-7 .    City College Old Boys Basketball Club will organise a one-day tournament at City College here on January 26. Matches will commence from 9 a.m. and only seven players per team are allowed. Spot entries will be accepted. For details call S. Hanumanth Rao on 9393004825.   Hyderabad District Athletics Association will organise district cross-country selection trials-cum-meet for men and women at Nizam College on January 25 from 6.30 a.m. The district team to take part in the seventh Telangana State cross-country championship in Yadadri (Bhongir) on January 31 will be picked. Interested should report to organising secretary K.M. Chisty at the venue. For details, call 9849048586. Meanwhile, it is also informed that the Medchal District Athletics Association will conduct selection trials on January 25. Interested may call Rajaeskhar on 9849612733 or Y. Sivasankar on 9493980144.   Sailu Noor Basha of Andhra Pradesh bagged a double, winning the women’s singles and mixed doubles titles in the all-India Postal table tennis tournament here.  The results (finals): Men: Akaash Nath (WB) bt Pritham Bose (WB) 4-0. Doubles: Bumin Bandari & Pratik Patil (Guj) bt Sourav Gosh & Parikrit Roy (WB) 3-1.   Women: Sailu Noor Basha (AP) bt Sayali Bose (WB) 4-0. Doubles: Sayani Bose & Sangitha Mahadan (WB) bt Murchana Gohain & Mahasweta (Asm) 3-1.   Mixed doubles: Pavan Kumar & Sailu (AP) bt Elsayeed M. Hussain & Mahasweta (Asm) 3-0. Team championship: Men: West Bengal bt Assam 3-2.   Women: Gujarat bt West Bengal 3-2 .    P. Harshavardhan hit a match-winning century (103, 70b, 10x4, 6x6) for Everest CC against Shining Stars in the KDCA A-Division one-day league cricket championship for Katragadda Madhusudhana Rao memorial trophy here.  The scores: ABCC 263/8 in 50 overs (Sk. Rasheed 41, B. Rajasekhar 44, T. Srinivasa Rao 55) bt Patel 244/9 in 50 overs (M. Chidambhareswara Rao 79, Ch. Surendra 51).   Everest 315/7 in 50 overs (Sk. Kaza 72, B. Pavan 48, P. Harshavardhan 103, Chaitanya 40, Bhuvanendra 4/49) bt Shining Stars 132 in 31.3 overs (N. Guravan 4/38).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aniketh-hits-unbeaten-century/article33647601.ece
24 January 2021||Alappuzha:,||Soham, Bhavana win titles||Soham Bhattacharya (Alappuzha) and Bhavana Menon (Ernakulam) won the men’s and women’s titles in the Bank of Baroda Kerala State Table Tennis championships at the YMCA TT Arena here on Saturday. Soham Bhattacharya lived up to his billing as the favourite to defeat team-mate Udit Bhattacharya 11-3, 11-8, 11-5, 8-11, 11-7 to win the men’s title. Bhavana Menon (Ernakulam) overcame stiff resistance from Anamika Johns before winning 11-6, 11-6, 7-11, 7-11, 11-9, 5-11, 11-7 in the women’s final.  The results: Men: Final: Soham Bhattacharya (Alp) bt Udit Bhattacharya (Alp) 11-3, 11-8, 11-6, 8-11, 11-7. Semifinals: Soham Bhattacharya (Alp) bt Amir Afthab (Alp) 11-5, 11-2, 12-14, 11-6, 11-5; Udit Bhattacharya (Alp) bt Bharath Krishna (Tvm) 11-8, 11-6, 11-7, 11-9.   Women: Final: Bhavana Menon (Ekm) bt Anamika Johns (Ekm) 11-6, 11-6, 7-11, 7-11, 11-9, 5-11, 11-7.   Semifinals: Bhavana Menon (Ekm) bt Jasmine Sunny (Ekm) 11-7, 11-9, 11-2, 5-11, 9-11, 7-11, 11-3; Anamika Johns (Ekm) bt Ashwini Renuka (Alp) 9-11, 8-11, 11-8, 12-10, 11-9, 11-9 .    S. Sivaraj's four wickets and Basil Mathew's unbeaten half century helped Tripunithura CC-B crush Fighters CC by 10 wickets in the Ernakulam District A-division cricket league at the St. Paul's College ground, Kalamassery, on Saturday.  The scores: Fighters CC 92 in 25 overs (S. Sivaraj 4/7) lost to Tripunithura CC-B 95 for no loss in 8.5 overs (Basil Mathew 58 n.o.) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/soham-bhavana-win-titles/article33647676.ece
24 January 2021||CHENNAI,||Paul and Divya reign||Paul Cepha and Divya Ramesh clinched the u-16 boys’ and girls’ titles in the MatchPoint Tennis Academy State-ranking tournament on Saturday.  The results (finals):   Boys: Paul Cepha bt Hasan Mohamed 6-3, 6-2.   Girls: Divya Ramesh bt Anusuya Subbiah 7-5, 6-4 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/paul-and-divya-reign/article33647413.ece
24 January 2021||New Delhi,||Bharat and Shashank shine for Young Star||Bharat Kumar scored 91 and Shashank Singh picked up four wickets as Young Star Academy beat Golden Hawks Club by 48 runs to enter the semifinals of the seventh SN Dubey under-16 tournament.  The scores: YSA 226/9 in 40 overs (Bharat Kumar 91, Anubhav Singh 40, Sangam Shahi 3/29, Hardik Sharma 3/33) bt GHC 178 in 37 overs (Vansh Gupta 54, Piyush Kumar 46, Dhruv Yadav 35, Shashank Singh 4/24, Kartik Goel 3/24) .    Chetan Kamble and Dinesh Chauhan scored half-centuries as PSPB beat Ministry Of Petroleum and Natural Gas by 75 runs in the annual PSPB tournament.  The scores: PSPB 171/4 in 20 overs (Chetan Kamble 56, Dinesh Chauhan 50, Bhupender Kumar 2/30) bt Ministry of PNG 96/8 in 20 overs (Pramod Kumar 35, Vishwa Vardhan Bhati 3/16) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bharat-and-shashank-shine-for-young-star/article33647478.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||ENGAGEMENTS||At Coimbatore   Motorsports: MRF MOGrip 2W Rally of Coimbatore, Kethanur Service Park, 9 a.m.   23rd JK Tyre National Racing championship, Kari Motor Speedway, 11 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/engagements/article33647455.ece
24 January 2021||Chennai,||Qualification events: ITTF changes dates||The International Table Tennis Federation has changed the dates of both the Asian qualification tournament and the World singles qualification tournament at Doha for the 2021 Olympics. While the Asian tournament earlier scheduled from March 13 to 15 will be held from March 18 to 20, the World singles qualification earlier scheduled from March 16 to 19 will be held from March 14 to 17.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/qualification-events-ittf-changes-dates/article33647323.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 08:59 IST,||Sudoku - January 24, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-january-24-2021/article33648059.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||The role of a lifetime||D. Dhilipkumar, a 22-year-old construction-site engineer, is donning a role that he would not have expected to, in the wildest of his dreams. The traffic police have picked him for playing “Yama” for its awareness programmes centred around Road Safety Month. On January 19, he donned the role for the first time. Seniors from the firm he works for asked Dhilipkumar to go to the Vepery Police Station with an instruction that he had to do what the police personnel at the station would ask him to do. He was nervous, worrying about what could in store for him. A resident of Kolathur, he rushed to Vepery in his moped. At the police station, he was welcomed by a team of traffic police personnel led by K. Pandivelu, Inspector (traffic wing), Vepery police station. One of the police personnel took Dhilipkumar to the dressing room. An hour later, Dhilipkumar came out as “Yama”, ready to play a pivotal role in an awareness campaign on road safety at key intersections including Doveton and E.V.K. Sampath Road junctions. “I have not acted even in plays during my school days. But I was happy to play the role of Yama for the first time as it is meant for a cause. There is not much dialogue to mouth. It is just about encouraging motorists to wear a helmet and follow other safety rules on the road,” says Dhilipkumar, a science graduate. Dhilipkumar says he would usually leave his house in Kolathur at 7. 30 a.m and spend most of his time at the work site. “Now, this task has made my day entirely and unbelievably different,” he says. It was Dhilipkumar’s strong build that had landed him the role of Yama. The Vepery police station is among a few police stations under the Greater Chennai Police Commissionerate that started the road safety awareness campaign. This year, the awareness campaign on road safety is being carried out for a month. “Usually, such roles for awareness campaigns are played by professional artistes. In contrast, we wanted a regular resident to play the role as it would help increase the campaign’s reach,” says Vepery traffic inspector Pandivelu. Motorists at Doveton, Purasawalkam High Road, Poonamallee High Road intersections were sensitised about having to obey traffic rules including halting before the stop line and wearing helmets and seatbelts. The Vepery traffic police also distributed sweets and gifts to those motorists who followed traffic rules. The month-long exercise will be carried out at other key intersections in the neighbourhood.  Usually, such roles for awareness campaigns are played by professional artistes. We however wanted a regular resident to play the role as it would help increase the campaign’s reach||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-role-of-a-lifetime/article33647009.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Riding his way to independence||The clock needles point to 8.45 p.m. as D. George waits, seated on his brown Activa, near DPI on College Road. On the outside, George is a symbol of calm. Inside, he is desperately hoping he would get one ride, the last one for the day, and that it should be towards Jafferkhanpet, where he is a resident. “That would make it better as I can wind up for the day. However, I would take up any ride that comes to me,” says George, and his voice does not betray the unavoidable fatigue that would accompany a day that began at 7 a.m., and was spent ferrying people around a city George has so far done 10 trips. George is one of the 50 differently-abled captains (as drivers are called) in Chennai working for Rapido, a bike taxi player. Physically-challenged since age one, George has not allowed his disability to prevent him from achieving independence. With hard work and determination, he has crossed many a hurdle to be on his own. He lives in a family of four where he and his brother, who is an electrician, are the breadwinners. Prior to joining the bike taxi company a year ago, George was working as a lift operator at Kilpauk Medical College on a contractual basis. Learning to drive “I only studied till Class X or I would have had more options before me,” he says. His disability would not allow him to walk long or take up tough jobs, though George is ready to try his hand at other jobs. “The main obstacle I face is convincing people that I can and asking them to give me a chance,” says the 37-year-old who has worked as an electrician, a painter and a plumber to eke a living. Driving has been a childhood desire and he learnt to operate a two-wheeler on his own. He had seen his neighbours drive vehicles, which in his mind represented independence. “More than 10 year ago, I learnt to ride a two-wheeler. I bought a second-hand bike and asked a friend to sit behind me to help me and that is how I learnt to drive. It was not easy as my legs are weak and I cannot put much stress on my back. It also took a lot more effort for me to get comfortable while driving. I have been using my modified bike to attend to any household-related work. The freedom and independence of not depending on anyone else is special,” says George. George has been shifting jobs to beat the monotony, and to earn better. He found out about Rapido through an advertisement and applied for a job with the company. Lockdown was tough for ride-sharing companies and he switched to other works. “On an average, I earn Rs. 20,000 a month which is more than what I earned in any of my previous jobs. Besides, there is the satisfaction that comes from being on my own. I decide which ride to take and can also choose when to take a ride,” he says. Building confidence George says most riders are encouraging. Some of them know that he is handicapped but that has never been a reason to cancel a ride. “This has boosted my confidence,” says George, adding that he even ferried people to the areas lying on the outskirts of Chennai. George talks about a road-related incident that happened during Pongal. He was taking a rider to his destination and near Jafferkhanpet, a person in front of his bike dropped her wallet and continued on her way. “I took the wallet and asked the rider sitting behind me, if we could return it before dropping him at his destination. So, we followed the owner of the wallet for close to three kilometre,” he says. Both the pillion rider and the wallet owner thanked him. He says: “Such incidents motivate me to do my work with dedication.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/riding-his-way-to-independence/article33646988.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||A lark turns its tail on Velachery village||There is a piquancy to nostalgia that whets our appetite for it. Amidst the recollection of “what was”, the tanginess arrives with the realisation of “how different it was”, quickly followed by a wistful “how wonderful it was”. In odd moments, there could be be tinge of disappointment as “what could have continued” flaps into focus. As ornithologist V. Santharam looks back on birding around the Pallikaranai Marsh in the 1980s, such a moment arrives on the wings of the Sykes’ Short-toed Lark. Those were times when, during winter, sizeable flocks of the Sykes’ Short-toed Lark would be a quotidian feature of birding on the Velachery section of the Marsh. “At this patch, the Sykes’ Short-toed Lark, a winter visitor, would be generally seen in flocks of 50 to 100,” says Santharam, adding that the bird is by nature gregarious, and flock in large numbers. “At Rann of Kutch, I have seen it in flocks of 200 to 300.” For contrast, he points out, “The Jerdon’s Bushlark, a resident in and around Chennai, is usually seen alone, in pairs or in family parties. The same goes for the Oriental Skylark, also a resident.” In the 1980s, this patch — actually an expanse marking the approach to the Pallikaranai Marsh — was just what the ‘lark-doctor’ ordered. “It was an open area with grass that would be short because it was continually grazed upon by cattle. Of loamy soil, it would be slushy during the monsoon, and harden up after the rains had stopped,” Santharam describes. “The Jerdon’s Bushlark prefers somewhat of an open scrub environment where there is more vegetation. In contrast, the Sykes’ Short-toed Lark prefers grassy open land.” On this patch, Santharam would be unfailingly treated to sights of the Oriental Pratincole, the Indian Courser, and also the Yellow-Wattled Lapwing, now hardly seen even within semi-urban sections of Chennai. Santharam identifies this section: “Not too far from where the MRTS station stands now, there used to be something called the VOR Station, where radio systems to gather aviation-related data had been established. To access this patch, we would take a bus from Ice House to VOR Station, At that time, Velachery was a village.” From just a quick bus ride away, the Skyes’ Short-Toed Lark has receded considerably, its winter visits now marked in areas far removed from Chennai. Sivakumar Shanmugasundaram, a birder, says: “In the early part of this winter-birding season, I saw the Sykes’ Short-toed Lark in flocks at Kaveripakkam in Vellore. In earlier seasons, I had seen it at Mamandur in Kancheepuram. From a distance, one may mistake this bird for a pipit or a Jerdon’s Bushlark. On closer inspection, you cannot mistake it for anything else. One clear giveaway is that it would be found in huge flocks, often in the range of 100 to 200” “The bill would be shorter than that of the Jerdon’s Bushlark,” says Santharam. And of course, as the name suggests, the “baby toes” is another clear giveaway.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-lark-turns-its-tail-on-velachery-village/article33647003.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Willow wielders by the side of a bungalow||Deeply attached to the willow sport, this family would let youngsters from the neighbourhood turn the open space around their bungalow into a makeshift ground. It would tolerate the raucous appeals, the constant jabber of on-field instructions and probably, even the occasional verbal duel over an umpiring decision. An invisible line had however been drawn, and one unsuspecting day, the neighbourhood cricket team crossed it. A thumping whack from the bat resulting in a broken window glass, it was close of play for this all-Nungambakkam cricket team, forever. Shivakumar Krishnamurthy, who has heard this story narrated by his elders many a time, explains that the family gently chided the young cricketers for the damage, but let the boys know in unmistakable terms that they valued not only cricket, but also an intact house. The youngsters got the hint and shifted their operations to the Nungambakkam Corporation ground where the SDAT Tennis Stadium would come up decades later. Besides memories of cricket played around this bungalow named “Aruna” on Mangadu Swamy Street in Nungambakkam, the youngsters would also carry its name with them. They would call their team Aruna Cricket Club, a name that now lives on in league cricket, representing what is now a second-division team. “Mangadu Swamy Street is parallel to Village Road, and found behind the police station, that is where it all began in the 1950s. The team also traces its genesis to Veerabadran Street, one street away from Mangadu Swamy Street. The prime force behind starting the team was MM Sundaram, its founder,” recalls Shivakumar, secretary of Aruna CC and a resident of Nungambakkam. For many decades, Aruna CC continued as a team comprising players drawn from Nungambakkam and surrounding areas. There was a supplementary selection process that enabled it to maintain its character as a team rooted in Nungambakkam. “In those early decades, another team in Nungambakkam, Springfield Recreation Club (SRC) served as a feeder club for Aruna CC. SRC was never a league team, but its players would practise at the Lake Area ground, where the TE Srinivasans of the world were born. Those who excelled in SRC would get drafted into Aruna CC for league cricket,” explains Shivakumar. Beyond Nungambakkam The world would eventually open up, and there was no reason for neighbourhood-centric Aruna CC to swim against the tide, but every reason to go with the flow. In the 1990s, increasing mobility in terms of overseas education and employment meant that the talent pool of young cricketers within every neighbourhood would be limited. And eventually, the concept of neighbourhood cricket teams would not keep stride with this development. “I would say the churn happened in the mid- to late-1990s,” recalls Shivakumar. “Now, we probably have only one player from Nungambakkam and the rest are from outside the neighbourhood.” However, Aruna CC has retained its Nungambakkam flavour by virtue of the people managing and supporting it. Shivakumar points out that as a non-corporate team it is “sustained by the love and support of friends and family”, and a majority of them have a connection with Nungambakkam, something that they are inclined to sustain. “There are twelve of us: Some of us holding high positions in companies, some semi-retired and others retired. The expenses, which include players’ fee, equipment cost and breakfast and lunch, are shared, with each deciding where they could contribute,” says Shivakumar. “The Aruna CC management team — S. Gopalakrishnan, P.K. Vishwanath, N.S. Shankar, V. Gopalakrishnan, S. Premkumar and V. Murali — is marked by a combination of senior corporate executives and successful entrepreneurs. What is more significant is that all of them are Nungambakkam natives.” Those who had earlier associated with the team seem to find a way to continue supporting it. “Precision Infomatic was sponsor for more than a decade in the 2000s. Precision promoters Mathew Chacko, V. Murali, who is part of Aruna CC’s managing committee, and T.G. Ramesh have been a support to the team. Mathew Chacko played for the Anna University team that won Rohinton Baria Trophy; and he played for Aruna CC for a decade,” says Shivakumar. “Beyond their contribution as players of Aruna CC, the N.P. brothers — N.P. Shankar, N.P. Rajendran and N.P. Manohar (who represented the Indian school boys) — have helped in the management of the team.” In attendance There are many facets to the support received by Aruna CC. One of them is the older generation offering their morale-boosting presence by showing up at the matches. T.E. Srinivasan’s brother T.E. Kannan, who lives in Raja Annamalai Puram and is on the wrong side of the seventies, is a regular at Aruna CC games. “Kannan would take a bus and come to my house in Nungambakkam from where we would drive down to wherever the match was being held,” says Shivakumar. “There must be eight other former Aruna CC players who come to watch the Club’s games even now.” Shivakumar believes this loyalty derives from the sense of family the Club has managed to foster, not just on the field. He underlines the pride that comes from knowing that players like Thirunavukarasu Kumaran and Aniruda Srikkanth have worn the Aruna CC colours; and also that its players have made an indelible mark in careers outside the cricket field — “two of the former Aruna CC players donned senior government roles: G. Parthasarathy, a distinguished IFS officer and a former Indian Ambassador to Pakistan and V. Sundaram, IAS officer of Maharashtra cadre”. Shivakumar points out that the fulfilment that comes from making a difference in the lives of players who obviously need a leg-up, is no less heady. “We do everything we can to place players who have served us well, in good jobs — if they require that kind of a support. We also help some players reskill by getting them to do a course. Thinking of an immediate example, there is Tamildasan, who just finished his MSC maths, and we are trying to get him into a proper job, and part of the exercise, we have been helping him write competitive exams such as the ones from Indian Oil and Indian Air Force.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/willow-wielders-by-the-side-of-a-bungalow/article33646994.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Bonding through panels on the screen||Put on your thinking cap and take this quiz. It does not matter if you are not a current student, parent or alumnus of Holy Angels Anglo-Indian Higher Secondary School, T. Nagar. What is the colour of the first uniform introduced in Holy Angels School? “Green with a piping of green and white stripes at the neck and sleeves” or “blue”? Whatever you have chosen, you may keep it under wraps. There are no gifts to be given away. It is just a fun activity for you to refresh your memory about your alma mater . This is roughly the drift of one of the posts on the school’s Facebook page, and it comes against the backdrop of the Alumni Fest 2021, scheduled to be held on January 26. If you have been associated with the school in any manner, there is a likelihood that questions of this kind being posted under #Iknowmyschool will make you nostalgic. Many an institution that have been maintaining the tradition o0f organising their alumni meet on January 26 are now organising virtual meet-ups this year due to the pandemic. Teasers, video messages from retired teachers, a virtual tour of the school and black-and-white photos of the good old days are among ways in which organisers are building up the excitement in the run-up to the virtual event. This year, Old Bedeans Association (OBA) representing the alumni of St. Bede’s Anglo-Indian Higher Secondary School, celebrates its 96th year of formation and the 150th year of the starting of the Don Bosco Past Pupils Association. “Both are important milestones in our calendar and we did not want to give them a miss, so we have a meet-up on Google Meet on January 26, from 11 a.m. onwards,” says Deepak Raj, secretary of OBA. The in-person event usually attracts over 300 alumni. “As far as I can remember, we have always had the alumni meet on January 26 and old students who live in other countries would plan their calendar accordingly. A special reminder or invitation was not required but this time we have broadcast that the school gates will not be open on that day,” says Deepak. “Those who are technologically challenged would need help; this virtual meet is just an experiment.” For years, Vidyodaya School Alumni Association, better known as Poorva Vidhyarthini Samaj, has been following the practice of having its reunion scheduled for January 26. This year, with many of its old students who have settled down in other countries expressing an interest in the virtual event, they have shifted the meet-up to January 30. “Traditionally we would meet on Republic Day as it is a holiday and many can take part in it, but as it is a virtual meet-up, we wanted our friends from other countries to join us. Based on a poll we took, we decided to host it on January 30 and the time chosen — 8 a.m. — makes the meet convenient for people spread across time zones to attend,” says Latha Kumaraswami, an old student and a member of the executive committee. Latha says they are expecting a bigger turnout than the one usually registered during in-person events. “We specially created a WhatsApp group this time to coordinate different activities for the virtual meet-up,” says Latha. On-the-spot quiz and cultural events are a few activities that have already been planned. Other highlights Alumni meets serve as an occasion for former students to help the school in whatever way they can. So, has the pandemic eaten into this aspect? As in previous years, Poorva Vidhyarthini Samaj is giving away scholarships to deserving students. “Twelve students would get scholarship worth Rs. 1.2 lakh,” says Latha. “Virtual events are a good way to connect with old students and also to raise more funds for our scholarship programme,” she adds. In December, OBA distributed Rs. 3 lakh worth of provision to 150 families.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/bonding-through-panels-on-the-screen/article33646999.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||A riot of colour at MRC Nagar||MRC Nagar was a riot of colour during Margazhi, as residents of two gated communities — Rani Meyyammai Towers (RMT) and Jains Saagarika — come came together to celebrate the month, with rangolis. On each of the days in the month of Margazhi, residents from both the apartments create beautiful rangolis that highlighted the significance of the month. With the easier rangolis taking an average of 1.5 hours to make, one can only imagine the time it would have taken to create those rangolis based on intricate patterns. “I wake up every day at 4 a.m., bath and sit down to make my rangoli. With the cool morning breeze blowing through, it is meditative,” says Sujatha Mohanraj, a resident of RMT. Kalyani Kathiresan, a resident of Jains Saagarika, says she has always loved drawing and when there is a group that has come together to draw kolams, there was no consideration other than taking part in it. It is the challenge of coming up with a different design every day that drives these residents. Satya Muthukumaran, a resident of RMT, says: “ I set a high bar for myself every day, by seeking to create a rangoli better than what I created the previous day.” Not only those making the rangolis, but also those around them feel energised by this exercise. “It is great to see kolams making a comeback. When we were growing up, my sister and I would make kolams every day under our grandmother’s supervision, and so it is nice to see the younger generation taking to it,” says Malini Subramaniam, a senior citizen. “The act of bending and drawing rangolis on the floor has benefits for one’s physical health. The act of clearing a rangoli every day and creating a new one, communicates that we should be detached from whatever we create, and also that we can always do better,” explains Neela Govindaraj, another senior. Are not modern rangolis replacing the traditional ones? “We must embrace the traditional forms of kolam because they have immense psychological benefits. Besides, we have to consider drawing kolams beyond the month of Margazhi. For this art form to thrive, we need greater participation from youngsters,” says Uma Venkatraman of Jains Saagarika. There is already signs of this. Residents of Jains Saagarika have started coming together to make community rangolis in the apartments, and inspired by their example, a few youngsters have joined in.  (Akshara Uppuluri is a   residnet of RMT)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-riot-of-colour-at-mrc-nagar/article33646984.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Three roads that require immediate repairs||A axle-breaking ride: Motorcyclists frequenting Anna Street, East Mada Street and Kottivakkam Kuppam Road, in Thiruvanmiyur have an insightful understanding of this phrase. On these roads, not just the axles of vehicles, even motorcyclists’ backs are spared. Residents of these areas want the Greater Chennai Corporation to attend to the damaged portions of these roads. On Kottivakkam Kuppam Road, stones can be found protruding. As the road is not well-lit, it is motoring hazard after sunset. East Mada Street (near Bhavani Medai) is also equally battered and needs better lighting. “Motorcyclists have to be extremely cautious, as the possibility of falling and sustaining injuries is real. There have been instances of motorcyclists losing their balance due to the consition of this road,” says B. Krishnan, a resident of Kottivakkam. The aforementioned roads witness busy traffic due to its proximity to Kalakshetra Colony, Besant Nagar and Adyar. “Many a time, motorists come at a break-neck speed increasing the risk of accidents,” says S. Gopalan, a resident of Thiruvanmiyur. a Greater Chennai Corporation official says “The roads will be assessed shortly and steps will be taken to have them mended.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/three-roads-that-require-immediate-repairs/article33646974.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Spare this lung space’||Despite repeated requests to Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) to drop its plan to dedicate a parcel of land at Kattu Theru in Ward 198 towards the creation of a parking lot for Urbaser Summet’s battery-operated vehicles (BOVs), the GCC has established such a facility, axing many trees in the process. Urbaser Summet has been appointed by GCC to carry out conservancy operations in certain zones including Zone 15. We objected to GCC’s decision for the following reasons. Known as ‘Manthoppu’, this land has many fruit-bearing trees, 50 to 60 years old and planted by local residents when Sholinganallur was a Village Panchayat; the produce from the orchard would be a source of income for the Panchayat. It is a lung-space of our locality, and during the migratory bird season, some winter visitors can be spotted here. A Primary Health Centre (PHC) located nearby receives considerable patronage and we do not want any activity related to conservancy operations to be carried out here. S.M. Nirmal is a resident of Sholinganallur and a member of Pasumai Thayagam, a forum meant for environment conservation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/spare-this-lung-space/article33646978.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||‘We need a park, not a parking facility’||Ignoring the requests of Perungudi Lake Area Neighbourhood Environmental Transformation (PLANET) and local residents, Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) has gone ahead with its plan of developing a parking facility for battery-operated vehicles (BOVs) of Urbaser Sumeet on the open space reservation (OSR) land on Panchayat Main Road in Perungudi. In the process, it had dropped an earlier plan to develop the OSR land into a park. Urbaser Summet has been appointed by GCC to carry out conservancy operations in Zone 14. We were looking forward to having this park at this OSR land, found on the eastern side of Perungudi lake. Two years ago, GCC fenced the OSR land and installed a board announcing that a park would be established there. Expecting a park, local residents planted around 30 saplings of indigenous species on the OSR land and were nurturing them, an exercise greeted with approval from GCC. Now, most of the saplings have been uprooted. While we plan to create a dense green cover around Perungudi lake, GCC has set up this BOV parking facility near the waterbody. The compound wall has also been demolished for the convenience of excavators. We suggested that the GCC consider the behind the office of Ward 184, but it has ignored this request. P Sajeevan is a member of PLANET and a resident of Perungudi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/we-need-a-park-not-a-parking-facility/article33646982.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||FEDERA seeks ward-level meets||In many localities of Zone 13, adequate bins for decomposable waste have not been provided. Though residents segregate their waste into decomposable and non-decomposable and then hand it over to Urbaser Sumeet’s conservancy workers, it gets mixed up. Street cleaning is being carried out only if residents make a complaint in the WhatsApp group which has residents, officials of Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) and Urbaser Sumeet as members. In September 2020, at a meeting at Ripon Building for officials of GCC, Urbaser Sumeet and residents, it was said Urbaser Sumeet and GCC would convene Ward-level meetings to discuss waste-management issues relating to each Ward. However, meetings of this kind have not been conducted until now. C. Ramakrishnan is the president of Federation of Adyar Residents’ Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/federa-seeks-ward-level-meets/article33646985.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||A ballerina’s winter programme in Chennai||The ‘dilscoop’ is a revolutionary stroke in cricket, over-the-top in its audacity and innovation. In the world of wagtails, the side-to-side shake by the Forest Wagtail is the equivalent of the dilscoop. While all wagtails wag their tail by bobbing their body up and down, the Forest Wagtail does it with the side-to-side movement of its frame. It is anything but a hurried sideward-thrust. It is a swaying movement, smooth in execution; so exquisite that it gets the bird to be compared to a balerina for having it. In fact, that is the first thought that crosses ornithologist V. Santharam’s mind when I bring up bird. It is a strikingly handsome bird, with its markings drawing more comparisons, some cross-kingdom and some others, anthropomorphic. Santharam likens the markings on its wings to the stripes of a zebra. A fertile imagination is likely to see a salesperson’s tie in the upper black band and the vertical stripe running perpendicular to it. There is also a lower band, which is broken, much like extravagant flourishes of the brush from an artist bringing his magnum opus to a close. Though a winter visitor in Chennai and many other parts of peninsular India, this bird largely remains a hidden beauty, partly because it is a picky “home buyer”. “It is bird of wooded areas, but it would not want to have it too densely wooded. It needs canopy, but it would want only the kind of canopy that would allow for some open floor,” explains Santharam. For a long time it was that while the bird believed was wintering in south-western India, it would just be passing through the rest of peninsular India, including Chennai. A paper “True winter distribution of Forest Wagtail Dendronanthus Indicus in India” by R. Kannan, V. Santharam, Amrit Kannan and Vikas Madhav Nagarajan published in 2018 in Indian Birds, presented evidence that vigorously militates against this notion. Santharam explains: “We summarised all our records of the bird in Chennai. It was thought to be a passage migrant in Chennai on its way to Sri Lanka. This is what many field books would say. At the time these books were compiled, there was not much information. We collated all our records, covering nearly four decades (1979 to 2017), in the winter months, and showed that the bird is indeed a winter migrant, though there is a lot of passage movement. They do pass through in October and November; and again in April and even early-May when there is a large influx of birds and they stay for a few days and move on. That way, the Forest Wagtail is both a winter visitor and a passage migrant.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-ballerinas-winter-programme-in-chennai/article33647001.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||When Mambalam Mosquitos had an address in Adyar||Since its birth in the 1940s, ‘Mambalam Mosquitos’ has been a conversation starter even before a ball is bowled. After decades of speculation over whether one should think of a boxer or a buzzing insect or both, when this name is called, here is a all-new perspective. The first word of the name and what it means also deserve the same high-brow analysis. It gives the cricket team the halo of a neighbourhood institution. Now, how long did it stay true to that image? P.C. Prakash, who played for Tamil Nadu and who is currently head coach of Karaikudi Kaalai in the Tamil Nadu Premier League, is secretary of Mambalam Mosquitos, which plays in the fourth-division. Prakash’s father P.S. Chander and his uncle P.S. Shanker had founded the team. “My father would ensure the team got filled up with players from our neighbourhood Mambalam, just to make sure local talent was encouraged,” says Prakash. “Then the team off the league for a long time. It was revived in the late 1970s, and by then, we were no longer residents of Mambalam, having moved to Indiranagar, Adyar. It was interesting to note that a team that practised in facilities around the Adyar area was largely composed of players from Mambalam.” However, Mambalam Mosquitos would evolve just as other neighbourhood teams would, and become more diverse in its composition. “Unlike in those decades, teams are now formed through academies. Location is hardly a consideration, and teams cut across areas. Just like ours, there is a team that is originally from Gandhinagar — named Gandhinagar Starlets — which represented the locality through its composition. But a time arrived when it was not sustainable; and began to be populated with players from all over."||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/when-mambalam-mosquitos-had-an-address-in-adyar/article33646995.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||The number and the spirit of an initiative||Success should not be quantified. However, when it comes to waste management, that statement is both true and false. It helps to have an exact number to how successful your waste management initiatives are. An eWaste collection drive that Residents of Kasturbanagar Association (ROKA) launched before Pongal has numbers illustrating its effectiveness — 1,240 kilogrammes collected over three days. However, numbers cannot capture the spirit of participation that made the initiative truly what is was. The spirit of Pongal had prompted our residents to dispose of their old electronic and electrical items, safely and responsibly. So, as the first step, we brought a trusted e-Waste recycler on board to ensure there would be complete end-to-end reprocessing of the collected eWaste. Following this first and all-essential step, we advertised the programme far and wide through our network of RWAs and personal contacts. The response was overwhelming as people from localities as far away as Tambaram, Anna Nagar and Kilpauk showed interest in it. A majority of them had been waiting for quite some time to dispose of their eWaste safely and with confidence that it would be effectively recycled. Those who could not make it to the venue have asked us to conduct another drive at the earliest. Thanks to the huge response, ROKA has decided to make it bi-annual event along with another drive for collection of clothes and footwear. Janani Venkitesh is secretary of Residents of Kasturbanagar Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-number-and-the-spirit-of-an-initiative/article33646980.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||An exclusive helpline number for those with disabilities||If you are differently-abled and want to know the status of your voters’ identification card or status of your application, here is help. Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) has launched an exclusive WhatsApp Assistance Number (9499933619) for persons with disabilities to clarify any queries relating to the upcoming Assembly elections in the State. Some of the common queries would have to be do with address change, addition or deletion of name and information about a polling station. “Some would need clarification in sign language and we have asked the department to facilitate this at the Control Room. During the 2016 election too, we had a sign language interpretor,” says Smitha Sadasivan, a member of Disability Rights Alliance (DRA). This time, she says, they have asked the department to create greater awareness about the helpline number. “Communication needs to be enhanced including through social media so that more people make use of the resource. All these are steps towards creating an inclusive and accessible society as well as increasing the participation of the differently-abled in electoral process,” says Smitha. A Twitter post by @jmeghanathreddy, who is deputy commissioner, GCC, says: “Drop in a WhatsApp Msg. Rest, we will take care.” The special enrolment camp has also been extended till January 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/an-exclusive-helpline-number-for-those-with-disabilities/article33646990.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Enrol more women as Rotarians’||Jennifer Jones — who will be the first woman to become Rotary International President when she assumes office in July 2022 — recently met with members of Rotary Club of Madras (RCM) on a virtual platform. Rotarians from other parts of the world also took part in the virtual meet-up. During the virtual conference, RCM took Jennifer and the other participants on a tour of its projects, a press release said. To increase the participation of women, Jennifer said she was keen on enrolling more women as Rotarians. Currently, woman constitute 24% of Rotary strength. She pointed out that just as they played a pivotal role in polio eradication, Rotarians would offer governments their support in fighting COVID-19. During the virtual conference, Jennifer inaugurated two dialysis machines at ACS Medical College and Hospital and a tree-planting programme by RCM at the Boys Town project in Gummudupundi. Rotarians numbering 525, from across the world, took part in the meet-up, said the release. The programme was coordinated by past president N. K. Gopinath and P.P. Gopal Ratnam and current president Kapil Chitale, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/enrol-more-women-as-rotarians/article33647006.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Willow wielders by the side of a bungalow||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/willow-wielders-by-the-side-of-a-bungalow/article33646976.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||The role of a lifetime||D. Dhilipkumar, a 22-year-old construction-site engineer, is donning a role that he would not have expected to, in the wildest of his dreams. The traffic police have picked him for playing “Yama” for its awareness programmes centred around Road Safety Month. On January 19, he donned the role for the first time. Seniors from the firm he works for asked Dhilipkumar to go to the Vepery Police Station with an instruction that he had to do what the police personnel at the station would ask him to do. He was nervous, worrying about what could in store for him. A resident of Kolathur, he rushed to Vepery in his moped. At the police station, he was welcomed by a team of traffic police personnel led by K. Pandivelu, Inspector (traffic wing), Vepery police station. One of the police personnel took Dhilipkumar to the dressing room. An hour later, Dhilipkumar came out as “Yama”, ready to play a pivotal role in an awareness campaign on road safety at key intersections including Doveton and E.V.K. Sampath Road junctions. “I have not acted even in plays during my school days. But I was happy to play the role of Yama for the first time as it is meant for a cause. There is not much dialogue to mouth. It is just about encouraging motorists to wear a helmet and follow other safety rules on the road,” says Dhilipkumar, a science graduate. Dhilipkumar says he would usually leave his house in Kolathur at 7. 30 a.m and spend most of his time at the work site. “Now, this task has made my day entirely and unbelievably different,” he says. It was Dhilipkumar’s strong build that had landed him the role of Yama. The Vepery police station is among a few police stations under the Greater Chennai Police Commissionerate that started the road safety awareness campaign. This year, the awareness campaign on road safety is being carried out for a month. “Usually, such roles for awareness campaigns are played by professional artistes. In contrast, we wanted a regular resident to play the role as it would help increase the campaign’s reach,” says Vepery traffic inspector Pandivelu. Motorists at Doveton, Purasawalkam High Road, Poonamallee High Road intersections were sensitised about having to obey traffic rules including halting before the stop line and wearing helmets and seatbelts. The Vepery traffic police also distributed sweets and gifts to those motorists who followed traffic rules. The month-long exercise will be carried out at other key intersections in the neighbourhood.  Usually, such roles for awareness campaigns are played by professional artistes. We however wanted a regular resident to play the role as it would help increase the campaign’s reach||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-role-of-a-lifetime/article33647035.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Riding his way to independence||The clock needles point to 8.45 p.m. as D. George waits, seated on his brown Activa, near DPI on College Road. On the outside, George is a symbol of calm. Inside, he is desperately hoping he would get one ride, the last one for the day, and that it should be towards Jafferkhanpet, where he is a resident. “That would make it better as I can wind up for the day. However, I would take up any ride that comes to me,” says George, and his voice does not betray the unavoidable fatigue that would accompany a day that began at 7 a.m., and was spent ferrying people around a city George has so far done 10 trips. George is one of the 50 differently-abled captains (as drivers are called) in Chennai working for Rapido, a bike taxi player. Physically-challenged since age one, George has not allowed his disability to prevent him from achieving independence. With hard work and determination, he has crossed many a hurdle to be on his own. He lives in a family of four where he and his brother, who is an electrician, are the breadwinners. Prior to joining the bike taxi company a year ago, George was working as a lift operator at Kilpauk Medical College on a contractual basis. Learning to drive “I only studied till Class X or I would have had more options before me,” he says. His disability would not allow him to walk long or take up tough jobs, though George is ready to try his hand at other jobs. “The main obstacle I face is convincing people that I can and asking them to give me a chance,” says the 37-year-old who has worked as an electrician, a painter and a plumber to eke a living. Driving has been a childhood desire and he learnt to operate a two-wheeler on his own. He had seen his neighbours drive vehicles, which in his mind represented independence. “More than 10 year ago, I learnt to ride a two-wheeler. I bought a second-hand bike and asked a friend to sit behind me to help me and that is how I learnt to drive. It was not easy as my legs are weak and I cannot put much stress on my back. It also took a lot more effort for me to get comfortable while driving. I have been using my modified bike to attend to any household-related work. The freedom and independence of not depending on anyone else is special,” says George. George has been shifting jobs to beat the monotony, and to earn better. He found out about Rapido through an advertisement and applied for a job with the company. Lockdown was tough for ride-sharing companies and he switched to other works. “On an average, I earn Rs. 20,000 a month which is more than what I earned in any of my previous jobs. Besides, there is the satisfaction that comes from being on my own. I decide which ride to take and can also choose when to take a ride,” he says. Building confidence George says most riders are encouraging. Some of them know that he is handicapped but that has never been a reason to cancel a ride. “This has boosted my confidence,” says George, adding that he even ferried people to the areas lying on the outskirts of Chennai. George talks about a road-related incident that happened during Pongal. He was taking a rider to his destination and near Jafferkhanpet, a person in front of his bike dropped her wallet and continued on her way. “I took the wallet and asked the rider sitting behind me, if we could return it before dropping him at his destination. So, we followed the owner of the wallet for close to three kilometre,” he says. Both the pillion rider and the wallet owner thanked him. He says: “Such incidents motivate me to do my work with dedication.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/riding-his-way-to-independence/article33647026.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Bridge work leaves buses on the road||Buses originating and terminating at Pattabiram do not have a dedicated space, thanks to a six-lane Road Over Bridge (ROB) project that is under way. As a portion of the terminus in Pattabiram on Chennai–Tiruvallur High (CTH) Road has been taken up for the ROB work aimed at doing away with the existing manned railway level crossing (LC-2), buses are parked on the roadside. This situation is causing considerable confusion among commuters, many of whom are caught unawares, and all of them would likely agree that is a not a safe place to park buses. “Boarding buses that are parked on the roadside is risky as speeding motorcyclists are most likely to not pay any attention to commuters’ plight,” says S. Vanitha, a resident of Pattabiram. Work on this project began a few years ago, thereby eating into the space at the terminus. During the lockdown, the space was used to make steel frames which resulted in damage to the concrete floor. The feeding cabin for mothers, which was opened at the terminus in 2015, is also damaged as a result of construction materials being dumped there.  State Highways officials stress that the inconvenience faced by commuters while boarding buses is temporary. When the bridge work is completed, which should be in a year’s time, the space will be restored with basic facilities including bus bays, seating arrangements and the timekeeper’s cabin. The new bridge will put an end to the long waiting time at the manned railway level crossing.  “Steps will be taken to address the issue relating to the halting space for buses,” says a State Highways official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/bridge-work-leaves-buses-on-the-road/article33647024.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Another measure to promote road safety||For many years, the narrow bend at the intersection of Bharathi Salai and Perambur Main Road, in front of the bus terminus in Perambur, has been a sore point for motorists. To prevent accidents, various measures had been taken in the past. The police relocated the autorickshaw stand from the narrow bend; and Greater Chennai Corporation officials removed hawkers and roadside eateries. These measures have however not amounted to much help. Taking advantage of the wide road, motorists would speed. Now, a three-foot-high concrete median has been built by the Corporation for a distance of around 500 metres on select sections of Perambur Main Road where accidents are frequently reported. “To improve visibility on the stretch, trees also need to be pruned,” says K. Santhosh, a motorist from Perambur. These improvement measures are absolutely essential as many train commuters walk from the Perambur railway station to the bus terminus to board buses to reach various parts of the city. Unlike other traffic points such as B.B. Road–Perambur Main Road, traffic is chaotic at the intersection of Perambur Main Road and Bharathi Salai due to the location of the bus terminus and the pedestrian subway, say police sources. “The entire median work on the stretch will be completed in a week,” said a Corporation official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/another-measure-to-promote-road-safety/article33647011.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||A lark turns its tail on Velachery village||There is a piquancy to nostalgia that whets our appetite for it. Amidst the recollection of “what was”, the tanginess arrives with the realisation of “how different it was”, quickly followed by a wistful “how wonderful it was”. In odd moments, there could be be tinge of disappointment as “what could have continued” flaps into focus. As ornithologist V. Santharam looks back on birding around the Pallikaranai Marsh in the 1980s, such a moment arrives on the wings of the Sykes’ Short-toed Lark. Those were times when, during winter, sizeable flocks of the Sykes’ Short-toed Lark would be a quotidian feature of birding on the Velachery section of the Marsh. “At this patch, the Sykes’ Short-toed Lark, a winter visitor, would be generally seen in flocks of 50 to 100,” says Santharam, adding that the bird is by nature gregarious, and flock in large numbers. “At Rann of Kutch, I have seen it in flocks of 200 to 300.” For contrast, he points out, “The Jerdon’s Bushlark, a resident in and around Chennai, is usually seen alone, in pairs or in family parties. The same goes for the Oriental Skylark, also a resident.” In the 1980s, this patch — actually an expanse marking the approach to the Pallikaranai Marsh — was just what the ‘lark-doctor’ ordered. “It was an open area with grass that would be short because it was continually grazed upon by cattle. Of loamy soil, it would be slushy during the monsoon, and harden up after the rains had stopped,” Santharam describes. “The Jerdon’s Bushlark prefers somewhat of an open scrub environment where there is more vegetation. In contrast, the Sykes’ Short-toed Lark prefers grassy open land.” On this patch, Santharam would be unfailingly treated to sights of the Oriental Pratincole, the Indian Courser, and also the Yellow-Wattled Lapwing, now hardly seen even within semi-urban sections of Chennai. Santharam identifies this section: “Not too far from where the MRTS station stands now, there used to be something called the VOR Station, where radio systems to gather aviation-related data had been established. To access this patch, we would take a bus from Ice House to VOR Station, At that time, Velachery was a village.” From just a quick bus ride away, the Skyes’ Short-Toed Lark has receded considerably, its winter visits now marked in areas far removed from Chennai. Sivakumar Shanmugasundaram, a birder, says: “In the early part of this winter-birding season, I saw the Sykes’ Short-toed Lark in flocks at Kaveripakkam in Vellore. In earlier seasons, I had seen it at Mamandur in Kancheepuram. From a distance, one may mistake this bird for a pipit or a Jerdon’s Bushlark. On closer inspection, you cannot mistake it for anything else. One clear giveaway is that it would be found in huge flocks, often in the range of 100 to 200” “The bill would be shorter than that of the Jerdon’s Bushlark,” says Santharam. And of course, as the name suggests, the “baby toes” is another clear giveaway.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-lark-turns-its-tail-on-velachery-village/article33647032.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Willow wielders by the side of a bungalow||Deeply attached to the willow sport, this family would let youngsters from the neighbourhood turn the open space around their bungalow into a makeshift ground. It would tolerate the raucous appeals, the constant jabber of on-field instructions and probably, even the occasional verbal duel over an umpiring decision. An invisible line had however been drawn, and one unsuspecting day, the neighbourhood cricket team crossed it. A thumping whack from the bat resulting in a broken window glass, it was close of play for this all-Nungambakkam cricket team, forever. Shivakumar Krishnamurthy, who has heard this story narrated by his elders many a time, explains that the family gently chided the young cricketers for the damage, but let the boys know in unmistakable terms that they valued not only cricket, but also an intact house. The youngsters got the hint and shifted their operations to the Nungambakkam Corporation ground where the SDAT Tennis Stadium would come up decades later. Besides memories of cricket played around this bungalow named “Aruna” on Mangadu Swamy Street in Nungambakkam, the youngsters would also carry its name with them. They would call their team Aruna Cricket Club, a name that now lives on in league cricket, representing what is now a second-division team. “Mangadu Swamy Street is parallel to Village Road, and found behind the police station, that is where it all began in the 1950s. The team also traces its genesis to Veerabadran Street, one street away from Mangadu Swamy Street. The prime force behind starting the team was MM Sundaram, its founder,” recalls Shivakumar, secretary of Aruna CC and a resident of Nungambakkam. For many decades, Aruna CC continued as a team comprising players drawn from Nungambakkam and surrounding areas. There was a supplementary selection process that enabled it to maintain its character as a team rooted in Nungambakkam. “In those early decades, another team in Nungambakkam, Springfield Recreation Club (SRC) served as a feeder club for Aruna CC. SRC was never a league team, but its players would practise at the Lake Area ground, where the TE Srinivasans of the world were born. Those who excelled in SRC would get drafted into Aruna CC for league cricket,” explains Shivakumar. Beyond Nungambakkam The world would eventually open up, and there was no reason for neighbourhood-centric Aruna CC to swim against the tide, but every reason to go with the flow. In the 1990s, increasing mobility in terms of overseas education and employment meant that the talent pool of young cricketers within every neighbourhood would be limited. And eventually, the concept of neighbourhood cricket teams would not keep stride with this development. “I would say the churn happened in the mid- to late-1990s,” recalls Shivakumar. “Now, we probably have only one player from Nungambakkam and the rest are from outside the neighbourhood.” However, Aruna CC has retained its Nungambakkam flavour by virtue of the people managing and supporting it. Shivakumar points out that as a non-corporate team it is “sustained by the love and support of friends and family”, and a majority of them have a connection with Nungambakkam, something that they are inclined to sustain. “There are twelve of us: Some of us holding high positions in companies, some semi-retired and others retired. The expenses, which include players’ fee, equipment cost and breakfast and lunch, are shared, with each deciding where they could contribute,” says Shivakumar. “The Aruna CC management team — S. Gopalakrishnan, P.K. Vishwanath, N.S. Shankar, V. Gopalakrishnan, S. Premkumar and V. Murali — is marked by a combination of senior corporate executives and successful entrepreneurs. What is more significant is that all of them are Nungambakkam natives.” Those who had earlier associated with the team seem to find a way to continue supporting it. “Precision Infomatic was sponsor for more than a decade in the 2000s. Precision promoters Mathew Chacko, V. Murali, who is part of Aruna CC’s managing committee, and T.G. Ramesh have been a support to the team. Mathew Chacko played for the Anna University team that won Rohinton Baria Trophy; and he played for Aruna CC for a decade,” says Shivakumar. “Beyond their contribution as players of Aruna CC, the N.P. brothers — N.P. Shankar, N.P. Rajendran and N.P. Manohar (who represented the Indian school boys) — have helped in the management of the team.” In attendance There are many facets to the support received by Aruna CC. One of them is the older generation offering their morale-boosting presence by showing up at the matches. T.E. Srinivasan’s brother T.E. Kannan, who lives in Raja Annamalai Puram and is on the wrong side of the seventies, is a regular at Aruna CC games. “Kannan would take a bus and come to my house in Nungambakkam from where we would drive down to wherever the match was being held,” says Shivakumar. “There must be eight other former Aruna CC players who come to watch the Club’s games even now.” Shivakumar believes this loyalty derives from the sense of family the Club has managed to foster, not just on the field. He underlines the pride that comes from knowing that players like Thirunavukarasu Kumaran and Aniruda Srikkanth have worn the Aruna CC colours; and also that its players have made an indelible mark in careers outside the cricket field — “two of the former Aruna CC players donned senior government roles: G. Parthasarathy, a distinguished IFS officer and a former Indian Ambassador to Pakistan and V. Sundaram, IAS officer of Maharashtra cadre”. Shivakumar points out that the fulfilment that comes from making a difference in the lives of players who obviously need a leg-up, is no less heady. “We do everything we can to place players who have served us well, in good jobs — if they require that kind of a support. We also help some players reskill by getting them to do a course. Thinking of an immediate example, there is Tamildasan, who just finished his MSC maths, and we are trying to get him into a proper job, and part of the exercise, we have been helping him write competitive exams such as the ones from Indian Oil and Indian Air Force.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/willow-wielders-by-the-side-of-a-bungalow/article33647028.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||A section of 15th Main Road is a picture of squalor||Along a section of 15th Main Road, off Jawarharlal Nehru Main Road, near the flyover in Thirumangalam, construction debris, domestic waste and other garbage are being dumped with impunity. On one side of the stretch, which accounts for a distance of around 100 metres, besides dumping of waste, there is problem of mangled and used vehicles being left abandoned. “As a right turn is available before the fag end of 15th Main Road, many motorists take this road to reach the Anna Nagar Roundtana. So, the isolated section has become a dumping ground. With stray animals feeding on food leftovers, it presents an uninviting sight,” says S. Venketash, a resident of Anna Nagar. Motorists point out that the unutilised portion of 15th Main Road can be used as a walking track for residents in the neighbourhood. Providing basic facilities such as a walkers’ pathway with LED street lights and CCTV cameras will improve the stretch. Currently, many residents from nearby streets avoid isolated portion of the stretch like the plague due to how it looks. Traffic diversion Traffic in the neighbourhood is still being diverted to major key stretches including Second and Fourth Avenue Main Roads and 15th and 13th Main Roads, with motorists on these these roads having to wait, on an average, for 20 minutes to cross the Thirumangalam junction and Second Avenue Main Road intersection. These stretches connect residential areas in the neighbourhood with the Anna Nagar roundtana via Second Avenue Main Road where Metro Rail stations are located.  “Steps will be taken soon to prevent dumping of garbage on the stretch,” says a Corporation official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-section-of-15th-main-road-is-a-picture-of-squalor/article33647022.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Thirumullaivoyal junction comes into sharper focus||The intersection of CTH Road and Cholambedu Main Road in Thirumullaivoyal poses a stiff challenge to traffic regulators — it is particularly true of a three-km stretch between Annanoor and Ambattur Old Town. In pre-COVID days, the traffic police brought about a few changes around the intersection, which include deploying two traffic police personnel during rush hour and installing digital traffic signals to ease the congestion. The move has not led to any significant change. Lockdown brought some relief to traffic police personnel due to reduced movement of vehicular traffic. After lockdown restrictions were eased, traffic flow at the junction has reached pre-pandemic levels. Motorists wait anywhere between 20 and 30 minutes to cross a distance of around 500 metres around the Thirumullaivoyal intersection. Encroachments by shops and parking of vehicles in front of these shops are contributory factors. Recently, traffic police personnel and officials of the State Highways Department demolished encroachments especially those found along Cholambedu Main Road. Newspaper outlets, tea shops, eateries and fancy stores were razed, thereby restoring the original road space. Officials of the State Highways Department said the demolition drive would continue for the next few days towards the objective of restoring the road space. “As there are many shops that sell essential items around the intersection, such demolition drives will help road users get more space,” says K. Pramod, a motorist from Thirumullavoyal. The three-km-long Cholambedu Main Road largely runs through residential areas. Residents and motorists point out that the road is pockmarked with potholes in many places due to poor maintenance by the civic body. Parking of vehicles and extension of existing shops onto the stretch as well as at its intersection with CTH Road has further reduced the narrow carriageway forcing pedestrians and motorists to share common road space. Cholambedu Main Road is divided into two sections — the Thirumullaivoyal section is maintained by the Avadi Corporation and the Ambattur section by Zone - 7 of Greater Chennai Corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/thirumullaivoyal-junction-comes-into-sharper-focus/article33647017.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Bonding through panels on the screen||Put on your thinking cap and take this quiz. It does not matter if you are not a current student, parent or alumnus of Holy Angels Anglo-Indian Higher Secondary School, T. Nagar. What is the colour of the first uniform introduced in Holy Angels School? “Green with a piping of green and white stripes at the neck and sleeves” or “blue”? Whatever you have chosen, you may keep it under wraps. There are no gifts to be given away. It is just a fun activity for you to refresh your memory about your alma mater . This is roughly the drift of one of the posts on the school’s Facebook page, and it comes against the backdrop of the Alumni Fest 2021, scheduled to be held on January 26. If you have been associated with the school in any manner, there is a likelihood that questions of this kind being posted under #Iknowmyschool will make you nostalgic. Many an institution that have been maintaining the tradition o0f organising their alumni meet on January 26 are now organising virtual meet-ups this year due to the pandemic. Teasers, video messages from retired teachers, a virtual tour of the school and black-and-white photos of the good old days are among ways in which organisers are building up the excitement in the run-up to the virtual event. This year, Old Bedeans Association (OBA) representing the alumni of St. Bede’s Anglo-Indian Higher Secondary School, celebrates its 96th year of formation and the 150th year of the starting of the Don Bosco Past Pupils Association. “Both are important milestones in our calendar and we did not want to give them a miss, so we have a meet-up on Google Meet on January 26, from 11 a.m. onwards,” says Deepak Raj, secretary of OBA. The in-person event usually attracts over 300 alumni. “As far as I can remember, we have always had the alumni meet on January 26 and old students who live in other countries would plan their calendar accordingly. A special reminder or invitation was not required but this time we have broadcast that the school gates will not be open on that day,” says Deepak. “Those who are technologically challenged would need help; this virtual meet is just an experiment.” For years, Vidyodaya School Alumni Association, better known as Poorva Vidhyarthini Samaj, has been following the practice of having its reunion scheduled for January 26. This year, with many of its old students who have settled down in other countries expressing an interest in the virtual event, they have shifted the meet-up to January 30. “Traditionally we would meet on Republic Day as it is a holiday and many can take part in it, but as it is a virtual meet-up, we wanted our friends from other countries to join us. Based on a poll we took, we decided to host it on January 30 and the time chosen — 8 a.m. — makes the meet convenient for people spread across time zones to attend,” says Latha Kumaraswami, an old student and a member of the executive committee. Latha says they are expecting a bigger turnout than the one usually registered during in-person events. “We specially created a WhatsApp group this time to coordinate different activities for the virtual meet-up,” says Latha. On-the-spot quiz and cultural events are a few activities that have already been planned. Other highlights Alumni meets serve as an occasion for former students to help the school in whatever way they can. So, has the pandemic eaten into this aspect? As in previous years, Poorva Vidhyarthini Samaj is giving away scholarships to deserving students. “Twelve students would get scholarship worth Rs. 1.2 lakh,” says Latha. “Virtual events are a good way to connect with old students and also to raise more funds for our scholarship programme,” she adds. In December, OBA distributed Rs. 3 lakh worth of provision to 150 families.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/bonding-through-panels-on-the-screen/article33647030.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||A ballerina’s winter programme in Chennai||The ‘dilscoop’ is a revolutionary stroke in cricket, over-the-top in its audacity and innovation. In the world of wagtails, the side-to-side shake by the Forest Wagtail is the equivalent of the dilscoop. While all wagtails wag their tail by bobbing their body up and down, the Forest Wagtail does it with the side-to-side movement of its frame. It is anything but a hurried sideward-thrust. It is a swaying movement, smooth in execution; so exquisite that it gets the bird to be compared to a balerina for having it. In fact, that is the first thought that crosses ornithologist V. Santharam’s mind when I bring up bird. It is a strikingly handsome bird, with its markings drawing more comparisons, some cross-kingdom and some others, anthropomorphic. Santharam likens the markings on its wings to the stripes of a zebra. A fertile imagination is likely to see a salesperson’s tie in the upper black band and the vertical stripe running perpendicular to it. There is also a lower band, which is broken, much like extravagant flourishes of the brush from an artist bringing his magnum opus to a close. Though a winter visitor in Chennai and many other parts of peninsular India, this bird largely remains a hidden beauty, partly because it is a picky “home buyer”. “It is bird of wooded areas, but it would not want to have it too densely wooded. It needs canopy, but it would want only the kind of canopy that would allow for some open floor,” explains Santharam. For a long time it was that while the bird believed was wintering in south-western India, it would just be passing through the rest of peninsular India, including Chennai. A paper “True winter distribution of Forest Wagtail Dendronanthus Indicus in India” by R. Kannan, V. Santharam, Amrit Kannan and Vikas Madhav Nagarajan published in 2018 in Indian Birds, presented evidence that vigorously militates against this notion. Santharam explains: “We summarised all our records of the bird in Chennai. It was thought to be a passage migrant in Chennai on its way to Sri Lanka. This is what many field books would say. At the time these books were compiled, there was not much information. We collated all our records, covering nearly four decades (1979 to 2017), in the winter months, and showed that the bird is indeed a winter migrant, though there is a lot of passage movement. They do pass through in October and November; and again in April and even early-May when there is a large influx of birds and they stay for a few days and move on. That way, the Forest Wagtail is both a winter visitor and a passage migrant.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-ballerinas-winter-programme-in-chennai/article33647031.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||When Mambalam Mosquitos had an address in Adyar||Since its birth in the 1940s, ‘Mambalam Mosquitos’ has been a conversation starter even before a ball is bowled. After decades of speculation over whether one should think of a boxer or a buzzing insect or both, when this name is called, here is a all-new perspective. The first word of the name and what it means also deserve the same high-brow analysis. It gives the cricket team the halo of a neighbourhood institution. Now, how long did it stay true to that image? P.C. Prakash, who played for Tamil Nadu and who is currently head coach of Karaikudi Kaalai in the Tamil Nadu Premier League, is secretary of Mambalam Mosquitos, which plays in the fourth-division. Prakash’s father P.S. Chander and his uncle P.S. Shanker had founded the team. “My father would ensure the team got filled up with players from our neighbourhood Mambalam, just to make sure local talent was encouraged,” says Prakash. “Then the team off the league for a long time. It was revived in the late 1970s, and by then, we were no longer residents of Mambalam, having moved to Indiranagar, Adyar. It was interesting to note that a team that practised in facilities around the Adyar area was largely composed of players from Mambalam.” However, Mambalam Mosquitos would evolve just as other neighbourhood teams would, and become more diverse in its composition. “Unlike in those decades, teams are now formed through academies. Location is hardly a consideration, and teams cut across areas. Just like ours, there is a team that is originally from Gandhinagar — named Gandhinagar Starlets — which represented the locality through its composition. But a time arrived when it was not sustainable; and began to be populated with players from all over."||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/when-mambalam-mosquitos-had-an-address-in-adyar/article33647029.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Sale of handicraft products||Bashumoni Handicrafts is organising an exhibition-cum-sale of handicraft and handloom products at No:7, North Mada Street, Mylapore. Time: From 10 a.m. to 8.30 p.m. According to a press release, sari varieties such as Bandini, Chanderi silk, Kantha work, Sungudi, Kota, Ikkat and Maheshwari are on offer. Besides, dupattas, shawls, blouses, kurtis, quilts, bedspreads and bedsheets are part of the collection. Further, brass artefacts, crockery items, jewellery, dolls and food products will be on display. A discount of up to 25 per cent will be offered, says the press release. The sale ends on February 7. For details, call 93837 40065 / 96293 74196.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/sale-of-handicraft-products/article33647014.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||You can be our volunteer-writer||Dear readers, you can be our volunteer-writer by writing to us about issues and events in your neighbourhood. You should send the write-ups to downtownfeedback@ thehindu.co.in. Letters must carry the postal address and contact number. Here’s a short note on the basic building blocks of any short news feature. a) The lead is the first section of an article, and leads that narrate a human situation work the best. b) The next element is the cosmic paragraph, in which you give the overall picture. c) News features have to be factually-grounded and the central portion, which will consist of a few paragraphs, should support the anecdotal paragraph and the cosmic paragraph||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/you-can-be-our-volunteer-writer/article33647015.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Mrignayanee sari sale ends today||The exhibition-cum-sale of handloom saris, organised by Mrignayanee ends on January 24. It is being held at Mrignayanee’s outlet at No: 180, Luz Church Road, Mylapore. According to a press release, Maheshwari saris are available. The designs and patterns in Maheshwari saris are inspired by the walls of Maheshwar Fort. They include Chameli flower, brick, and diamond, adds the release. Maheshwari saris are available in silk and cotton. In addition to Maheshwari saris, other varieties such as Chanderi saris, tusser saris, and Batik saris are available. A discount up to 27 per cent is offered, adds the press release. For details, call 94441 20027||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/mrignayanee-sari-sale-ends-today/article33647025.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||An exclusive helpline number for those with disabilities||If you are differently-abled and want to know the status of your voters’ identification card or status of your application, here is help. Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) has launched an exclusive WhatsApp Assistance Number (9499933619) for persons with disabilities to clarify any queries relating to the upcoming Assembly elections in the State. Some of the common queries would have to be do with address change, addition or deletion of name and information about a polling station. “Some would need clarification in sign language and we have asked the department to facilitate this at the Control Room. During the 2016 election too, we had a sign language interpretor,” says Smitha Sadasivan, a member of Disability Rights Alliance (DRA). This time, she says, they have asked the department to create greater awareness about the helpline number. “Communication needs to be enhanced including through social media so that more people make use of the resource. All these are steps towards creating an inclusive and accessible society as well as increasing the participation of the differently-abled in electoral process,” says Smitha. A Twitter post by @jmeghanathreddy, who is deputy commissioner, GCC, says: “Drop in a WhatsApp Msg. Rest, we will take care.” The special enrolment camp has also been extended till January 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/an-exclusive-helpline-number-for-those-with-disabilities/article33647027.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Enrol more women as Rotarians’||Jennifer Jones — who will be the first woman to become Rotary International President when she assumes office in July 2022 — recently met with members of Rotary Club of Madras (RCM) on a virtual platform. Rotarians from other parts of the world also took part in the virtual meet-up. During the virtual conference, RCM took Jennifer and the other participants on a tour of its projects, a press release said. To increase the participation of women, Jennifer said she was keen on enrolling more women as Rotarians. Currently, woman constitute 24% of Rotary strength. She pointed out that just as they played a pivotal role in polio eradication, Rotarians would offer governments their support in fighting COVID-19. During the virtual conference, Jennifer inaugurated two dialysis machines at ACS Medical College and Hospital and a tree-planting programme by RCM at the Boys Town project in Gummudupundi. Rotarians numbering 525, from across the world, took part in the meet-up, said the release. The programme was coordinated by past president N. K. Gopinath and P.P. Gopal Ratnam and current president Kapil Chitale, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/enrol-more-women-as-rotarians/article33647034.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||The role of a lifetime||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-role-of-a-lifetime/article33647018.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Riding his way to independence||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/riding-his-way-to-independence/article33647019.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||TOWARDS GREATER safety||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/towards-greater-safety/article33647013.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Riding his way to independence||The clock needles point to 8.45 p.m. as D. George waits, seated on his brown Activa, near DPI on College Road. On the outside, George is a symbol of calm. Inside, he is desperately hoping he would get one ride, the last one for the day, and that it should be towards Jafferkhanpet, where he is a resident. “That would make it better as I can wind up for the day. However, I would take up any ride that comes to me,” says George, and his voice does not betray the unavoidable fatigue that would accompany a day that began at 7 a.m., and was spent ferrying people around a city George has so far done 10 trips. George is one of the 50 differently-abled captains (as drivers are called) in Chennai working for Rapido, a bike taxi player. Physically-challenged since age one, George has not allowed his disability to prevent him from achieving independence. With hard work and determination, he has crossed many a hurdle to be on his own. He lives in a family of four where he and his brother, who is an electrician, are the breadwinners. Prior to joining the bike taxi company a year ago, George was working as a lift operator at Kilpauk Medical College on a contractual basis. Learning to drive “I only studied till Class X or I would have had more options before me,” he says. His disability would not allow him to walk long or take up tough jobs, though George is ready to try his hand at other jobs. “The main obstacle I face is convincing people that I can and asking them to give me a chance,” says the 37-year-old who has worked as an electrician, a painter and a plumber to eke a living. Driving has been a childhood desire and he learnt to operate a two-wheeler on his own. He had seen his neighbours drive vehicles, which in his mind represented independence. “More than 10 year ago, I learnt to ride a two-wheeler. I bought a second-hand bike and asked a friend to sit behind me to help me and that is how I learnt to drive. It was not easy as my legs are weak and I cannot put much stress on my back. It also took a lot more effort for me to get comfortable while driving. I have been using my modified bike to attend to any household-related work. The freedom and independence of not depending on anyone else is special,” says George. George has been shifting jobs to beat the monotony, and to earn better. He found out about Rapido through an advertisement and applied for a job with the company. Lockdown was tough for ride-sharing companies and he switched to other works. “On an average, I earn Rs. 20,000 a month which is more than what I earned in any of my previous jobs. Besides, there is the satisfaction that comes from being on my own. I decide which ride to take and can also choose when to take a ride,” he says. Building confidence George says most riders are encouraging. Some of them know that he is handicapped but that has never been a reason to cancel a ride. “This has boosted my confidence,” says George, adding that he even ferried people to the areas lying on the outskirts of Chennai. George talks about a road-related incident that happened during Pongal. He was taking a rider to his destination and near Jafferkhanpet, a person in front of his bike dropped her wallet and continued on her way. “I took the wallet and asked the rider sitting behind me, if we could return it before dropping him at his destination. So, we followed the owner of the wallet for close to three kilometre,” he says. Both the pillion rider and the wallet owner thanked him. He says: “Such incidents motivate me to do my work with dedication.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/riding-his-way-to-independence/article33647065.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||An apartment morphs into a ‘design studio’||At BBC City Paark Apartments in Porur, we have been doing our bit to keep the traditional art of rangoli-drawing alive. Every year, especially during the Margazhi season, as a community come together to draw kolams in front of our houses as well as in the common areas of the apartment. Through the month, we witnessed enthusiastic participation from residents who would draw a new design every day in front of their flats on ‘happiness’ — the theme chosen for this year. Due to the pandemic, a majority of us drew the design in front of our flats; otherwise, we would have had a huge colourful canvas in our parking area. To encourage more residents to take part in this activity, we also organise a rangoli competition before Pongal in which residents aged from 12 to 65 years would take part. With a theme, participants are allotted an open space and a given duration of time in which they have to complete their rangoli design. When the number of participants are on the higher side, they are grouped according to their interests. Each group is given numbers and their real names are kept under wraps till the design is completed. The rangoli designs are evaluated by two judges who mark on the basis parameters such as dexterity, neatness, colour combination, presentation and accuracy. The soothing colours and the beautiful designs offer a positive vibration to the whole society and helps residents bind with each other. The winners are announced by the Ladies Club Committee.  (Shoba Rajesh is secretary BBC Ladies Club)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/an-apartment-morphs-into-a-design-studio/article33647076.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||A lark turns its tail on Velachery village||There is a piquancy to nostalgia that whets our appetite for it. Amidst the recollection of “what was”, the tanginess arrives with the realisation of “how different it was”, quickly followed by a wistful “how wonderful it was”. In odd moments, there could be be tinge of disappointment as “what could have continued” flaps into focus. As ornithologist V. Santharam looks back on birding around the Pallikaranai Marsh in the 1980s, such a moment arrives on the wings of the Sykes’ Short-toed Lark. Those were times when, during winter, sizeable flocks of the Sykes’ Short-toed Lark would be a quotidian feature of birding on the Velachery section of the Marsh. “At this patch, the Sykes’ Short-toed Lark, a winter visitor, would be generally seen in flocks of 50 to 100,” says Santharam, adding that the bird is by nature gregarious, and flock in large numbers. “At Rann of Kutch, I have seen it in flocks of 200 to 300.” For contrast, he points out, “The Jerdon’s Bushlark, a resident in and around Chennai, is usually seen alone, in pairs or in family parties. The same goes for the Oriental Skylark, also a resident.” In the 1980s, this patch — actually an expanse marking the approach to the Pallikaranai Marsh — was just what the ‘lark-doctor’ ordered. “It was an open area with grass that would be short because it was continually grazed upon by cattle. Of loamy soil, it would be slushy during the monsoon, and harden up after the rains had stopped,” Santharam describes. “The Jerdon’s Bushlark prefers somewhat of an open scrub environment where there is more vegetation. In contrast, the Sykes’ Short-toed Lark prefers grassy open land.” On this patch, Santharam would be unfailingly treated to sights of the Oriental Pratincole, the Indian Courser, and also the Yellow-Wattled Lapwing, now hardly seen even within semi-urban sections of Chennai. Santharam identifies this section: “Not too far from where the MRTS station stands now, there used to be something called the VOR Station, where radio systems to gather aviation-related data had been established. To access this patch, we would take a bus from Ice House to VOR Station, At that time, Velachery was a village.” From just a quick bus ride away, the Skyes’ Short-Toed Lark has receded considerably, its winter visits now marked in areas far removed from Chennai. Sivakumar Shanmugasundaram, a birder, says: “In the early part of this winter-birding season, I saw the Sykes’ Short-toed Lark in flocks at Kaveripakkam in Vellore. In earlier seasons, I had seen it at Mamandur in Kancheepuram. From a distance, one may mistake this bird for a pipit or a Jerdon’s Bushlark. On closer inspection, you cannot mistake it for anything else. One clear giveaway is that it would be found in huge flocks, often in the range of 100 to 200” “The bill would be shorter than that of the Jerdon’s Bushlark,” says Santharam. And of course, as the name suggests, the “baby toes” is another clear giveaway.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-lark-turns-its-tail-on-velachery-village/article33647083.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Willow wielders by the side of a bungalow||Deeply attached to the willow sport, this family would let youngsters from the neighbourhood turn the open space around their bungalow into a makeshift ground. It would tolerate the raucous appeals, the constant jabber of on-field instructions and probably, even the occasional verbal duel over an umpiring decision. An invisible line had however been drawn, and one unsuspecting day, the neighbourhood cricket team crossed it. A thumping whack from the bat resulting in a broken window glass, it was close of play for this all-Nungambakkam cricket team, forever. Shivakumar Krishnamurthy, who has heard this story narrated by his elders many a time, explains that the family gently chided the young cricketers for the damage, but let the boys know in unmistakable terms that they valued not only cricket, but also an intact house. The youngsters got the hint and shifted their operations to the Nungambakkam Corporation ground where the SDAT Tennis Stadium would come up decades later. Besides memories of cricket played around this bungalow named “Aruna” on Mangadu Swamy Street in Nungambakkam, the youngsters would also carry its name with them. They would call their team Aruna Cricket Club, a name that now lives on in league cricket, representing what is now a second-division team. “Mangadu Swamy Street is parallel to Village Road, and found behind the police station, that is where it all began in the 1950s. The team also traces its genesis to Veerabadran Street, one street away from Mangadu Swamy Street. The prime force behind starting the team was MM Sundaram, its founder,” recalls Shivakumar, secretary of Aruna CC and a resident of Nungambakkam. For many decades, Aruna CC continued as a team comprising players drawn from Nungambakkam and surrounding areas. There was a supplementary selection process that enabled it to maintain its character as a team rooted in Nungambakkam. “In those early decades, another team in Nungambakkam, Springfield Recreation Club (SRC) served as a feeder club for Aruna CC. SRC was never a league team, but its players would practise at the Lake Area ground, where the TE Srinivasans of the world were born. Those who excelled in SRC would get drafted into Aruna CC for league cricket,” explains Shivakumar. Beyond Nungambakkam The world would eventually open up, and there was no reason for neighbourhood-centric Aruna CC to swim against the tide, but every reason to go with the flow. In the 1990s, increasing mobility in terms of overseas education and employment meant that the talent pool of young cricketers within every neighbourhood would be limited. And eventually, the concept of neighbourhood cricket teams would not keep stride with this development. “I would say the churn happened in the mid- to late-1990s,” recalls Shivakumar. “Now, we probably have only one player from Nungambakkam and the rest are from outside the neighbourhood.” However, Aruna CC has retained its Nungambakkam flavour by virtue of the people managing and supporting it. Shivakumar points out that as a non-corporate team it is “sustained by the love and support of friends and family”, and a majority of them have a connection with Nungambakkam, something that they are inclined to sustain. “There are twelve of us: Some of us holding high positions in companies, some semi-retired and others retired. The expenses, which include players’ fee, equipment cost and breakfast and lunch, are shared, with each deciding where they could contribute,” says Shivakumar. “The Aruna CC management team — S. Gopalakrishnan, P.K. Vishwanath, N.S. Shankar, V. Gopalakrishnan, S. Premkumar and V. Murali — is marked by a combination of senior corporate executives and successful entrepreneurs. What is more significant is that all of them are Nungambakkam natives.” Those who had earlier associated with the team seem to find a way to continue supporting it. “Precision Infomatic was sponsor for more than a decade in the 2000s. Precision promoters Mathew Chacko, V. Murali, who is part of Aruna CC’s managing committee, and T.G. Ramesh have been a support to the team. Mathew Chacko played for the Anna University team that won Rohinton Baria Trophy; and he played for Aruna CC for a decade,” says Shivakumar. “Beyond their contribution as players of Aruna CC, the N.P. brothers — N.P. Shankar, N.P. Rajendran and N.P. Manohar (who represented the Indian school boys) — have helped in the management of the team.” In attendance There are many facets to the support received by Aruna CC. One of them is the older generation offering their morale-boosting presence by showing up at the matches. T.E. Srinivasan’s brother T.E. Kannan, who lives in Raja Annamalai Puram and is on the wrong side of the seventies, is a regular at Aruna CC games. “Kannan would take a bus and come to my house in Nungambakkam from where we would drive down to wherever the match was being held,” says Shivakumar. “There must be eight other former Aruna CC players who come to watch the Club’s games even now.” Shivakumar believes this loyalty derives from the sense of family the Club has managed to foster, not just on the field. He underlines the pride that comes from knowing that players like Thirunavukarasu Kumaran and Aniruda Srikkanth have worn the Aruna CC colours; and also that its players have made an indelible mark in careers outside the cricket field — “two of the former Aruna CC players donned senior government roles: G. Parthasarathy, a distinguished IFS officer and a former Indian Ambassador to Pakistan and V. Sundaram, IAS officer of Maharashtra cadre”. Shivakumar points out that the fulfilment that comes from making a difference in the lives of players who obviously need a leg-up, is no less heady. “We do everything we can to place players who have served us well, in good jobs — if they require that kind of a support. We also help some players reskill by getting them to do a course. Thinking of an immediate example, there is Tamildasan, who just finished his MSC maths, and we are trying to get him into a proper job, and part of the exercise, we have been helping him write competitive exams such as the ones from Indian Oil and Indian Air Force.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/willow-wielders-by-the-side-of-a-bungalow/article33647079.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Footpath work in Saligramam moves at a tardy pace’||The footpath work along K.K.Salai in Saligramam began three months ago, but by the look of it, it will take a few more months to be completed. Portions of the road dug up in front of gates should have been closed immediately. But the pits are kept open for days together and residents are finding it difficult to take out their vehicles. Further, snapping of electricity have been reported from a few sections of the road; this happened despite residents cautioning the workers about underlying power cables. Even the cables supplying power to the street lights got snapped. On many sections of the road, pile-ups of construction debris hinder the movement of pedestrians. As the road margins are out of bounds, pedestrians come closer to the middle of the road putting themselves in harm’s way. Rainwater harvesting structures on K.K. Salai are in disrepair. When our residents’ association, Kaveri Rangan Nagar Narpani Mandram talked to the officials concerned about it, they received evasive answers. We once again request the Greater Chennai Corporation to do the needful at the earliest. S. Sundaresan is a member of Kaveri Rangan Nagar Narpani Mandram is Saligramam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/footpath-work-in-saligramam-moves-at-a-tardy-pace/article33647096.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Bonding through panels on the screen||Put on your thinking cap and take this quiz. It does not matter if you are not a current student, parent or alumnus of Holy Angels Anglo-Indian Higher Secondary School, T. Nagar. What is the colour of the first uniform introduced in Holy Angels School? “Green with a piping of green and white stripes at the neck and sleeves” or “blue”? Whatever you have chosen, you may keep it under wraps. There are no gifts to be given away. It is just a fun activity for you to refresh your memory about your alma mater . This is roughly the drift of one of the posts on the school’s Facebook page, and it comes against the backdrop of the Alumni Fest 2021, scheduled to be held on January 26. If you have been associated with the school in any manner, there is a likelihood that questions of this kind being posted under #Iknowmyschool will make you nostalgic. Many an institution that have been maintaining the tradition o0f organising their alumni meet on January 26 are now organising virtual meet-ups this year due to the pandemic. Teasers, video messages from retired teachers, a virtual tour of the school and black-and-white photos of the good old days are among ways in which organisers are building up the excitement in the run-up to the virtual event. This year, Old Bedeans Association (OBA) representing the alumni of St. Bede’s Anglo-Indian Higher Secondary School, celebrates its 96th year of formation and the 150th year of the starting of the Don Bosco Past Pupils Association. “Both are important milestones in our calendar and we did not want to give them a miss, so we have a meet-up on Google Meet on January 26, from 11 a.m. onwards,” says Deepak Raj, secretary of OBA. The in-person event usually attracts over 300 alumni. “As far as I can remember, we have always had the alumni meet on January 26 and old students who live in other countries would plan their calendar accordingly. A special reminder or invitation was not required but this time we have broadcast that the school gates will not be open on that day,” says Deepak. “Those who are technologically challenged would need help; this virtual meet is just an experiment.” For years, Vidyodaya School Alumni Association, better known as Poorva Vidhyarthini Samaj, has been following the practice of having its reunion scheduled for January 26. This year, with many of its old students who have settled down in other countries expressing an interest in the virtual event, they have shifted the meet-up to January 30. “Traditionally we would meet on Republic Day as it is a holiday and many can take part in it, but as it is a virtual meet-up, we wanted our friends from other countries to join us. Based on a poll we took, we decided to host it on January 30 and the time chosen — 8 a.m. — makes the meet convenient for people spread across time zones to attend,” says Latha Kumaraswami, an old student and a member of the executive committee. Latha says they are expecting a bigger turnout than the one usually registered during in-person events. “We specially created a WhatsApp group this time to coordinate different activities for the virtual meet-up,” says Latha. On-the-spot quiz and cultural events are a few activities that have already been planned. Other highlights Alumni meets serve as an occasion for former students to help the school in whatever way they can. So, has the pandemic eaten into this aspect? As in previous years, Poorva Vidhyarthini Samaj is giving away scholarships to deserving students. “Twelve students would get scholarship worth Rs. 1.2 lakh,” says Latha. “Virtual events are a good way to connect with old students and also to raise more funds for our scholarship programme,” she adds. In December, OBA distributed Rs. 3 lakh worth of provision to 150 families.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/bonding-through-panels-on-the-screen/article33647081.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Additional bridge at Manapakkam needs repairs||It is only two years since it was constructed, but the additional bridge across Adyar river at Manapakkam on Mount–Poonamallee Main Road seems to be carrying the tiresome weight of many years. Some of the boulders placed on the tiled footpath on the side towards St.Thomas Mount are broken. The footpath towards Poonamallee does not have tiles, and is instead made up of concrete slabs, most of which are broken and and some are tilted in such a manner as to make the walkway perilously uneven. Officials of the State Highways Department who are in charge of the bridge point out that Tangedco’s electricity cables runs along the bridge; and, concrete slabs have been placed so that the Tangedco staff would be able to attend to any cable fault without any difficulty. The concrete slabs are just a stop-gap arrangement, they point out. However, pedestrians say that they find it risky to walk on the uneven footpath. Besides, steel rods protrude from the median. Sections of the median on the bridge got damaged due accidents over the past two years. But repairs were not carried out on these sections. As a result, steel rods jut out, posing a threat to the safety of road users. The State Highways Department started constructing the bridge in 2017 after reassuring the Water Resource Department (WRD) that the existing width of the river and its flow would not be affected. Before its formal inauguration, the bridge was opened to traffic in October 2018. However, the bridge received LED street lights only in April 2019. “But many of the street lights are not working. At night, People rely on the headlights of their vehicles to navigate this section,” says S. Prabhakar, a resident of Ramapuram. Regular road users on this section point out that the bridge is dusty. Sand gets accumulated along the extreme ends of the carriageway on the bridge, which in turn blocks the stormwater-drain inlets on the bridge. Consequently, rainwater stagnates near the ramp of the bridge, towards Poonamallee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/additional-bridge-at-manapakkam-needs-repairs/article33647078.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Footpath usurped||The footpath in Vembuliamman Koil Street in K.K.Nagar is becoming a dumping ground for all kinds of waste. Hence, pedestrians are unable to use the footpath. Repeated complaints to the Greater Chennai Corporation have not yielded the desired result. S. Sampath is a resident of K.K. Nagar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/footpath-usurped/article33647093.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Renovated park in Nesapakkam slips into disuse||In March 2019, the park-cum-playground at Jai Balaji Nagar in Nesapakkam, near K.K. Nagar, received the benefits of a renovation exercise. But the facility, which comes under the purview of the Greater Chennai Corporation, is already showing signs of dereliction. Many play equipment are damaged. Spread over 9,000 sq.ft, the park is located at Ward 155 of Zone 11. As a result of the renovation, the park received a tiled walkway, a seating arrangement, street lights, washrooms, water taps, a motor pumping room (for the existing overhead tank) and a compound wall. The gates of the park are open from 4 a.m. to 10 a.m. and from 4 p.m. to 8 p.m. every day. Jai Balai Nagar in Nesapakkam has over 10 streets; and this existing park is the only such facility to found there. The park caters to around 1,500 families in the locality. “Due to its poor upkeep, the park hardly receives any visitors, and this situation has turned out to be an advantage for anti-socials,” says K. Vasudevan, a resident of Nesapakkam. The park is mainly meant for children, but most of the play equipment are not in good condition. Further, the facility does not have CCTV cameras and security guards. Many of the LED lights are on the blink. So, the few visitors who do make use of the park have to leave before sunset. During rains, the transformer at the entrance of the park poses a threat to the safety of visitors. Moreover, the transformer is not fenced. A Greater Chennai Corporation official points out that “better safety features will be provided at the park at the earliest.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/renovated-park-in-nesapakkam-slips-into-disuse/article33647069.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Nungambakkam resident launches tea outlet||Quitting his media profession, M. Prakash decided to follow where his heart took him. As someone who loves to travel and explore cuisines of various parts of India, 40-year-old Prakash found his cup of tea – food industry. He started Pot Chai, a tea outlet in Gopalapuram, opened in November 2020. “We offer three flavours of tea: Tandoori Chai, Dhum Chai and Bis Tea. The ingredients used in Tandoori Chai and Dhum Chai are the same but the mode of cooking is different. We serve them in clay cups. Bis Tea is a name that we coined. It is nothing but Biscuit Tea. Bis Tea is offered in waffle cups which are edible. Waffle cups are of two variants: chocolate and vanilla. We avoid paper cups because it contains wax and hence these cups are said to be hazardous to health,” says Prakash, a resident of Nungambakkam. Apart from tea, the outlet also offers some starters. It includes grill chicken, mutton samosa, Kerala karimeen (pearl-spot) fish steamed, “pot” nattu kozhi thokku and crab lollipop. “We cook them is brass utensils and serve them in clay pots and areca nut plates. Also, we stick to authentic traditional recipes. For example, we source the pearl-spot fish from Calicut and follow the exact method by which the Malayalis prepare it. Likewise, our chicken dishes are prepared with Chettianadu style. Next, all our masala powders are home-ground. We try to use pepper as much as possible and abstain from using monosodium glutamate salt and artificial flavours,” says Prakash. The outlet is at shop no:3, door no:15/7, sixth street, Gopalapuram, open from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. on all days. PH: 98842 25211.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/nungambakkam-resident-launches-tea-outlet/article33647087.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||A ballerina’s winter programme in Chennai||The ‘dilscoop’ is a revolutionary stroke in cricket, over-the-top in its audacity and innovation. In the world of wagtails, the side-to-side shake by the Forest Wagtail is the equivalent of the dilscoop. While all wagtails wag their tail by bobbing their body up and down, the Forest Wagtail does it with the side-to-side movement of its frame. It is anything but a hurried sideward-thrust. It is a swaying movement, smooth in execution; so exquisite that it gets the bird to be compared to a balerina for having it. In fact, that is the first thought that crosses ornithologist V. Santharam’s mind when I bring up bird. It is a strikingly handsome bird, with its markings drawing more comparisons, some cross-kingdom and some others, anthropomorphic. Santharam likens the markings on its wings to the stripes of a zebra. A fertile imagination is likely to see a salesperson’s tie in the upper black band and the vertical stripe running perpendicular to it. There is also a lower band, which is broken, much like extravagant flourishes of the brush from an artist bringing his magnum opus to a close. Though a winter visitor in Chennai and many other parts of peninsular India, this bird largely remains a hidden beauty, partly because it is a picky “home buyer”. “It is bird of wooded areas, but it would not want to have it too densely wooded. It needs canopy, but it would want only the kind of canopy that would allow for some open floor,” explains Santharam. For a long time it was that while the bird believed was wintering in south-western India, it would just be passing through the rest of peninsular India, including Chennai. A paper “True winter distribution of Forest Wagtail Dendronanthus Indicus in India” by R. Kannan, V. Santharam, Amrit Kannan and Vikas Madhav Nagarajan published in 2018 in Indian Birds, presented evidence that vigorously militates against this notion. Santharam explains: “We summarised all our records of the bird in Chennai. It was thought to be a passage migrant in Chennai on its way to Sri Lanka. This is what many field books would say. At the time these books were compiled, there was not much information. We collated all our records, covering nearly four decades (1979 to 2017), in the winter months, and showed that the bird is indeed a winter migrant, though there is a lot of passage movement. They do pass through in October and November; and again in April and even early-May when there is a large influx of birds and they stay for a few days and move on. That way, the Forest Wagtail is both a winter visitor and a passage migrant.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-ballerinas-winter-programme-in-chennai/article33647082.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||When Mambalam Mosquitos had an address in Adyar||Since its birth in the 1940s, ‘Mambalam Mosquitos’ has been a conversation starter even before a ball is bowled. After decades of speculation over whether one should think of a boxer or a buzzing insect or both, when this name is called, here is a all-new perspective. The first word of the name and what it means also deserve the same high-brow analysis. It gives the cricket team the halo of a neighbourhood institution. Now, how long did it stay true to that image? P.C. Prakash, who played for Tamil Nadu and who is currently head coach of Karaikudi Kaalai in the Tamil Nadu Premier League, is secretary of Mambalam Mosquitos, which plays in the fourth-division. Prakash’s father P.S. Chander and his uncle P.S. Shanker had founded the team. “My father would ensure the team got filled up with players from our neighbourhood Mambalam, just to make sure local talent was encouraged,” says Prakash. “Then the team off the league for a long time. It was revived in the late 1970s, and by then, we were no longer residents of Mambalam, having moved to Indiranagar, Adyar. It was interesting to note that a team that practised in facilities around the Adyar area was largely composed of players from Mambalam.” However, Mambalam Mosquitos would evolve just as other neighbourhood teams would, and become more diverse in its composition. “Unlike in those decades, teams are now formed through academies. Location is hardly a consideration, and teams cut across areas. Just like ours, there is a team that is originally from Gandhinagar — named Gandhinagar Starlets — which represented the locality through its composition. But a time arrived when it was not sustainable; and began to be populated with players from all over."||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/when-mambalam-mosquitos-had-an-address-in-adyar/article33647080.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||An exclusive helpline number for those with disabilities||If you are differently-abled and want to know the status of your voters’ identification card or status of your application, here is help. Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) has launched an exclusive WhatsApp Assistance Number (9499933619) for persons with disabilities to clarify any queries relating to the upcoming Assembly elections in the State. Some of the common queries would have to be do with address change, addition or deletion of name and information about a polling station. “Some would need clarification in sign language and we have asked the department to facilitate this at the Control Room. During the 2016 election too, we had a sign language interpretor,” says Smitha Sadasivan, a member of Disability Rights Alliance (DRA). This time, she says, they have asked the department to create greater awareness about the helpline number. “Communication needs to be enhanced including through social media so that more people make use of the resource. All these are steps towards creating an inclusive and accessible society as well as increasing the participation of the differently-abled in electoral process,” says Smitha. A Twitter post by @jmeghanathreddy, who is deputy commissioner, GCC, says: “Drop in a WhatsApp Msg. Rest, we will take care.” The special enrolment camp has also been extended till January 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/an-exclusive-helpline-number-for-those-with-disabilities/article33647066.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||The only solution to the inundation problem?||Sai Baba Colony and Tarachand Nagar in Virugambakkam suffered inundation as a result of downpours in the first week of January. While some residents found their houses engulfed by water stagnating within the compound walls, there were others who had a bigger problem to deal with: water entering their rooms, sometimes mixed with overflowing sewage. Inundation of this kind is a recurrent issue for residents, who believe that the solution to this problem lies in the construction of stormwater drains (SWDs) in Kaliamman Koil Street. For that to materialise, the street has to be widened first. The two colonies are low-lying, points out Shakthivel Arumugam, secretary, Sai Baba Colony Residents Welfare Association and Jayanthi Bhatt, secretary, Tarachand Nagar Civic Association. Hence, water from surrounding neighbourhoods flow into Sai Baba Colony and Tarachand Nagar. “Sai Baba Colony does not have a dedicated stormwater drain. But there is a spot in our colony where SWDs of a few other localities are interlinked. But it is a clogged, which renders the drain ineffective and there is the resultant inundation of Sai Baba Colony,” says Shakthivel Arumugam. Tarachand Nagar has a dedicated drain that carries water from other localities, but clogging is again the issue. “Every year, during heavy monsoonal rains, our neighbourhood comes under knee-deep water. In spite of repeated representations to the Greater Chennai Corporation and elected representatives over the past many years, the issue remains unaddressed,” says Jayanthi Bhatt. So, they are hoping that widening of Kaliamman Koil Street would bring about the required relief. Construction of stormwater drains is part of the road-widening project. “The rainwater run-offs from Natesan Nagar, Sanjay Gandhi Nagar, Elango Nagar, Thangal Nagar, Surnambikai Nagar, and Dhanpath Raj Nagar flow through Sai Baba Colony and Tarachand Nagar. The existing route is circuitous and hence the low-lying localities like Sai Baba Colony and Tarachand Nagar bear the brunt of the problem. Hence, we want the Greater Chennai Corporation to expedite the Kaliamman Koil Street widening project. Besides easing vehicular traffic, a widened Kaliamman Koil Street would free surrounding localities of the problem of inundation, as stormwater drains would be constructed on both sides of the street. However, it has not happened until now due to issues relating to land acquisition. Of the 3.5-km-long Kaliamman Koil Street, only 1.5 km was widened four years ago. Following that, there has not been much progress. Once Kaliamman Koil Street gets SWDs, we can change the existing routes of stormwater drains in Virugambakkam. Each of the above-mentioned colonies can have an SWD directly connected to the SWD in Kaliamman Koil Street,” says, S.Arumainathan, president, Virugambakkam Residents Welfare Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-only-solution-to-the-inundation-problem/article33647072.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Painting workshop at Vadapalani||Kani Arts is conducting a 10-day workshop on pencil drawing, Pattachitra, and Kerala mural from January 25 at Flat AS4 Ragamalika Apartments, No: 26, Kumaran Colony Main Road, Vadapalani. Time: From 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. and From 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. For details, call 9381157831||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/painting-workshop-at-vadapalani/article33647090.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||You can be our volunteer-writer||Dear readers, you can be our volunteer-writer by writing to us about issues and events in your neighbourhood. You should send the write-ups to downtownfeedback@ thehindu.co.in. Letters must carry the postal address and contact number. Here’s a short note on the basic building blocks of any short news feature. a) The lead is the first section of an article, and leads that narrate a human situation work the best. b) The next element is the cosmic paragraph, in which you give the overall picture. c) News features have to be factually-grounded and the central portion, which will consist of a few paragraphs, should support the anecdotal paragraph and the cosmic paragraph||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/you-can-be-our-volunteer-writer/article33647091.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Mrignayanee sari sale ends today||The exhibition-cum-sale of handloom saris, organised by Mrignayanee ends on January 24. It’s being held at Mrignayanee’s outlet at No: 180, Luz Church Road, Mylapore. According to a press release, Maheshwari saris are available. The designs and patterns in Maheshwari saris are inspired by the walls of Maheshwar Fort. They include Chameli flower, brick, and diamond, adds the release. Maheshwari saris are available in silk and cotton. In addition to Maheshwari saris, other varieties such as Chanderi saris, tusser saris, and Batik saris are available. A discount up to 27 per cent is offered, adds the press release. For details, call 94441 20027||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/mrignayanee-sari-sale-ends-today/article33647098.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Handicraft items on sale||Bashumoni Handicrafts is organising an exhibition-cum-sale of handicrafts and handloom products at No:7, North Mada Street, Mylapore. Time: From 10 a.m. to 8.30 p.m. According to a press release, sari varieties such as Bandini, Chanderi silk, Kantha work, Sungudi, Kota, Ikkat, Maheshwari, are available. Also, dupattas, shawls, blouses, kurtis, quilts, bedspreads, and bedsheets are part of the collection. Further, brass artefacts, crockery items, jewellery, dolls and food products will be on display. A discount of up to 25 per cent will be offered, says the press release. The sale ends on February 7. For details, call 93837 40065 / 96293 74196.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/handicraft-items-on-sale/article33647088.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||The role of a lifetime||D. Dhilipkumar, a 22-year-old construction-site engineer, is donning a role that he would not have expected to, in the wildest of his dreams. The traffic police have picked him for playing “Yama” for its awareness programmes centred around Road Safety Month. On January 19, he donned the role for the first time. Seniors from the firm he works for asked Dhilipkumar to go to the Vepery Police Station with an instruction that he had to do what the police personnel at the station would ask him to do. He was nervous, worrying about what could in store for him. A resident of Kolathur, he rushed to Vepery in his moped. At the police station, he was welcomed by a team of traffic police personnel led by K. Pandivelu, Inspector (traffic wing), Vepery police station. One of the police personnel took Dhilipkumar to the dressing room. An hour later, Dhilipkumar came out as “Yama”, ready to play a pivotal role in an awareness campaign on road safety at key intersections including Doveton and E.V.K. Sampath Road junctions. “I have not acted even in plays during my school days. But I was happy to play the role of Yama for the first time as it is meant for a cause. There is not much dialogue to mouth. It is just about encouraging motorists to wear a helmet and follow other safety rules on the road,” says Dhilipkumar, a science graduate. Dhilipkumar says he would usually leave his house in Kolathur at 7. 30 a.m and spend most of his time at the work site. “Now, this task has made my day entirely and unbelievably different,” he says. It was Dhilipkumar’s strong build that had landed him the role of Yama. The Vepery police station is among a few police stations under the Greater Chennai Police Commissionerate that started the road safety awareness campaign. This year, the awareness campaign on road safety is being carried out for a month. “Usually, such roles for awareness campaigns are played by professional artistes. In contrast, we wanted a regular resident to play the role as it would help increase the campaign’s reach,” says Vepery traffic inspector Pandivelu. Motorists at Doveton, Purasawalkam High Road, Poonamallee High Road intersections were sensitised about having to obey traffic rules including halting before the stop line and wearing helmets and seatbelts. The Vepery traffic police also distributed sweets and gifts to those motorists who followed traffic rules. The month-long exercise will be carried out at other key intersections in the neighbourhood.  Usually, such roles for awareness campaigns are played by professional artistes. We however wanted a regular resident to play the role as it would help increase the campaign’s reach||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-role-of-a-lifetime/article33647064.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Riding his way to independence||The clock needles point to 8.45 p.m. as D. George waits, seated on his brown Activa, near DPI on College Road. On the outside, George is a symbol of calm. Inside, he is desperately hoping he would get one ride, the last one for the day, and that it should be towards Jafferkhanpet, where he is a resident. “That would make it better as I can wind up for the day. However, I would take up any ride that comes to me,” says George, and his voice does not betray the unavoidable fatigue that would accompany a day that began at 7 a.m., and was spent ferrying people around a city George has so far done 10 trips. George is one of the 50 differently-abled captains (as drivers are called) in Chennai working for Rapido, a bike taxi player. Physically-challenged since age one, George has not allowed his disability to prevent him from achieving independence. With hard work and determination, he has crossed many a hurdle to be on his own. He lives in a family of four where he and his brother, who is an electrician, are the breadwinners. Prior to joining the bike taxi company a year ago, George was working as a lift operator at Kilpauk Medical College on a contractual basis. Learning to drive “I only studied till Class X or I would have had more options before me,” he says. His disability would not allow him to walk long or take up tough jobs, though George is ready to try his hand at other jobs. “The main obstacle I face is convincing people that I can and asking them to give me a chance,” says the 37-year-old who has worked as an electrician, a painter and a plumber to eke a living. Driving has been a childhood desire and he learnt to operate a two-wheeler on his own. He had seen his neighbours drive vehicles, which in his mind represented independence. “More than 10 year ago, I learnt to ride a two-wheeler. I bought a second-hand bike and asked a friend to sit behind me to help me and that is how I learnt to drive. It was not easy as my legs are weak and I cannot put much stress on my back. It also took a lot more effort for me to get comfortable while driving. I have been using my modified bike to attend to any household-related work. The freedom and independence of not depending on anyone else is special,” says George. George has been shifting jobs to beat the monotony, and to earn better. He found out about Rapido through an advertisement and applied for a job with the company. Lockdown was tough for ride-sharing companies and he switched to other works. “On an average, I earn Rs. 20,000 a month which is more than what I earned in any of my previous jobs. Besides, there is the satisfaction that comes from being on my own. I decide which ride to take and can also choose when to take a ride,” he says. Building confidence George says most riders are encouraging. Some of them know that he is handicapped but that has never been a reason to cancel a ride. “This has boosted my confidence,” says George, adding that he even ferried people to the areas lying on the outskirts of Chennai. George talks about a road-related incident that happened during Pongal. He was taking a rider to his destination and near Jafferkhanpet, a person in front of his bike dropped her wallet and continued on her way. “I took the wallet and asked the rider sitting behind me, if we could return it before dropping him at his destination. So, we followed the owner of the wallet for close to three kilometre,” he says. Both the pillion rider and the wallet owner thanked him. He says: “Such incidents motivate me to do my work with dedication.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/riding-his-way-to-independence/article33647036.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||A lark turns its tail on Velachery village||There is a piquancy to nostalgia that whets our appetite for it. Amidst the recollection of “what was”, the tanginess arrives with the realisation of “how different it was”, quickly followed by a wistful “how wonderful it was”. In odd moments, there could be be tinge of disappointment as “what could have continued” flaps into focus. As ornithologist V. Santharam looks back on birding around the Pallikaranai Marsh in the 1980s, such a moment arrives on the wings of the Sykes’ Short-toed Lark. Those were times when, during winter, sizeable flocks of the Sykes’ Short-toed Lark would be a quotidian feature of birding on the Velachery section of the Marsh. “At this patch, the Sykes’ Short-toed Lark, a winter visitor, would be generally seen in flocks of 50 to 100,” says Santharam, adding that the bird is by nature gregarious, and flock in large numbers. “At Rann of Kutch, I have seen it in flocks of 200 to 300.” For contrast, he points out, “The Jerdon’s Bushlark, a resident in and around Chennai, is usually seen alone, in pairs or in family parties. The same goes for the Oriental Skylark, also a resident.” In the 1980s, this patch — actually an expanse marking the approach to the Pallikaranai Marsh — was just what the ‘lark-doctor’ ordered. “It was an open area with grass that would be short because it was continually grazed upon by cattle. Of loamy soil, it would be slushy during the monsoon, and harden up after the rains had stopped,” Santharam describes. “The Jerdon’s Bushlark prefers somewhat of an open scrub environment where there is more vegetation. In contrast, the Sykes’ Short-toed Lark prefers grassy open land.” On this patch, Santharam would be unfailingly treated to sights of the Oriental Pratincole, the Indian Courser, and also the Yellow-Wattled Lapwing, now hardly seen even within semi-urban sections of Chennai. Santharam identifies this section: “Not too far from where the MRTS station stands now, there used to be something called the VOR Station, where radio systems to gather aviation-related data had been established. To access this patch, we would take a bus from Ice House to VOR Station, At that time, Velachery was a village.” From just a quick bus ride away, the Skyes’ Short-Toed Lark has receded considerably, its winter visits now marked in areas far removed from Chennai. Sivakumar Shanmugasundaram, a birder, says: “In the early part of this winter-birding season, I saw the Sykes’ Short-toed Lark in flocks at Kaveripakkam in Vellore. In earlier seasons, I had seen it at Mamandur in Kancheepuram. From a distance, one may mistake this bird for a pipit or a Jerdon’s Bushlark. On closer inspection, you cannot mistake it for anything else. One clear giveaway is that it would be found in huge flocks, often in the range of 100 to 200” “The bill would be shorter than that of the Jerdon’s Bushlark,” says Santharam. And of course, as the name suggests, the “baby toes” is another clear giveaway.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-lark-turns-its-tail-on-velachery-village/article33647061.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Renovated park receives rainwater harvesting facility||A renovated park on Adhiaman Street in Muthulakshmi Nagar, Chitlapakkam, will be opened shortly. L. Sundararaman, president, Chitlapakkam Muthulakshmi Nagar Welfare Association (CMNWA), says: “Chitlapakkam Selection Grade Town Panchayat developed the park and it was inaugurated in 2009. It had a walkway and a separate play area for children and a stage for organising events. Over a period of time, the park went to seed. The floor of the park had worn out and many other things also need to be replaced. In September 2019, we requested S. R. Raja, MLA, Tambaram Constituency to renovate the park. He agreed to do the needful. A sum of Rs. 4.5 lakh was allocated under Member of Legislative Assembly Local Area Development Scheme (MLALADS). The renovation began in October 2020 and was completed this January.” As part of the renovation work, the flooring has been redone. The park is now well-lit. Further, provisions have been created to harvest rainwater. Residents say the renovated park will be inaugurated by the MLA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/renovated-park-receives-rainwater-harvesting-facility/article33647048.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Willow wielders by the side of a bungalow||Deeply attached to the willow sport, this family would let youngsters from the neighbourhood turn the open space around their bungalow into a makeshift ground. It would tolerate the raucous appeals, the constant jabber of on-field instructions and probably, even the occasional verbal duel over an umpiring decision. An invisible line had however been drawn, and one unsuspecting day, the neighbourhood cricket team crossed it. A thumping whack from the bat resulting in a broken window glass, it was close of play for this all-Nungambakkam cricket team, forever. Shivakumar Krishnamurthy, who has heard this story narrated by his elders many a time, explains that the family gently chided the young cricketers for the damage, but let the boys know in unmistakable terms that they valued not only cricket, but also an intact house. The youngsters got the hint and shifted their operations to the Nungambakkam Corporation ground where the SDAT Tennis Stadium would come up decades later. Besides memories of cricket played around this bungalow named “Aruna” on Mangadu Swamy Street in Nungambakkam, the youngsters would also carry its name with them. They would call their team Aruna Cricket Club, a name that now lives on in league cricket, representing what is now a second-division team. “Mangadu Swamy Street is parallel to Village Road, and found behind the police station, that is where it all began in the 1950s. The team also traces its genesis to Veerabadran Street, one street away from Mangadu Swamy Street. The prime force behind starting the team was MM Sundaram, its founder,” recalls Shivakumar, secretary of Aruna CC and a resident of Nungambakkam. For many decades, Aruna CC continued as a team comprising players drawn from Nungambakkam and surrounding areas. There was a supplementary selection process that enabled it to maintain its character as a team rooted in Nungambakkam. “In those early decades, another team in Nungambakkam, Springfield Recreation Club (SRC) served as a feeder club for Aruna CC. SRC was never a league team, but its players would practise at the Lake Area ground, where the TE Srinivasans of the world were born. Those who excelled in SRC would get drafted into Aruna CC for league cricket,” explains Shivakumar. Beyond Nungambakkam The world would eventually open up, and there was no reason for neighbourhood-centric Aruna CC to swim against the tide, but every reason to go with the flow. In the 1990s, increasing mobility in terms of overseas education and employment meant that the talent pool of young cricketers within every neighbourhood would be limited. And eventually, the concept of neighbourhood cricket teams would not keep stride with this development. “I would say the churn happened in the mid- to late-1990s,” recalls Shivakumar. “Now, we probably have only one player from Nungambakkam and the rest are from outside the neighbourhood.” However, Aruna CC has retained its Nungambakkam flavour by virtue of the people managing and supporting it. Shivakumar points out that as a non-corporate team it is “sustained by the love and support of friends and family”, and a majority of them have a connection with Nungambakkam, something that they are inclined to sustain. “There are twelve of us: Some of us holding high positions in companies, some semi-retired and others retired. The expenses, which include players’ fee, equipment cost and breakfast and lunch, are shared, with each deciding where they could contribute,” says Shivakumar. “The Aruna CC management team — S. Gopalakrishnan, P.K. Vishwanath, N.S. Shankar, V. Gopalakrishnan, S. Premkumar and V. Murali — is marked by a combination of senior corporate executives and successful entrepreneurs. What is more significant is that all of them are Nungambakkam natives.” Those who had earlier associated with the team seem to find a way to continue supporting it. “Precision Infomatic was sponsor for more than a decade in the 2000s. Precision promoters Mathew Chacko, V. Murali, who is part of Aruna CC’s managing committee, and T.G. Ramesh have been a support to the team. Mathew Chacko played for the Anna University team that won Rohinton Baria Trophy; and he played for Aruna CC for a decade,” says Shivakumar. “Beyond their contribution as players of Aruna CC, the N.P. brothers — N.P. Shankar, N.P. Rajendran and N.P. Manohar (who represented the Indian school boys) — have helped in the management of the team.” In attendance There are many facets to the support received by Aruna CC. One of them is the older generation offering their morale-boosting presence by showing up at the matches. T.E. Srinivasan’s brother T.E. Kannan, who lives in Raja Annamalai Puram and is on the wrong side of the seventies, is a regular at Aruna CC games. “Kannan would take a bus and come to my house in Nungambakkam from where we would drive down to wherever the match was being held,” says Shivakumar. “There must be eight other former Aruna CC players who come to watch the Club’s games even now.” Shivakumar believes this loyalty derives from the sense of family the Club has managed to foster, not just on the field. He underlines the pride that comes from knowing that players like Thirunavukarasu Kumaran and Aniruda Srikkanth have worn the Aruna CC colours; and also that its players have made an indelible mark in careers outside the cricket field — “two of the former Aruna CC players donned senior government roles: G. Parthasarathy, a distinguished IFS officer and a former Indian Ambassador to Pakistan and V. Sundaram, IAS officer of Maharashtra cadre”. Shivakumar points out that the fulfilment that comes from making a difference in the lives of players who obviously need a leg-up, is no less heady. “We do everything we can to place players who have served us well, in good jobs — if they require that kind of a support. We also help some players reskill by getting them to do a course. Thinking of an immediate example, there is Tamildasan, who just finished his MSC maths, and we are trying to get him into a proper job, and part of the exercise, we have been helping him write competitive exams such as the ones from Indian Oil and Indian Air Force.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/willow-wielders-by-the-side-of-a-bungalow/article33647057.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Bonding through panels on the screen||Put on your thinking cap and take this quiz. It does not matter if you are not a current student, parent or alumnus of Holy Angels Anglo-Indian Higher Secondary School, T. Nagar. What is the colour of the first uniform introduced in Holy Angels School? “Green with a piping of green and white stripes at the neck and sleeves” or “blue”? Whatever you have chosen, you may keep it under wraps. There are no gifts to be given away. It is just a fun activity for you to refresh your memory about your alma mater . This is roughly the drift of one of the posts on the school’s Facebook page, and it comes against the backdrop of the Alumni Fest 2021, scheduled to be held on January 26. If you have been associated with the school in any manner, there is a likelihood that questions of this kind being posted under #Iknowmyschool will make you nostalgic. Many an institution that have been maintaining the tradition o0f organising their alumni meet on January 26 are now organising virtual meet-ups this year due to the pandemic. Teasers, video messages from retired teachers, a virtual tour of the school and black-and-white photos of the good old days are among ways in which organisers are building up the excitement in the run-up to the virtual event. This year, Old Bedeans Association (OBA) representing the alumni of St. Bede’s Anglo-Indian Higher Secondary School, celebrates its 96th year of formation and the 150th year of the starting of the Don Bosco Past Pupils Association. “Both are important milestones in our calendar and we did not want to give them a miss, so we have a meet-up on Google Meet on January 26, from 11 a.m. onwards,” says Deepak Raj, secretary of OBA. The in-person event usually attracts over 300 alumni. “As far as I can remember, we have always had the alumni meet on January 26 and old students who live in other countries would plan their calendar accordingly. A special reminder or invitation was not required but this time we have broadcast that the school gates will not be open on that day,” says Deepak. “Those who are technologically challenged would need help; this virtual meet is just an experiment.” For years, Vidyodaya School Alumni Association, better known as Poorva Vidhyarthini Samaj, has been following the practice of having its reunion scheduled for January 26. This year, with many of its old students who have settled down in other countries expressing an interest in the virtual event, they have shifted the meet-up to January 30. “Traditionally we would meet on Republic Day as it is a holiday and many can take part in it, but as it is a virtual meet-up, we wanted our friends from other countries to join us. Based on a poll we took, we decided to host it on January 30 and the time chosen — 8 a.m. — makes the meet convenient for people spread across time zones to attend,” says Latha Kumaraswami, an old student and a member of the executive committee. Latha says they are expecting a bigger turnout than the one usually registered during in-person events. “We specially created a WhatsApp group this time to coordinate different activities for the virtual meet-up,” says Latha. On-the-spot quiz and cultural events are a few activities that have already been planned. Other highlights Alumni meets serve as an occasion for former students to help the school in whatever way they can. So, has the pandemic eaten into this aspect? As in previous years, Poorva Vidhyarthini Samaj is giving away scholarships to deserving students. “Twelve students would get scholarship worth Rs. 1.2 lakh,” says Latha. “Virtual events are a good way to connect with old students and also to raise more funds for our scholarship programme,” she adds. In December, OBA distributed Rs. 3 lakh worth of provision to 150 families.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/bonding-through-panels-on-the-screen/article33647059.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Babu Nagar park is a picture of neglect||The children’s park on Babu Nagar Second Main Road at Babu Nagar in Medavakkam is in a shambles. Residents of the locality have requested the Medavakkam Village Panchyat to carry out repairs on the play equipment at the park, and also attend to the other issues. “The play equipment have been damaged,” says A. Sadhik, a resident of Babu Nagar. “Every basic everyday maintenance work such as sweeping is not being carried out here.” Residents have suggested that the height of the compound walls at the park be increased. “As the compound walls of the park is at a lower height, tipplers enter the park without any difficulty and misuse it for consuming alcohol,” he says. Further, the road along the park is littered with garbage pile-ups, which include construction debris. “As a result of this squalid environment, flies and mosquitoes swarm in large numbers ,” says M. Saravanan, another resident of Babu Nagar. Residents also want the gates replaced as they are in a bad shape. In this regard, an official at the Chengalpet District Collectorate says the issue would be addressed at the earliest.  “Even basic maintenance work such as everyday sweeping is not being carried out”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/babu-nagar-park-is-a-picture-of-neglect/article33647042.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||RWA seeks removal of transformer and poles||Residents of Chitlapakkam have requested the Tamil Nadu Generation & Distribution Corporation Limited (Tangedco) to take steps to remove its transformer and three electricity poles near Sembakkam lake. The poles and the transformer are proving to be a hindrance to the ongoing lake restoration work. M. Ravi, secretary, Sri Sarvamangala Nagar Residents’ Association, says, “We have sent petitions in this regard to the CM’s Cell; the Executive Engineer, Water Resources Department, Lower Palar Basin Division; and the Minister for Electricity. As part of the lake restoration, there is a plan to have a sewage treatment plant to arrest the discharge of sewage into the lake.” The sprawling waterbody spreads across parts of Sembakkam, Chitlapakkam and Pallavaram. But it is contaminated as residents discharge sewage through stormwater drains. As a result, the groundwater is also affected. “The de-silting of the lake coupled with copious rainfall this January and last year has increased the ground water level in Chitlapakkam. Until one-and-a half years ago, the Pallavapuram Municipality was drawing water from the wells in the lake, which resulted in depletion of groundwater. In this regard, the Association took up the issue with various authorities and the practice has been stopped as there is a case about it with the National Green Tribunal. The residents have stopped buying can water for cooking and drinking purposes. We have put reverse osmosis (RO) water filter systems in our borewells and use the clean and filtered water for cooking and drinking purposes,” says Ravi. The Association also pointed out that encroachments near the lake should be removed. “There is no use in creating a sewage treatment plant unless the encroachments are removed,” adds Ravi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/rwa-seeks-removal-of-transformer-and-poles/article33647055.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Reflectors missing on bypass road’||A year ago, the entire Tambaram-Maduravoyal Bypass was relaid. The lanes were marked with white paint on both sides of the road. At night, the reflectors fixed on each lane marking the line were so convenient and useful for drivers. But for reasons unknown to us, these reflectors have gone missing now. One or two reflectors are seen here and there, but they do not serve the purpose as they do not reflect light. It is quite risky, especially for motorcyclists, as the entire stretch does not have street lights. Hence, NHAI is requested to do the needful. R.V. Baskaran is a resident of Selaiyur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/reflectors-missing-on-bypass-road/article33647044.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Approach road to Thillai Ganga Nagar subway unsafe||The road connecting HUDCO Colony in Alandur and Thillai Ganga Nagar vehicular subway in Nanganallur is marked by protruding stones. Besides, the passage is not well-lit and therefore many avoid it like the plague. R. Vidhya, a resident of Nanganallur says “Lorries are parked, construction debris, garbage and liquor bottles can be found strewn around the place. Further, the road is slippery during rains. As a result, the pedestrians walk on the carriageway which is also unsafe.” In this regard, an official of Zone 12 says “Necessary measures will be taken to make the road safe.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/approach-road-to-thillai-ganga-nagar-subway-unsafe/article33647051.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||A ballerina’s winter programme in Chennai||The ‘dilscoop’ is a revolutionary stroke in cricket, over-the-top in its audacity and innovation. In the world of wagtails, the side-to-side shake by the Forest Wagtail is the equivalent of the dilscoop. While all wagtails wag their tail by bobbing their body up and down, the Forest Wagtail does it with the side-to-side movement of its frame. It is anything but a hurried sideward-thrust. It is a swaying movement, smooth in execution; so exquisite that it gets the bird to be compared to a balerina for having it. In fact, that is the first thought that crosses ornithologist V. Santharam’s mind when I bring up bird. It is a strikingly handsome bird, with its markings drawing more comparisons, some cross-kingdom and some others, anthropomorphic. Santharam likens the markings on its wings to the stripes of a zebra. A fertile imagination is likely to see a salesperson’s tie in the upper black band and the vertical stripe running perpendicular to it. There is also a lower band, which is broken, much like extravagant flourishes of the brush from an artist bringing his magnum opus to a close. Though a winter visitor in Chennai and many other parts of peninsular India, this bird largely remains a hidden beauty, partly because it is a picky “home buyer”. “It is bird of wooded areas, but it would not want to have it too densely wooded. It needs canopy, but it would want only the kind of canopy that would allow for some open floor,” explains Santharam. For a long time it was that while the bird believed was wintering in south-western India, it would just be passing through the rest of peninsular India, including Chennai. A paper “True winter distribution of Forest Wagtail Dendronanthus Indicus in India” by R. Kannan, V. Santharam, Amrit Kannan and Vikas Madhav Nagarajan published in 2018 in Indian Birds, presented evidence that vigorously militates against this notion. Santharam explains: “We summarised all our records of the bird in Chennai. It was thought to be a passage migrant in Chennai on its way to Sri Lanka. This is what many field books would say. At the time these books were compiled, there was not much information. We collated all our records, covering nearly four decades (1979 to 2017), in the winter months, and showed that the bird is indeed a winter migrant, though there is a lot of passage movement. They do pass through in October and November; and again in April and even early-May when there is a large influx of birds and they stay for a few days and move on. That way, the Forest Wagtail is both a winter visitor and a passage migrant.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-ballerinas-winter-programme-in-chennai/article33647060.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||When Mambalam Mosquitos had an address in Adyar||Since its birth in the 1940s, ‘Mambalam Mosquitos’ has been a conversation starter even before a ball is bowled. After decades of speculation over whether one should think of a boxer or a buzzing insect or both, when this name is called, here is a all-new perspective. The first word of the name and what it means also deserve the same high-brow analysis. It gives the cricket team the halo of a neighbourhood institution. Now, how long did it stay true to that image? P.C. Prakash, who played for Tamil Nadu and who is currently head coach of Karaikudi Kaalai in the Tamil Nadu Premier League, is secretary of Mambalam Mosquitos, which plays in the fourth-division. Prakash’s father P.S. Chander and his uncle P.S. Shanker had founded the team. “My father would ensure the team got filled up with players from our neighbourhood Mambalam, just to make sure local talent was encouraged,” says Prakash. “Then the team off the league for a long time. It was revived in the late 1970s, and by then, we were no longer residents of Mambalam, having moved to Indiranagar, Adyar. It was interesting to note that a team that practised in facilities around the Adyar area was largely composed of players from Mambalam.” However, Mambalam Mosquitos would evolve just as other neighbourhood teams would, and become more diverse in its composition. “Unlike in those decades, teams are now formed through academies. Location is hardly a consideration, and teams cut across areas. Just like ours, there is a team that is originally from Gandhinagar — named Gandhinagar Starlets — which represented the locality through its composition. But a time arrived when it was not sustainable; and began to be populated with players from all over."||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/when-mambalam-mosquitos-had-an-address-in-adyar/article33647058.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Kamakoti Nagar junction gets high-mast lamp||A new high-mast lamp has been installed at Kamakoti Nagar junction in Tambaram Sanatorium (East). It was installed following a request by Jayanthi P. Vinayagamoorthy, a resident of Sri Ram Colony, which is near Kamakoti Nagar. “A sum of Rs. 4 lakh was allocated by T. R. Baalu, Member of Parliament (Lok Sabha) Sriperumbudur Constituency under Member of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS). The facility was inaugurated by S.R. Raja, MLA, Tambaram Constituency, last week. Years ago, due to poor illumination, a chain-snatching incident was reported here,” says Vinayagamoorthy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/kamakoti-nagar-junction-gets-high-mast-lamp/article33647046.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Removal of barricades encourages violation of rules’||In the first week of January, the barricades at the Mahalakshmi Nagar junction on Tambaram Velachery Main Road were removed. The barricades were meant to restrict right turn at the junction which witnesses heavy traffic. This arrangement was made by the St.Thomas Mount traffic police in 2017 after residents’ associations in the locality complained about the difficulty pedestrians faced in crossing the junction. Then, in addition to a traffic signal, the junction was provided with a pedestrian signal. However, for reasons unknown to us, these barricades were removed recently and this development is encouraging motorists to take the right turn flouting road safety rules. Further, a “no right turn” signboard is not to be found at the junction. Once again, the safety of the pedestrians has been compromised at this junction. K. Dayanand, president, Pradeep and Karthik Avenue Residents’ Welfare Association, Chitlapakkam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/removal-of-barricades-encourages-violation-of-rules/article33647040.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Enrol more women as Rotarians’||Jennifer Jones — who will be the first woman to become Rotary International President when she assumes office in July 2022 — recently met with members of Rotary Club of Madras (RCM) on a virtual platform. Rotarians from other parts of the world also took part in the virtual meet-up. During the virtual conference, RCM took Jennifer and the other participants on a tour of its projects, a press release said. To increase the participation of women, Jennifer said she was keen on enrolling more women as Rotarians. Currently, woman constitute 24% of Rotary strength. She pointed out that just as they played a pivotal role in polio eradication, Rotarians would offer governments their support in fighting COVID-19. During the virtual conference, Jennifer inaugurated two dialysis machines at ACS Medical College and Hospital and a tree-planting programme by RCM at the Boys Town project in Gummudupundi. Rotarians numbering 525, from across the world, took part in the meet-up, said the release. The programme was coordinated by past president N. K. Gopinath and P.P. Gopal Ratnam and current president Kapil Chitale, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/enrol-more-women-as-rotarians/article33647063.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||An exclusive helpline number for those with disabilities||If you are differently-abled and want to know the status of your voters’ identification card or status of your application, here is help. Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) has launched an exclusive WhatsApp Assistance Number (9499933619) for persons with disabilities to clarify any queries relating to the upcoming Assembly elections in the State. Some of the common queries would have to be do with address change, addition or deletion of name and information about a polling station. “Some would need clarification in sign language and we have asked the department to facilitate this at the Control Room. During the 2016 election too, we had a sign language interpretor,” says Smitha Sadasivan, a member of Disability Rights Alliance (DRA). This time, she says, they have asked the department to create greater awareness about the helpline number. “Communication needs to be enhanced including through social media so that more people make use of the resource. All these are steps towards creating an inclusive and accessible society as well as increasing the participation of the differently-abled in electoral process,” says Smitha. A Twitter post by @jmeghanathreddy, who is deputy commissioner, GCC, says: “Drop in a WhatsApp Msg. Rest, we will take care.” The special enrolment camp has also been extended till January 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/an-exclusive-helpline-number-for-those-with-disabilities/article33647037.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Sari sale ends today||The exhibition-cum-sale of handloom saris, organised by Mrignayanee ends on January 24. It is being held at Mrignayanee’s outlet at No: 180, Luz Church Road, Mylapore. According to a press release, Maheshwari saris are available. For details, call 94441 20027||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/sari-sale-ends-today/article33647038.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Wall painting exercise at Putheri lake||Vidhaigal, an organisation that takes interest in environment conservation, Pasumai Peruga Sutham Sei and Adhi College of Engineering and Technology are organising a wall painting exercise at Putheri lake on January 24. It will be held from 7 a.m. to 2 p.m. “Encroachments have shrunk Putheri lake. People are dumping garbage. Hence, we try to create awareness through wall paintings about conserving water-bodies,” says A. Rajasekhar, a member of Vidhaigal. Those who wish to participate can assemble at north Putheri lake in Pallavaram. For details, call 8870281261 / 9789903077.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/wall-painting-exercise-at-putheri-lake/article33647053.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||You can be our volunteer-writer||Dear readers, you can be our volunteer-writer by writing to us about issues and events in your neighbourhood. You should send the write-ups to downtownfeedback@ thehindu.co.in. Letters must carry the postal address and contact number. Here’s a short note on the basic building blocks of any short news feature. a) The lead is the first section of an article, and leads that narrate a human situation work the best. b) The next element is the cosmic paragraph, in which you give the overall picture. c) News features have to be factually-grounded and the central portion, which will consist of a few paragraphs, should support the anecdotal paragraph and the cosmic paragraph||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/you-can-be-our-volunteer-writer/article33647049.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Willow wielders by the side of a bungalow||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/willow-wielders-by-the-side-of-a-bungalow/article33647056.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Burning bad||Range Forest Officer T. Sasikumar was attacked by a tiger at Kolavally, near Pulpally, in Wayanad district of Kerala on January 10. Only three months ago, he was attacked by another tiger at Anappara, near Pulpally. Both times, he escaped by the skin of his teeth. He came under the first attack while leading a team of foresters to trace the tiger which had developed the habit of lifting domestic animals from the village and roaming inside its coffee plantations. He escaped only because he had worn a helmet affectionately given to him by a person in the village. The tiger was tranquillised and translocated to Neyyar in Thiruvananthapuram district. Tigers and elephants are not uncommon to the villagers of Wayanad. The wild animals have established their territories in some villages in the past two decades. Now the human-animal conflict is at a peak. A tiger had devoured a tribal youth in the forests, leaving behind only the skeleton. This is a serious turning point in behavioural changes among tigers of Wayanad. In the second attack on Mr. Sasikumar, the tiger pounced on him while patrolling in the village with a forest and police team, along with a panic-stricken mob of the locality, to scare away the animal which reportedly has come out of the Nagarahole National Park, crossing the Kabani river, to the Kerala side. The veterinarians, the foresters, the police and the local crowd tried to tranquillise the animal, but it escaped to the adjacent Bandipur reserve. The danger looms large. This tiger might have tasted human blood, and only experts can predict the possible behavioural change. The tiger should hence be translocated from the village vicinities. With their natural habitat under threat and avenues for food and water shrinking because of various factors, more wild animals are coming out of the forests and raiding crops. The farmers are paid compensation for damage to crops four times a year, though the raids happen more often. Pigs, porcupines and monkeys are damaging crops miles away from the forest belts. Many farmers are not even aware of the compensation procedures. Crop raids are a serious issue to be addressed by the governments. Backward region Wayanad in Kerala is one of the most backward districts in India. Brahmagiri, Nagarahole, Bandipur, Mudumalai, New Amarambalam, Silent Valley, Aralam, Kottiyoor and Malabar are the protected areas ringing the district along with the reserve forests of Malappuram, Kozhikode and Kannur districts. The authorities have recommended five elephant corridors to fill the gaps in the garland of reserves. This tract falling within the Nilgiri Biosphere Reserve is considered highly ecologically sensitive. On the one side, the foresters of Wayanad face the rage and fury of the local people and on the other, they are surprised by unexpected encounters from the wild. In this context, help is expected from the State government and the Union Environment and Forests Ministry. An explosive situation can arise if the human-animal conflict crosses a limit. In Malappuram district, an elephant died after biting a pineapple with a crude bomb inside, a trap intended for wild pigs. The poor elephant died a gory death. Poisoning of tigers was reported long ago in Wayanad. People may resort to such illegal activities if steps are not taken to defuse the conflict. The Chief Wildlife Wardens of Karnataka and Kerala may constitute a task force to mitigate the conflict and study the reasons for the behavioural changes among the wildlife in Wayanad and Kodagu.  (The writer is a former Deputy   Conservator of Forests, Kerala)   jayanilraj@gmail.com  The foresters face the fury of people and unexpected encounters from the wild||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/burning-bad/article33647122.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||The femme hands||The Chief Justice of India, while hearing a bunch of petitions on the new farm laws, asked, “Why are women and elders kept in the protest?” He was referring to their presence in the agitations against the new farm laws and he went on to ask them to leave the protest sites. This paternalistic outlook not only denies women the agency to protest, it also erases the crucial role of women in the agriculture workforce, an erasure that is mirrored in official recognition, data and policies. Women farmers in the protests are not an inconvenient appendix to be removed. They have been an integral part of the movement since it started. Cutting across class and caste, they have actively mobilised public opinion in villages and towns of Punjab since last July. “We held special meetings across villages to educate women on how these laws would impact them,” says Harinder Kaur Bindu, general secretary of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan), the largest farmer’s union in Punjab. Many farm unions have active women’s wings. From the villages, markets and gurudwaras, these women have taken the agitation to corporate sites like Vedanta’s thermal plant, the malls and warehouses owned by the Adani and Ambani groups, the petrol pumps run by Reliance and to toll plazas. In protest sites across Punjab, women have performed pit siyappa (mourning songs). Since October, Manjeet Kaur, 40, and Charanjeet Kaur, 39, have taken a tractor every day from their village Wara Bhaika in Faridkot district of Punjab to Jeeda toll plaza, 4.4 kilometres away, to educate people about the laws. In these few months, the agitation has taken precedence over everything, including household responsibilities. In Mansa district, Kiranjeet Kaur, 25, runs Kisan Mazdoor Khudkushi Peedit Parivar Committee. She organised a 92-day campaign between November 1 and January 31 to educate the wives and families of those farmers who died by suicide due to the deepening agrarian crisis and rising debt. Unequal access Women farmers have a reason to worry — the new laws will have a very gendered impact, especially on small and marginal farmers who already have unequal access to land, water and other resources. Deregulation of the Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMCs), popularly known as mandis, is a big cause of concern for women farmers with varying landholdings. Apart from the proximity to their villages, thus offering them safety, the mandis, even while being male-dominated spaces, serve as an important mechanism for price discovery for women farmers, narrowing the margins of exploitation. “We sell a quintal of rice for Rs. 2,200 now. If the Mandi Board is dismantled, we may have to sell our harvest for half the price. See what happened in Bihar? Sanu is gal di wadi tension hegi aa (I am worried about this factor),” says Manjeet Kaur, a small farmer with two acres of land, referring to the dismantling of APMCs in Bihar in 2006 which led to a crash in prices of produce. Only the land Women farmers are also worried about the loss of their land holdings because of the contract farming provisions in the new laws. According to these provisions, farmers will produce crops as per contracts with large corporate investors for a mutually agreed price. This leaves them on an unequal footing since big businesses can exercise indirect control over farmland in the guise of securing farmer services, says agricultural economist Sudha Narayanan. “Our only source of livelihood is our land. If it is taken away from us, what will we be left with,” asks Charanjeet, whose family of five depends on the yearly income of Rs. 50,000 per acre they earn from leasing out their 12-acre holding after Charanjeet’s husband suffered a spinal cord injury. She is particularly worried about the lack of a legal redress mechanism in case of contract failures. Women farmers will face a particularly weak bargaining position as they cannot afford the time or financial resources for legal fights. The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, which removes cereals, pulses, oilseeds, edible oils, onions and potatoes from the list of essential commodities, also removes the limit on stocks and storage of these commodities. This too opens the gates for large businesses to enter, raising another concern for small farmers and increasing their worry about tackling hunger and malnutrition. “If farm produce is purchased by the corporates, how will the government provide rations to those below the poverty line? Everyone has understood this,” says Rajinder Kaur, 42, a Dalit landless agriculture wage worker from Gurditpura village in Patiala district. The new laws affect not just farmers but everyone dependent on land. Landless Dalits who work as agricultural labourers are particularly worried. When their earnings depleted with mechanisation after the Green Revolution, they came to rely on schemes like the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MNREGA). They fear their wages will again be hit under contract farming. “The farm laws will compound our hardship. They will take away the minimal work we now get in the fields,” says Gurmail Kaur, 65, a Dalit agricultural labourer from Muktsar district and a member of the Punjab Khet Mazdoor Union for 30 years. Dalit rights Dalit landless labourers have always faced caste discrimination, including sexual violence, from upper caste landlords. In response, groups like the Punjab Khet Mazdoor Union and Zamin Prapti Sangharsh Samiti, an umbrella organisation that advocates for land rights of Dalits, have come up over the years. With a large membership of women, these organisations have been at the forefront of the protests, finding common cause with landlords. “We have faced caste discrimination for generations. But this time, we have all come together,” says Taravanti, 70, a Dalit labourer from Muktsar district. Young women students from universities across Punjab, many of them from farmer families, have been active participants. They fear that falling farm incomes will push back their freedom and agency. “With falling farm incomes, girls like us who could dream of education will be pushed back to household chores or raising children,” says Sukhpreet Kaur, a second year Master’s student in Economics at Government Brijindra College in Faridkot district, whose family laboured hard to put her through university. The Supreme Court recently put a stay on the new laws and set up a committee to talk to the protesters. It has cut no ice. “We have turned down the Supreme Court’s decision for a committee. On behalf of the women farmers, I want to say that we will not leave until these laws are fully repealed,” says Harinder Kaur Bindu. Bhanupriya is the founder-editor of BehanBox, a platform for gender journalism. Sanskriti is a New Delhi-based independent journalist.  Young women students from universities across Punjab, many of them from farmer families, fear that falling agricultural incomes will push back their freedom and agency||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-femme-hands/article33647171.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Setting the record straight||Ishtiaq Ahmed’s book Jinnah: His Successes, Failures and Role in History is the most comprehensive political biography of the man simultaneously acclaimed for creating a state, and demonised for dividing a country. The greatest merit of the book is that Ahmed lets his subject speak for himself through his speeches and statements. Transformations Ahmed deftly traces the multiple transformations that Jinnah underwent during his half century long political career. He also identifies seminal events that propelled Jinnah into reinventing himself. Jinnah began his political career as an Indian nationalist whose crowning act was the authorship of the Lucknow Pact between the Congress and the Muslim League in 1916 that earned him the sobriquet “ambassador of Hindu-Muslim unity”. Jinnah, elitist to the core, was opposed to taking politics to the street. This explains in substantial part his disillusionment with the Congress once Gandhi became the undisputed leader of the party and adopted the strategy of mass mobilisation. Jinnah was also miffed by the importance accorded to Gandhi by the Congress leadership as he considered Gandhi an upstart compared to him. His break with the Congress came at the Nagpur session in 1920 when the audience hooted him down for his refusal to refer to Gandhi as “Mahatma”. Jinnah’s disassociation with the Congress led to his next phase of “Muslim communitarianism” with the objective of getting the best deal for Muslims as the country moved towards self-rule. His disillusionment with the national mainstream deepened and he left for London in 1930 after he was sidelined during the drafting of the Nehru Report and his demands enshrined in the famous “Fourteen Points” were ignored. He returned in 1934 at the behest of the Muslim League leaders determined to be recognised as the “sole spokesman” of Indian Muslims. Turning point The refusal of the Congress to accept the Muslim League as a partner in the UP government after the 1937 elections was the turning point that led to Jinnah’s move from Muslim communitarianism to Muslim separatism. He no longer defined Muslims as an important minority within the Indian nation but a nation claiming parity with the Hindus. The Lahore resolution of 1940 that demanded the separation of Muslim majority areas from the rest of India was the culmination of Jinnah’s rejection of the idea of a single Indian nation. Ahmed debunks the argument popularised by Ayesha Jalal that Jinnah wanted to use Pakistan as a bargaining counter to get a better deal for Muslims within India. He demonstrates, with the help of Jinnah’s own statements, that beginning in the late 1930s, Jinnah worked single-mindedly for the division of India on religious lines. The only apparent aberration was his conditional acceptance of the Cabinet Mission Plan in 1946. This was a result of his realisation that the Muslim League had lost much of its leverage with the British government with the end of World War II and that the British could leave India on terms that would be even less favourable to him and his party. Moreover, as the Muslim League resolution accepting the plan stated, Jinnah viewed it as an important step on the road to Pakistan given its provision that provinces could reconsider their accession after ten years. Accepting the Cabinet Mission plan was for Jinnah a tactical withdrawal not a strategic retreat. No ‘secular’ vision Ahmed discredits the myth that Jinnah was interested in making Pakistan a liberal-democratic, if not a secular, state. This myth has its origins in Jinnah’s speech to the Pakistan Constituent Assembly on August 11, 1947, which included the famous quote “You are free to go to your temples. You are free to go to your mosques or to any other places of worship in this State of Pakistan. You may belong to any religion, caste or creed — that has nothing to do with the business of the state.” Jinnah’s apologists have argued that he was proposing what amounted to a secular state (a term he never used) but that his successors under pressure from the ulema and lay fundamentalists changed the trajectory of Pakistan’s political development. Ahmed argues that this is a fallacy because Jinnah from the late 1930s onward constantly talked about the Koran and the Sunnah as the bases on which Pakistan was to be built. The August 11 anomaly, Ahmed contends, was a result of his apprehension that the bloodbath accompanying partition may end up with India pushing its 35 million strong Muslim minority into Pakistan and that the fledgling state would crumble before this deluge. He wanted to signal that the religious minorities in Pakistan would be treated as equal citizens so as to encourage India to follow suit and to pre-empt any Indian move to expel its Muslim citizens. This is a very plausible explanation because Jinnah soon returned to his theme that Islam and the sharia would be the cornerstones of the Pakistani state thus closing all avenues of its developing into a liberal, leave alone secular, polity guaranteeing equal rights to all citizens. Ahmed also deflates the myth that had Jinnah lived longer he would have put democracy on a more secure footing in Pakistan. He provides evidence that Jinnah flouted constitutional norms during his short term as Governor-General by acquiring powers not permissible under a parliamentary system thus setting the precedent for the subversion of democracy in Pakistan. Ahmed has done a commendable job of eliminating several major misconceptions about Jinnah propounded by revisionist historians. My only grouse is that he has done so at such great length that the average reader may lose sight of the wood for the trees. A paperback edition trimmed to half the length of the 800-page book would be admirably suited for a wider audience.  The reviewer is University Distinguished Professor Emeritus of International Relations, Michigan State University.  Jinnah: His Successes, Failures and Role in History Ishtiaq Ahmed Viking/Penguin  Rs. 999    The greatest merit of the book is that Ahmed lets his subject speak for himself through his speeches and statements||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/setting-the-record-straight/article33647156.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||The p eace seekers||I grew up in the small town of Senapati in north Manipur. This was in the 1980s. The busy shops on a 200-yard stretch parallel to National Highway 39 (now renamed NH 2) were all that marked it as a town. But Senapati was abuzz, and was even made district headquarters in 1983. Change was fast-paced then. Looking back, life was like flipping through the pages of one of the magazines my uncle subscribed to. As they came from some faraway city, the news was quite stale by the time it reached us. But he would nevertheless enjoy reading the magazines. The enigma of Uganda’s Idi Amin and the notoriety of Cambodia’s Pol Pot fascinated the media, even though their stories were from the previous decade. I still recall the cover of one mag that had Pakistan’s General Zia-ul-Haq with a forced smile à la Mona Lisa! One day, all the sensational international news was suddenly overshadowed by the assassination of Indira Gandhi. I scanned the pages for news on the Delhi riots. But such stories still seemed very distant to me — after all, the Centre was very far away. Closer to home, harsher realities were beginning to unsettle the normality of life. The long shadow of the conflict between the Naga underground forces and the Indian armed forces kept common people on the edge. A shadow that continues to haunt us today, as we still wait for that elusive peace to arrive. In this chequered pattern of unease and calm that we lived through, a sudden twist would sometimes shake it all up. One such deeply troubling occurrence that I encountered at close quarters was the Oinam incident, or the infamous Operation Bluebird. Fear of the Army Launched by the Assam Rifles as a counter-insurgency operation to recover the arms and ammunition they had lost when the Naga Socialist Council of Nagaland (NSCN) raided their Oinam Hill camp on July 9, 1987, Operation Bluebird took an ugly turn when civilians came into the firing line. For the next three months, some 30 villages close to Oinam Hill village were cordoned off for a combing operation. Even the district administration and political representatives were barred from reaching the people. Churches and community halls became makeshift interrogation camps. Men were questioned and torture was alleged, as were rape and molestation. The fear was such that crying children would be hushed with just the word ‘soldiers’. Indeed, even today, just uttering the words ‘soldiers are coming’ is enough to quieten a child. The events of the 80s and 90s made me seriously question the impunity that is allowed to the armed forces, especially by the Armed Forces Special Powers Act of 1958. AFSPA gives them the licence to arrest without warrants, and deaths and injuries don’t have to be explained; they are able to exercise brute force. The irony is that they were there to provide the people ‘security’, but that was the last thing we experienced. Their patrols and speeding convoys leaving behind giant dust trails only further distorted the discomforting realities of my home town. I’ve tried to capture those years in my debut novel, Waiting for the Dust to Settle (Speaking Tiger, 2020). AFSPA’s shadow was darkest in the early years of the insurgency. In the 1960s, when socialist leader Jayaprakash Narayan, along with British missionary Michael Scott, helped broker the first peace deal, JP referred to the government’s handling of the Naga problem as ‘India’s Vietnam’. He was referring to the ruthlessness and widespread violation of human rights perpetrated on the Naga people. The horrifying scenes of entire villages burnt down, the humiliation of people running for cover in their own land, the pain of living in the jungles during the torrential rains, the trauma of seeing loved ones dying before one’s eyes — these have largely gone undocumented. But these experiences live on in the memories of the people. It is no wonder that these generations are affected with post-traumatic stress disorder. The enemy within Unfortunately, the Naga struggle took an ugly turn when the people found themselves up against each other. The ideological differences that had cropped up along the way led to factionalism among the nationalist underground groups. And, once again, the common people bore the brunt. This time in the form of factional fights that brought more bloodshed and trauma. While the early years saw the enemy as an outside force, midway through the movement, the enemy within grew terrifyingly large. Today, this protracted conflict has not only become an impediment to progress in the region, it has extracted a huge human cost. While the Centre is pushing the government’s agenda in the Northeast, including its much-hyped ‘Look East Policy’ and its sequel ‘Act East Policy’, without political peace the economic packages will remain merely a gimmick to enrich the rising gangs of corrupt politicians and bureaucrats. And one of the biggest obstacles to arriving at a political solution is the continuing enforcement of AFSPA. As long as a sense of political injustice pervades the psyche of the people, comfort and peace will remain distant dreams. I would like to believe that it is in this light that the government has taken initiatives to bring about an ‘honourable solution’. In 2015, when the Framework Agreement was signed with the NSCN, it heightened expectations of a possible end to the Naga problem. The media flashed photographs of Prime Minister Modi and Thuingaleng Muivah, the NSCN leader, both smiling after signing what was called a ‘historic peace deal’. The government issued a press release saying it hoped to “end the oldest insurgency in the country”. The government’s keenness to arrive at a solution was driven by the understanding that peace in the Northeast is not quite imaginable without the NSCN on board. The 2015 accord was seen as a culmination of the ceasefire agreement brokered in 1997. But it’s been five years now, and peace is as elusive as ever. In fact, the 2015 agreement is on the verge of breaking down, with the negotiating parties again at loggerheads. After several missed deadlines, we now await yet another. And again, the question looming in the minds of many is this: will the agreement really end one of South Asia’s longest armed struggles? Or will it turn out to be just another agreement that fails the test of time? After all, over the past several decades, many such accords have been signed and have since bitten the dust. Final solution When things come to a standstill like this, I feel sorry most of all for the older generations, the ones who have waited so long for a lasting resolution. I belong to the third generation. I too wait for an ‘honourable solution’. Far too many lives have been lost, too much blood shed. How much longer must we wait? There is a persistent yearning for peace among Nagas. Civil organisations and the church are actively involved in bringing rapport among the various Naga groups. But the wounds run deep and healing will take time. The emergence of the Forum for Naga Reconciliation and its call for forgiveness and unity among all Naga factions under the banner ‘A Journey of Common Hope’ is one positive sign. Another is the Naga Mothers’ Association, whose campaign ‘Shed No More Blood’ is also brokering peace among Nagas. Such movements are the real ‘peacemakers’. I want to see harmony again in the land I grew up in. The people and the place, both need healing. The small town of Senapati has transformed in geography and population. The old photographs are unrecognisable today. I feel like a stranger every time I visit. Even the old highway has been buried to make way for an elevated road. The old rickety metal bridge across the Barak river no longer exists. Does this modernity mean peace? A closer look tells me that the expansion of the town has happened because of the displacement of thousands of people from the various ethnic conflicts that flared up in the 1990s and at the turn of the millennium. These people certainly seek an end to the bitter past. I join them in their quest. And in their hope that peace will not forever elude us. The writer teaches in the Department of English, Shaheed Bhagat Singh College, University of Delhi.  This protracted conflict has not only become an impediment to progress in the region, it has extracted a huge human cost. One of the biggest obstacles to arriving at a political solution is the continuing enforcement of AFSPA||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-p-eace-seekers/article33647135.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||‘The polity has changed and so has judicial temperament’||Aniruddha Bahal, the co-founder of Tehelka magazine and editor-in-chief of Cobrapost.com, is best known for his investigative journalism, especially the kind that carries a ‘sting’. He is, however, a man of many facets and his career has straddled different realms, spanning journalism, fiction (his novel Bunker 13 won the Literary Review ’s Bad Sex in Fiction award), and television comedy (he created and enacted the idiot persona of ‘Tony B.’ to annoy celebrities with infuriatingly inane questions). With his memoir, A Taste for Trouble: Memories from Another Time, hitting bookshops this month, he fields some straight questions on the ethics of sting journalism, juggling fiction and journalism, and why he never pursued a career as a stand-up comedian. Edited excerpts: Journalists generally write their memoirs when they are done with journalism. Does this book mean you too are moving on? I am not. Once a journalist you always remain one in your thought process. As someone who broke the cricket match-fixing story, do you think this unsavoury chapter is fully closed? Or is there scope to dig up dirt even today? Human nature is not something you can wish away. Greed doesn’t disappear. It becomes clever. As regards the past, I personally have been told many anecdotes and been played many tapes that sources refused to share. So, there are many stories that have not come out. Is it fair to say that the ethics of ‘sting journalism’ are dodgy at best? No, that is very unfair. Cobrapost’s undercover stories are invariably driven by prior information. It is middlemen in the know leading us to the main characters. In fact, when the Rajya Sabha Parliamentary panel was examining our investigation into MPs taking money to ask questions in Parliament, one of the panel members, I think Bimal Jalan, wanted to know how we chose our “targets”. I had to explain that we don’t target anybody, and that the middlemen of the MPs themselves led us to whoever was indulging in such behaviour. I think, for many, this [sting journalism] is something to diss because of the attention the stories get. Though it might be harder, and take longer, isn’t it better for investigative journalists to take the traditional route of getting documents, sources, etc. rather than doing a ‘sting’? At Cobrapost, we have done all types of investigations — document-based, RTI-based, undercover work, using drones. Sometimes the truth is hard to get. We did an investigation on the Ranvir Sena where they [members of the militia] confessed to the murders they had committed. Our investigation into the Ram Janmbhoomi case revealed the conspiracy that was years in the making to demolish Babri Masjid. These historical cases, where the accused themselves are confessing to their crimes, don’t happen because the accused have a change of heart. Ashish Khetan’s great exposé on the 2002 Gujarat riots, which led to the conviction of many people in Gujarat, didn’t happen because the accused confessed out of great guilt and a need for absolution. How did Operation West End change your life? We didn’t anticipate the backlash that the ruling party would unleash. So, countering and facing up to that legal assault through multiple agencies was a huge drain on time and resources. It gave me a front-seat view of what a government in power could do to you and how easily the bureaucracy could be used to malign, harass, and go after you with malicious intent and fabricated charges. How did your family react to your penchant for inviting heat from the establishment with dangerous exposés? They were always worried, but they never dissuaded me. I have been lucky. Could you have done an Operation West End in, say, 2019? I don’t think so. But I won’t be absolute about it. The polity has changed and so has judicial temperament. There is a sea change. I don’t think journalists will have the courage to take on the system in that way now. Many of us will be fearful of the extent to which the judiciary would protect us from a rampaging executive. Can a journalist in India today count on the judiciary to offer him the basic minimum protections if he does an exposé on the state? Our Constitution does not confer any extra protections on journalists. We need a rethink on this. With the state getting increasingly aggressive and using even sedition charges to target journalists, there is a need for the judiciary to be more proactive in protecting freedom of expression. Recent examples are certainly not giving journalists that confidence. Do you think your high-risk stories have made any difference? For instance, Cobrapost did a robust exposé on how love jihad is a complete fraud, and yet, here we are, in 2021. How do you reconcile the danger and effort involved in such investigative reportage with the disappointing outcome in terms of impact? Sometimes, stories have a visible impact. Sometimes, the impact is not so visible. A lot depends on the news environment and also on whether other institutions kick in and take the story forward. For instance, many journalists wrote about the 2G scam, but nothing really happened until Vinod Rai came up with his report and there was an institution’s stamp on it. Your ‘Tony B. Show’ for Channel V had some of the funniest moments in Indian television. Why didn’t it continue longer than it did? I think the show happened before the audience was ready for it. The Star network was also very cautious, legally speaking. It didn’t run any of the political ones [featuring politicians] which were an absolute riot. Have you considered doing stand-up? I don’t think I have the skill for that. I would be more adept in an Ali G kind of way or Borat. Stand-up is a different kettle of fish. I don’t think Sacha Baron would be successful as a stand-up comedian either. What has been the biggest challenge in running Cobrapost? Resources have always been a challenge. We receive multiple story ideas every day from citizens but lack the resources to pursue them. India needs a whole army of non-profits pursuing investigative journalism as in the West. As a society we will never have an economic model to pursue investigative journalism in a commercial way. And a big portion of the mainstream media is happy being a megaphone for those in power. You write in your book about having made many enemies. Did you worry about being isolated from your peers because of the kind of stories you were putting out? The ‘paid news’ story we did in 2018 [‘Big Media Houses Say Yes to Hindutva, Black Money, Paid News’] certainly made us lose a lot of friends. It was a worry, and a lot of pressure came on us to abandon the story. How do you divide your time between novel-writing and journalism? I have a novel set in Iraq that is being readied. And I am researching a novel set in Europe. Cobrapost is always organic. Something or the other will happen. What are you reading these days? These days it’s almost always non-fiction. At the moment, I’m reading Hidden Hand: Exposing How the Chinese Communist Party is Reshaping the World by Clive Hamilton and Mareike Ohlberg, Billion Dollar Loser: The Epic Rise and Fall of Adam Neumann and WeWork by Reeves Wiedeman and Apocalypse How?: Technology and the Threat of Disaster by Oliver Letwin. How do you see the future of investigative journalism in India? I am very pessimistic about its immediate future. There’s nobody pursuing it. There are many middle-level journalists who feel disheartened and powerless in their media platforms. The skills are dying out as nobody seems to need those skills.  A 2006 article inThe Independentdescribed Bahal as “the most feared reporter in India” Operation Karaoke, carried out by Cobrapost in 2019, questioned the political credibility of Bollywood celebrities Authored a fantasy novel,The Emissary, set in ancient Greece during the reign of Alexander the Great Bahal described Tony B. as “a journalist with a kink, a nosey parker who does not presume to know everything”   As a society we will never have an economic model to pursue investigative journalism in a commercial way||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-polity-has-changed-and-so-has-judicial-temperament/article33647100.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||That winning attitude||I have a painfully clear memory of Imran Khan giving the Pataudi Memorial Lecture in Kolkata in 2012. “I have been asked to talk about Indian cricket,” he said, with a grin. “At the moment, I’ll just use one word for Indian cricket — consistent.” The audience exploded with the kind of laughter you’re forced to release through gritted teeth. “To lose eight test matches in a row, it’s an achievement,” continued the Great Ustad of our rivals, relishing each word. “I mean, you would at least draw one match, but to lose eight is, uh...” Khan let the sentence peter out in a low guffaw. India had won the World Cup in March 2011 and then, in the Test arena, the team had possibly its worst 12 months, first being wiped out 0-4 in England and then repeating the feat Down Under, losing 0-4 to Michael Clarke’s Australians. Having delivered the first, inescapable bouncer-insult to the head, Khan then proceeded to pulverise the toes with patronising advice: it was all very well to have won the World Cup, but no country could be a great power in ‘real cricket’ if it continued to pay so much attention to T-20. You could get away with things in the shorter versions of the game but your skill, temperament and courage were only challenged properly in a test series. Therefore India needed to orient its first-class structure towards tests. The Khan then ended with the good-humoured warning that his party was coming to power in Pakistan, “and when that happens we will fix our structure, and if you don’t fix yours you’re going to get lots of thrashing!” Since then, every time India has lost a series or failed to draw a test when we needed to, I’ve remembered Khan’s goading. Despite all our victories in the last eight years, the worst of these moments came when India were rolled up for 36 at Adelaide; in the middle of dominating a test match it seemed as though we’d been assailed by a viral attack of T-20-itis that had killed us, not just in this test series but possibly a few series to come. The spectre of the 0-8 run loomed again. Sheer joy The win at Melbourne in the next test match was heartening. Our bowlers continued to prune the Aussie batting; the revelation of Shubman Gill provided sheer joy; Rahane’s century indicated that Indian batting had resumed normal service, with no deep lacerations from the ‘36 moment’; Virat Kohli was not missed. While all this was good, I found the draw in Sydney far more satisfying. It’s never easy to win a test match against solid opposition, however there are matches where the dice all fall in your favour. It’s how you overcome your own setbacks that really shows your mettle, and at the SCG there was startling evidence that this rag-tag team had some. Starting the third test, we had only three of our first-choice bowlers, and by the second innings only two. India had kept this Australian batting from crossing 200 till now (in three times of trying), but it could not continue. India may have dipped to 36 and risen to 326 but we seemed to be in a serious relationship with the score of 244. Not done yet Set 407 to win, many would have thought the series was over. And yet, this is where the components of the next test get put into place: a solid contribution from one opener; Pujara slow and inexorable as a giant earth-mover, excavating the overs, digging into the bowlers’ energy; then, at the other end, brutal dynamiting from a nonchalant Pant knocking the whole state of play off-kilter, almost making 407 look possible; and then the fightback from the batsmen that follow; at least one batsman absorbing the blows from the dreaded short-pitched stuff. The Melbourne win contributed, of course, but Gabba was summited because India first climbed the steep cliff of the draw at Sydney. That momentum shift was hugely important, in a way that only happens in a test cricket series and no other sport. Ashwin and Vihari joined the casualties but, along with Pujara’s, their epic intransigence transmitted something to Sundar and Thakur. Nietzsche’s famous axiom ‘what doesn’t kill you, makes you stronger’ comes into play here. By the time India started to bat in that fourth innings at Brisbane, all sorts of fears were lying spent, like crushed mineral water bottles outside the boundary. Perhaps the players and support team had already done the losing in their minds and this held no threat — maybe the only interesting thing was the possibility of a legend-creating win. In this there was certainly the unforeseen contribution of a decade of intense T-20, coupled with two contrasting cricketing DNA strands that go back, one strand through Sunil Gavaskar to Vijay Hazare and Vijay Manjrekar, the other to Mansur Ali Khan Pataudi.  Rahane’s century indicated that Indian batting had resumed normal service, with no deep lacerations from the ‘36 moment’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/that-winning-attitude/article33647166.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1 Desmond Morris is an English sociobiologist and painter. He hosted the popular wildlife show Zoo Time and then worked on Life in the Animal World for the BBC. He achieved international fame for a book he wrote in 1967 that looks as humans as a species and compares them to other animals. Describing a characteristic that distinguishes our species from our closest cousins, and accompanied by the subtitle A Zoologist’s Study of the Human Animal , what’s the title of the book? 2 Humans, chimpanzees and gorillas all belong to the family Hominidae (great apes), who all descend from an unknown extinct ancestor ape. This ancestor had a gene called RNF213 that began evolving rapidly. This gene is of interest to scientists as its evolution led to a boost in the flow of blood to a particular organ. What organ is this which, empowered by this gene, gives great apes more power? 3 About 7 million years ago, the human line split from the chimpanzee line and certain genetic tweaks led to a particular vital compound being taken away from muscles and into the brains. What monosaccharide compound is this that is the main source of fuel for your brain? 4 Washoe was a chimpanzee who spent most of her life at Central Washington University. She was the first non-human to learn a particular language that more than half a million people use, especially in North America. Her understanding and advanced use of the language eventually led to the Great Ape Project. What language did Washoe learn that even led to a moving moment where she was able to tell her carer her emotions? 5 Around 4 million years ago, a mutation occurred in the MYH16 gene that led to more space for our brains to grow. The MYH16 gene is responsible for the production of muscle, and the muscles in one particular area became flimsy. This is also the reason why, compared to other apes, humans have a very different diet. What part of the body was affected by the mutation that is the only movable bone of the skull? 6Chimpanzees and gorillas are highly endangered species. One of the most destructive forces has been a disease that in the past few years has killed more than 11,000 humans and a third of all gorillas. What disease is this that is caused by a virus transmitted through body fluids and named after a tributary of the Congo River? 7 Chimpanzee babies are cognitively more developed than human babies until the age of six months, while human babies are born small and more helpless. Human childbirth is difficult and dangerous, and unlike other primates, mothers almost always need help. This is because of an evolutionary advantage we gained over other apes that led to a narrow pelvic canal for the baby to pass through, while at the same time, our heads have grown. What important change from other apes led to difficult childbirth for humans? 8 On January 23, 1964 Dr. James Hardy was called in as 68-year-old Boyd Rush was rushed in. Rush was in terminal shock and being kept alive by mechanical ventilation. Knowing death was imminent, Hardy did a controversial experiment where he transplanted an organ from a chimpanzee into Boyd. It was a success, but the patient remained alive only for 90 minutes as the organ was too small to keep a human body alive. What organ was this, the transplantation of which paved the way for future transplants? 9 Ben Pridmore is an accountant and three-time world champion in his sport. This sport has been formally developed since 1991 and has national and international championships. In 2008, he lost to a seven-year-old chimpanzee called Ayumu, who did thrice as well as him. The match involved the two watching a computer screen on which numbers flashed at various positions before being obscured. They then had to touch the squares in the order of the numbers they concealed. What is this sport testing, which Ayumu got right almost 90% of the time? 10 Macaco Tião was a chimpanzee in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, who became very popular after throwing mud and faeces on a visiting politician. In 1988, he entered Guinness World Records as the most voted chimpanzee in the world when he received 400,000 votes in his favour against 11 other candidates. What official post in Rio was he voted for but denied because he was not a registered candidate? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/easy-like-sunday-morning/article33647175.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||The final countdown in slo mo||As far as the modern apocalyptic vision is concerned, the world will end neither with fire nor with ice, but with the inability to get online. In Rumaan Alam’s novel, a New Yorker family goes for a week-long vacation at a secluded cottage in rural Long Island. Then the world ends. Modern love When they’re not vacationing in other people’s luxury cottages booked via AirBnB, Clay, Amanda and their two kids live in an apartment in Brooklyn. Clay is a professor of English at City College, specialising in media studies and working on a piece for The New York Times Book Review . Amanda works in advertising. They love each other in the modern manner; that is, with a secular passion and lots of sunscreen. They’ve barely spent a night in the cottage when there’s a knock at the door. It turns out to be the owners, G.H and his wife Ruth, who awkwardly explain that there’s been some kind of blackout along the entire East Coast, and well, could they wait it out, here in the cottage? It’s awkward, of course, but it is their cottage, and adjustments are made. Have to be made. This entire novel, with its 65,000+ words, would be the first 10 minutes of a genre movie. The drive to the house gets a chapter. Entering and surveying it takes another. Of course, most of the (cultivated) pleasure in this kind of novel is that it takes things slow. On the other hand, Alam’s sentences are action-novel short, usually under 10 words per sentence. This gives scenes and situations a collage-like effect as well as a certain stoic masculinity. One exception is when the author assays Don DeLilloesque lists of American consumerism. A picnic spread cannot be a picnic spread unless we’re given details such as the sunscreen is Shiseido, the picnic blanket is a woollen Hermès, the salt is Maldon, the bottle of olive oil is from Eataly... Knock, knock An entire chapter is devoted to Amanda shopping for supplies at a grocery store and 56 items are listed. Or 55, because buns are mentioned twice. This particular list is significant though, not just for future archaeologists, but also as a marker of the impending loss of choice. Amanda doesn’t know it yet, but she’s probably never going shopping again. Shopping is about to come to an end. This is a closely-observed novel, but the characters never really escape being the author’s puppets. The trouble isn’t that Alam is not a good writer. The trouble is precisely that he’s a very smart and talented writer. However, his characters, though imagined as decent and intelligent, are basically superficial. They have default responses; they’re sad, angry, happy, worried when they’re expected to be sad, angry, happy, worried. In real life we’d probably be bored by them. So Alam intrudes to give their lives a larger meaning. He’s their David Attenborough, hidden in the undergrowth, commenting on a pair of cavorting moose: now the male is pawing the ground, contemplating a move … Living in denial For example, at one point, there is a knock on the door. At night. In the middle of nowhere. Naturally, Clay & Amanda are a bit spooked. Of course, that’s not enough. Alam goes on to elaborate: “A knock at the door of this house, where no one knew they were, not even the global positioning system, this house near the ocean but also lost in farmland, this house of red bricks painted white, the very material the smartest little piggy chose because it would keep him safest.” Great stuff, but who’s thinking of little piggy and big bad wolf? Amanda? Nah. She’s spooked and she’s American. She’s thinking home invasion movies: Panic Room . Desperate Hours . The Purge . Clay? Nah. He’s an English lit prof, true. But literature is work for the fellow, not his being. No, these are all Alam’s comments from the undergrowth. In this apocalyptic novel, the apocalypse happens mostly offstage. Alam’s interest is in the characters, their ordinariness, their denial of reality. The threshold of a century has always had a peculiar hold on the Western imagination. Especially, the millenarian imagination. Norman Cohn in his now classic book, The Pursuit of the Millennium , listed its six characteristics: the event is collective (everybody undergoes it), it is terrestrial (it happens “here”, on Earth), it is imminent (happens in the present), it is inescapably transformative and miraculous (inexplicably powerful forces are involved). But the apocalyptic imagination differs from the millenarian imagination in one important respect: it doesn’t necessarily offer salvation. I’m not sure how things will go for Americans in an apocalypse. Tocqueville found Americans extraordinarily group-minded and cooperative. But Tocqueville’s America is not Trump’s America. In this novel, Alam sets aside large concerns, large ideas, large strokes and large gestures to focus, closely and carefully, on the small, and the transitory. The result is a thoughtful novel that kept my interest till the end. Author ofHalf Of What I Say, the writer has a collection of short stories forthcoming from Hachette.  Leave the World Behind Rumaan Alam Bloomsbury Publishing  Rs. 599    Amanda doesn’t know it yet, but she’s probably never going shopping again. Shopping is about to come to an end||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-final-countdown-in-slo-mo/article33647141.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Intellectual property rights vs. competition law||Over the last year, we have seen the world’s leading pharma companies racing ahead at a feverish pace to find a vaccine for COVID-19. Pharma laboratories typically face very heavy odds. Since only one in dozens of experiments succeeds, they load the costs of all failed trials on to the price of the one successful invention. And they hope to be able to do so by patenting their intellectual property which makes it illegal for rivals to copy their process and eat into their profit. In granting such intellectual property rights (IPR), governments confront a public policy dilemma. The high cost of the product, in this case the vaccine, makes it unaffordable for low income households, and not covering them with a vaccine militates against the task of fighting the pandemic. On the other hand, if pharma companies are not offered monopolistic pricing power through protection of IPR, they will have no incentive to invest huge sums in what is a quintessentially risky endeavour. And that too militates against fighting the pandemic. Now juxtapose that with competition law. One of the first things that students of economics learn is that competitive markets maximise consumer welfare as they force businesses to cut costs through efficiency and innovation. It is now standard practice, therefore, for governments around the world to have laws that are aimed at curbing monopolies and encouraging competition. So governments simultaneously have on their statute books IPR laws that create monopolies and competition laws that curb monopolies. Isn’t that a conundrum? It need not be. That is the thesis of this scholarly and well-researched book by Chakravarthy who argues that the apparent tension between IPR and competition laws is an interesting dichotomy, but a false one. It is neither feasible nor indeed advisable to jettison one for the other. The challenge is to marry the two such that, just like in a marriage, the harmony in the couple’s togetherness overrides the conflicts between the two. In Chakravarthy’s words: “The IPR Law must have a say, but the Competition Law must have its way.” In practical terms, IPR bestows market power but competition law ensures that such market power is exercised within limits. If you go back to the basics, Chakravarthy’s central argument stems from the fundamental understanding that innovation has been the wellspring of human civilization. In the Davos paradigm, it is now standard practice to view human progress through four industrial revolutions. The first industrial revolution was defined by the discovery of steam power; the second industrial revolution was triggered by the invention of electric power; the third took computers and information technology from manufacturing into service industries; and the fourth, the Digital Revolution, currently under way, is changing our lives in ways that we do not even fully comprehend. But central to all four revolutions is innovation. Symbiotic relationship It is motivating innovation that is at the heart of both IPR and competition law. In other words, two apparently conflicting regimes when joined in a harmonious marriage produce a symbiotic effect that drives progress and maximises consumer welfare. The way to arrange such a harmonious marriage constitutes the nuts and bolts of this book. Chakravarthy delves into both Indian and international case law, including the WTO Dispute Settlement System, to illustrate the tensions and conflicts between the two regimes, the various options to resolve them and the emerging best practices. He emphasises that while countries should learn from broad international experience, they should shun copying. Every country is unique and must tailor its laws to suit its specific circumstances.  The reviewer is a former Governor of the Reserve Bank of India.  IPR Bride & Competition Groom S. Chakravarthy Administrative Staff College of India, Hyderabad  Rs. 599||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/intellectual-property-rights-vs-competition-law/article33647151.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||The final frontier||A nation’s self-image is built on cleverly crafted myth, into which are threaded strands of truth, aspiration, fact and belief, the reading framed by the politics of the moment. A historian’s task is thus always an onerous one, as is that of the journalist or the archivist. The project of a critical science historian is to contextualise science within the social, cultural, economic and political messiness of a given moment. It’s to put people into the stories and take note of the many connections that make some things possible and render others less likely. The story of India’s space programme is one of those that has sometimes been brushed with the romantic impulse. It has all the ingredients of good drama: a young, scrappy, unimaginably disadvantaged nation relegated to the margins by the rich and powerful on the global stage; debonair young scientists with both vision and ambition; hard-working, determined engineers who want nothing more than to beat the odds; a geopolitical climate that demands skillful negotiation. The Spotify original, Mission ISRO , throws all these into the mix to tell the story of India’s space programme in 12 episodes, drawing on multiple interviews and a wide range of archival material from government, media and academic sources. Narrated by Harsha Bhogle, whose comfort with the mike makes him an adept podcast host, the series strikes the right note between the technical and the social (and of course the political) to make for engaging storytelling — even if at times one might find the host getting just a trifle sentimental. Iconic moment Episode 1 begins what Bhogle describes as “an iconic moment” in the country’s history, as anyone who grew up in the 1970s will recognise.  “Upar se Bharat kaisa dikta hai aapko?” Prime Minister Indira Gandhi asks, the excitement palpable in her voice. Squadron Leader Rakesh Sharma, the first Indian in space, is unhesitating: “Saare jahan se achcha.”  It’s one of those goosebump-inducing, made-for-media moments, and Bhogle mines it well, using it as the take-off point for his backstory, which introduces us to “the audacious gentlemen” whose “ability to manoeuvre heaven and earth” laid the foundations of what would become one of the world’s most ambitious space programmes. The most prominent of these men are Homi Bhabha and Vikram Sarabhai, and Sarabhai in particular is one of the big heroes in the story as Bhogle tells it. Also featured are a range of figures from former President A.P.J. Abdul Kalam to Satish Dhawan, U.R. Rao and Yash Pal, some with incredible social and cultural capital and others with nothing more than the force of intellect and hard work. The 12 episodes traverse the first four decades of the space programme, describing what went into building the rocket launching stations, designing an indigenous satellite launching vehicle, and planning the ground applications — most notably, the Satellite Instructional Television Experiment (SITE), which science fiction writer Arthur C. Clarke once described as “the greatest communication experiment in history”. Such stories could easily become exercises in jingoism, but Mission ISRO successfully avoids this by sticking to the available evidence, introducing doubt when warranted, and for the most part, acknowledging political dynamics. Bhogle’s enthusiastic and conversational style makes it a smooth listening experience, resting as it does on the extensive research and seamless production by the team at ATS Studios (All Things Small). The Hyderabad-based writer and academic is a neatnik fighting a losing battle with the clutter in her head.   Upar se Bharat kaisa dikta hai aapko?Prime Minister Indira Gandhi asks, the excitement palpable in her voice. Squadron Leader Rakesh Sharma, the first Indian in space, is unhesitating:Saare jahan se achcha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-final-frontier/article33647183.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Dipped in colours||Almost all the New Year e-cards I chanced upon had black backgrounds! Was it because of COVID-19? At no cost did I want to send black cards to my friends when a brand new year was about to dawn. Resolutely, I revived my search. There had to be some cards more colourful and suggestive of the hope and happiness we associate with the New Year. My efforts paid off. I found one with a diaphanous light magenta background with lots of white lights winking at you while the glass tumblers on the table saucily beckoned you to party. It conveyed merriment, looked vibrant and gifted hope to humankind. I liked it. Do we choose colours mechanically or does something else play itself out in our minds before we select them? My friend Vijaya loves yellow, Rohan loves blue, Meera is fond of brown, I love red. If I tried to enforce my preference on them, they would be miserable.The reason you choose certain colours and not others is they evoke specific emotions in you. In most western cultures, black is the colour of evil, sadness, death and doom. People wear black to funerals. They consider white the colour of purity. Their brides wear white. The Indian bride will never wear white. She will choose red if she belongs to the north. She will choose green if she belongs to Maharashtra. Indians wear white on funerals, and bright colours on festivals. Culture influences the collective choice of colours, though the preferences are emotion-driven. Research confirms that colours affect the neurons when we exercise our preferences. A study in 2002 concluded that crimes in Glasgow dropped when the colour of some street lights was switched from yellow to blue to improve the look of the place. A second study in 2005 in the city of Nara in Japan stated that suicides decreased by 85% on railway platforms where blue lights had been installed. Noting the impact, the authorities installed blue lights on 33 train platforms with similar results. Industries use colour preferences to woo customers because they understand the relationship between colours and human emotions. McDonald’s uses red because it is an appetising, attractive colour. Red, yellow, orange and their variants are warm colours. They are often used in homes, hotels, and restaurants to convey friendliness. Cold colours are blue, green and purple. Blue connotes stability, confidence and reliability. Many banks use blue in their logos. We associate green with nature. Yellow is a cheerful colour. On Basant Panchami Day that marks the onset of spring in the north, people wear yellow clothes and eat yellow rice and halwa.  ceogiit@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/dipped-in-colours/article33647120.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Crunch and munch||There is something mouth-watering about the thought of ordering a grilled Chilean sea bass, with garden fresh green salad on the side. But would we want to have the Patagonian toothfish, however well-grilled? I don’t think I would — it sounds much too toothy. But guess what? It’s just another name for the Chilean sea bass, author-cum-academic Charles Spence tells us. Once the fish started appearing in restaurants as sea bass, sales in some markets increased by well over 1,000%, he writes in Gastrophysics: The New Science of Eating . This is an incredible book which makes you laugh and knit your brows by turns. At the very outset, the writer, a professor of experimental psychology at Oxford University, explains the term, ‘gastrophysics’: “Gastrophysics can be defined as the scientific study of those factors that influence our multisensory experience while tasting food and drink. The term itself comes from the merging of ‘gastronomy’ and ‘psychophysics’: gastronomy here emphasizes the fine culinary experiences that are the source of inspiration for much of the research in this area, while psychophysics references the scientific study of perception.” In other words, it is the new science of eating. Ugly fruit? Never And eating, as Spence points out, is as much about the mind as it is about taste. Some years ago, he had conducted a study with Unilever. The research found that boosting the sound of the “crunch” in a potato crisp enhanced the perception of its crunchiness and freshness: “Research, I am proud to say, that led to our being awarded the Ig Nobel Prize for Nutrition.” Perceptions, indeed, add to taste, or at least nudge us into judging what’s tasty and what’s not. It explains why the golden rainbow trout is considerably more popular than the regular brown trout. “But why stop there? When was the last time you ate an ugly fruit,” he asks. Some of his descriptions reminded me of social media jokes giving sophisticated terminology to old Indian favourites (samosas described as crispy triangular pastries with a filling of lightly sautéed potatoes, for example). In the same vein, he gives a new avatar to pasta salad. A salad with pasta, he argues, sounds healthier than pasta salad. Of course, when the dish is described as “Neapolitan pasta with crispy fresh organic garden salad,” it goes straight to the high table. “The pleasures of the table reside in the mind, not in the mouth.” Urgh to aah Spence cites the example of a Swiss restaurant to make his point. The food there was good, but the chef found that the guests were not really enjoying it: he thought they were all a bit too “stiff and buttoned-up”. The restaurant then placed a little toy cow on every table. When a diner lifted it, it let out a mournful moo. “Diners often laugh in surprise. Then, within a few moments, the dining room erupts into a chorus of mooing cows, and the restaurant is full of chortling diners. The mood has been lifted and that is when the first course comes out from the kitchen. This wonderfully intuitive mental palate cleanser is far more effective than any acidic sorbet — the traditional means of cleansing the palate — at enhancing the diners’ enjoyment of the food to come.” In the 90s, master chef Heston Blumenthal created a crab ice cream to go with crab risotto. This was passed after a series of testing trials. But the response when it was first served came as a bit of surprise. “‘Urrgghh! That’s disgusting. It’s way too salty.’ Well, maybe I exaggerate a little — but trust me, the response wasn’t good.” The problem, Spence explains, was that most Westerners associated pinkish-red in food — the colour of the ice cream — with a sweet, fruity taste. “Heston showed that it was possible to radically influence people’s perception and liking of the frozen pink treat simply by changing the name of the dish. All it took to modify the participants’ expectations in the lab was to tell them this was a savoury ice, or else give the dish the mysterious title ‘Food 386.’” People started enjoying the ice cream once they knew what to expect. “Crucially, they no longer found it too salty either,” Spence writes. Clearly, there is more to food than what meets the tongue.  Perceptions add to taste. It explains why the golden rainbow trout is more popular than the regular brown trout||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/crunch-and-munch/article33647137.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||All the lives we never lived||There are good reasons to celebrate a successful new collection of short stories, perhaps more so in countries like ours, where the short fiction form remains vigorous. Until a few decades ago, in languages like Urdu, Hindi and Bangla, it was the short story that set the tone and had the largest readership. Also, nationally and internationally, it was the short story that, along with poetry, stood at the heart of most literary movements. The commercial and, increasingly, critical dominance of the novel form in recent decades — and I say so despite being a novelist — is almost a kind of aberration, and it has deep ideological reasons. Different personas For one, the short story allows a community to form. Like poems, short stories thrive in anthologies. The novel is an inherently monopolistic genre whose success is tied to the commercial structures of capitalism: you cannot imagine an anthology of novels. That is why novels have seldom led to literary movements of the sort that are associated with poetry and short stories. The novel enables many things, but, contrary to critical belief, it does not enable literary community. Jenny Bhatt, the author of the 15 stories collected in Each of Us Killers , is an accomplished translator from Gujarati and has championed short stories in her Desi Books podcast. She is surely aware of the above, and related, factors. Her stories, in any case, revolve around different kinds of relationships. They are informed by a sense of community, its possibilities and failures. The blurb tells us that Bhatt “has lived and worked her way around India, England, Germany, Scotland and the US”, and this is reflected in her stories, which are located in the American Midwest, England, and Gujarat. The stories set in Gujarat cover both urban and rural scenarios, and they form the bulk of the volume. Most of the stories revolve around some relationship — enabling or exploitative, successful or failed, surviving or unravelling, voluntary or forced — and are often, but not always, narrated in the first person. Bhatt’s ability to assume different personas seems to work best in those stories that are located in the urban middle class, even though she deserves praise for trying to cover the underbelly of India. The title story, for instance, is an indictment of our inhumanity in the context of caste and other atrocities enabled and condoned by privilege. However, for me, it is the stories largely set in the West — such as ‘Return to India’ — or stories exploring the Indian dream in urban Gujarat — such as ‘The Prize’ and ‘Pros and Cons’ — that work best. It is here that Bhatt gets under the skin of her characters with an ease that is difficult to achieve when creating characters beyond the pale of capital and caste. Return to India In the latter cases, the stories, though sculpted and interesting, seem to have weaker endings, perhaps because our middle-class perception of subalternity is already too heavily mediated. You need to be a Mahasweta Devi to overcome that limitation, for it is more a social limitation than an artistic one. Nevertheless, Each of Us Killers is an accomplished collection. Bhatt is good at assuming personas and using lively, sculpted language that avoids the stilted, literary English often afflicting Indian English writing. Her stories explore the world around us, ranging from white American violence against coloured immigrants to rural violence against Dalits in India, from the aspirations of a yuppie Indian couple to those of a domestic help. When she uses linguistic registers in her English, it is done with restraint and accuracy, and not just for effect — as when a yoga instructor describes a rich young woman with a crush on him as “too dhinchak for me”. This is a collection of stories to welcome, more so as it is by a writer who is aware of the possibilities of critical community afforded by the short story form. It is time to get back to short stories. The writer is an Indian novelist and academic who teaches in Denmark.  Each of Us Killers Jenny Bhatt 7.13 Books  Rs. 1,805    Her stories explore the world around us, ranging from white American violence against coloured immigrants to rural violence against Dalits in India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/all-the-lives-we-never-lived/article33647139.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||No shortcuts to the top||“Climb every mountain, search high and low/…Follow every rainbow, till you find your dream.” It is unlikely that Nimsdai Purja would have grown up listening to this song from The Sound of Music during a childhood which was happy but without much money. Yet the mountains beckoned and climbing peaks in record-breaking time became his life’s sole mission. He spent much of 2019 scaling 14 of the world’s highest peaks in Nepal, his homeland, and in Pakistan and Tibet. He chronicles his journey of six months and six days in Beyond Possible which should be read not only to learn the ropes that takes one to a summit, but also perhaps as a management lesson on how to overcome every obstacle that comes between a man and his mission. Purja moved to England as a young, trainee Gurkha soldier to serve with the British Armed Forces, and went through a gruelling selection process. “In the face of my toughest challenge yet... I was malleable.” This attitude served him well throughout his climbs. Eye on ascent Joining the military was an end to a means. For, he did not lose sight of his dream and focussed on opportunities available within the services and the “highly specialised climbing courses” although he acknowledges that his military commitments overshadowed any personal ambition. So he embarked on his endeavour to scale the world’s highest peaks on a shoestring budget and a squeezed leave. Solo. On his way up Everest, he was diagnosed with a medical condition that would have made most give up. He admitted his mistakes, lack of experience and then resumed his ascent with a sherpa. He succeeded in his mission, even rescuing a mountaineer left there to die by her team mates. “When it comes to the high peaks, Dhaulagiri had previously taught me that there is a thin line separating success from failure, as there is in battle, but I’d naively believed, that my military training, plus the lessons learned elsewhere in the mountains, would guide me through any knife-edge judgment call on Everest... I had been wrong. The divide existing between good and bad decisions during war was even narrower in mountaineering, because the extremes in life were so dramatic on 8000-metre peaks,” he writes. He quit his job at 35, as leave for completing his mission which involved peaks in Pakistan and Tibet was not sanctioned by the high command. Bereft of a pensionable service and more importantly at that juncture without any funds to complete his mission, he gave it a name: Project Possible. His aim was to shave off seven years from the world record of climbing 14 peaks above 8,000 metres. He does live to tell the world his story and ends the book with eight valuable life-lessons that kept him going. If there is a quibble, it is a minor one — the free use of four-letter expletives throughout is irritating. It is okay to mouth them amidst such extremities, but when did it become the norm to print them too?  The reviewer is an independent Kolkata-based journalist.  Beyond Possible: One Soldier, Fourteen Peaks — My Life in the Death Zone Nimsdai Purja Hodder & Stoughton/Hachette India  Rs. 699||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/no-shortcuts-to-the-top/article33647153.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Jabberwocky||Dear Agony Akka  My neighbour Pattabhi looked very glum this morning — like a ginger-eating monkey, as we say. I asked what the matter was, and he whispered, like the chief villain in Telugu cinema, “Haven’t you heard? The corona vaccine has been rolled out in India.” I said, “You silly man, that is a reason to be thrilled, so why are you gloomy?” He told me that I was the silly man, that it is all a big conspiracy, that the vaccine is a secret plot by world governments to implant a 5G chip in the human body, that Bill Gates was supplying the technology. I thought at first that the lockdown had finally driven him nuts or that he had been watching too many Netflix thrillers. But when I googled it, I was shocked to learn that Pattabhi was 100% right! Please advise. Should we ordinary people take this vaccine? Or should we refuse the 5G chip implant? — Fed-up ofOutright Lies  Dear FOOL  First things first: you do yourself enormous injustice when you put yourself in the category of “ordinary people”. You, sir, are no ordinary FOOL. Just the fact that you have cracked the top-secret plot by governments to implant 5G chips into our bodies establishes this. And the fact that you did this with just a little bit of sleuthing help from Mr. ‘Paranoia’ Pattabhi and a few wise Internet people with colourful imaginations certifies you as extraordinarily talented. Please don’t be falsely modest. It reminds me of Savita, our newest women’s group member, who takes selfies in front of a mirror just to show off her iPhone 12 Pro Max. But I’m disappointed in only one thing. Why are you still spreading reheated versions of corona conspiracies from last year? Since then, as you know, the world has changed. Donald Trump’s Twitter account has been permanently banned, which means that other political leaders worldwide are doing all the hard work of peddling conspiracy theories. Thankfully, they seem to be doing a good job so far. For instance, Brazil’s president, who has all along been highly sceptical that there is such a thing as a pandemic at all (even though he was himself infected), has revealed that the vaccines may turn people into crocodiles and cause women to sprout a beard. He also warns that it may turn men effeminate. (Personally, I can think of a lot of men who would be vastly improved by such a change.) A Russian state TV channel, which is just like our own ‘nationalist’ channels, only quieter, countered this. The U.K. vaccine, said the channel, would NOT turn people into crocodiles. It would turn them into monkeys. It even showed pictures of the British Prime Minister as a hairy orangutan, but the effect was less scary than expected because few viewers could tell the difference. And in India, Samajwadi Party leader Ashutosh Sinha said the vaccine may be a sly form of population control because it could make men impotent. However, as other astute people pointed out, with Sanjay Gandhi long dead, who could have masterminded this twist? In short, while it’s true that the BJP government has behaved like it is P.T. Usha’s mother and pushed a not-yet-ready vaccine to the finish line, this does not mean that anybody is going to change into the vahan of any gods. Nor is the vaccine capable of implanting us with a 5G chip. Is this an Alien movie or real life? Your words reminded me fondly of that ultra-intelligent TV anchor during demonetisation days, who told us that the new and ugly Rs. 2,000 notes were embedded with 4G chips to trace black money. But — if you still believe strongly that Bill Gates plotted the pandemic so that he could use the 5G vaccine to monitor billions of people and milk their data, I would hate for earth to lose your superior intellect. Refuse the vaccine but donate your brain. Contribute to the growth of science. — AA  agony.akka@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/jabberwocky/article33647173.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Peter’s coup revisited||Friday, we featured Swedish expert Peter Fredin and a deceptive play that he made some years ago. This involved leading away from a king in dummy and daring his right-hand opponent to rise with the queen. The deal got a lot of publicity in his part of the world. Today’s deal had Fredin playing North. South was Danish expert Knut Blakset who was determined to show his partner that he could also pull off that deceptive play. Blakset might have held his ground in two hearts doubled, but he chose to run to two no trump. He was probably happy to have escaped the lash in that contract. Blakset ducked the first two high spade leads, but he won the third with dummy’s ace. Five running club tricks was against the odds after West’s opening bid, and five club tricks wouldn’t get his total up to eight anyway. He decided to try “Peter’s Coup.” He led a low heart away from dummy’s king! This would have done the trick had East played low. Blakset would have come to three hearts tricks along with three clubs and one trick in each of the other two suits. East, however, was German World Champion Sabine Auken, who rose with her queen, assuring the defence of six tricks. We can easily imagine Fredin giving his partner “the business” for trying a play that was too advanced for him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/peters-coup-revisited/article33647178.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||The four archetypes||Of late, a habitually forgetful person known to me has started being punctual and keeping his word. While many of us wondered how this makeover happened, it reminded me of a late friend, a scriptwriter-turned-director of Malayalam films. Some time ago, I went to interview him. He had suggested that we meet at 8 a.m. as he was leaving for Chennai by 10 a.m. I was at his doorsteps on the dot after a two-hour drive. But he was still in bed. Eccentric absent-mindedness of creative masters? He sat for the interview with profound apologies, suggesting that I keep a fair distance from him as he had not brushed his teeth. When I wanted to click a few pictures, he reminded me of his mouth. “No issues, my clicks won’t capture any halitosis,” I said. He burst into laughter. Wonder why some are unable to keep their word? People vary and thus the reasons too. But is the habit a function of nature or nurture? Even those who pass out from disciplinarian schools turn lax later in life. Chakyarkoothu, Kerala’s oral theatre tradition that originated during the 9th and 10th centuries, classify people into four archetypes  . The first is typical of someone trustworthy and standing by their word and thus hailed as sarasa sarasan . Virasa sarasan is the second type. They flatly refuse to undertake anything responsible or requested to execute, but they, however, do a great job in the end. Ask them to do something or a favour. They more often than not give a cynical nod. But for sure, they would execute the task. One can trust them. The third sort is virasa virasan . Very open and direct. Wear no masks and least bothered of anything and anybody. Even if one seeks a simple assistance at no labour or cost, they reject it straightaway. Even if their parents or siblings hardly possess any of that trait, it so happens. Though not helpful, they are harmless. Except for some initial embarrassments, one may rest assured that a known devil is better than an unknown angel. And the last is a sample of successful politicians. They agree to execute anything and everything that one desires. Have you fancied an elephant of your own or an airport near home? Or even want to become the next President? They promise to get it done with an always smiling façade. Mind you, they are sarasa virasan , the most vicious. They emotionally feast on others’ predicaments. Now which category do you fit in? kkgkerala@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-four-archetypes/article33647128.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Concrete Rose||Angie Thomas  Walker Books Rs. 399. Maverick Carter, the son of a former gang legend, becomes a father at 17. It’s not easy to sling dope, finish school, and raise a child. So when he’s offered the chance to go straight, he takes it. Then the old gang seeks him out and Mav has to figure out what matters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/concrete-rose/article33647143.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Girl A||Abigail Dean  HarperCollins Rs. 399 Lex Gracie doesn’t want to think about her family, her past and her identity as Girl A, the one who escaped. When her mother dies in prison and leaves Lex and her siblings the family home, she can’t run from her past any longer. She must come to terms with her six siblings and the childhood they shared.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/girl-a/article33647145.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||The Four Winds||Kristin  St. Martins’ Press Rs. 599 Texas, 1934. Elsa Martinelli has a happy life in her farm on the Great Plains when drought strikes. Her husband runs away, fearful of the future. Elsa is forced to make the most agonising decision — fight for the land she loves or take her children west to California in search of a better life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-four-winds/article33647147.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||The Last Light of Glory Days||Avinuo Kire  Speaking Tiger Rs. 350 Set in Nagaland, the stories here speak of a land where militancy and magic co-exist. In ‘The Disturbance’, women from three succeeding generations hold on to normalcy in the face of state torture. In ‘New Tales from an Old World’, everyday events are infused with an element of the supernatural.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-last-light-of-glory-days/article33647149.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Buddha in Gandhara||Sunita Dwivedi  Rupa  Rs. 795 A travelogue also analyses the fate of Buddhist heritage in ancient cities of the Gandhara region. It traces the network of Asian trade routes that nourished these cities with goods, people and ideas and trains the spotlight on the art of Gandhara.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/buddha-in-gandhara/article33647158.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||The Making of Land and the Making of India||Nikita Sud  Oxford University Press  Rs. 1,495 What is land and how is it made? In this study of sites in western, eastern, and southern India, Sud says land is not simply the solid surface of the earth. It is best understood as a materially and conceptually dynamic realm, intimately tied to the social aspect.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-making-of-land-and-the-making-of-india/article33647160.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||The Intellectual Lives of Children||Susan Engel  Harvard University Press  Rs. 1,905 Engel brings together an extraordinary body of research to explain how toddlers, preschoolers, and elementary-aged children think. She argues that by understanding the science behind how children think, parents can guide the next generation to become insightful thinkers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-intellectual-lives-of-children/article33647162.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Undercover: My Journey into the Darkness of Hindutva||Ashish Khetan  Context/Westland  Rs. 499 In this book, an investigative journalist recounts the course of three investigations, including the Best Bakery case. As he writes about the long, frustrating legal processes that followed, Khetan fills in the gaps on the Gujarat-model narrative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/undercover-my-journey-into-the-darkness-of-hindutva/article33647164.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Bright blue||Team India made history when it became the first touring side since 1988 to defeat Australia in a Test at the Gabba. Rishabh Pant’s 89 off 138 balls was one of the outstanding performances, as India, captained by Ajinkya Rahane (in pic), chased down a 328-run target and won by three wickets. The win clinched India the Border-Gavaskar trophy and was hailed as one of its greatest ever performances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/bright-blue/article33647102.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Vax relief||India, with over 10 million recorded cases, began one of the world’s biggest COVID-19 inoculation drives. A health worker at AIIMS was the first to receive the dose. Scepticism remained over Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, which is still in the process of completing Phase-III trials. Recipients have to sign a consent form, and the company also issued a fact sheet on who should avoid getting the shot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/vax-relief/article33647104.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Dr. Shanta no more||Chairperson of the Adyar Cancer Institute and pioneer in cancer care V. Shanta passed away in Chennai on Tuesday. She was 93. Dr. Shanta, who was awarded the Padma Vibhushan in 2016 and the Ramon Magsaysay Award for Public Service in 2005, dedicated 60 years to bringing affordable care to cancer patients and to studying the disease and its control.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/dr-shanta-no-more/article33647106.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Lèse-majesté||A Thai court sentenced a former civil servant to a record 43 years in prison for insulting the king. The woman, Anchan, allegedly posted clips criticising the monarchy on Facebook and YouTube. She was found guilty of violating the infamous lèse-majesté law, and initially sentenced to 87 years before pleading guilty. The sentence — seen as a warning to anti-government protesters — was condemned by rights groups.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/lse-majest/article33647108.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Chatstorm||Over 1,000 pages of leaked WhatsApp chats, allegedly between Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami and former BARC CEO Partho Dasgupta, caused a storm. With the messages seemingly showing that Goswami had advance knowledge of events like the Balakot airstrike, Congress leaders accused him of treason. Even Pakistan PM Imran Khan waded in, calling it an “unholy nexus between the Modi govt and Indian media”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/chatstorm/article33647110.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||GoI to WhatsApp||Days after WhatsApp announced that it had extended the deadline for its users to accept its new privacy policy — which involved data sharing with Facebook — or stop using the app, India asked the company to withdraw the proposed changes. “The issue is the impact it has on informational privacy, data security and user choice,” the government said in a letter to the WhatsApp CEO.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/goi-to-whatsapp/article33647112.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Into the ring||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said she would contest the upcoming assembly polls from Nandigram. She will challenge sitting MLA and former Trinamool Congress leader Suvendu Adhikari, who recently defected to the BJP in a major coup. Trinamool leaders continued to defect, the latest being Arindam Bhattacharya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/into-the-ring/article33647114.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Put on hold||In a seeming concession to protesting farmers, the Centre offered to put the three contentious agriculture laws in abeyance. It said it would form a joint committee of government and farmer representatives to study the changes and submit a report. The laws would be halted for 18 months or until the committee submitted its report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/put-on-hold/article33647116.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Cutting-edge||As crimes against women increase in U.P., the Lucknow police department announced it would set up 1,000 AI cameras in public places that would reportedly plot and recognise when women’s facial expressions showed distress and alert the nearest police station. There were no details on whether the cameras could differentiate, for instance, the distress caused by a fall versus that by molestation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/cutting-edge/article33647118.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||CoWIN glitches also responsible for low vaccine uptake||There has been a low turnout of healthcare workers at over 3,000 COVID-19 vaccination sites across the country even a week after the massive exercise began on January 16. If vaccine hesitancy, especially in the initial days, may be the reason for the low turnout, the glitches in the CoWIN platform too have contributed to that. Slow, steady increase On January 16, the first day of COVID-19 vaccination in the country, with about only 1.91 lakh health-care workers taking the jab, only about two-third of the eligible people were vaccinated. January 17, a Sunday, saw very small numbers – 17,072 beneficiaries vaccinated in six States. Since January 18, the numbers per day have been slowly but steadily increasing – from 1.48 lakh on January 18 to 2.28 lakh on January 22. At the end of one week, 1.27 million were vaccinated, with the number crossing the one million mark on January 22 morning. With the majority of States vaccinating only on four days a week, with the most populous State, Uttar Pradesh, vaccinating on just two days, the pace of vaccination has to be ramped up, says Dr. Rijo John, Health Economist and Consultant. “If only about two lakh people are vaccinated in a day, we’re looking at eight years to vaccinate even 20% of Indians with two doses,” says Dr. John. “To vaccinate the original target of 300 million people with two doses each by end-August, about four million doses need to be administered per day for four days a week,” says Dr. John. The major reason for low uptake has been vaccine hesitancy arising from short timelines for vaccine development and clinical trials, questions about Indian regulator’s approval process, data of the trials not being made public and approval to Covaxin even in the absence of efficacy data. But the glitches in the CoWIN platform and the way it was programmed to assign people for vaccination may have also contributed much to the problem. “I am not sure if vaccine hesitancy is a real big problem in India as it is projected to be. We are known for vaccinating millions of children and adolescents, a sensitive age group, yet there are no major vaccine hesitancy issues,” says epidemiologist Dr. Giridhara Babu of Public Health Foundation of India, Bengaluru. He had led the team of World Health Organisation’s polio eradication efforts as Karnataka’s senior medical officer and is a member of the Karnataka COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee. Convenient term “I am hesitant in clubbing the problems with CoWIN into one phrase – ‘vaccine hesitancy’. This is a convenient term for those who have abdicated their responsibility and want to deflect the blame for low uptake on the community,” says Dr. Babu. Discussing about the CoWIN platform, Dr. Babu says: “My own stand is that any technological tool should complement but not replace human interface or ignore India’s strength in vaccination programmes. The human interface is needed for improving confidence. Microplanning is a strength of the supplementary immunisation programmes.” The CoWIN platform, developed quickly, is a work in progress with improvements and upgrades being made each day based on the needs of different areas and States, he says. Connectivity issues too are affecting the platform. While the improvisation of the platform theoretically allows beneficiary registration, session microplanning, real-time reporting of vaccination and issuance of vaccination certificates, the real challenge arises in allocation of eligible people to a specific site on a particular day. “Allocation to a session site based on one’s institution of work or pin code is a complex process. This is probably the first time any country is deploying such software for vaccination campaigns of this scale,” says Dr. Babu. Incidentally, sending out SMS messages and issuing certificates soon after vaccination have been a challenge. When people assigned to a vaccine site on a given day do not turn up, the platform was originally not designed to alert and invite others assigned on other days to receive the vaccine. “People are manually reaching out to others. The health ministry has now made it possible to add available people to an ongoing session and vaccinate them provided they are registered previously,” explains Dr. Babu. Bigger problem But the bigger problem is that the registration of health-care workers on CoWIN is incomplete. “Many people practising alternative medicine are not registered on CoWIN. Such people do not know how to register themselves for vaccination,” informs Dr. Babu. “Imagine the problem when we reach the stage of vaccinating of people with comorbidities, where data of such people is very sketchy.” The platform now allows registration on the spot, which permits States to accommodate walk-ins. However, this message has not been widely communicated. “Many health-care workers are simply not aware that they can walk-in and register on the spot,” he says. Despite the low level of vaccine hesitancy generally seen in Tamil Nadu, the number of jabs at the end of one week stands at just about 48,000. At 1.82 lakh vaccinations as on January 22, Karnataka has the most number in the country, followed by Andhra Pradesh (1.27 lakh) and Odisha (1.21 lakh). Kerala has just recorded 47,000 jabs even though the daily fresh cases reported are still high. Explaining the reason for the higher uptake seen in the two States, Dr. Babu says: “In Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka, the administrators are continuously following up field templates and doing more sessions a day. Additional manpower has been deployed at the State and districts only for this. District and State control rooms have been set up and co-ordinated each day at all levels.” Heeding to demands from States such as Karnataka, the CoWIN software has been enhanced by creating more session sites, more sessions per site and change in site locations. “It now allows up to seven sessions per site. But running it in offline mode to vaccinate people and using the CoWIN platform to update the vaccine stock and list of beneficiaries whenever feasible can help in reaching more people in a short time,” says Dr. Babu. Despite not relying on an IT solution, India’s universal immunisation programme immunises millions of children each year. In January 2020, India achieved a record 90% coverage of all vaccines to be given in infancy. Are there measures that the COVID-19 vaccination programme can adopt from the UIP to improve coverage? “The Universal immunisation programme (UIP) and supplementary immunisation programmes (SIAs) (Pulse Polio or MR campaigns) have adapted polio micro plans,” says Dr. Babu. “These are prepared using the bottom-up approach from sub-centre to the primary health centre (PHC) to the district. The physical micro plan is prepared well in advance every year, updated, and implemented weekly.” Tested approach He then adds: “All planning in CoWIN is centralised at the district level. Instead, an approach similar to UIP can be adopted for the COVID-19 vaccination. Many of the States have physical copies ready at the PHC level and are referring to them even now. The UIP approach needs to be refined to target adults across all age groups.” Apparently, the UIP approach can be applied everywhere – urban as well as rural areas. “Rural areas have reasonable manpower. In urban areas, we need volunteers. This is how the supplementary immunisation programmes – Pulse Polio and MR campaigns – are implemented in India,” he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/cowin-glitches-also-responsible-for-low-vaccine-uptake/article33647282.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Lookalike snakes but with self-styled venoms||A study of snakes in southern and western India has identified a new species of snake. Named the Romulus’ krait (Bungarus romulusi) after the ‘snake man of India’, Romulus Whittaker, the species has so far remained undetected because of its similarity in appearance to the common krait (B. caeruleus) and only a careful genetic analysis revealed that the two were distinct species. The study also showed that some kraits in Maharashtra that were misidentified as the Wall’s Sind krait were actually the same as the Sind krait which is also found in parts of Pakistan and Rajasthan and has been identified as the snake with the most potent venom in India. This study, published in Toxins, was conducted by scientists from the Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru (IISc), in collaboration with members of the Liana Trust and the Indian Herpetological Society, based in Pune. Surface likeness Though the Sind krait and the common krait may look identical to a wayside observer, morphological differences do exist between the two. “The former has 17 dorsal scales at the mid-body, while the latter has 15,” says Kartik Sunagar, who heads the Evolutionary Venomics Lab at IISc and is the lead author of the paper, in an email to The Hindu. “The Romulus’ krait and common krait are so hard to distinguish that even herpetologists with years of experience couldn’t tell that it could be a distinct species through casual observation. Only after the genetic examination, we were surprised to discover a new species,” he adds. The Wall’s Sind krait was originally described in the Oudh state by a British herpetologist as a distinct subspecies. “Our comparisons between the Wall’s Sind krait in Maharashtra and the Sind krait in Pakistan clearly revealed that there are only minor variations in their genes, suggesting that there is no evidence to support the identity of this subspecies,” explains Dr. Sunagar. When the researchers compared certain gene sequences of the common krait (Maharashtra), the Romulus’ krait (Karnataka) and the Sind krait (Pakistan), they found that there were significant differences. Similar comparisons between the Wall’s Sind krait population in Maharashtra with the Sind krait population in Pakistan showed only 0.3% to 3% difference. “This doesn’t mean that the Wall’s Sind Krait doesn’t exist – it may still do in certain regions of North India where it was originally described. Our results show that, at least, the 17 mid-body scale kraits in Pune, Maharashtra that we examined are not distinct from their counterparts in Pakistan,” says Dr. Sunagar. Venom analysis The group also found that the venoms of the snakes were very different compositionally from each other and this reflects in their toxicity. The venom of the Sind krait was 12–13 times as potent as that of the common krait, whereas the venom of the Romulus’ krait was about six times as potent. When the Indian antivenoms were tested for their ability to neutralise the venoms of these cryptic kraits, they were found to be ineffective. This is because these antivenoms are made to protect against the bites of the ‘big four’ Indian snakes – the spectacled cobra (Naja naja), common krait (Bungarus caeruleus), Russell’s viper (Daboia russelii) and saw-scaled viper (Echis carinatus). In a situation where about 58,000 people die in India every year due to snake bites and three times this number suffer permanent disabilities, it is necessary to take cognisance of the difference between the venoms of the different species and their distribution across the country, according to the researchers. Sequencing the venom glands, the group found that while the abundance of RNA that codes for the toxin proteins was similar, each krait species was producing distinct compositions of proteins (toxins) using the same set of RNA. “There are molecular mechanisms that have been described that can contribute to this. However, more work is needed to fully understand this,” he says.  The Romulus’ krait and common krait are so hard to distinguish that even herpetologists with years of experience could not tell them to be distinct species with a casual observation. Kartik Sunagar IISc, Bengaluru||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/lookalike-snakes-but-with-self-styled-venoms/article33647272.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||More flash droughts in India by end of century||In 1979, India faced a severe flash drought, affecting about 40% of the country and taking a toll on agriculture. An article published that year in the journal India International Centre Quarterly noted that the big granaries of Uttar Pradesh and Andhra were affected, and the country suffered a loss of about Rs. 5,000 crores. A new study has now pointed out that India could experience more such flash droughts by the end of this century. Flash droughts Flash droughts are those that occur very quickly, with soil moisture depleting rapidly. Normally, developing drought conditions take months, but these happen within a week or in two weeks’ time. Several factors including atmospheric anomalies, anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions play an important role. Hopeful note “The ongoing climate change has caused a significant increase in global temperature and this can lead to more and more flash droughts in the coming years. If we can meet the ‘Paris Agreement’ goals and limit global warming to well below 2 degrees C, the numbers and frequency of the projected flash droughts may go down,” says Vimal Mishra from the Civil Engineering and Earth Sciences at IIT Gandhinagar. He is the corresponding author of the paper published in npj Climate and Atmospheric Science. The team analysed the major flash droughts that occurred from 1951 to 2016 in India. They simulated the soil moisture using the meteorological data obtained from the India meteorological department. Duration, intensity, and area of the flash droughts were studied and an overall severity score was given. The top five flash droughts based on the overall severity score occurred in 1979 followed by 2009,1951,1986 and 2005. To predict the future flash droughts the team used a Community Earth System Model which simulates the summer monsoon precipitation, sea surface temperature, role of El Nino Southern Oscillation, and air temperature over India. The analysis showed a considerable rise in the frequency of extremely dry and hot years in the coming three decades. They also examined the role of greenhouse gas emissions, industrial aerosols, and land-use/land-cover change. “The frequency of concurrent hot and dry extremes is projected to rise by about five-fold, causing an approximately seven-fold increase in flash droughts like 1979 by the end of the 21st century,” adds the paper. They conclude that this increased frequency of flash droughts can have deleterious implications for crop production, irrigation demands and groundwater abstraction in India. Predicting droughts The team has planned future studies that will consider the flash-drought prediction ahead of time using operational meteorological forecasts from India Meteorological Department. They explain that this will help manage irrigation water demands and avoid considerable losses in agriculture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/more-flash-droughts-in-india-by-end-of-century/article33647268.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Nikhil Srivastava is joint winner of maths prize||Indian mathematician Nikhil Srivastava, has been named winner of the prestigious 2021 Michael and Sheila Held Prize along with two others for solving long-standing questions on the Kadison–Singer problem and on Ramanujan graphs. Srivastava from the University of California, Berkeley, Adam Marcus, from the Ecole polytechnique federale de Lausanne (EPFL) and Daniel Alan Spielman from Yale University will receive the 2021 Michael and Sheila Held Prize, the National Academy of Sciences of the U.S. said in the statement. The prize consists of a medal and $100,000. Srivastava, Marcus and Spielman solved long-standing questions on the Kadison–Singer problem and on Ramanujan graphs, and in the process uncovered a deep new connection between linear algebra, geometry of polynomials and graph theory it said. The decades-old Kadison–Singer problem asks whether unique information can be gleaned from a system in which only some features can be observed or measured, according to the Yale news.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/nikhil-srivastava-is-joint-winner-of-maths-prize/article33647269.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||A butterfly clap||How do butterflies fly with such small bodies and large wings? Unlike any other flying animal, butterflies have unusually short, broad and large wings relative to their body size. By studying the aerodynamics of butterflies in a wind tunnel, researchers have now answered this question which has confused lepidopterologists (who study moths and butterflies) for years. Clap technique The results suggested that butterflies use a clap technique which helps them take off rapidly. “When the wings clap together, the air between the wings is pressed out, creating a jet, pushing the animal in the opposite direction,” explains the paper published on Wednesday in the Journal of the Royal Society Interface. The flexible butterfly wings form a cupped shape during the upstroke and a clap that thrusts the butterfly forwards, while the downstroke is used for weight support. Though butterflies exhibit a fluttery flight, they also perform highly directed and sustained flights during migration and take-off. Butterflies need high force and control for fast take-off flights. The team kept six individuals of silver-washed fritillaries (Argynnis paphia) in a wind tunnel and studied the behaviour and aerodynamics. Why should one study butterflies and their flight? Researcher Per Henningsson, from Lund University in Sweden, who studied the butterflies' aerodynamics, explains in a release that the shape and flexibility of butterfly wings could inspire improved performance and flight technology in small drones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/a-butterfly-clap/article33647270.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Takeout in a sal leaf||A couple of weeks ago, my nephew, 7, asked me why it was so hard for everyone to reuse and recycle. A concept he was well aware of thanks to schools that now teach children conscious ways to reduce waste. The question from someone his age did amaze me, but honestly, I did not have a clear answer. This is a big question we need to ask everyone. In the initial days of the lockdown, I was shocked to see the amount of groceries I was consuming and the volume of waste being generated. I did follow a cycle of reusing kitchen waste in different recipes, but the real waste was the packaging, as most plastics couldn’t be reused. Being in the restaurant business, the delivery and takeaway model has been crucial to us surviving the pandemic. A large chunk of this business has been innovation and adaptability, with brands introducing menus that are compatible to a delivery model. As packaging has improved, unconventional and green solutions have found a niche in this vertical. But there is a problem. Last year around August, when restaurants opened up, we were overwhelmed to see the number of new eco-friendly packaging vendors. Few had the right certifications. This greenwashing is scary because you don’t know what you are buying. For me, choosing the right containers and standardising their shape across restaurants has been a massive task. Some of our popular dishes at Jamun like raan and chaat had to reach our guests without the contents being squeezed in one box. I could not find bigger containers for a party or a large group, so I opted for stainless steel and aluminium (food grade) thaalis for the time being. While I am still looking for bigger dishes, most restaurants use a hot sealing machine with bioplastic to seal plastic containers with gravies. We are thinking of using stainless steel tiffins as an exchange programme for delivering food with minimum deposits. Recycled glass jars for curries and sauces are also being explored. Taking stock There are some successful brands in the country that are over a decade old. Rhea Mazundar Singal’s Ecoware crafts biodegradable cups, plates and bowls from crop waste. Singal sold about 99 lakh pieces last year, a milestone for the 10-year-old company. From her, I learnt that the Indian Railways completely switched to biodegradable packaging a few years ago. They use materials like bagasse — an inexpensive material made from sugarcane waste — which took them 10 months to re-engineer to fit the needs of the menu and travel time. Uttar Pradesh-based Yash Papers’ CHUK, a line of tableware products from bagasse, is popular within restaurant circles. A new entry in 2020 was Delhi-based Bumboo, India’s first bamboo food packaging company. The evergreen plant is a sustainable and energy conscious raw material, but most of Bumboo’s products are exported. Other players include True Green, Earthware Products and Earthsoul. With quick-service restaurants (QSR) and Indian and international chains opening up, and the rising demand for high-quality, eco-packaging, I noticed some trends. 1. Innovating with plants:The use of banana leaves, thedhakplant, teak plant andsalleaves has reached an all-time high. It is refreshing to see restaurants and a few grocery stores revisit our dining culture — leaves were used in temple prasadams and marriages — to innovate with packaging. This tradition has attracted the attention of the European market and a German company, Leaf Republic, is manufacturing and importing the finished goods and raw materials from India. The leaves from a variety of plants are used as dining plates, food wraps, while frying, and also as packaging. The plates are manufactured on a small scale and the single-layered stitched ones, known as khaliare, are used for dining purposes or further turned into thick plates by heat pressing machines. We use banana leaves at our restaurants in Delhi and Goa as plates and have received promising feedback. Bhawan in the capital has created rectangular containers from khaliare to serve and deliver their street food. Jamun — in New Delhi and Goa — uses baked and unbaked clay, terracotta vessels and has also introduced sal leaf plates in a posh setting. 2. Reusable materials:Products made from the areca palm, jute, lotus plant, jackfruit leaves, banyan tree leaves, banana fibre and clay are being used differently to pack and store food materials. The research has been around the freshness and temperature each material can withstand for food deliveries. 3. Bioplastics: Made from plant-derived materials, the demand for bioplastic is on the rise and many restaurants are now using this. While there are still large barriers to overcome — the number of equipped industrial facilities, for instance — this is an exciting and growing sector. 4. Smart packaging design:Companies are focussing on finding ways to reduce unnecessary materials — extra boxes, containers, bands or layers. Before the pandemic hit, I wanted to get customers to exchange old cloth bags in return for a discount coupon at the restaurant, but sadly this did not work as people weren’t keen. I am now inspired by the kokoboard boxes (which open up and can be used as plates or as a dinner mat) and potato plastic. 5. Less is more:Packaging that can be reused is great but customers need to see clear labelling on how to recycle or dispose it of if need be. So it is easier for buyers to make informed choices. What’s the future? In the next two years, I see a wider adoption of natural fibres. Most food chains, restaurants and QSRs are switching to eco-packaging and, as for tableware, areca and sugarcane bagasse are good options. Soon catering companies will also shift a part of their services to adopt eco-friendly practices — such as serving food at gatherings on reusable plateware.        The global biodegradable packaging market, which was valued at $3.92 billion till last year, will touch $21 billion by 2025, states the Coherent Marketing Insights Report. It marks Asia-Pacific as the fastest growing region, and the growth will mainly be from China, India and ASEAN countries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/takeout-in-a-sal-leaf/article33647703.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Safe, secure and locked up||Several delightful nuggets of advice were handed out to women over the past few weeks. The first came from the Supreme Court. Deliberating upon the ongoing farmers’ protest, the eminent jurists demanded to know why women, children and old people were being “kept” in the protests — evoking an image of goats tethered to a fence. It then went on to make the “sending back” of women, old people and children one of the conditions upon which to build future consensus. While the ostensible motivation for thesediktatsis ‘protection’, it comes from a place of complete incomprehension of the idea of agency. Of the fact that women must and will make their own decisions about whether to protest or not, and when and where and how they will do so. More importantly, it displays a sad ignorance about the myriad ways in which women are an integral part of the farming community. Just the clichéd photograph of the rows of colourful sari-clad bodies bent double in paddy fields — which often acts as the de facto stock image for Indian farming — should establish that women can no more be removed from the occupation of farming than they can from the protest sites where they gather to fight against what they believe might harm their interests. As landless labourers, as owners of small land holdings, as co-workers on family farms, women are deeply impacted by changes in farming laws and it is entirely apposite that they are protesting. But more important, it is a woman’s prerogative to join any protest, whether or not she is connected to it. Article 19 of India’s Constitution allows its citizens to move freely across India and to assemble anywhere peaceably and without arms. It does not leave women out of the definition of ‘citizens’. The second helpful tip came from Chandramukhi Devi, a member of the National Commission for Women, after another horrific rape and murder in Badaun, Uttar Pradesh, this time in a temple. Ms. Devi suggested that the woman could have avoided being raped had she not gone out in the evening. Or if she had been accompanied perhaps by a child. So, we now have more points added to the list of things women must do to avoid rape. Besides not eating noodles, not wearing jeans, not using cell-phones, and not stepping out after dark, they must also keep some manner of child handy. Almost like a pepper spray substitute. Finally, to make our bundle of happiness complete, we had Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan propose a new system whereby a woman stepping out of home for work will have to register at a police station and be tracked for her own safety. Clearly, the many well-wishers of women do not see the thin line between protection and policing. Nor do they realise the extraordinary degree to which such a policy can be misused, given the ethical track record of the country’s police. In fact, what is most amusing is the amount of trust being placed in a force whose first response to rape complaints is invariably great reluctance to register an FIR. And who have been known to help parents track down, sometimes with fatal result, adult sons and daughters who have dared to marry outside their caste. In these helpful proposals, what’s completely missing is any reference to men — the segment of the population that is most often responsible for rape, assault and murder. Neither Ms. Devi nor Mr. Chouhan suggest that men stay indoors after dark to avoid the temptation to rape. Or that they wear a tiny tracking device that lets cops (and wives) know exactly where they are every minute. Nor havekhappanchayatsweighed in with hints about the pasta or pyjamas men must avoid to help keep their raging libido in check. Given this lacuna, I am seriously considering appealing to the highest court of the land with a PIL. In which I request that their worships pay some attention also to the not-so-fair sex. Perhaps a ruling that says all men must mandatorily forward their WhatsApp chats to their mothers. Not only will those sleazy upskirt forwards mysteriously cease,desimoms might finally be eager and willing to give their sons that long overdue kick in the pants. Where the writer tries to make sense of society with seven hundred words and a bit of snark.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/safe-secure-and-locked-up/article33647702.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Testing the efficacy of a nasal SARS-CoV-2 vaccine||The story so far: Recently, the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation recommended granting permission for phase 1 human clinical trials for Bharat Biotech’s nasal COVID-19 vaccine, BBV154. On its website, Bharat Biotech said “the nasal route has excellent potential for vaccination due to the organised immune systems of the nasal mucosa”. Effectively, intranasal candidates have shown good potential for protection in animal studies conducted thus far. What is a nasal vaccine? An intranasal vaccine does exactly what it says it does — deliver a vaccine through a spritz through the nostrils. The advantages of this method of vaccine delivery over the injection and oral forms are quite apparent. The method comes with the guarantee of better compliance and the advantage of lower costs. But only clinical trials can determine whether such a vaccine with an easy delivery mechanism can be efficacious too. In August 2020, scientists at Washington University School of Medicine said they had developed a nasal vaccine that targets the SARS-CoV-2 virus. Science Daily reported the study published in Cell , a journal, specifying that the vaccine could be given in one dose via the nose and was effective in preventing infection in mice susceptible to the novel coronavirus. The investigators then revealed their plan to test the vaccine further on non-human primates and humans. “We were happily surprised to see a strong immune response in the cells of the inner lining of the nose and upper airway — and profound protection from infection with this virus,” said senior author Michael S. Diamond, Herbert S. Gasser Professor of Medicine. “These mice were well protected from disease. And in some of the mice, we saw evidence of sterilising immunity, where there is no sign of infection whatsoever after the mouse is challenged with the virus.” Is the vaccine suitable for COVID-19? The Washington University study, while doing a comparison, found that while a COVID-19 vaccine injection (at that stage) induced an immune response that prevented pneumonia, it did not prevent infection in the nose and lungs. Such a vaccine might reduce the severity of COVID-19, but it could not prevent infected individuals from spreading the virus, said the study. A study published in  Science Direct in December 2020 showed the pre-clinical efficacy of a lentiviral vector, delivered nasally, as a COVID-19 vaccine. The authors said targeting the immune response to the upper respiratory tract provides critical protection, and intranasal vaccination induces protective mucosal immunity against the SARS-CoV-2 in rodents. Given that the SARS-CoV-2 virus shows a proclivity to dwell in the upper respiratory tract for a prolonged period of time, a safe and efficacious nasal vaccine is well-placed to target the literal entry point of the virus into the body. Earlier this month, researchers at Lancaster University working with the Biomedical Research Institute in Texas claimed they had administered two doses of a COVID-19 vaccine via a nasal spray in animals, and this had elicited robust antibodies and T-cell responses that were enough to be able to neutralise SARS-CoV-2.   Are there other such nasal vaccines? So far, intranasal vaccination is being used only for influenza . However, it cannot be used on certain groups of people, particularly those who have compromised immune systems. Science Daily reports that “the new COVID-19 intranasal vaccine in the Washington University study does not use a live virus capable of replication, presumably making it safer”. The Bharat Biotech vaccine also rides on an adenovirus vector.  Will it be a game changer? Dr. V.K. Paul, a neonatologist and member of the NITI Aayog, said, “It looks like an exciting development because potentially, yes, this route can be used to deliver the safe antigen against which an immunological response would happen. If it does work, it can be a game-changer because it is so easy to use and we look forward to this development.” AIIMS director Randeep Guleria recently commented in an interaction that if the nasal vaccine was approved, it will be easier to give. “In half-an-hour, you can vaccinate an entire class,” he said. The injectable vaccine being used now is not recommended for children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/testing-the-efficacy-of-a-nasal-sars-cov-2-vaccine/article33647201.ece
24 January 2021||New Delhi,||DJB vandalism: AAP for court-monitored probe||Delhi Jal Board vice-chairman and AAP MLA Raghav Chadha moved a court here on Saturday seeking a court-monitored investigation in the case of alleged vandalism of his office and attack on staff members in December last year. The application was filed before Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Ganjender Singh Nagar. The application, filed through advocate Prashant Manchanda, alleged that the attack was orchestrated by BJP Delhi president Adesh Gupta and party leaders Yogendra Chandoliya, Ravi Tanwar Upadhyaksh and Vikas Tanwar. Dereliction of duties It said that the application is being filed due to alleged inaction coupled with dereliction of duties by police, which aggravated the rampage meted out by the offenders who unleashed the “abominable” attack on the Delhi Jal Board and its staff on December 24 last year. Around 200 to 250 BJP workers allegedly vandalised the DJB headquarters in broad daylight, the application alleged. “The incident of violence was aggravated due to the conspicuous inaction on the part of the Delhi Police which nonchalantly stood as mute spectators while the mob created havoc and illegally trespassed the DJB headquarters and woefully ravaged the public property of DJB,” it said. The application also sought the court’s directions to the deputy commissioner of police concerned to file an action taken report regarding the steps taken by the Delhi Police in view of the alleged “partisan and biased actions and attitude displayed by policemen in the viral video of the incident”. It further sought registration of an FIR against the alleged delinquent police officials for illegal omission to perform their duty. The mob damaged furniture, destroyed computers and printers, tore and brought down pictures of Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and caused harm to the staff, injuring and intimidating them, the application said. It claimed that the allegations can be primarily buttressed by CCTV camera footage. The application alleged that police lodged an FIR frivolously under trivial sections without any headway whatsoever using the COVID-19 pandemic as a shield. “It is an attack on the state machinery and democracy and thus requires a court-monitored unbiased and impartial investigation to meet the ends of justice and upholding the rule of law in its true spirit,” the application said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/djb-office-vandalism-aap-for-court-monitored-probe/article33647497.ece
24 January 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi records ‘very poor’ AQI||The air quality of Delhi and Noida was in ‘very poor’ category on Saturday and Gurugram’s was in ‘poor’ category, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. The national capital’s air quality is expected to improve slightly in the coming days. “Due to better ventilation conditions, the AQI is forecast to marginally improve to the lower end of ‘very poor’ during the day. AQI is likely to stay in ‘very poor’ category on January 24 and 25. The middle end of ‘very poor’ category is forecast,” said a statement by the government-run monitoring agency SAFAR. Also, the speed of surface-level winds was “moderate”, which aided in lesser accumulation of pollutants near the surface. However, the “mixing layer height”, which is the height from the ground level up to which pollutants can be dispersed, was “low”. This also led to accumulation of pollutants near the surface. The AQI of Delhi was 326 on Saturday, as per CPCB’s 4 p.m. bulletin, which is an average of the past 24 hours. The values for Gurugram and Noida were 285 and 325 respectively. An AQI between 0 and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-records-very-poor-aqi/article33647795.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||U.S. & climate action||The story so far: Joe Biden assumed office as President of the United States on January 20, 2021, and among the first orders he signed was one to restore America’s participation in the United Nations Paris Agreement on climate change. His decision on America’s return will take effect on February 19, which would be 107 days after its withdrawal under the Donald Trump administration became formal on November 4, 2020. Under President Barack Obama, the U.S. played an active role in climate negotiations, although the Copenhagen UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) conference in 2009 failed to produce a consensus, and member-countries only acknowledged the science, without committing themselves to greenhouse gas (GHG)emissions-reduction targets. By 2015, the negotiations progressed with the Obama administration engaging in diplomacy, resulting in the Paris Agreement premised on voluntary targets for national emissions cuts. On the long road to Paris, the U.S., under George W. Bush, had pulled out of the previous pact, the Kyoto Protocol, in 2001. What changes did the Trump administration make on climate? The withdrawal from the Paris Agreement meant that the U.S. was no longer bound by its national pledge made under the pact: to achieve an economy-wide reduction of its GHG emissions by 26%-28% below the 2005 level in 2025 and to make best efforts to reduce emissions. America also stopped its contribution to the UN’s Green Climate Fund, to which it had pledged $3 billion, after transferring an estimated $1 billion. On the contrary, the Trump regime focused on, among other things, relaxing controls on emissions from fossil fuel-based industries, diluting standards on air quality and vehicular emissions, hydrofluorocarbon leaking and venting from air-conditioning systems, loosening the way the government calculated the social cost of carbon, restraining individual States such as California from setting higher standards, revoking protection for natural habitats, including the Arctic sought by the oil and gas industry, and for individual wildlife species. In all, more than 100 environmental rules were tinkered with by the administration, with some rule reversals remaining in process when the presidential election took place, and others taken to court. The ability of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to enforce the law was weakened, and the scientist leading the production of the National Climate Assessment, Michael Kuperberg, was replaced just after it became clear that Mr. Trump was losing the election. The Clean Power Plan, a major provision from the Obama-era to cut power sector emissions by 32% over 2005 levels by 2030, was initially replaced with the Affordable Clean Energy (ACE) rule, with a reduction effect of only 0.7%, according to an estimate by Harvard Law School. In the final days of the Trump presidency, however, the ACE rule was struck down by a court, giving Mr. Biden the freedom to reformulate a strong rule. What areas will Mr. Biden focus on to cut emissions? The U.S. accounts for 15% of global GHG emissions, but it is the biggest legacy contributor of atmosphere-warming gases. Transport (28%) and power (27%) are the two biggest national sectors contributing to GHG emissions, followed by industry (22%) and agriculture (10%), according to data published by the EPA in 2020. Commercial and residential emissions together make up only 13% . Significantly, 10% of U.S. emissions are methane, which has a greater warming effect than CO2, and 81% is carbon dioxide. The rest is made up of nitrous oxide and fluorinated gases. Mr. Biden, who has formed a high-powered team including special presidential envoy for climate, John Kerry, to lead clean development, has placed climate change front and centre among his priorities. He has promised an “enforcement mechanism to achieve net-zero emissions no later than 2050”, including a target no later than the end of his term in 2025, aided by a planned federal investment that will total $1.7 trillion over ten years, besides private investments. The plan revolves around 10 million well-paying clean energy jobs with a focus on solar and wind power, close linkages between university research and the private sector modelled on the post-World War II economy, active support for carbon capture, utilisation and storage, and a renaissance in green transport that includes the “second great railroad revolution” in a country that starved the railways to promote cars and road freight. What does Mr. Biden’s policy mean for other countries? In his Plan for Climate Change and Environmental Justice released before the election, Mr. Biden says America will strongly support multilateralism again, but also call for accountability from other countries, including the top emitter, China, on GHG emissions. Nations that default could face carbon adjustment fees or quotas. This year’s UN climate conference in Glasgow will see the new administration engaging UNFCCC member-nations to raise global ambition.  Biden’s climate change plan revolves around 10 million well-paying clean energy jobs with a focus on solar and wind power, and close linkages between university research and the private sector||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/us-climate-action/article33647199.ece
24 January 2021||New Delhi,||Jeweller, 2 others held for staging robbery||A 47-year-old jeweller was arrested along with his employee and a ragpicker for allegedly plotting a fake theft incident in order to get extra time to return money which he had borrowed, the police said on Saturday. The accused have been identified as Mukesh Verma, a resident of Rohini Sector-3, Suraj (20) and Sunny (31), residents of Mangolpuri. According to the police, there was another reason for this incident. Verma’s wife forced him to wear a royal blue sapphire ring for propitious results in future. He was fed up with this and also wanted to prove her wrong. On January 16 night, the police received information regarding theft of bags from a car. Car lock Verma told the police that he runs a jewellery shop in Rohini. Around 9.10 p.m., he parked his car and reached home. He was in a hurry and forgot to lock the car. After sometime, when he came back, two bags containing 650 g of gold jewellery, Rs. 8 lakh and some keys were found to be missing, a senior police officer said. During investigation, the police checked the CCTV footage and found the actions of Sunny, who had kept the bags in the car, suspicious, the police said. “Later, he was questioned where he admitted that Verma, along with him and one hired ragpicker, staged a fake theft incident to gain sympathy of persons from whom Verma had borrowed money and would seek time to return the amount,” DCP (Rohini) P.K. Mishra said.  In order to delay the payments, he made a plan with his help Sunny. He told Sunny that they will lodge a police complaint which will help him find an excuse to delay the pending payments, DCP Mr. Mishra said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/jeweller-two-others-held-for-staging-robbery/article33647491.ece
24 January 2021||New Delhi,||‘Universities will help generate employment’||Speaking at the Netaji Subhas University of Technology on the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said that the pandemic has led to massive unemployment across the globe, and universities will play the lead role in generating employment. “Their [universities] role will be crucial in this fight against unemployment. Delhi government’s goal is to inculcate an entrepreneurial mindset in the students, and it has taken several steps in this direction,” said Mr. Sisodia. Tribute to Netaji A 50-metre-high national flag was also installed at the university campus. Mr. Sisodia said that the biggest tribute to Netaji would be to keep aside differences and work towards creating a strong future of the nation through better education. “Netaji’s dreams would be fulfilled when the children of the country would be skilled enough to contribute to its growth and development. This would embody true patriotism,” he said. Mr. Sisodia also inaugurated Dr. A.P.J Abdul Kalam lecture hall complex at the university.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/universities-will-play-pivotal-role-in-generating-employment-in-country/article33647492.ece
24 January 2021||January 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Wreaking havoc||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/wreaking-havoc/article33647494.ece
24 January 2021||New Delhi,||Hold House session on Rs. 26,000-cr. scam: BJP||The BJP on Saturday demanded that the Delhi government convene a special session of the Delhi Assembly so that an alleged Rs. 26,000 crore scam can be discussed in detail. BJP MLAs, along with Leader of Opposition, Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, and former State BJP president and MLA Vijender Gupta demanded a joint advisory conference on the alleged Rs. 26,000 crore scam in the Delhi Jal Board, from the government “without delay.” Meanwhile, the party announced that Union Minister Prakash Javadekar will preside over an event to honour those who have donated towards the construction of the Ram Janmabhoomi temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hold-house-session-on-rs-26000-cr-scam-bjp/article33647495.ece
24 January 2021||New Delhi,||Allegations of misconduct against me false: Akbar||Former Union Minister M.J. Akbar on Saturday reiterated before a Delhi court that the allegations of sexual misconduct made by journalist Priya Ramani against him were “fabricated and false”. Mr. Akbar made the submission before Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Ravindra Kumar through senior advocate Geeta Luthra during the final hearing in a criminal complaint filed by him against Ms. Ramani for allegedly defaming him by accusing him of sexual misconduct decades ago. Ms. Luthra said that Ms. Ramani “removing the tweet when the matter was sub judice was [in] bad faith”. “You [Ramani] can’t make allegations on social media without any care and caution or responsibility after 20-30 years,” she said. The court will further hear the matter on January 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/allegations-of-misconduct-against-me-false-akbar/article33647496.ece
