25 January 2021||New Delhi,||‘Chinese using Indian roads for trespass’||As India and China started the ninth round of Corps Commander talks on Sunday to address the nine-month-long standoff along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, the head of one of the border villages claimed that Chinese vehicles were using Indian roads to enter Indian territory. Vehicles turned away Urgain Tsewang, the nambardaar (village head) of Koyul (Kakjung), one of the last settlements in the Demchok sector, shared a video with The Hindu , dated December 16, 2020, where two Chinese vehicles are seen being turned away by a group of locals and security personnel. In another video, dated December 10, 2020, a few Chinese civilians are seen taking photographs of the area, with their vehicles parked nearby. Mr. Urgain, who shot the videos, told The Hindu that when the nomads went for winter grazing this year, Chinese people asked them to vacate the area. “On December 10, some villagers went there and saw that the Chinese had entered Indian territory and had transgressed more than 1 km from the border. We contacted the authorities who asked us to camp there and not recede even by an inch. We stood guard for four or five days. The two Chinese vehicles came back again on December 16, but this time the SDM and ITBP officials were there... We chased them away,” Mr. Urgain said. Army personnel too He said People’s Liberation Army personnel were interspersed with Chinese civilians. “The area where the Chinese are trying to assert themselves is close to Patrolling Point 38. Our nomads have not been there for winter grazing for the past two years due to some illness in the livestock. We were shocked to find the Chinese sauntering in our areas this time around. This has never happened. They are using roads built by India to encroach on our territory; we will not let this happen,” Mr. Urgain said. He said the Chinese aggression could be caught red-handed as everything was recorded on phones. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh had informed Rajya Sabha last September that face-offs with the Chinese PLA happened because “patrols were interrupted”. Mr. Singh had said there was no commonly delineated LAC and there was an overlap in the perception of the LAC in many areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chinese-using-indian-roads-for-trespass/article33652976.ece
25 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||K.P. Sharma Oli expelled from Nepal Communist Party||The ruling Nepal Communist Party, led by rebel leaders Pushpa Kamal Dahal ‘Prachanda’ and former Prime Minister Madhav Kumar Nepal expelled Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli from the party on Sunday. The decision divided the party into two groups and sparked a dispute over the party symbol but the Election Commission declined to recognise either faction as the official party. Crisis deepens The deepening crisis emerged weeks after Mr. Oli dissolved the Lower House, Pratinidhi Sabha, of Parliament on December 20, which was strongly opposed by Mr. Prachanda and Mr. Nepal who wanted the House to be restored. Soon after the dissolution of the Pratinidhi Sabha, Mr. Oli created a committee of his supporters, which indicated that he would launch a take over of the party in case of an adversarial action by the rebel leaders. Dictatorial behaviour Mr. Nepal and Mr. Prachanda have in recent weeks alleged that Mr. Oli acted in a dictatorial manner and that he has “gone too far”. The main faction led by the rebels had gone to the Election Commissioner immediately after the dissolution of the Pratinidhi Sabha, seeking recognition as the official party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kp-sharma-oli-expelled-from-nepal-communist-party/article33652972.ece
25 January 2021||Coimbatore,||Palaniswami hints at more announcements before polls||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister and AIADMK co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Sunday said the State government would make more announcements benefiting all sections of the people in the coming months, ahead of the Assembly election. Campaigning near the Mettupalayam bus terminus, Mr. Palaniswami said the announcements would be “delightful”, and the government would deliver on them. The AIADMK would form a government for the third consecutive term, he asserted. The income of banana farmers would soon be doubled as the government was undertaking a project on utilising all parts of the crop, with the help of scientist Mylswamy Annadurai and the Indian Institute of Technology - Madras, he said. At Annur, Mr. Palaniswami criticised the DMK for announcing that it would scrap NEET once it comes to power. “The State government does not have the authority to do so,” he said. At Singanallur, he said he had requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to ensure that a defence industrial corridor is established in Coimbatore at the earliest. “Many view the district as being conducive for setting up industries, as the government has ensured law and order as well as uninterrupted power supply,” he said. Mr. Palaniswami accused DMK president M.K. Stalin of enacting a drama ahead of the Assembly election by holding a ‘vel’ (presented to him at a meeting). “Actors can never succeed. Only those who work can succeed,” he said during a visit to Kalapatti. “The State government does not have the authority to do so,” he said. He reiterated that the DMK was “not a party, but a corporate company”. Speaking in Singanallur, the Chief Minister said he had requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to ensure that a defence industrial corridor is established in Coimbatore at the earliest. “Many view the district as being conducive for setting up industries, as the government has ensured law and order as well as uninterrupted power supply,” he said. Mr. Palaniswami accused DMK president M.K. Stalin of enacting a drama ahead of the Assembly election by holding a ‘vel’ (presented to him at a meeting). “Actors can never succeed. Only those who work can succeed,” he said during a visit to Kalapatti. Reacting to Mr. Stalin’s assurance on investigating former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s death, he alleged that her health had deteriorated because she was imprisoned over the “false cases” pursued by former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi. He also accused Mr. Stalin of not having provided the necessary treatment to Karunanidhi, and claimed that the DMK leader did not allow his elder brother, M.K. Alagiri, to see Karunanidhi in his final days. He felt that if Mr. Alagiri floats a party, the DMK would be ‘finished’ in the elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/palaniswami-hints-at-more-announcements-before-polls/article33653070.ece
25 January 2021||LUCKNOW,||Row over police notices to petrol pumps in Ghazipur||A controversy was stirred in Ghazipur district of Uttar Pradesh after police allegedly issued notices to petrol pumps asking them to not sell fuel to tractor owners to prevent them from participating in the proposed tractor march as part of the ongoing farm protest on Republic Day. While such notices issued to petrol pumps were shared widely on social media, reports of legal notices sent to tractor owners asking them to not run their vehicles on the road till January 26 or face action also emerged. After receiving criticism on social media, Ghazipur police issued a clarification on Sunday saying that no such order was issued in the district. However, referring to a specific police station, the police said a notice had been issued “by mistake” from the Suhwal thana (station) but the order was withdrawn. Additional Superintendent of Police-Rural, Ghazipur, was asked to submit a report for “negligence”, said Ghazipur police in a statement on Twitter. As per one such contentious notice issued by Station House Officer (SHO) Suhwal, police said plying of tractors was prohibited in view of the high alert in the State for Republic Day and restrictions imposed under Section 144 of CrPC. Noting that there were possibilities of farmers leading tractor marches at two places under the police station, the SHO’s notice directed a petrol pump owner to not supply fuel to any tractor, or sell it in drums or cans from January 22-26.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/row-over-police-notices-to-petrol-pumps-in-ghazipur/article33653143.ece
25 January 2021||Bengaluru,||14 arrested in competitive exam paper leak racket||The Central Crime Branch police, who uncovered a questioned paper leak racket on Saturday – a day before the competitive examination for the post of First Division Assistant was scheduled to be held – have arrested 14 people so far. The examination, organised by the Karnataka Public Service Commission, has since been cancelled and new dates will be announced. According to the police, Chandru, who is the prime accused in the racket, is an inspector with the commercial tax vigilance squad. “He was running the racket with his associate, Rachappa, who is from Belagavi. The investigation so far revealed that Chandru obtained the question paper two days ago and prepared handwritten answer-scripts which he would deliver to his customers in person,” said a senior police official. The CCB team is yet to ascertain how they got the question paper in the first place and the source of the leak. “We have reason to believe that some Karnataka Public Service Commission personnel were also involved in the racket,” the official added. Chandru and his associates were careful to avoid social media platforms. They did not share the question paper or answer-scripts on WhatsApp or other platforms fearing that it would be used as digital evidence in case they got caught. The gang was arrested in Ullal on Saturday after the police received a tip off. When the team arrived at the location, they found Chandru and some of his associates waiting on the side of the road with the question papers and answer scripts. The police also seized Rs. 24 lakh in cash and three vehicles from the accused. According to the police, they would use the vehicles to circulate the papers to their customers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/14-arrested-in-competitive-exam-paper-leak-racket/article33653017.ece
25 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Police, farmers finalise routes for tractor parades||Farmers’ unions and the Delhi police fine-tuned plans for the tractor parades on three routes on Republic Day, with the protesters permitted to enter the capital for about 100 km but restricted to the border areas. After five or six marathon meetings with farmer unions that wanted to carry out a peaceful rally in the capital on Republic Day, Special Commissioner of Police (Intelligence) Deependra Pathak said the Delhi police had come to an in-principle understanding, which will be “a win-win situation for all”. After explaining to farmers the type of arrangements put in place to organise the parade on Rajpath, it was agreed to allow three circular routes from Ghazipur, Singhu and Tikri borders, he said. The tractor parades will enter Delhi but remain in areas near the border from the three entry points. Each of the routes planned are approximately 60 km long and in total about 100 km is within the territory of the National Capital. Farmers will be allowed to enter the city only after the completion of the official Republic Day parade, he added. “There will be a high level of security for the rally to ensure that no anti-social elements try to disturb the peace. We will work together with the farmers to create a secure environment for the rally,” Mr. Pathak said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/police-farmers-finalise-routes-for-tractor-parades/article33652974.ece
25 January 2021||GUNTUR,||ASHA worker dies of brain stroke days after vaccination||Days after being vaccinated for COVID-19, Bokka Vijayalakshmi, a 42-year-old Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) from Undavalli in Andhra Pradesh, died at the Government General Hospital (GGH) on Sunday. In Telangana, a 45-year-old woman healthcare worker died, four days after receiving a vaccine. Vijayalakshmi, along with other doctors and staff members, got the vaccine from the first vial at the Primary Health Centre (PHC) in Tadepalli. Doctors said the woman might have died from thrombogenic ischaemic demyelination, a brain stroke. Ischaemic demyelination is a condition listed among those falling under Adverse Events Following Immunisation (AEFI), but an investigation was being carried out by the State AEFI Committee. The woman was stable, with mild cough after vaccination on January 20. A day later, she developed fever and complained of dizziness and pain in the epigastric region of the abdomen. The woman’s family shifted her to the NRI General Hospital at Mangalagiri on January 21 and the GGH in Guntur the next day. She was admitted to the Neurology Department ICU early on Sunday in a semi-conscious condition. She was disoriented, with incoherent speech and drooling. Doctors put the woman on ventilator, but she died soon after. Her death triggered a protest with hundreds of ASHA workers staging a sit-in at the GGH demanding that the family of the deceased be given a job, farm land and Rs. 50 lakh as compensation. District Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar rushed to the GGH and consoled the family members. He assured them of a job and land and promised to take up the compensation issue with the Chief Minister’s Office. Later in the day, the AEFI committee, comprising heads of the departments of pathology, virology and other wings, held an emergency meeting at the GGH and discussed the event. A post-mortem examination was being done. Senior doct ors said this could be an AEFI case study that may provide vital information about complications after vaccination. “This, perhaps, comes under the rare episode of thrombogenic ischaemic demyelination caused by vaccination. However, we have to make a detailed investigation. Her family history shows a record of stroke. In fact, her mother had a similar stroke last year. But we are not making any conclusive statements for now,” said a senior doctor. Vaccinated at Urban PHC The 45-year-old womanhealthcare worker in Telangana got vaccinated at the Urban Primary Health Centre (UPHC) in New Shayampeta, Warangal Urban, on January 19. She passed away in the early hours of January 24, the State’s Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao, said. The District AEFI committee was examining the matter. This was the second death of a health worker in Telangana after vaccination. A 42-year-old male health worker who got a vaccine in Kuntala Primary Healthcare Centre in Nirmal district, was brought dead to a government hospital on Wednesday. Citing a preliminary report of the post-mortem examination, the senior official said the health worker suffered a myocardial infarction. The Central Forensic Science Laboratory (CFSL), and National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune, were analysing samples to determine the cause of death, as per AEFI death inquiry procedures. It would take around two weeks to receive the reports. The District AEFI committee examining the death of the female health worker will submit its report to the State AEFI committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/2-die-in-ap-telangana-days-after-covid-19-shot/article33652910.ece
25 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Mock trials of remote voting project soon: CEC||Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora said on Sunday the trials of the Election Commission’s remote voting project would be carried out soon. In his television and radio address on the eve of the National Voters Day, Mr. Arora highlighted the vision of the EC going forward. Research project “We have already started a research project on remote voting using cutting-edge technology with IIT-Chennai and other leading institutions and it has made good progress. Mock trials of this project will begin soon,” he said. The system being developed by the IIT-M uses blockchain for two-way remote voting at designated centres, an EC official had said when the project was started in 2020. Mr. Arora said “another significant change we can look forward to is grant of postal ballot facility to overseas electors”. He said the proposal was under “active consideration” of the Union Law Ministry. Digital move In another development, electors will be able to download electronic versions of the elector photo ID card, or e-EPIC, from Monday with the Election Commission launching it during the National Voter Day celebration. The EC said in a statement on Sunday that Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad would hand out the e-EPICs to five new voters at the function. The digital version of EPICs would be available for download from the voter helpline app, voterportal.eci.gov.in and nvsp.in, the EC said. The e-EPIC would be a non-editable PDF version of the EPIC that can be downloaded on the phone and stored on the DigiLocker app or printed from a computer. All general voters who have valid EPIC numbers would be able to do so from February 1 and those who applied in November and December will be able to download it from Monday till January 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mock-trials-of-remote-voting-project-soon-cec/article33653145.ece
25 January 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha sisters work for MGNREGS to pay fees||For the past 20 days, Rosy Behera, 20, has been working to build a road near her village in Odisha’s Puri district where, instead of putting her civil engineering skills to work, she carries mounds of earth on her head as a daily wager under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS). Two of Ms. Behera’s sisters, who are B. Tech and Class XII students under 19 years of age, have also been working to earn Rs. 207 each a day. The three belong to a Dalit family in Goradipidha village under Chainpur panchayat. They are desperate to arrange funds to help Ms. Behera, the eldest of five sisters, finish her higher studies. Higher studies “After completing my diploma in Civil Engineering in 2019, I am not able to arrange funds for my Bachelor’s degree. I also have to pay an outstanding amount of Rs. 24,000 to the diploma school,” Ms. Behera told The Hindu . After acquiring her diploma, Ms. Behera said she had enquired with a private engineering college if she could pursue a B. Tech programme on a government scholarship. She said since she belongs to a Scheduled Caste, her tuition fees would be borne by the government but she could not afford the hostel fee. “I could not find other options for earning money. I started working as a daily wager under the MGNREGS along with my parents, sisters and grandfather,” said Ms. Behera. “My immediate younger sister came forward to help me despite she pursuing a B. Tech programme in computer science. I think the wage accumulated by family members from the MGNREGS work would partly solve my problem [of repayment of dues]. But I have to arrange a lot of money,” said Ms. Behera. The MGNREGS work, she says, may continue for three months.  In 2019, an engineering graduate was seen working under the MGNREGS in Balangir district after he lost his job in Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/odisha-sisters-work-for-mgnregs-to-pay-fees/article33652970.ece
25 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Release Bhima-Koregaon activists: OHCHR||The top human rights body of the United Nations has urged the Indian government to release the activists who are in prison for the 2018 Bhima-Koregaon case, “at the very least on bail”. “We continue to be concerned about the situation of activists detained in India, including in the context of the Bhima-Koregaon events,” the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights said on Friday during a weekly briefing, The Wire has reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/release-bhima-koregaon-activists-ohchr/article33653404.ece
25 January 2021||Kolkata,||Sunderbans is home to 428 species of birds, says ZSI||The Indian Sunderbans, which is part of the largest mangrove forest in the world, is home to 428 species of birds, a recent publication of the Zoological Survey of India (ZSI) states. The publication, Birds of the Sundarban Biosphere Reserve , released earlier this month by the ZSI, not only documents the avifauna of the Sunderbans, but also serves as a comprehensive photographic field guide, with detailed distribution and locality data for all the species from the region. Authors of the publication said the book, with photographs of the males and females of various species, is aimed to kindle interest and spread knowledge about birds among people from all walks of life — from forest staff to tourists to amateur birdwatchers. The Indian Sunderbans, which covers 4,200 sq. km, also includes the Sunderban Tiger Reserve of 2,585 sq. km — home to about 96 royal Bengal tigers (as per the last census in 2020). It is a world heritage site and a Ramsar site (a wetland site designated to be of international importance). The publication has been compiled by three scientists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sunderbans-is-home-to-428-species-of-birds-says-zsi/article33653317.ece
25 January 2021||January 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Ninth round of talks under way at Moldo||The ninth round of Corps Commander-level talks between India and China were under way on Sunday at the Moldo border personnel meeting point on the Chinese side opposite Chushul in eastern Ladakh. Both sides are attempting to work out a phased disengagement and de-escalation plan.Page 11||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ninth-round-of-talks-under-way-at-moldo/article33652981.ece
25 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Release Bhima Koregaon activists’||The top human rights body of the United Nations has urged the Indian government to release the activists who are in prison for the 2018 Bhima Koregaon case, “at the very least on bail”. Several prominent activists like Varavara Rao and Fr. Stan Swamy remain in custody even as the case is being investigated. The Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights raised concerns during the weekly briefing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/release-bhima-koregaon-activists/article33653141.ece
25 January 2021||January 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Marching with a mission||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/marching-with-a-mission/article33653401.ece
25 January 2021||Belagavi,||SI among four of family killed in road accident||Four persons, including a woman police sub-inspector, died in a road accident in Belagavi district on Sunday, as a car rammed a NWKRTC bus near Chichadi Cross near Saundatti. The police gave the names of the dead as Lakshmi Hanamantrao Nalawade, a police sub-inspector from Belagavi, Prasad Vasudev Pawar, Ankita Prasad Pawar and Deepa Anil Shahapurkar. They are all members of a family from Belagavi. The bus was going from Vasco to Ilkal. The car was going from Belagavi to Bagalkot for a family function, the police said. The car was badly damaged and the police had to use a crane to dismantle it and retrieve the bodies. Superintendent of Police Laxman Nimbargi visited the spot. A case has been registered in the Murgod Police Station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/si-among-four-of-family-killed-in-road-accident/article33653214.ece
25 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Release Bhima Koregaon activists’||The top human rights body of the United Nations has urged the Indian government to release the activists who are in prison for the 2018 Bhima Koregaon case, “at the very least on bail”. Several prominent activists like Varavara Rao and Fr. Stan Swamy remain in custody even as the case is being investigated. The Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights raised concerns during the weekly briefing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/release-bhima-koregaon-activists/article33653430.ece
25 January 2021||January 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Preparations in full swing at Singhu border||A hospital on wheels, special tractors fitted with CCTVs and lights, and measures to ensure no ‘outsiders’ infiltrate the protest site are among several arrangements being made at the Singhu border in the run-up to the Kisan Republic Day Parade.Page 2||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/preparations-in-full-swing-at-singhu-border/article33653433.ece
25 January 2021||January 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Row over notices to U.P. petrol pumps||A controversy erupted in Ghazipur district of Uttar Pradesh after police allegedly issued notices to petrol pumps asking them to not sell fuel to tractor owners to prevent them from participating in the proposed tractor march as part of the farm protests on Republic Day.Page 11||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/row-over-notices-to-petrol-pumps/article33652982.ece
25 January 2021||Kolkata,||Kolkata nearby||The Trinamool Congress and the BJP on Sunday continued to spar over ‘Jai Shri Ram’ slogans being raised at an event at Victoria Memorial Hall on Saturday. At an event to mark the 125th birth anniversary of Subhas Chandra Bose in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee was upset by chants of ‘Jai Shri Ram’. She refused to speak at the event. “The BJP is trying to dirty the soil of Bengal by bringing in religion,” said Trinamool Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kolkata-nearby/article33653316.ece
25 January 2021||Hassan,||Complaints on illegal quarrying fall on deaf ears||For many years, the residents of Hunasodu, Kallu Ganguru, and Abbanagere, and those living in layouts close to the Shivamogga-Shikaripura road, have complained to the district administration about the blasts and illegal quarry activities in their area. However, the administration has hardly taken any action to stop this. The administration has sanctioned quarry leases of building stone material at Sulebylu, Gajjenahalli, and Kallu Ganguru villages of Shivamogga taluk over an extent of 32.25 acres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/complaints-on-illegal-quarrying-fall-on-deaf-ears/article33653016.ece
25 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi records 185 fresh virus cases, nine deaths||The Capital recorded 185 new COVID-19 cases along with nine deaths and 315 recoveries in the past 24 hours. This is the second time that the number of daily new cases has dipped below 200 since January 15. The case tally now stands at 6,33,924, and the death toll at 10,808.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-records-185-fresh-virus-cases-nine-deaths/article33653140.ece
25 January 2021||Mumbai,||Mumbai nearby||Human rights activists released a book on Sudha Bharadwaj, the trade unionist and lawyer incarcerated in the 2018 Bhima-Koregaon violence case, on Sunday, the last day of a five-day session, Repeal UAPA, organised by the People’s Union for Civil Liberties. The 316-page book, A Life in Law and Activism: Sudha Bharadwaj Speaks, was unveiled at a webinar. The book chronicles Ms. Bharadwaj’s early life and work as an advocate and activist.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mumbai-nearby/article33653402.ece
25 January 2021||YADGIR,||Video shows patients sleeping on the ground||A video that shows women sleeping on the ground in the taluk hospital in Shahapur of Yadgir district after tubectomy surgery has gone viral. Sources said that there were 100 beds but of these, only 60 are in good condition and all of these had been preoccupied by other patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/video-shows-patients-sleeping-on-the-ground/article33653215.ece
25 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi records 185 fresh virus cases, nine deaths||The Capital recorded 185 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday along with nine deaths and 315 recoveries in the past 24 hours. This is the second time that the number of daily new cases has dipped below 200 since January 15. The case tally now stands at 6,33,924, and the death toll at 10,808.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-records-185-fresh-virus-cases-nine-deaths/article33653431.ece
25 January 2021||Hassan,||Complaints on illegal quarrying fall on deaf ears||For many years, the residents of Hunasodu, Kallu Ganguru, and Abbanagere, and those living in layouts close to the Shivamogga-Shikaripura road, have complained to the district administration about the blasts and illegal quarry activities in their area. However, the administration has hardly taken any action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/complaints-on-illegal-quarrying-fall-on-deaf-ears/article33653413.ece
25 January 2021||MYSURU,||NGOs suspect cover-up in bonded labour case||NGOs and activists suspect a conspiracy to suppress and cover up a case of bonded labour that occurred in a stone quarry at Yaladahalli village in Nagamangala taluk of Mandya district despite complaints by the victims.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ngos-suspect-cover-up-in-bonded-labour-case/article33653414.ece
25 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||India, China hold military talks||The ninth round of Corps Commander-level talks between India and China were under way on Sunday at the Moldo border personnel meeting point on the Chinese side opposite Chushul in Eastern Ladakh as both sides attempt to work out a phased disengagement and de-escalation plan to end the nine-month stand-off. A defence official said the talks began at 10 a.m. Talks were still on at the time of going to print. Disengagement plan Officials said a broad disengagement plan had been worked out but it was held up over some issues. Both sides would attempt to work that out at the talks, a second official said. This was the reason for the delay in scheduling the ninth round of talks. The eighth round was held in November last year. It has to be a comprehensive disengagement plan beginning with all friction points in Eastern Ladakh and then de-escalation along the Line of Actual Control, the second official said, referring to China’s insistence on discussions centred on the South Bank of Pangong Tso first and taking up other friction areas later. The Indian delegation is led by Lt. Gen. PGK Menon, General Officer Commanding of the 14 Corps, and includes Naveen Srivastava, Additional Secretary (East Asia) from the External Affairs Ministry. A Ministry representative has been part of the previous few rounds of talks as well. The delegation includes two Major Generals and two Brigadiers, and Deepam Seth, Inspector-General, North West Frontier, Indo-Tibetan Border Police. Officials have stated on several occasions that any withdrawal will be phased and will take time, given the large number of troops and equipment deployed by both sides and also verify compliance on the ground by the Chinese side at each step. The talks are guided by the five-point-plan for disengagement and de-escalation agreed to by External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart, Wang Yi, in Moscow on September 10 last year. After the sixth round of talks on September 21, both sides for the first time issued a joint statement agreeing to “stop sending more troops to the frontline” and “refrain from unilaterally changing the situation on the ground”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-china-hold-military-talks/article33652931.ece
25 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Million shots in under a week’||India took less than a week to vaccinate over a million beneficiaries, the Union Health Ministry said on Sunday, stating that the country is ahead of the U.S. (10 days) and the U.K. (18) in achieving this mark. More than 31,000 healthcare workers have been vaccinated in five States on the ninth day of the countrywide COVID-19 vaccination programme. A total of 31,466 beneficiaries were vaccinated till 7.30 p.m. on Sunday in Haryana (907), Karnataka (2,472), Punjab (1,007), Rajasthan (24,586) and Tamil Nadu (2,494), said the Ministry in a release. It added that a total of 693 sessions were held till 6.30 p.m. on Sunday. The cumulative number of healthcare workers vaccinated has crossed 16 lakh (16,13,667) (till 7.30 p.m. on Sunday) through 28,613 sessions, as per the provisional report. “A total of 10 AEFIs [Adverse Events Following Immunisation] have been reported till 7.30 p.m. on the ninth day of the vaccination drive,” the Ministry said. On Sunday, India’s active COVID-19 cases stood at 1,84,408, with 15,948 recoveries in the last 24 hours. Five States — Kerala, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal — accounted for 75% of the total active cases in the country. Kerala reported the maximum number of single-day recoveries, with 5,283 recoveries. Maharashtra followed with 3,694 recoveries. A total of 14,849 new cases have been recorded in the last 24 hours and 80.67% of the new cases were concentrated in six States and Union Territories. Kerala reported the maximum daily new cases numbering 6,960 in the last 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/million-shots-in-under-a-week/article33652934.ece
25 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Farmers hold protests across the country||Riding bullock carts, motorbikes, tractors and vans, farmers from across the country are preparing to join rallies on Republic Day, declaring that their agitation goes beyond the spotlight on Delhi’s borders. In Maharashtra, more than 15,000 farmers walked down the 7-km Kasara Ghat on the border between Nashik and Thane, and then got into vehicles for a procession towards Mumbai. Azad Maidan meeting They will join a sit-in of farmers and agricultural workers under the banner of the Samyukta Shetkari Kamgar Morcha at Azad Maidan, where political leaders, including NCP chief Sharad Pawar, are expected to speak on Monday. On Tuesday, they plan to hoist the flag and then head to the Raj Bhavan to submit a memorandum to the Governor. “Many of these farmers are from the same areas in Nashik that took part in the ‘long march’ in 2018. There are more protests across the country now, and more unity among different farmers’ organisations, so they are marching with hope that the government will have to listen to them now,” said All India Kisan Sabha leader Vijoo Krishnan, who helped lead the 180-km foot march from Nashik to Mumbai in 2018. Five hundred farmers, including 200 women, from the Gujarat Khedut Samaj, who have moved the High Court after they were refused permission to hold protests in Surat and other parts of the State, will be joining the unions at Shahjahanpur on the Rajasthan-Haryana border. In Madhya Pradesh, farmers from northeastern districts such as Gwalior, Bhind, Morena and Shivpuri are heading towards Palwal near Delhi with 400 tractors, while those from the rest of the State will hold protests in their own district headquarters, said Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh spokesperson Abhimanyu Kohar. “The BJP is trying to present the movement as only from the northwestern States, but we want to show that it is nationwide,” he said. In the south, Karnataka’s farmers are planning major rallies in Bengaluru and Belagavi, but say there may be as many bullock carts as tractors. “In our area, there are not so many tractors. Also, the sugarcane season is going on. So one or two tractors will come from each village, but there will be people on bullock carts, motorbikes and on foot, coming to salute the flag in Belagavi,” said Jayashree Gurannanavar, leader of the Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sanga (KRRS). Northern Karnataka has sent some 100 people in four mini-lorries for the Delhi protest, while another 1,000 from the region will head for the Bengaluru parade. “We are protesting because we want a law guaranteeing that we get fair remuneration for our sweat. No one is paying us a salary. We don’t want any subsidy. We just want a 100% MSP for all agricultural produce,” said Prakash Naik, Belegavi secretary of the KRRS. More than a thousand farmers from eastern Indian States, including Odisha, Jharkhand, West Bengal and Chhattisgarh, are also making their way to Delhi. “We are a group of 500 mostly paddy farmers from Odisha, who left Bhubaneswar on six buses on January 15 and reached Singhu on January 22. Overall, we have travelled about 2,000 km and were detained several times in Uttar Pradesh,” said Navnirman Krushak Sangathan national convenor Akshaya . Tractor and bike rallies have been held in Ongole and Vishakapatnam districts of Andhra Pradesh. On Saturday, rallies were held at or near the Raj Bhavans in several States, including Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Jharkhand, Assam, Tripura and Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farmers-hold-protests-across-the-country/article33652927.ece
25 January 2021||Nalbari (Assam),||‘Cong.-AIUDF will open gates to infiltrators’||Pitching for another term for a BJP-led government in Assam to “safeguard” the interests of the State, Union Home Minister Amit Shah said on Sunday that the alliance of the Congress and the All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) would open “all gates” to infiltrators if it is voted to power. In his first political rally in the poll-bound State, Mr. Shah also took a swipe at the Congress for calling the BJP “communal”, and questioned the grand old party’s alliance with the Indian Union Muslim League in Kerala and the Badruddin Ajmal-led AIUDF in Assam, two regional parties that draw their support mostly from Muslims. At the ‘Vijay Sankalp Samaroh’, Mr. Shah said an era of peace and development had been ushered in Assam with the BJP in power in the State and at the Centre. Mr. Shah projected his party as the only alternative capable of safeguarding and promoting the regional culture. He also took a dig at the Assam Jatiya Parishad, a party floated by former AASU leader Lurinjyoti Gogoi, which is tipped to ally with Akhil Gogoi-led Raijor Dal, without naming them, saying they were in the poll arena to help the Congress by trying to cut into votes of the BJP. Assam’s interests were not in their hearts, he said. Hitting out at the Congress, the Home Minister said the party had adopted the British Empire’s policy of “divide and rule” by pitting different groups of people against one another, leading to bloodshed and loss of lives of thousands of youths. The Congress created a divide between the Adivasis and the non-Adivasis, the Assamese people and the hill people, the Bodos and non-Bodos, Mr. Shah said, alleging that over 10,000 Assamese youths were killed under the party’s reign. “Can the Congress and Ajmal keep Assam free from infiltrators? If they come to power, they will open all gates to welcome them because they are their vote bank,” he told the crowd. Appealing to the people to vote for the BJP, Mr. Shah said Assam had become “bullet-free and agitation-free” and the next saffron dispensation would make the State “flood-free”, describing floods as its biggest problem. Earlier in the day, Mr. Shah also addressed a public meeting in Kokrajhar to mark one year of the Bodoland Territorial Region Accord (BTR), and said this had initiated a process of ending insurgency in the northeast.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-aiudf-will-open-gates-to-infiltrators/article33652942.ece
25 January 2021||HYDERABAD,||Woman dies four days after receiving COVID-19 vaccine in Telangana||A 45-year-old female healthcare worker in Telangana died four days after receiving COVID-19 vaccine. The woman got vaccinated at an Urban Primary Health Centre (UPHC) in New Shayampeta, Warangal Urban, on January 19. “It has come to the notice of the undersigned that she expired in the early hours of January 24,” said the State’s Director of Public Health Dr G Srinivasa Rao. The District Adverse Event Following Immunisation (AEFI) committee is examining the matter. This is the second death of a healthcare worker in Telangana who has received the vaccination. Four days ago, a 42-year-old male healthcare worker who received COVID-19 vaccine in Kuntala Primary Healthcare Centre (PHC), Nirmal district, on January 19 was brought dead to a government hospital on Wednesday early morning. Citing preliminary report of post-mortem examination on him, the senior official stated that the male healthcare worker suffered from myocardial infarction. Viscera, body fluids, a part of various organs, collected from him were sent to Central Forensic Science Laboratory (CFSL), and National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune, to know the cause of his death. This procedure is followed for any AEFI death. It would take around two weeks to receive reports of the examination by the central labs. The District AEFI committee which is examining the death of the female healthcare worker will submit its report to the State AEFI committee, which will in turn hand it over to Central AEFI committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/woman-dies-four-days-after-receiving-covid-vaccine/article33653236.ece
25 January 2021||Hassan,||Stop illegal mining, Karnataka CM directs district officials||Karnataka Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has instructed all Deputy Commissioners to stop all forms of illegal mining in their districts. His directive comes in the wake of a blast at a stone quarry at Hunasodu in Shivamogga on Thursday night, which claimed six lives. Speaking to presspersons at the Shivamogga helipad, he said, “I have not said illegal mining will be regularised. Those into mining have to seek permission with all the relevant documents. The officials concerned will inspect the spot and take further action as per the law. Illegal activities will not be entertained.” There are reports of illegal mining in different places. “The mining at Baby Betta in Mandya district could impact the KRS. I have instructed officials to stop the illegal mining immediately.” He said development works required jelly and sand, but their extraction and transportation should be as per the law. “I have instructed officers not to trouble people who have been extracting materials by adopting traditional methods and not harming the environment,” he claimed. The State government has appointed a committee headed by Shivamogga Deputy Commissioner K.B. Shivakumar to probe the blast at Hunasodu. Shivamogga Superintendent of Police K.M. Shantharaju and three technical experts are also part of the committee.     K.B. Prasanna Kumar, former MLA and Congress leader, alleged that the investigation by this committee was just an eyewash. “Nothing will come out of this. For a fair investigation into the case, the Minister in charge of the district, K.S. Eshwarappa, should resign first. The matter should be handed over to the CBI or a probe by a sitting High Court judge should be ordered,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/stop-illegal-mining-karnataka-cm-directs-district-officials/article33652908.ece
25 January 2021||KALPETTA,||Resort shut after elephant kills visitor||The Wayanad district administration on Sunday ordered the closure of a resort at Elambilery, near Meppady, where a tourist from Kannur was killed in an attack by a wild elephant on Saturday night. Wayanad Collector Adeela Abdulla told The Hindu after a brief visit to the Rain Forest resort at Elambilery on Sunday that she had directed the Meppady grama panchayat officials to close the resort as it was found that it had been functioning without any licences. The resort owners had also failed to maintain safety standards in the makeshift tents put up on the premises of the property, Ms. Abdulla said. As the local administrative bodies were granting licences for the functioning of resorts and home stays, the District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) would issue an order soon to check the functioning of resorts and setting up makeshift tents on their premises, she said. Forest on three sides The Vythiri tahsildar was directed to submit a report on the functioning of the resort, Ms. Abdulla said. The resort was set up in a remote area of a cardamom plantation on the left bank of a rivulet of the Chaliyar river and on the three sides of the property was forest under the Meppady forest range in the South Wayanad forest division, Forest Department sources said. The resort owners had set up close to 30 tents on the banks of the rivulet without erecting any fence on the forest fringes to keep the wildlife at bay, the sources said. Without permissions The Wayanad Prakruti Samrakshana Samiti, an environmental organisation, said hundreds of private resorts were functioning on the fringes in the district without the permission of the authorities concerned. Close to 300 private resorts and home stays were operating on the slopes of the Camel Hump mountain complex by flouting all norms. Many of them had set up illegal tree huts, makeshift tents and glass bridges on rock cliffs on the ecologically fragile area, N. Badusha, president of the organisation said. Hence the district administration should adopt stringent steps to control such properties, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/resort-shut-after-elephant-kills-visitor/article33652919.ece
25 January 2021||Kolkata,||Sunderbans is home to 428 species of birds, says ZSI||The Indian Sunderbans, which is part of the largest mangrove forest in the world, is home to 428 species of birds, a recent publication of the Zoological Survey of India (ZSI) states. The publication, Birds of the Sundarban Biosphere Reserve , released earlier this month by the ZSI, not only documents the avifauna of the Sunderbans, but also serves as a comprehensive photographic field guide, with detailed distribution and locality data for all the species from the region. Authors of the publication said the book, with photographs of the males and females of various species, is aimed to kindle interest and spread knowledge about birds among people from all walks of life — from forest staff to tourists to amateur birdwatchers. The Indian Sunderbans, which covers 4,200 sq. km, also includes the Sunderban Tiger Reserve of 2,585 sq. km — home to about 96 royal Bengal tigers (as per the last census in 2020). It is a world heritage site and a Ramsar site (a wetland site designated to be of international importance). The publication has been compiled by three scientists — Kaliash Chandra, Director, ZSI, Gopinathan Maheshwaran, head of the bird section of the ZSI, and Amitava Majumdar. The scientists said of the 428 birds listed, some, like the masked finfoot and the Buffy fish owl, are recorded only from the Sunderbans. The area is home to nine out of 12 species of kingfishers found in the country as well rare species such as the Goliath heron and the spoon-billed sandpiper. Highlighting the significance of the publication, Dr. Chandra said India has over 1,300 species of birds and if 428 species of birds are from the Sunderbans, it means that one in every three birds in the country is found in the unique ecosystem. “The publication not only highlights the ecological and conservation aspect of the Sunderbans, but through detailed description of bird species and localities where they are found we want to encourage birdwatching,” Dr. Chandra said. Pointing out that scientists and nature lovers are observing the 125th birth anniversary year of Salim Ali, the Birdman of India, the ZSI Director said birdwatching not only brings people closer to nature, but also creates awareness and livelihood opportunities for the locals. Principal Chief Conservator of Forest and Head of Forest Force, West Bengal, Ravi Kant Sinha said the Sunderbans are the most diverse of natural landscapes and accounts for 60% of all mangrove forests in the country. “The mudflats exposed in the low tides, rich in microorganism deposited during tidal activity, are ideal feeding for migratory birds. The mudflats and wetlands of the Sunderbans act as a stopover site for migratory flight south [southwards] and back,” Mr. Sinha added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sunderbans-is-home-to-428-species-of-birds-says-zsi/article33652937.ece
25 January 2021||New Delhi,||Cong. flays fuel price hike, blames high excise duty||Cornering the Union government on spiralling fuel prices, the Congress on Sunday demanded an explanation on how exactly the government spent the Rs. 20 lakh crore that it earned from multiple increases in excise duty on both petrol and diesel. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, in a tweet in Hindi, said the Modi government had managed to bring tremendous growth in “GDP — Gas-Diesel-Petrol”. While the people were suffering from inflation, the government was busy with tax collection, the former Congress president said. Party general secretary Ajay Maken, at a press conference at the Congress headquarters, said the excise duty on diesel had been hiked by 820% and 258% on petrol. “When the Congress-UPA government was in power, the price of crude oil was $108 a barrel. Petrol and diesel were at Rs. 71.51 and Rs. 57.28 a litre, which has increased to Rs. 85.70 and Rs. 75.88 in Delhi today despite the price of crude oil being far less than half the rates during the UPA regime,” Mr. Maken said. Without the excise duty, the price of petrol would be Rs. 61.92 a litre and diesel Rs. 47.51. The excise duty on petrol was Rs. 23.78 a litre and on diesel Rs. 28.37. In May 2014, Mr. Maken said, the excise duty on petrol was just Rs. 9.20 a litre and on diesel Rs. 3.46. “The Modi government has earned Rs. 20,00,000 crore in the past six-and-a-half years by increasing the excise duty on petrol and diesel alone.” ‘Select few’ Mr. Maken accused the government of fleecing the common man and filling the pockets of a select few corporate groups who were friendly with it. “The government should explain where exactly this money has gone, considering it has frozen the dearness allowance of government servants and just about every section of society is feeling the pinch,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-flays-fuel-price-hike-blames-high-excise-duty/article33652939.ece
25 January 2021||Mumbai,||Bombay HC overturns conviction under POCSO Act||The Nagpur Bench of the Bombay High Court recently acquitted a man charged under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and convicted him for a “minor offence” under the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The Bench said, “There is no direct physical contact i.e. skin to skin with sexual intent without penetration.” On December 14, 2016, the mother of a minor lodged a complaint with the Gittikhadan, Nagpur police station, stating that on “the pretext of giving her [the minor] a guava in his house, Satish Ragde pressed her breast and attempted to remove her salwar”. The mother reached the spot and rescued her daughter who was found crying. The child told her mother that when the man tried to remove her salwar, she started crying but he put his hand on her mouth. The police registered an FIR under Sections 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty); 363 (punishment for kidnapping); and 342 (punishment for wrongful confinement) of the IPC; and Section 8 (punishment for sexual assault) of the POCSO Act. The special court framed charges under Section 361 (kidnapping from lawful guardianship) of the IPC, along with the above-mentioned charges. A single judge Bench of Justice Pushpa Ganediwala was hearing a criminal appeal filed by Mr. Ragde challenging an order passed by the Additional Sessions Judge, Nagpur, who convicted him and sentenced him to three years of imprisonment. Justice Ganediwala took into consideration the submission of the prosecution, and said, “It is not the case of the prosecution [that] Mr. Ragde removed her top and pressed her breast.” He was charged with sexual assault and the punishment for the same was not less than three years and might extend up to five years, he said. The High Court said, “Considering the stringent nature of punishment provided for the offence, in the opinion of the court, stricter proof and serious allegations are required. The act of pressing breast of the child aged 12 years, in the absence of any specific detail as to whether the top was removed or whether he inserted his hand inside the top and pressed her breast, would not fall in the definition of sexual assault.” “It is the basic principle of criminal jurisprudence that the punishment for an offence shall be proportionate to the seriousness of the crime,” the court said. The Bench acquitted Mr. Ragde under the POCSO Act and convicted him under the IPC. “In this case, having regard to the nature of the alleged act by Mr. Ragde and having regard to the circumstances, in the opinion of this court, the alleged act fits into the definition of the offence under Section 354 of the IPC,” the order read.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bombay-hc-overturns-conviction-under-pocso-act/article33652940.ece
25 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||CBI to probe rape charges in solar scam||The Kerala government on Sunday promulgated an extraordinary notification authorising the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to probe at least five top Congress leaders, including leading United Democratic Front (UDF) campaigner and former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy, on the charge of rape. Additional Chief Secretary, Home, T.K. Jose, issued the order based on a complaint filed by a woman arraigned as accused in the sensational solar investment fraud case that had bedevilled the previous Oommen Chandy government. The “victim” alleged the politicians had sought and received sexual favours from her, promising State support for her business venture. All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary K.C. Venugopal; former Ministers Adoor Prakash and A.P. Anil Kumar; Hiby Eden, MP; and Abdullah Kutty, currently a top Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) functionary; are the other respondents in the case. Police file cases in 2018 The State police, in 2018, registered six cases against the politicians. However, the investigation had come to a dead-end. The crime had spanned Kerala, New Delhi, and other States. The cases have their provenance in a damning observation by the judicial commission appointed by Mr. Chandy to probe the solar scam. The commission recommended that the police probe those persons named by the woman as her sexual exploiters. It concluded that demanding and accepting sexual favours for official patronage was tantamount to illegal gratification under the Prevention of Corruption Act. The Pinarayi government, which came to power in 2016, accepted the recommendation and ordered a Crime Branch investigation. Meanwhile, the Congress has cried foul. The government had attempted to breath new life into a set of discredited allegations to tarnish the Congress leadership. The action smacked of political vendetta, the party leadership said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-to-probe-rape-charges-in-solar-scam/article33652915.ece
25 January 2021||KOTTAYAM,||Cong. leaders meet Orthodox Church head||Congress leader and former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy and Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala on Sunday visited the headquarters of the Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church (MOSC) at Devalokam in Kottayam. The leaders, who arrived at the Orthodox headquarters by 11 a.m., met Catholicos Baselios Marthoma Paulose II, the head of the MOSC, and held discussions with him. In an hour-long meeting, the leaders are learnt to have sought the Orthodox sect’s support to the United Democratic Front (UDF) in the Assembly elections, besides giving an assurance on settling the church dispute amicably. Poll setback Both parties did not comment on what transpired in the talks. The Congress leaders were also accompanied by local MLA and senior Congress leader Thiruvanchoor Radhakrishnan. The meeting assumed importance in the wake of setbacks suffered by the UDF in local body polls, especially in the UDF fortress of Central Travancore. Core vote bank The distancing of UDF’s traditional vote bases such as Christian and Nair communities played a major role in the advancement of the LDF in the recently held local body polls. The prime objective of the visit of Mr. Chandy and Mr. Chennithala was presumably to consolidate the party's support among its core vote banks. Earlier, Mr. Chandy and Mr. Chennithala had visited the community heads, including Cardinal George Alencherry, the archbishop of Syro-Malabar Church, and bishops of Catholic dioceses of Pala, Changanassery, and Kottayam. They are planning to meet the heads of other religious and community forums in the coming days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-leaders-meet-orthodox-church-head/article33653295.ece
25 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Tharoor to woo young, undecided voters||The All India Congress Committee (AICC) has assigned Shashi Tharoor, MP, an active role in the Assembly election campaign. The Congress hopes to harness Mr. Tharoor’s public profile as a trusted social media influencer, academic role model and opinion leader to reach out to apolitical and undecided voters largely impervious to conventional and staid methods of election campaigning. Mr. Tharoor has a devoted social media audience, both as a writer and Parliamentarian. He is reckoned an online magnet for students, parents, teachers and young professionals. The Election Commission of India has pegged the number of first-time voters between 18 and 19 at 2,99,258. The Congress felt that the bracket of new voters could make a difference between victory and loss. Mr. Tharoor could hopefully woo them with his messaging. The new task also accorded Mr. Tharoor an opportunity to redeem the image of a truant leader. His “absence” in the Thiruvananthapuram Parliament constituency during the local body polls had reportedly become a talking point among the rank and file. Mr. Tharoor would also play a role in finalising the party’s election manifesto. Social media impact The Congress has also realised that much of the election campaign will be fought on social media platforms. A large group of voters get their news and views on social media. A large segment of them are women. It has reportedly hired professionals to create inspirational videos and attention-grabbing memes to nudge voters in the UDF direction. The Congress might also bring on board V.D. Satheesan, V.T. Balaram and Shafi Parambil. They have considerable experience in digital media. The legislators have their own YouTube channels and social media accounts with a sizeable following. Mr. Satheesan is specialised in political programming, with in-depth interviews and analysis on various social issues. The party might also rope in celebrities and “tik tok” sensations to endorse its manifesto. Both fronts are poised to scale up their social media presence in the run-up to the polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tharoor-to-woo-young-undecided-voters/article33653296.ece
25 January 2021||KOCHI,||Court seeks time for trial in actor rape case||The Special Court trying the actor rape case has sought six more months from the Supreme Court for completing the trial. Honey M. Varghese, Special Judge, who is considering the case, approached the Supreme Court last week through the registry of the Kerala High Court. The apex court, which had earlier extended the deadline by six months, had asked the trial court to complete the proceedings by February 4 this year. However, the proceedings got delayed due to a host of factors and the prosecution could so far examine only 82 of the nearly 300 witnesses listed in the case. The prosecution case is that the actor was abducted and raped in a moving car and the accused recorded the crime in a mobile phone. Actor Dileep is the 8th accused in the case. He has been charged with conspiracy.  Listing the factors that prevented the completion of the trial on time, the judge said the COVID-19 lockdown had caused much delay. Though the pace of the trial picked up after the partial lifting of the lockdown, the proceedings had to be put on hold after the prosecution informed the court on October 15 that it had approached the High Court seeking transfer of the case to some other court, the judge said. After the High Court rejected its plea, the prosecution moved the Supreme Court, where also it failed to get a favourable order. While dismissing the prosecution plea, the Supreme Court asked the State on December 15 to find a new prosecutor within a week. Six more months Three months were lost following the petition for a change of court. A new prosecutor took over on January 6 and prepared the schedule for examining witnesses on January 8. It may require six more months for the trial court to complete the trial and by August this year, the trial could be completed, it was submitted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/court-seeks-time-for-trial-in-actor-rape-case/article33652911.ece
25 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||UN rights body calls for release of Bhima Koregaon activists||The top human rights body of the United Nations has urged the Indian government to release the activists who are in prison for the 2018 Bhima Koregaon case, “at the very least on bail”. Several prominent activists like Varavara Rao and Fr. Stan Swamy remain in custody even as the case is being investigated. “We continue to be concerned about the situation of activists detained in India, including in the context of the Bhima Koregaon events. We encourage the authorities to release these individuals, at the very least, on bail while they await trial,” the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) said on Friday during a weekly briefing, The Wire has reported. The Bhima Koregaon case dates back to January 1, 2018, which marked the 200th anniversary of the Bhima Koregaon battle. The event was organised to celebrate the victory of the British army, which included a large number of Mahars, against Peshwa Baji Rao II’s army. One person was killed and several others were injured during the 2018 event. Several human rights activists, including Sudha Bharadwaj, Varavara Rao and Gautam Navlakha, were arrested during the course of the investigation. The OHCHR, in its weekly briefing, also reiterated the concerns that were expressed by UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Michelle Bachelet last year, who had spoken about the arrests of activists in India and about the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA). India’s recent human rights record has repeatedly come in focus in its exchanges with the OHCHR as well as with the members of the U.S. Congress. Responding to Ms. Bachelet, the Ministry of External Affairs in October 2020, said, “The framing of laws is obviously a sovereign prerogative. Violations of law, however, cannot be condoned under the pretext of human rights.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/un-rights-body-calls-for-release-of-bhima-koregaon-activists/article33652925.ece
25 January 2021||Kolkata,||Trinamool, BJP spar over slogans at event||The Trinamool Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party on Sunday continued to spar over ‘Jai Shri Ram’ slogans being raised at an event at Victoria Memorial Hall on Saturday. At an event to mark the 125th birth anniversary of Subhash Chandra Bose in Kolkata in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee was upset by chants of ‘Jai Shri Ram’ . She refused to speak at the event, saying she felt insulted . ‘Dirtying Bengal’s soil’ “The BJP is trying to dirty the soil of Bengal by bringing in religion. The contest for Bengal will be between 10 crore people of the State and a jumla party [referring to the BJP],” said Trinamool Congress MP and head of party youth wing Abhishek Banerjee. Senior Trinamool Congress leader and Minister Firhad Hakim said it was not proper for the BJP to bring in “Netaji in petty politics”, The party leadership also held a press conference at the party headquarters, where senior party leader Bratya Basu said the development at Victoria Memorial was unfortunate and brought shame to the people of the State. BJP national general secretary Kaliash Vijayvargiya said that by not speaking at the event, Ms. Banerjee had insulted Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. Mr. Vijayvargiya raised questions as to what problems the Chief Minister had with ‘Jai Shri Ram’ chants, which was meant as greeting to the leaders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trinamool-bjp-spar-over-slogans-at-event/article33652928.ece
25 January 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. has taken many steps to empower the girl child: Modi||The Central government has undertaken many initiatives that focus on empowering the girl child, including access to education, better healthcare and improving gender sensitivity, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on National Girl Child Day on Sunday. India celebrates National Girl Child Day, an initiative of the Ministry of Women and Child Development, every year on January 24. “On National Girl Child Day, we salute our #DeshKiBeti and the accomplishments in various fields,” Mr. Modi said in a tweet. “Today is also a day to specially appreciate all those working towards empowering the girl child and ensuring she leads a life of dignity and opportunity,” the Prime Minister said in another tweet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-has-taken-many-steps-to-empower-the-girl-child-modi/article33652945.ece
25 January 2021||Srinagar,||Terror groups in Pakistan switch to new messaging apps||Amid a raging debate over data privacy while using messaging platforms such as WhatsApp, terrorist groups and their handlers from Pakistan are switching to new applications which include one developed by a Turkish company, officials here said. The three new applications came to light from evidence collected following encounters with terrorists or from details provided by those who surrendered before the Army about the mode of radicalisation by the groups, they said. The names of the messaging apps have been withheld for security reasons. While one of the applications is owned by a company based in the U.S., the second is from Europe. The latest is an application developed by a Turkish company frequently used by the handlers and their prospective recruits in the Valley. The new applications have the ability to work with the slowest Internet connections using 2G technology. All encryption and decryption happen directly on the devices, reducing third-party intervention at any point and these apps use encryption algorithm RSA-2048 which was adopted as the most secure encrypted platform. The RSA is an American Network Security and Authentication company founded in 1982. One of the new messaging apps used by terrorists to radicalise the youth in the Valley does not even ask for phone numbers or emails, the officials said. Efforts are on to block such applications, they said. This comes at a time when the security agencies in the Valley are fighting the menace of virtual SIM cards. Terror groups have been using these to connect with their handlers in Pakistan. The penetration of this technology came to light in 2019 when a request was sent to the U.S. to seek details from a service provider of virtual SIMs used by a Jaish-e-Mohammed suicide bomber in the attack on a CRPF convoy in Pulwama that left 40 personnel dead. A detailed investigation by the National Investigation Agency indicated that over 40 virtual SIM cards were used in the attack alone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/terror-groups-in-pakistan-switch-to-new-messaging-apps/article33652946.ece
25 January 2021||CHITTOOR,||Woman ‘kills’ two daughters in fit of rage||In a gruesome incident, a woman reportedly bludgeoned to death her two daughters, aged 27 and 22, at their residence at Madanapalle town on Sunday night. According to Madanapalle Taluq police, acting on information from neighbours that a woman had attacked her two daughters near Shivalayam temple street, police rushed there to find the two girls – Alekhya (27) and Sai Divya (22) – lying dead in a pool of blood. According to preliminary investigation, Padmaja (50) in a fit of rage had attacked her daughters with dumbbells, killing them on the spot, said circle inspector M. Srinivasulu. Their father Purushottam Naidu, principal of the Madanapalle Government Women’s College, was present at home when the incident took place but was reportedly overpowered by his wife. The reason for the brutal attack was not immediately known. The unmarried girls were well-educated and running an educational institution in Madanapalle. The police are investigating the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/woman-kills-two-unmarried-daughters-in-fit-of-rage/article33653443.ece
25 January 2021||Hyderabad,||Hyderabad Literary Festival: a dash of culture and realpolitik||It was a dash of culture and realpolitik on the last day of the virtual Hyderabad Literary Festival. The day began with Chitra Banerjee Divakaruni talking about her book ‘The Last Queen’ which reimagines the life and times of Maharaja Ranjit Singh’s youngest queen Rani Jindan. Then it was a dash of nostalgia as Montek Singh Ahluwalia took a trip down memory lane. Mr. Ahluwalia recollected growing up in Secunderabad between 1950-57 when his father, who worked in the Defence Accounts, moved to the city with the Indian Army after Police Action. “I studied in St Patrick’s High School. I played cricket in a small village called Karkhana. I remember an extremely pleasant and peaceful time in the city,” said Mr. Ahluwalia, when asked about his connection with Hyderabad. Speaking about his book ‘Backstage’, Mr. Ahluwalia said, “Many of us were aware that our policies need to change. I had the opportunity to see the change take place. It began in the 80s and really intensified in 1991 and continued thereafter. I tried to document how the policies changed.” Mr. Ahluwalia who had an insider view of change in the economic policies under P.V. Narasimha Rao and Dr. Manmohan Singh was in conversation with Prabhakar Parakala. He credited his deceased wife Ishwar for writing the book. “She told me ‘for God’s sake write in a manner that an ordinary person can understand you are not writing the economic survey again’,” confessed Mr. Ahluwalia. In another session, well-known scholar of Hinduism, Devdutt Patnaik, held forth his view of the country. “India was created through pilgrims. It is something we don’t realise. We want to see history through the lens of kings. But it is not correct. Common people travel slowly and create a network. It is the temples, rituals and practices that bind us culturally,” he said about his book ‘Pilgrim Nation’. In a late evening session, Farrukh Dhondy shared his encounter with Rumi when he took a flight to Australia and a friend handed him a copy of Rumi’s poetry. “Meaning and music go together with Rumi,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-dash-of-culture-and-realpolitik-bring-literary-festival-to-a-close/article33653268.ece
25 January 2021||HYDERABAD,||‘Nuclear energy usage in non-energy fields is up’||The words “nuclear” and “atomic” can trigger fear but very few realise that nuclear energy and related technology have been critical tools in uplifting human life since more than half a century, said Bhabha Atomic Research Centre (BARC) scientist Tirumalesh Keesari. “About 30 countries, including India and China, use nuclear power for generating electricity. Applications of nuclear energy have also grown tremendously in non-energy fields such as food production, human health and environmental protection,” he said. Participating in a seminar on ‘Peaceful and Societal Applications of Nuclear Energy’ organised by voluntary agency Social Cause on the 124th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose, he said India is playing a key role in promoting use of radioisotopes for food, agriculture, industry, medicine, water resources and the environment. Of late, isotope hydrology has been the focus area. Naturally-occurring as well as reactor-produced isotopes have been applied to understand f hydrological processes and provide simple solutions to the growing water issues in the country. He said success stories include identification of source of fluoride in groundwater, estimation of groundwater ages in deep zones, rejuvenating drying springs in Himalayan states, impact of climate change on glaciers and role of paleochannels on groundwater recharge. In Telangana, he said, isotope techniques were employed to verify positive impact of desiltation of natural tanks on groundwater levels, and fluoride contamination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nuclear-energy-usage-in-non-energy-fields-is-up/article33653442.ece
25 January 2021||IMPHAL,||Manipur prepares to celebrate Republic Day||The Manipur government has given final touches to celebrate the Republic Day in a befitting manner on Tuesday in the backdrop of the boycott calls given by almost all banned armed organisations. The CorCom, formed by six major underground outfits, was the first to announce the boycott call followed by others. Though the State government claims that the law and order situation has improved, the Disturbed Areas Act was further extended. Former Chief Minister and now Congress Legislature Party leader Okram Ibobi said, “If the government says that the law and order has improved, it is mind-boggling why was the Disturbed Areas Act extended.” It was to enforce the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act, 1958, which gave a carte blanche to the security forces, he said. Government sources said that in view of the pandemic the function would be low-key. Meanwhile, the police and paramilitary forces have been conducting cordon and search operations in most of the districts. Police say that the hardcore rebels could not be caught in the dragnet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/manipur-prepares-to-celebrate-republic-day/article33653147.ece
25 January 2021||January 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Police, farmers finalise routes for parades||“We have faith and trust that the farmers will exit the route from where they entered and will not try to create any confusion within the Capital,” he added. State delegations Apart from tens of thousands of protesters from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, who have been camped on Delhi’s borders for the last two months, small contingents of farmers are streaming in from other parts of the country, as distant as Kerala, Gujarat and Odisha, to join the Republic Day parades. “All organisations have approved this route plan. We will ensure that the parade is carried out peacefully in cooperation with the police. No one will be allowed to bring drugs or alcohol to the parade,” said Harinder Singh Lakhowal, general secretary of one faction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, speaking at a late evening press conference at the Singhu border. “There will be no limit on the number of tractors which will be allowed to enter Delhi,” said Harjeet Singh Ravi of the Kisan Sangharsh Committee, adding that the cars of the farm union leaders will form the frontline of the parade. “The police themselves have estimated that there will be one lakh tractors and if they move at the rate of one kilometre in 15 minutes, then it could take as long as 48 hours for the last tractors to reach the end,” said Hannan Mollah, general secretary of the All India Kisan Sabha. He explained that Monday would be spent in intense preparation, creating tableaux and training thousands of volunteers and drivers to facilitate smooth and peaceful movement. “We have given out the slogan, ‘If it is peaceful, we win; if it is violent, Modi wins’. Our credibility is at stake. The police prepare for one month for the Republic Day parade [on Rajpath]. We will have just a few days to do the same thing,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/police-farmers-finalise-routes-for-parades/article33652906.ece
25 January 2021||January 25 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Chinese using Indian roads for trespass’||He said the Chinese aggression could be caught red-handed as everything was recorded on phones. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh had informed Rajya Sabha last September that face-offs with the Chinese PLA happened because “patrols were interrupted.” Mr. Singh had said there was no commonly delineated LAC and there was an overlap in the perception of LAC in many areas. Access denied As reported by The Hindu , since April 2020, Indian troops have been denied access to patrolling points (PPs) number 9, 10, 11, 12, 12A, 13, 14, 15, 17, 17A from Depsang Plains in the north to Pangong Tso (lake) in the south. In all, there are more than 65 PPs from the base of Karakoram to Chumar in the south. The PPs are the end points along the undefined LAC up to which Indian troops patrol after starting from their respective base camps. China has ingressed about 8 km in the Finger area of Pangong Tso and Indian troops have not been able to patrol beyond Finger 4 since the last week of April 2020, when China started amassing troops. Earlier, Indian troops could patrol up to Finger 8. The other areas where buildup continues are the Depsang Plains, Galwan, Gogra-Hot Springs and south bank of Pangong.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chinese-using-indian-roads-for-trespass/article33652907.ece
25 January 2021||MANGALURU,||MUDA chief booked for dowry harassment||Mangaluru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) Commissioner G.T. Dinesh Kumar has been accused of harassing his wife for dowry and making an attempt to murder her. The Bengaluru police have registered a case against him. Deepthi K.P., 28, filed a complaint against Mr. Kumar in Bengaluru’s Rajarajeshwari Nagar Police Station on Saturday. The police have registered her complaint under Sections 498 A and 307 of the Indian Penal Code and under Sections 3 and 4 of the Dowry Prohibition Act. In her complaint, Ms. Deepthi, who has been admitted to a private hospital on Uttarahalli Main Road in Bengaluru, said that she married Mr. Kumar in March 2015 and her parents had given 1 kg of gold ornaments and 5 kg of silver articles in the form of dowry. The couple have two daughters. She accused Mr. Kumar of repeatedly harassing her physically and mentally for dowry. He was prompted to do so by his sister-in-law Ramya. When elders of the two families mediated between them, Mr. Kumar lived with her peacefully for a fortnight. Later, he continued to harass her asking her to bring money from her parents. On January 22, she left Mangaluru, where her husband worked, with her elder daughter for their house at an apartment complex in Rajarajeshwari Nagar, Bengaluru. Soon after, she called her parents who took her (Deepthi’s) daughter to their house. At 9 p.m., when Mr. Kumar asked her about dowry, she went into her bedroom. Mr. Kumar followed her and offered her water in a steel glass stating that it will relieve her of stress. She drank it just as Mr. Kumar left the house and Ms. Deepthi developed giddiness. She called her aunt who took her to the private hospital. The doctors there told her that she was given a tablet with the water. This was an attempt by Mr. Kumar to murder her, she said in the complaint. She has also sought legal action against Ms. Ramya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/muda-chief-booked-for-dowry-harassment/article33653019.ece
25 January 2021||January 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Sharma Oli expelled from Nepal Communist Party||However, following Sunday’s developments, both factions reached out to Chief Election Commissioner Dinesh Kumar Thapaliya. The Hindu has learnt reliably that Mr. Thapaliya will not accord the status to either faction. The situation is being described as an intense constitutional crisis as the Caretaker Prime Minister is left without any party affiliation because of the EC’s decision. Mr. Oli had declared that elections would be held in April-May, but in the current situation a lot will depend on the Election Commission and the Supreme Court which is examining the writ petitions filed against the dissolution of the Lower House.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sharma-oli-expelled-from-nepal-communist-party/article33652923.ece
25 January 2021||New Delhi,||Opposition to chalk out plan for farm laws’ repeal||Opposition parties are likely to meet next week to discuss the strategy ahead after the breakdown of talks between farmers’ groups and the Centre on the three contentious farm laws. Backchannel conversations between parties have started and efforts will be made for a joint Opposition push to repeal the three laws in the upcoming Budget session, beginning on January 29. To begin with, only Parliamentary floor leaders will meet to discuss a strategy for the session. But sources said a bigger convention of Opposition parties is also on the cards. As a first step, the Left parties on Sunday issued a joint statement on the issue. Signed by CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, CPI general secretary D. Raja, CPI(ML) general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya, All India Forward Bloc general secretary Debabrata Biswas and Revolutionary Socialist Party general secretary Manoj Bhattacharya, the statement urged the government to stop being “obstinate” and called the government proposal to suspend the laws for 18 months “a farce”. ‘Only option’ “Already the government has conveyed its willingness to suspend these laws for 18 months. Acts that are legislated by Parliament, signed by the President of India and notified by the Gazette are law of the land. They cannot be suspended. Unless they are repealed, they are enforceable,” the statement said. It is only reasonable, the Left parties said, for the Centre to hold discussions with farmers and other stakeholders, including State governments, before bringing in fresh bills. The Left parties applauded the determination, unity and grit of lakhs of farmers who are camping at Delhi borders braving the extreme cold. “The protest movements are gaining strength, day by day. We hail their patriotic resolve to hold a ‘tractor parade’ on Republic Day, in defence of our Secular, Democratic Constitution and the repeal of these laws,” the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/opposition-to-chalk-out-plan-for-farm-laws-repeal/article33652929.ece
25 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Mock trials of remote voting project soon: CEC||Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) Sunil Arora on Sunday said the trials of the Election Commission’s remote voting project would be carried out soon. In his television and radio address on the eve of National Voters Day, Mr. Arora highlighted the vision of the EC going forward. Research project “We have already started a research project on remote voting using cutting-edge technology with the Indian Institute of Technology, Madras [IIT-M] and other leading institutions, and it has made good progress. Mock trials of this project will begin soon,” Mr. Arora said. Blockchain The system being developed by IIT-M uses blockchain for two-way remote voting at designated centres, an EC official had said when the project was started in 2020.  “Another significant change we can look forward to is grant of postal ballot facility to overseas electors,” Mr. Arora said. The CEC said the proposal was under “active consideration” of the Union Law Ministry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mock-trials-of-remote-voting-project-soon-cec/article33652935.ece
25 January 2021||Hyderabad,||Kin blame police for man’s death||Kin of a 35-year-old man gathered outside Moinabad police station of Cyberabad Commissionerate on Sunday, alleging he died of injuries sustained during police ‘torture’. Commissioner of Police V.C. Sajjanar denied the allegations and said Venkatesh on January 19 approached police over a tractor-related dispute, and died of seizures on Sunday. Police said he doused himself with petrol and went to the police station, where the staff, seeing his condition, called his wife and counselled him before he was sent home. On Sunday, Venkatesh complained of stomach pain and uneasiness in the chest, following which he was taken to a hospital, where he died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kin-blame-police-for-mans-death/article33653239.ece
25 January 2021||January 25 2021 00:00 IST,||For the girl child||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/for-the-girl-child/article33653022.ece
25 January 2021||Ghaziabad,||Number of tractors swell at U.P. border||The number of tractors swelled at the Ghazipur border on Sunday evening as farmers prepare to march to Delhi on Republic Day. While earlier, the tractors were lined up only on the Delhi-Meerut expressway, tractors and trolleys are now lining up from Delhi-Ghazipur towards Vaishali on the Link Road. Dharmendra Malik, media in-charge of the Bhartiya Kisan Union said two to 2.5 lakh tractors will reach Delhi by the eve of Republic Day. “It is a reaction to some spokespersons of the BJP who had said on January 6 that the country had 40 lakh registered tractors and only 60,000 were participating in the rally. Now we will show them the number in lakhs and if they still don’t consider it substantial, they should be prepared for more,” he said after a meeting with the Delhi Police officials at the makeshift media centre at the border. “The march will cover 300-350 kms. The Ghazipur parade will be of about 50 kms.,” Mr. Malik said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/number-of-tractors-swell-at-up-border/article33653146.ece
25 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||A.P. BJP invites Shah, Yogi for ‘rath yatra’||The BJP seems to have evolved a strategy to make inroads and catapult itself as a force to reckon with in the State. What lends credence is the saffron party’s plan to rope in Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and Union Home Minister Amit Shah to participate in the ‘Devalaya Parirakshana Yatra’ it proposes to take out from Kapilateertham in Tirupati to Ramateertham in Vizianagaram district from February 4 to 9. Tirupati byelection Incidentally, the yatra being proposed in protest against the series of attacks on temples in the State and the government’s alleged negligence to contain them, comes ahead of the byelection to the Tirupati Lok Sabha constituency. According to a senior leader, the BJP State leadership has already placed its request, or invitation, before Mr. Adityanath seeking his participation in the ‘rath yatra’ on the inaugural day. Similarly, Mr. Amit Shah has been requested to join the yatra at Ramateertham on February 9. As per the route plan, the ‘rath yatra’ covers a distance of 1,271.3 km touching all the temples that have been attacked in the recent past in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ap-bjp-invites-shah-yogi-for-rath-yatra/article33653216.ece
25 January 2021||HYDERABAD,||TS govt. treads cautiously on budget||The State government is taking time for finalisation of the budget for the next financial year 2021-22 as it has decided to adopt a cautious approach in presenting the annual financial statement keeping the implications on account of several issues in mind. The first among these issues is impact the implementation of the Pay Revision Commission recommendations will have on the State exchequer. The government is expected to take a call on the fitment benefit and other financial aspects but the focus is said to be more on the mode of payment of the arrears due to employees from July 1, 2018. “Implications of the PRC are being worked hard. A large contingent of the people have been entrusted the task of examining different aspects, particularly the finance related ones,” a senior official said. Officials are, however, confident that the total outlay for the next fiscal would be on par with the current financial year, pegged around Rs. 1.8 lakh crore. Indications There are strong indications that economy is bouncing back and there is strong recovery on the tax revenue front, a senior official told The Hindu . The State’s economic growth rate was expected to cross double digits if the robust growth is any indication. “We are also looking at the Central budget that will be presented on February 1. The Union budget will give specifics about the allocations that will be made to the State and growth indicators for different sectors for the next financial year,” the official said adding planning would be undertaken accordingly. During a mid-term review of the economic situation conducted by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, officials informed him that the State’s finances suffered heavily on account of the lockdown imposed from the commencement of the current financial year and it took more than six months for putting the economy back on track. Against the budget outlay of Rs. 1.8 lakh crore, the State suffered an overall loss of more than Rs. 52,000 crore. The State’s own tax and non-tax revenues at the end of the first half of the current fiscal dropped by half from an estimated Rs. 67,000 crore to Rs. 33,700 crore and there were steep cuts in the devolutions from the Central government in the States’ share of central taxes and the centrally sponsored schemes. The State’s share of Central taxes between April and October was expected to be around Rs. 8,363 crore, but the State received only around Rs. 6,360 crore, down by over Rs. 2,000 crore. The releases are expected to be no better in the second half of the current fiscal and even if the same level of releases continue till March, indications are that the State would suffer loss of more than Rs. 4,000 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/telangana-government-treads-cautiously-on-budget/article33653266.ece
25 January 2021||BENGALURU,||14 held for paper leak in Karnataka||The Central Crime Branch police, which uncovered a questioned paper leak racket on Saturday — a day before the competitive examination for the post of First Division Assistant organised by the Karnataka Public Service Commission was scheduled to be held — have arrested 14 people so far. The examination has since been cancelled and new dates will be announced. According to the police, Chandru, who is the prime accused in the racket, is an inspector with the commercial tax vigilance squad. “He was running the racket with his associate, Rachappa, a native of Belagavi. The investigation so far revealed that Chandru obtained the question paper two days ago and prepared handwritten answer-scripts, which he would deliver to his customers in person,” said a senior police official. The CCB team is yet to ascertain how they got the question paper in the first place and source of the leak. “We have reason to believe that some Karnataka Public Service Commission staff were also involved in the racket,” the official added. The gang was arrested in Ullal on Saturday after the police received a tip-off. When the team arrived at the location, they found Chandru and some of his associates waiting on the side of the road with the question papers and answer scripts. The police also seized Rs. 24 lakh in cash and three vehicles from them. According to the police, they would used the vehicles to circulate the papers to their customers. The police are analyzing the call record details of those arrested to ascertain their network.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/14-held-for-paper-leak-in-karnataka/article33652920.ece
25 January 2021||LUCKNOW,||Row over notices to U.P. petrol pumps||A controversy was stirred in Ghazipur district of Uttar Pradesh after the police allegedly issued notices to petrol pumps asking them not to sell fuel to tractor owners to prevent them from participating in the proposed tractor march on Republic Day as part of the ongoing farm protest. While such notices issued to petrol pumps were shared widely on social media, reports of legal notices sent to tractor owners asking them not to run their vehicles on the road till January 26 or face action also emerged. After receiving criticism on social media, the Ghazipur police issued a clarification on Sunday saying that no such order was issued in the district. However, referring to a specific police station, the police said a notice had been issued “by mistake” from the Suhwal thana (station) but the order was withdrawn. Additional Superintendent of Police, Rural, Ghazipur was asked to submit a report for “negligence”, said the police in a statement issued on Twitter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/row-over-notices-to-petrol-pumps/article33652924.ece
25 January 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Cong. MLA files suit against Patra||A Congress MLA has filed a defamation suit against BJP national spokesperson Sambit Patra seeking criminal prosecution. “In November 2020, Mr. Patra had given a statement in New Delhi that nine MLAs of the Congress had taken money from the Biju Janata Dal [BJD] to maintain silence on the murder of a girl child in Nayagarh, which was an utter lie,” said Mohammed Moquim. Mr. Moquim, Congress MLA from Barabati-Cuttack, moved the court of sub-divisional judicial magistrate, Cuttack, after his legal notice seeking an unconditional apology from the BJP spokesperson went unanswered. Mr. Patra’s alleged statement had come at a time when both the BJP and the Congress were attacking the BJD over the murder of five-year-old girl in Nayagarh in the State Assembly in November last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-mla-files-suit-against-patra/article33652932.ece
25 January 2021||New Delhi,||Will digitise affiliation system: CBSE||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) is restructuring the affiliation system for schools, and making the process completely digital and based on data analytics with least human intervention, officials said. The new system, which would come into effect from March 1, has been restructured as per various recommendations for systemic reforms laid down in the new National Education Policy (NEP), 2020. “Although, the CBSE affiliation system has been online since 2006, the restructured system will be completely digital and based on data analytics,” CBSE Secretary Anurag Tripathi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/will-digitise-affiliation-system-cbse/article33652943.ece
25 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Poll panel to launch e-EPIC today||Electors will be able to download electronic versions of the elector photo identity card, or e-EPIC, from Monday with the Election Commission launching it during the National Voter Day celebration. The EC said in a statement on Sunday that Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad would hand out the e-EPICs to five new voters at the function. The digital version of EPICs would be available for download from the voter helpline app, voterportal.eci.gov.in and nvsp.in, the EC said. The e-EPIC would be a non-editable PDF version of the EPIC that can be downloaded on the phone and stored on the DigiLocker app or printed from a computer. All general voters who have valid EPIC numbers would be able to do so from February 1 and those who applied in November and December will be able to download it from Monday till January 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/poll-panel-to-launch-e-epic-today/article33652947.ece
25 January 2021||Banihal/Jammu,||2 found dead inside stranded vehicle in J&K||Two men were found dead inside a mini-truck on Sunday in Banihal along the Jammu-Srinagar National Highway, which was opened for Kashmir-bound stranded vehicles after remaining closed for a day due to snowfall, officials said. The 270-km highway was cleared on Sunday afternoon for vehicles going to Kashmir, they said. Shabir Ahmad Mir (22) and Majid Gulzar Mir (30), both residents of Kralpora village in Kupwara district, were on their way to Srinagar but left stranded after snowfall around the Jawahar Tunnel forced closure of the highway early on Saturday, the officials said. They said the duo was found unconscious inside their vehicle on Sunday morning and rushed to a nearby hospital, where both of them were declared brought dead. It was not immediately clear whether they died of severe cold or asphyxiation, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/2-found-dead-inside-stranded-vehicle-in-jk/article33653148.ece
25 January 2021||KANNUR,||T. Padmanabhan condemns Josephine||Writer T. Padmanabhan slammed M.C. Josephine, chairperson of the Kerala Women’s Commission, for her ‘improper behaviour’ forcing an 87-year-old complainant to appear in person before the commission. He expressed his views when Communist party of India (Marxist) leader P. Jayarajan visited his house on Sunday. Mr. Padmanabhan said the complainant approached Ms. Jospephine as no action was initiated by the police against the neighbour who allegedly attacked her. He said it was unfortunate that the police had not changed since the British period. ‘Bad name for govt.’ “The complaint was given to her with a hope to get some help. The body language of the chairperson should have kindness, love, and tolerance,” he said. However, her body language was very cruel and such action would bring a bad name for the government, which was doing many good things, he said. Mr. Padmanabhan also asked why Ms. Josephine was appointed to a higher post with a car and a big salary. “Why cannot she use the car and visit the house of the aged complainant, who is bedridden,” he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/t-padmanabhan-condemns-josephine/article33652912.ece
25 January 2021||SANGAREDDY,||Ava brf||The Tamil Nadu police arrested five persons from Patelguda in Ameenpur mandal on Sunday for allegedly cheating people in Chennai. According to Pagani Karthikeya, inspector, Economic Offences Wing, Rehman and his brother had been running a jewellery shop in T. Nagar for 15 years. In 2019, he had given some advertisements and collected crores of rupees. The duo then closed the shop and fled. A case was registered, and the police had been looking for Rehman for the past two years. On Sunday, he and four others were arrested from his house at BHEL Metro Enclave in Patelguda. The local police assisted the Tamil Nadu police in the arrest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/police-arrest-five-from-telangana-for-cheating/article33653107.ece
25 January 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,||brf TURN||The Coal Mines Provident Fund organisation, Dhanbad, will conduct a Pension Adalat for retired employees of Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL)’s Kothagudem Area at the RCOA club in Rudrampur near Kothagudem on January 28. The retired employees can bring grievances, if any, to the notice of the authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/brf-turn/article33653499.ece
25 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Probe liquor price hike: Chennithala||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala demanded an anti-corruption inquiry into the election eve hike in liquor prices. In a petition to the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB), Mr. Chennithala said the government had accorded undue pecuniary advantage to liquor manufacturers. The liquor lobby had dropped large amounts of money in the LDF’s election campaign kitty for the generosity. Mr. Chennithala alleged that Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Excise Minister T.P. Ramakrishnan had struck a bargain with liquor manufacturers at the AKG Centre. The government had agreed to purchase liquor from manufacturers at a higher than market rate. It has cited the increased production cost and raw material to justify the hike in the introductory procurement price. Mr. Chennithala said the government had favoured the liquor production lobby for the second occasion in the election year. Kerala State Beverages Corporation (Bevco) procures an estimated 20 lakh cases of liquor costing an estimated Rs. 1,680 crore from manufacturers every month. The Bevco has awarded the liquor lobby a windfall of Rs. 200 crore or more by hiking the procurement price. The liquor companies have ploughed back a share of the profit to the party and ruling front politicians. He demanded that the VACB bring Mr. Vijayan, Mr. Ramakrishnan and managing director of Bevco, under the ambit of its probe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/probe-liquor-price-hike-chennithala/article33652917.ece
25 January 2021||Chandigarh,||Congress MP assaulted at Singhu border||Congress MP Ravneet Singh Bittu was on Sunday allegedly assaulted, pushed around and his turban pulled off in what he described was a “murderous attack” by some “mischievous elements” at the Singhu border during a “Jan Sansad” programme. The Ludhiana MP's vehicle was damaged too. Mr. Bittu, grandson of former Punjab Chief Minister Beant Singh, has been holding a protest at the Jantar Mantar in Delhi in support of the farmers’ agitation.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-mp-assaulted-at-singhu-border/article33652967.ece
25 January 2021||Aruppukottai,TAMIL NADU||60 sovereigns stolen from house||Unidentified persons broke into a house at Venkateswara Nagar here and decamped with 60 sovereigns of gold and Rs. 1.40 lakh, on Sunday afternoon. The police said that Nagarathinam (45), who is into two-wheeler sales, along with his wife, had gone out to attend a domestic function in the afternoon. His two daughters were also away. When one of his daughters returned, she saw the door of her house open. Suddenly, a man jumped out from her house and he joined his accomplice waiting on a two-wheeler and fled the scene. CCTV camera footage showed the men were wearing helmets, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/60-sovereigns-stolen-from-house/article33653188.ece
25 January 2021||Bengaluru,TAMIL NADU||Sasikala is conscious and alert, say doctors||V.K. Sasikala, close confidante of the late Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, is stable after testing positive for COVID-19 last week. A health bulletin issued by the Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute (BMCRI) on Sunday stated that she was conscious, alert and well-oriented.  With her symptoms easing, she is comfortable, walking with support, sitting comfortably and consuming food normally. Sasikala was admitted to Victoria Hospital last week after she reported symptoms like fever, breathlessness and cough. She was diagnosed with severe acute respiratory illness (SARI), and initially tested negative for COVID-19. The second test, however, showed that she had the virus, and the CT Thorax reports suggested that she had a severe respiratory infection. Continuous monitoring C.R. Jayanthi, Director-cum-Dean of BMCRI, said in a press release that Sasikala was being continuously monitored in the ICU. Her pulse, blood pressure and respiratory rate were said to be normal. Her oxygen saturation on Sunday was 98% with three litres of oxygen. Her blood sugar level is 198 and she is being administed insulin, said doctors. Her sister-in-law J. Ilavarasi, who was admitted to the Trauma and Emergency Care Centre, a dedicated COVID-19 facility at Victoria Hospital, is asymptomatic and stable. She is being treated as per standard treatment protocols.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sasikala-is-conscious-and-alert-say-doctors/article33653084.ece
25 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Residents want stray cattle to be moved outside city limits||Cows and buffaloes roaming on the streets and eating from garbage bins are a common sight in many areas in the city. Saidapet, Triplicane, Vyasarpadi, Koyambedu and Nanganallur are just some of the localities where residents constantly complain about the issue but to no avail. They are demanding that the cattle be moved outside the city limits. Four injured In the past two weeks, at least four persons in Triplicane suffered fractures after being hit by cattle charging through the narrow streets of the area. One incident happened during a religious procession recently. “One man has been hospitalised. We would easily have around 150 cows on Mada Street. Nagoji Rao Street has a layer of cow dung on the tar, and people are afraid to walk on it. If we go to complain to the police, some 10 people try to influence us and we finally end up returning home without filing a formal complaint,” said T.J. Ramani, a resident. Venkatrangam Pillai Street and Pycrofts Road too have cattle and though the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) tried to move the cattle to the MRTS track a few years ago, it did not work. It is the two-wheeler riders who are most affected by the cattle on the streets. At Vyasarpadi, where cattle roam around in the dark, streets with poor lumination are death traps for two-wheeler riders. “A cow could suddenly appear in your path and you won’t even have time to apply the brakes. Long ago, a Corporation Commissioner had taken steps to remove cattle sheds from inside the city. But after he left, they came back,” recalled Shyamala, a resident. Children scared In West Saidapet, cows usually lie on the road, forcing two-wheeler riders to go around them while cars are forced to honk and make them move, said V. Ramanathan, a resident. “Children are afraid to go out on bicycles because of the cows. Complaints to the Corporation go unheeded. We have never seen the cattle van in our locality,” he lamented. At Virugambakkam, buffaloes freely roam around Kaliamman Koil Street and the roads around the Koyambedu vegetable and fruit markets. “There is a settlement of people who rear cattle near the grade separator and these come from there. Only when they are disturbed, they charge at you. Otherwise, they just eat trash,” said Arumainathan, a resident. Corporation sources said the number of heads of cattle impounded by them had reduced from 650 in 2019-20 to 210 as of December 2020 due to the restrictions imposed because of the pandemic. The fine collected from cattle owners had reduced from Rs. 65 lakh to Rs. 18.5 lakh in 2020. The civic body has been receiving 100 complaints pertaining to cattle every month. As many as 20,000 heads of cattle are being reared in the 15 zones of the city. The fine for each stray animal is Rs. 10,750.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-want-stray-cattle-to-be-moved-outside-city-limits/article33653097.ece
25 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Students’ safety primary concern of schools||Ever since the schools reopened for Classes 10 and 12 in the State, following safety measures and allaying concerns about the upcoming board examinations have been the top priority for teachers here. “Since the students are back on campus after a long time, the first few days have been all about ensuring that they are comfortable in a classroom environment and easing them back into the school routine,” said Lakshmi Prabha, principal, Prasan Vidya Mandir. She said that after the first three days, feedback was taken from the students on any concerns that they might have. “For the last many months, students had online classes for not more than 45 minutes with 15 minute intervals. Now in school as well, we have shortened the class hours and have introduced a 10-minute break after every class to ensure that they do not feel tired,” she said. Many schools are similarly taking steps to ensure that the students are not fatigued and do not have low concentration. “Over the last week once our school reopened, we stressed on how important it is to follow the safety protocols with regard to COVID-19 and then moved on to motivating them about academics. We are constantly stressing the fact that their health and safety are much more important and come first,” said a teacher from a Corporation school. The School Education Department had stressed on the need to provide psychological guidance and counselling to students who might need them. For government schools, the SCERT had initiated an initial learning level assessments to ascertain the areas where the students are strong and where they need more attention. “We have begun conducting these assessments and they are taken online in the Multiple Choice Question (MCQ) format. This will be an important tool for us to ascertain if learning over the last few months has been effective and the areas which we will need to focus on.” said G. Shanmugavel, Headmaster, Government Higher Secondary School, M.G.R. Nagar. He said that nearly 80% of the students were back on campus and that they were made to relax through pep talks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/students-safety-is-primary-concern-of-city-schools/article33653102.ece
25 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ancient granary in a state of neglect||The granary at the Ranganathaswamy temple in Adhi Thiruvarangam in Villupuram district is in a state of neglect. It is one of the few granaries in temples in Tamil Nadu. The other granaries are in Srirangam temple, Jambukeswarar temple in Tiruvanaikaval and Palaivananathar temple in Thirupalaivalam in Thanjavur district, which were restored recently. “I raised the issue in the Assembly. It is not just the granary. The entire temple needs renovation. I have also made a representation to the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department. But there is no proper response,” said K. Vasantham Karthikeyan, member of the Rishivandiyam Assembly Constituency. Known as Uthararangam, the main deity of the temple in reclining posture is made of medicinal herbs. The deity is bigger than the presiding deity of Srirangam Ranganathaswamy. The granary was built during the reign of the Vijayanagara kings to store the paddy from the fields of the temple. Grants to termple Inscriptions in the temple testify to the grants given by the Vijayanagara kings for the renovation of the temple tank and lands for temple employees. Years of neglect have left the granary in a bad shape. Plants have grown over the structure, and their roots are threatening to destroy the granary further. Mr. Karthikeyan said there was a road that linked the area with Thanjavur and during the British period it lost its importance. “If the temple was on any arterial road, it would have gained importance. Unfortunately, it is far away from the highways,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ancient-temple-granary-in-villupuram-cries-for-attention/article33653106.ece
25 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Look beyond caste, religion and political identity: Kamal||Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan on Sunday said the people should look beyond caste, religion and political identity while voting for a candidate during elections. In a statement on the eve of National Voters’ Day, Mr. Haasan said democracy gave dignity and power to the citizens when India became a democratic nation and held elections for the first time. “However, many of us don’t think of ourselves as free individuals. We continue to vote as a social group – we vote for a candidate just because he hails from our own caste or goes to the same temple to which we go, or simply because our families have voted for a particular party for generations. This is, in a way, a slave mentality,” he said. Mr. Haasan said the voters must think about who the candidate is, what their qualifications are, whether they have been honest and righteous, and what their plans are to develop their constituencies. “Without considering these aspects, the people are voting based on caste, religion and political identity. This is defeating the purpose of democracy. Don’t look at the caste [of the candidate]. See if the candidate can achieve something,” he said. According to him, corrupt politicians are accruing wealth illegally for the next 10 generations and bringing their children into politics to safeguard their wealth. “When a corrupt person is thinking about his family, why are you not thinking about your family? We have a responsibility to rebuild Tamil Nadu and hand it over to the next generation. If we don’t do it, there will be no pardon for us. Let us get together on voting day and win,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/look-beyond-caste-religion-political-identity/article33653109.ece
25 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Will AIADMK’s outreach to the minorities pay off?||With AIADMK co-coordinator and Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami making efforts to woo Muslims to the party’s fold during his campaign, the question of whether the strategy will pay off during the Assembly election, despite the regional party being an ally of the BJP, arises. Even though the party is not seen as one that banks on enormous electoral support from the religious minorities, it has not lost sight of the importance of their backing. This explains its “outreach” towards the minorities, explain senior party leaders. As a measure of this approach, a few days ago in Kancheepuram town, when Mr. Palaniswami heard the prayer call from a mosque, he suspended his campaign for a while. On Sunday, he attended a prayer at a church in Karamadai, on the outskirts of Coimbatore city. In the last couple of weeks, he has interacted with delegations from the Muslim community in Ramanathapuram and Coimbatore districts. “He is planning to have similar meetings everywhere,” said A. Anwhar Raajhaa, AIADMK minorities’ wing secretary and former Ramanathapuram MP. On Saturday, Mr. Palaniswami asked Muslims not to harbour apprehension about “certain laws” of the Centre. There have been varying accounts within and outside the party about the following that the AIADMK has among the two important constituents of religious minorities — Muslims and Christians — who account for about 12% of the State’s population, as per the 2011 Census, with the former constituting 5.86% (around 42.3 lakh) and the latter 6.12% (44 lakh). During MGR period According to one school of thought, the AIADMK enjoyed better support of the minorities when the party’s founder M.G. Ramachandran was at the helm of affairs, than during the days of his successor Jayalalithaa. But the other view is that the support of the minorities to the party, under MGR, was only marginally higher than what it got subsequently. In the last one-and-a-half years, the AIADMK’s support to the BJP government at the Centre, on issues such as the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and the dilution of Article 370, has only contributed to the perception in certain quarters that the gap between the regional party and the minorities is on the rise.  Dismissing the notion, Mr. Raajhaa emphasised that the AIADMK’s relationship with minorities was a “natural and permanent” one, whereas an electoral alliance was “transient”. A. Mohammedjan, AIADMK Rajya Sabha MP and former Minister, said: “We, in the AIADMK, have never discriminated against people on communal lines. This can be seen from the Edappadiar [Palaniswami] regime’s steps of increasing the annual subsidy for Hajj pilgrimage from Rs. 6 crore to Rs. 10 crore, hiking the subsidy of Rs. 20,000 to Rs. 37,000 for Christian pilgrims going from Tamil Nadu to Jerusalem and declaring a public holiday forThai Poosam .” Another office-bearer said the party leadership should display its affinity towards minorities more in substance than in form.  We, in the AIADMK, have never discriminated against people on communal lines. This can be seen from the regime’s steps of increasing the annual subsidy for Hajj A. Mohammedjan AIADMK Rajya Sabha MP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/will-aiadmks-outreach-to-the-minorities-pay-off/article33653074.ece
25 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Man, woman being in a room doesn’t indicate sexual relationship’||The mere presence of a man and a woman inside one roof for some time need not necessarily lead to a conclusion that they were in an illicit sexual relationship, the Madras High Court said and quashed an order dismissing from service a male constable who was found with a woman constable inside his residential quarters. Justice R. Suresh Kumar said the presence of two individuals of opposite sex inside a locked house need not necessarily lead to a presumption that they were in an immoral relationship. “This kind of presumption prevailing in the society cannot be the basis for initiating disciplinary action and inflicting punishment,” he added. The judge pointed out that the writ petitioner K. Saravana Babu had joined the Armed Reserve Police as a constable in 1997. On October 10, 1998, a woman constable had entered his residential quarters and the door was locked on the inside. Later, when others knocked the door, the woman was found standing near the kitchen. When disciplinary proceedings were initiated against the petitioner for the charge of moral turpitude, he explained that the woman constable had come home at about 7:30 a.m. asking for the keys of her house located close by and that while they were talking, someone else locked the door from the outside and then pretended to knock on the door. ‘No eyewitness’ After referring to the defence taken by the petitioner, the judge pointed out that some of the witnesses had said the door was locked from outside too. He also agreed with senior counsel R. Singaravelan that there was absolutely no eyewitness or any other concrete evidence to prove that the two constables were found in a compromising position. “Therefore, based on such suspicion and conjectures, one cannot come to a conclusion that some unlawful or immoral activities had taken place and by virtue of that the employee/delinquent is liable to be punished with a maximum punishment of dismissal of service,” the judge said and quashed the dismissal order passed by a Deputy Inspector General of Police in 1999. After the dismissal, the petitioner had approached the Tamil Nadu Administrative Tribunal and obtained a stay order. Denied promotion By virtue of the stay order, he joined service but was denied promotions. After the abolition of the tribunal, his case was transferred to the High Court in 2007 and got converted into a writ petition. Service benefits Taking up the writ petition for final disposal now, the judge ordered that the petitioner would be entitled to all service benefits under the relevant rules.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-woman-being-in-a-room-doesnt-indicate-sexual-relationship/article33653132.ece
25 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Toll plaza in Porur vandalised||The police are on the lookout for four men, suspected to be part of a fringe political party, on charges of vandalizing a toll plaza in Porur on Sunday. According to the police, around 4.40 p.m. on Sunday, the staff of the plaza were going about their business when some people arrived in vehicles and started damaging the toll booths with logs. Many pieces of electronic equipment were damaged in the attack. It is suspected that the vandals are members of a fringe political party and had threatened the toll plaza staff after an argument over the collection of toll. Personnel from the Maduravoyal police station registered a complaint and are investigating the incident. Meanwhile, Babu, 31, a member of the party, lodged a complaint stating that the toll plaza staff had snatched his phone during an argument on January 19. He alleged that money he had kept in the phone cover was missing when the staff returned the phone to him. The police had issued a CSR in connection with the complaint. National Highways Authority of India sources said two booths had been vandalised. Restoration work was under way and the damaged equipment had been replaced. Those involved in the incident were being traced with the use of CCTV camera footage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/toll-plaza-in-porur-vandalised/article33653089.ece
25 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No COVID-19 death in Chennai; five test positive for U.K. variant of virus||Chennai reported no death due to COVID-19 while Ariyalur, Kallakurichi and Perambalur saw no fresh case, even as 569 persons tested positive for the infection on Sunday. Five persons, including three returnees from the United Kingdom and two contacts, who had earlier tested positive for the infection, were found to have contracted the U.K. variant. The Health Department said that as per a communication received from Instem Lab, Bengaluru, the five were found to have been infected with the U.K. variant following whole genome sequencing (WGS). The State has sent the samples of 46 patients who had tested positive under the RT-PCR method (26 U.K. returnees and 20 contacts) for WGS. Of them, nine have tested positive for the U.K. variant, 26 have tested negative, and the results for 11 others are awaited. Seven persons succumbed to the infection in the State, taking the toll to 12,316. E. Theranirajan, Dean of the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, said increased awareness on seeking medical help early and the availability of laboratories and 24x7 treatment facilities in government hospitals were among the factors that had led to a reduction in mortality. Chennai reported 168 fresh cases, followed by Coimbatore (55) and Chengalpattu (40). Tiruvannamalai and Ramanathapuram reported only one case each. The new cases took the State’s tally to 8,34,740. All seven persons who died had co-morbidities and were above 60 years of age. On the ninth day of the COVID-19 vaccination drive, 2,494 persons got inoculated in the State. As many as 61,720 persons have been administered the two vaccines available in the State so far. Sunday marked the lowest coverage since the launch of the drive. While 2,404 persons received Covishield as against a capacity of 16,300, only 90 received Covaxin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-covid-19-death-in-chennai-five-test-positive-for-uk-variant-of-virus/article33653082.ece
25 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Dogs, a nightmare for bikers||Community dogs barking and running along vehicles and trying to jump at the riders during night are becoming common in some parts of the expanded areas. Though all dogs may not bite, they still instil a sense of fear in motorists. Nanganallur resident M. Kannan recalled how he had helped several people who fell off bikes while trying to out-run dogs. “The number of dogs in our area just keeps increasing. The Corporation does not do as many animal birth control operations (ABC) as it should,” he said. Thoraipakkam Anand Nagar resident Francis said his area had many community dogs and they run behind even pedestrians going on walks in the evenings. “We don’t know how each one will react. I have been thinking of carrying a stick on my walks,” he said. At Vanagaram, residents said that dogs scratched cars and bit and tore vehicle covers at nights. “We have complained to the Thiruverkadu Municipality but they have not taken any steps so far. We continue to be chased at night when dogs also fight as packs,” said Alexander, a resident. Sources in the civic body said they had intensified measures to promote animal birth control among 58,000 stray dogs, rectifying flaws identified by the ABC monitoring committee, which was constituted a few months ago. “After COVID-19, we received a few calls from residents about the spread of the virus in animals. We have asked residents not to worry. Available evidence suggests that the virus has been predominantly transmitted only from humans,” said an official of Chennai Corporation. After the relaxation of COVID-19 norms, many residents have stressed the need for initiatives to control stray dogs and cattle. Over 60% complaints from residents are about stray dogs that have already been subjected to ABC surgery. As the rules do not permit catching of dogs that are already sterilised, the dogs receive anti-rabies vaccine before they are released in the same locality. As a result, many residents have started complaining frequently about dog menace. “We are explaining to residents rules of ABC. We cannot remove the dogs from the locality. We are the first city to give anti-rabies vaccine for all community dogs. We have increased the number of dog catchers from two to five in each of the 15 zones. We have given butterfly nets instead of ropes to catch dogs. The surgeons’ payment has been increased from Rs. 100 to Rs. 300 for female dogs and Rs. 200 for male dogs," said an official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dogs-a-nightmare-for-bikers/article33653098.ece
25 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tenders floated for Metro stretch from CMBT to Puzhuthivakkam||To provide improved connectivity and mobility, Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. (CMRL) plans to connect areas like DLF IT SEZ, Puzhuthivakkam, Adambakkam, Vanuvampet and Mugalivakkam in the phase II project. While the phase II project spans 118.9 km, this 12 km portion running from CMBT till Puzhuthivakkam will fall under the Madhavaram-Shollinganallur corridor. Grain Market, Sai Nagar Bus Stop, Elango Nagar Bus Stop, Mugalivakkam, DLF IT SEZ, Sathya Nagar, Chennai Trade Centre, Butt Road, Alandur, Adambakkam, Vanuvampet and Puzhuthivakkam will be the stations on the line. CMRL has floated tenders for the construction of this elevated stretch and stations. It will take another six months to finalise and award the contract. The contractor will be responsible for building an integrated grade separator, which will link Mugalivakkam with MIOT Hospital and also an underpass at Vanuvampet. According to CMRL officials, they have been floating a series of tenders for the phase II project as they wanted to start most of the construction at least before the end of 2021. “We want to finish the majority of the construction of the phase II project in the next 5-6 years,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tenders-floated-for-metro-stretch-from-cmbt-to-puzhuthivakkam/article33653086.ece
25 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||National Health Mission selects Tamil Nadu’s mentoring concept as best practice||Tamil Nadu’s mentoring concept, in which obstetricians and gynaecologists (OGs) were roped in for the management of antenatal mothers, has been selected by the National Health Mission (NHM) as a best practice. Through the initiative, over 2.8 lakh high-risk pregnant women were identified during the pandemic. The mentoring concept, “Management of high-risk antenatal (AN) mothers during COVID-19 pandemic”, introduced by NHM-Tamil Nadu, was presented at the 7th National Summit on Good Replicable Practices and Innovations in Public Health Care Systems in India. The concept was launched in November-December 2019. Health officials said the pandemic and the subsequent lockdowns placed unprecedented demands on the health system, especially on pregnant women. Innovative measures to manage the situation were essential for delivering quality AN care. Heads of the department of obstetrics and gynaecology in government medical college hospitals/district headquarters hospitals were designated as chief district obstetricians. Each OG mentored a block covering both low and high-risk antenatal women, with all 385 blocks having one mentor OG each. Under this, a line list of all AN mothers were obtained from the Pregnancy and Infant Cohort Monitoring and Evaluation (PICME). They were then categorised as low, moderate and high-risk antenatal care women. District-wise line lists of 7.29 lakh mothers, with their expected dates of delivery (EDD) for the period March 24-December 31, 2020, was obtained from the PICME software and shared to districts/chief district obstetricians for ready reference. Microplans were worked out at all levels for tracking the women. This was the outcome — a total of 2,81,966 women with high-risk factors were identified and followed up. Of these, 1,49,442 delivered babies normally and 1,32,525 through caesarean sections. “The initiative included both direct mentoring at the district-level and virtual mentoring by linking to medical college hospitals. We had a safe delivery checklist, and the outcome was quite good. Of the nearly 2.8 lakh high-risk mothers identified, nearly 50% delivered babies normally,” Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said. “We had roped in obstetricians and gynaecologists from the districts to mentor each block, consisting of the block primary health centre and its village health nurses, on antenatal mother management,” said K. Senthil Raj, previously the mission director of NHM-Tamil Nadu and now the Collector of Thoothukudi. The village health nurses shared the health parameters of the women with the OGs. As part of real-time mentoring, they randomly inspected an antenatal clinic in a block every month. “The concept enabled us to provide proper interventional services, at the right time, to ensure safe delivery. We picked up high-risk mothers early, enabling admission 10 days before EDD. This helped in the further reduction of both maternal and infant mortality. It also helped bridge the disconnect that existed between the field and institutional care for high-risk pregnant women,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/national-health-mission-selects-tamil-nadus-mentoring-concept-as-best-practice/article33653071.ece
25 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Washington Sundar is election icon||The Greater Chennai Corporation has nominated cricketer Washington Sundar as the Chennai District Election Icon for the upcoming Assembly election. Chennai Corporation Deputy Commissioner (Revenue and Finance) Meghanatha Reddy said the cricketer would play a role in reaching out to first-time voters in the 16 Assembly constituencies of the city. “He is a young voter. He will promote participatory voting and ethical voting among young voters,” said Mr. Reddy. After returning from a historic tour of Australia, Mr. Sundar has been placed on quarantine. After the completion of his quarantine, Mr. Sundar will participate in events to be conducted in colleges as part of the OPEN (online participation of electoral network) campaign by the Corporation. At least 10,000 students are expected to participate in the campaign in various parts of the city ahead of the election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/washington-sundar-is-election-icon-of-chennai-corporation/article33653104.ece
25 January 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||TNOU faculty to conduct excavation in Pudukottai||Tamil Nadu Open University’s faculty S. Iniyan has received approval to conduct an excavation in the Pudukottai district. The approval follows the earlier research works of the assistant professor of the Department of Archaeology in the School of History and Tourism Studies at the University. The Archaeological Survey of India’s has given approval to conduct surveys and excavations at Porpanaikkottai in Vepangudi panchayat in Thiruvangulam taluk. He had surveyed the location in Pudukkottai district based on the findings of earlier researchers and identified more archaeological resources in 2019. He submitted his report to the ASI in 2020.  Mr. Iniyan would conduct his survey and provide the estimates for excavation. Depending on the nature of the work, fund allocation would be decided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnou-faculty-to-conduct-excavation-in-pudukottai/article33653179.ece
25 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TNOU faculty to conduct excavation||Tamil Nadu Open University’s faculty S. Iniyan has received approval to conduct an excavation in Pudukottai district. The approval follows the earlier research works of the assistant professor of the Department of Archaeology in the School of History and Tourism Studies at the university. The Archaeological Survey of India’s has given the approval to conduct surveys and excavations at Porpanaikkottai in Vepangudi panchayat in Thiruvangulam taluk. He had surveyed the location based on the findings of earlier researchers and identified more archaeological resources in 2019. He submitted his report to the ASI in 2020. The TNOU is the only university in the State offering diploma in archaeology in the open distance learning mode. In 2020, 300 students enrolled for the programme. Mr. Iniyan would conduct his survey and provide the estimates for excavation. Depending on the nature of the work, fund allocation would be decided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnou-faculty-to-conduct-excavation/article33653370.ece
25 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TNRERA directs criminal action against builder||The Tamil Nadu Real Estate Regulatory Authority (TNRERA) has called for criminal action against an erstwhile managing director of a real estate firm for allegedly siphoning off about Rs. 8.86 crore of funds collected from home buyers. Le NID Flat Owners’ Welfare Association, Rejoice Flat Buyers’ Association and a slew of others had filed a complaint against Antony Projects and its erstwhile managing director Antony Sahayaraj. In its petition, one of the associations alleged that 140 allottees had been cheated. They had booked flats in Le NID, a real estate project in Urappakkam. They said the flats were not completed even after four years, and construction was halted in 2014. The case was similar in the firm’s other projects. In 2019, Antony Projects was ordered to be liquidated under the insolvency and bankruptcy code.  The TNRERA noted it was clear that the erstwhile promoter had not utilised the Rs. 8.86 crore for the project and had misappropriated the money. It said the order had to be forwarded to the DGP, Tamil Nadu, and the Commissioner of Police, Chennai, for initiating appropriate criminal action against Sahayaraj.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnrera-directs-criminal-action-against-builder/article33653094.ece
25 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Gold worth Rs. 1.75 cr. seized at Chennai airport||About 3.46 kg gold worth Rs. 1.75 crore, cigarettes and used laptops were seized by Chennai Air Customs and five people were arrested at the airport. Syed Musthafa, Asarudeen, Ajmal Khan, Syed Mohamed and Sulthan Salahudeen who came from Dubai had concealed 3.26 kg of gold in the form of paste in their rectum, according to a press release. Six gold cut bits weighing 204 grams were seized from them. Their baggage also had 75 cartons of cigarettes and 14 used laptops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gold-worth-rs-175-cr-seized-at-airport/article33653092.ece
25 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two houses burgled||Unidentified persons broke into a house in Manikandapuram in Thirumullaivoyal and reportedly escaped with 7 sovereigns of gold jewellery on Saturday. According to the police, Santhiya, 27, her husband Francis and their children had left home on Friday. On Saturday, a courier boy, who came to deliver a package, informed the owners that their house door was open. In another incident on the same street on Saturday, burglars broke into a house and decamped with one sovereign of gold jewellery and Rs. 10,000 in cash. According to the police, Jeyaraj, 68, had gone to a nearby shop. On returning, he found the door open and discovered the theft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-houses-burgled-in-thirumullaivoyal/article33653093.ece
25 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Hair donation drive held||A hair donation drive for the benefit of cancer patients was organised by the RCC DIVA Foundation in association with Terapanth Yuvak Parishad on Sunday. Around 120 persons participated and donated their hair at the donation drive, which is a part of the ‘Hair to Hope’ project. The objective was to give dignity to patients who lose their hair while undergoing treatment for cancer by providing them with wigs, and seeking to address the emotional challenges of hair loss due to cancer. Har Sahay Meena, Principal Secretary, Personnel & Administrative Reforms Department, was the chief guest, and Suman Rao, Miss India 2019 pageant winner, the guest of honour. N. Sugalchandsa Jain, co-chairman, Cancer Institute Adyar & founder- member, Jain Medical Relief Society, Chennai, and Harish Saklecha, associate professor, radiation oncologist, Cancer Institute, Adyar, also participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hair-donation-drive-held/article33653100.ece
25 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Meet on diabetes held||Awareness among patients, regular exercise and diet modification are key for patients with diabetes to lead a normal and longer life, said experts who spoke at a virtual conclave organised by South India MICE Association (SIMA). Addressing the conference organised under the theme “Living longer with diabetes”, Mala Dharmalingam, professor and head, Department of Endocrinology, Diabetes and Metabolism, Ramaiah Memorial Hospital, stressed that regular walking and exercises were vital for fitness in patients with diabetes. V. Mohan, chairman and chief of diabetology, Dr. Mohan’s Diabetes Specialities Centre, said that though many drugs for diabetes had become affordable, patient motivation was necessary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/meet-on-diabetes-held/article33653557.ece
25 January 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Seven held for peddling ganja||The police have arrested seven persons on charges of peddling ganja near Periyar Junction in Mettukuppam on Saturday. According to the police, an investigation revealed that among those arrested, Anand alias Kozhi Babu, Madhan and Nagaraj have murder cases pending against them. All of them have been remanded in judicial custody. A total of two kg of ganja was also seized from the gang.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seven-held-for-peddling-ganja/article33653087.ece
25 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PMK meet postponed||The PMK has postponed its governing council meeting, planned to be held on January 25, to January 31. Party sources said it may have wanted to wait and see the developments in the AIADMK after the likely return of influential former leader V.K. Sasikala to the city on January 27. The party leadership is expected to make a decision about the future of its alliance with the AIADMK.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pmk-meet-postponed/article33653077.ece
25 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Conman steals jewellery from elderly woman||A thief diverted the attention of a 65-year-old woman and stole her jewellery in Mylapore on Saturday. Ravannama is working as a maid in a school off Royapettah High Road. “On Saturday, she was walking near the Valluvar Silai bus stop, when a man came running behind her and asked her to stop,” said G. Prasad, the woman’s son. He said the man reportedly asked her to come and bless his relative’s son and added that she would be compensated for it. He allegedly took her to an apartment complex opposite the bus stop and asked her to wait outside. “He then told her that the family will gift her a ring and took the ring she was wearing under the pretext of taking measurements. He then came back twice and took her other two rings,” Mr. Prasad said. However, the man did not return. Realising that she had been duped, Ms. Ravannama alerted her son and he lodged a complaint at the Mylapore police station. A case was registered, and investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/conman-steals-jewellery-from-elderly-woman/article33653085.ece
25 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police trace van thief to Tirunelveli||Personnel from the Tambaram police station traced a van thief in Palayamkottai after analysing CCTV camera footage from over 300 places. A load van belonging to Pradeepan, of West Tambaram, went missing on December 22 and another passenger van belonging to Delhi Babu went missing from Nandambakkam on January 10. Both complaints were investigated by a special team led by Tambaram crime inspector Mahesh Kumar. The police scrutinised footage from CCTV cameras along the Tambaram to Chengalpattu route. The driver had taken detours through rural roads to avoid toll plazas. However, his image was captured at a petrol bunk on a national highway. The team traced the accused to Rahamath Nagar in Palayamkottai. They arrested Maria Joseph Xavier, 43, and remanded him in judicial custody. He is a habitual offender and the vehicles were recovered from him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-trace-van-thief-to-tirunelveli/article33653091.ece
25 January 2021||CHENNAI/THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Heritage enthusiasts oppose construction work near Big Temple||Heritage enthusiasts want the construction work near Sri Brihadeeswarar temple in Thanjavur halted immediately. They said, under the Smart City Project, the work to build a mall and parking lot near the moat of the temple was under way and that it might cause danger to the base of the architecture. As a part of the Smart City scheme, workers were digging at the old Thiruvalluvar theatre complex which is near the Big Temple. But as per the norms and guidance for the preservation of heritage buildings in India, it is mandatory to get permission from the Archaeological Department which was not done in this case, said heritage enthusiasts. S.Udhaya Shankar, president of Great Cholas Historical Research Group, said, “After digging up the earth, we could see 8th and 9th century basements over red granite rocks in that area. This might be the outer fort wall of the moat built during the reign of imperial Cholas. Hence, immediate action needs to be taken to stop the ongoing work which may over shadow our rich heritage.” He also demanded that proper research of the area be done by the Archaeological Department. The group has sent mail to the District Collector, ASI officials to take immediate action in this regard. Main identity G. Deivanayagam, former professor and founder of Department of Architecture, Tamil University, said, ‘The digging was done by heavy machinery. The entire Thanjavur fort area is a heritage zone. So, there should not be any new construction. Preservation and restoration is only allowed. The building work may even affect the Big Temple. Proper awareness should be created amongst all involved in the work. A Smart City need not stand on the ruins of our rich heritage which is the main identity of our city Thanjavur.” ‘No digging allowed’ M.Rajendran, a retired IAS officer and historian, said a rare variety of red granite stones were used for the basement of the temple. That should not be damaged now by the digging and construction activities. “As per regulations of archaeological authority, no digging or construction is allowed within 100 meters of any heritage structure. For instance, an arch commemorating the diamond jubilee of Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly was planned to be constructed close to the entrance of Fort St. George, but was later relocated beyond the prohibited zone,” he said. Thanjavur was in continuous recorded occupation at least from 848 CE when Vijayala Chola re-established it as the capital thereby installing the famed Nisumba Sudani sculpture. However, except for the Big temple, there has been absolutely no scientific or systematic study or excavation attempted in a few isolated structures. “In this context it is shocking that despite clear evidence of an earlier extant structure clearly being seen in the sub strata, the current digging is being allowed. The ASI has to immediately take control and work must be stopped and experts roped in to study this site. Unless this is done we will forever lose this godsend opportunity to study the habitation of Thanjavur by destroying this time capsule,” said S.Vijaykumar, art enthusiast and founder of the India Pride Project. A senior official of ASI said notice had been issued to the Commissioner of Thanjavur Municipal Corporation asking them to stop the work. Residents’ view While conceding that the heritage of Thanjavur needs to be preserved, a section of local residents, however, said infrastructure development was also important as much of the economic activity revolved around the tourism potential of the town. With regard to the remodelling of Thiruvalluvar theatre complex, the proposed parking lot and the mall would definitely reduce the pressure on the tourists, they claimed. Since the footfall at the Big Temple had increased considerably even during the weekdays after the recent consecration event, V.Jeevakumar, a social activist, claimed that shifting of four-wheeler parking to a different site not far away from the Big Temple would ease the traffic congestion on the temple road.  (With inputs from   V. Venkatasubramanian)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/heritage-enthusiasts-oppose-construction-work-near-big-temple/article33653130.ece
25 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Water conservation NGOs prepare agenda for political parties||Water conservation NGOs in the district under the Kovai Neerkarangal Koottamaippu banner have prepared an agenda for political parties to be included in their manifestoes. The agenda included the issues and demands that needed to be addressed and fulfilled for conserving water bodies, biodiversity and environment. The agenda included the formation of a separate division in the Water Resource Organisation for rejuvenating River Noyyal, a separate ministry or department for solid and liquid waste management and water resources, an environment joint committee in every district to be headed by Collector and publication of satellite imaged-based hydraulic data for public consumption. The NGOs also listed undoing the damages done to forests in Western Ghats, construction of check dams and concrete linings in rivulets and canals that fed water to River Noyyal and a detailed ward-wise plan for increasing the green cover and development of a rainwater harvest park and another one for solid and liquid waste management. They also sought release of water from the Parambikulam-Aliyar Project Canal to Godhavadi canal and implementation of the Anamalaiaru-Nallaru and Pandiyaru-Ponnampuzha schemes. Copy to CM The NGOs handed over a copy of their agenda to the Chief Minister, who was here over the weekend. They would be giving their agendas to leaders of other political parties as well for inclusion in their manifestoes, sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-conservation-ngos-prepare-agenda-for-political-parties/article33653118.ece
25 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Consumer organisation seeks action against illegal registration of documents||The Coimbatore Consumer Cause has written to the government to stop registration of documents of unapproved sites after October 20, 2016. Secretary of the consumer organisation K. Kathirmathiyon has said that based on its public interest litigation and the directions of the Madras High Court, the State government enforced amendment Section 22A of the Registration Act from October 20, 2016. According to the amendment, registration of documents relating to transfer of ownership of lands that were converted as house sites without the permission from the authorities concerned is not permitted. However, even after the notification, several unapproved house sites are illegally registered by a number of Sub-Registrars. When the issue was taken up, Inspector General of Registration then conducted an audit to find out the number of documents registered illegally. The IG had then had even written to the AG (Audit) to conduct a special audit at all the registration offices. Mr. Kathirmathiyon said these registrations were made with the connivance of the Registering authorities and since such documents were registered against the Act, they are all illegal and invalid before Law. As Section 22A amendment permits re-registration of documents of unapproved sites registered before October 20, 2016, documents after that date are also getting re-registered illegally. And the Department is not taking action against it. “When the original sale (document) is illegal all subsequent sales (registrations) are also illegal,” Mr. Kathirmathiyon said. It is learnt that 12,500 illegal documents were registered. However, the numbers are likely to be more. Further, such registrations are continuing unmindful of the law or court orders. Mr. Kathirmathiyon said that if the Department failed to act on the issue in a month, the consumer body would file an appropriate petition before the High Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/consumer-organisation-seeks-action-against-illegal-registration-of-documents/article33653121.ece
25 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Chamber seeks changes in tax rates||The Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Coimbatore, has sought revision of rates under various sections of direct taxes and measures to simplify the compliance procedures. Memorandum In a memorandum to the Central Government, the Chamber demanded reduction of Income Tax and revision of Minimum Alternate Tax and Dividend Distribution Tax. In order to enhance the net disposable income in the hands of individual taxpayers, the basic exemption limit may be revised to Rs. 7.5 lakh or higher. The limit at which the maximum tax rate of 30 % is triggered should also be enhanced to Rs. 20 lakh per annum. The enhancement is reasonable in view of the inflation and various expenses, the Chamber said. It is necessary to revamp the return filing system in order to make the compliance easier and simple. This will also increase the revenue collection for the Government. It also said that the Finance Act 2017 curtailed the time limit to file a revised return from the existing two year from end of financial year to one year from end of financial year. The deadline for filing a revised return should be restored to two years from end of the relevant financial year. Under the GST, a new return system should be introduced based on the system under the erstwhile VAT laws in various States. The self-assessed return along with sales and purchase invoices for matching of invoices will reduce the compliance procedure and is easy to follow. Payment of dues and filing of returns should be delinked. A registered person cannot file the return unless all the dues as per the return are paid. This system will lead to non-compliance as well as make other provisions of law such as instalment payments redundant. Further, Stamp Duty should be rationalised at 5% across India in all the States and Union Territories, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chamber-seeks-changes-in-tax-rates/article33653113.ece
25 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Places frequented by deer outside protected areas to be mapped||The Forest Department has decided to map places frequented by spotted deer outside the protected areas in the Coimbatore forest division. The decision was taken after two spotted deer were found gunned down outside the Nellimalai reserve forest in the Mettupalayam forest range on Saturday. I. Anwardeen, Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, Coimbatore Circle, told The Hindu that the spotted deer come out of the forests in search of palatable grass and water in most places in the Western Ghats, including the Coimbatore forest division. “Such deer can be easy targets for poachers and stray dogs. Hence, the District Forest Officer has been asked to map the areas outside forests frequented by them. This will help in adopting suitable measures to protect them,” he said. According to the Forest Department, the two deer were killed about 2.5 km away from the southern boundary of the reserve forest on the Thekkampatti - Kurunthamalai Temple Road. The killing of deer for meat has been reported outside the Nellimalai reserve forest in the past too. ‘Unique landscape’ “The Nellimalai reserve forest is a unique and isolated landscape in the Coimbatore forest division. Bhavani river acts as a natural barrier on one side. The other areas are surrounded by villages with no connectivity to another forest patch. Hence, they stray into farmlands,” Mr. Anwardeen said. The highest amount of crop raids and damage caused by spotted deer in the entire Coimbatore forest division is also reported from places surrounded by the Nellimalai reserve forest. Mr. Anwardeen said the Department would also conduct a study of the spotted deer population of the Nellimalai reserve forest to check whether there is a population spillover. Camera traps would be placed in the reserve forest to study the population, he added. If the study finds that the forest patch is accommodating deer beyond its capacity, the Department may consider capturing the excess population and releasing them into less-populated protected areas, the Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/places-frequented-by-deer-outside-protected-areas-to-be-mapped/article33653115.ece
25 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||CM inspect Ukkadam Big Tank in Coimbatore||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and Minister for Municipal Administration S.P. Velumani inspected the Ukkadam Big Tank (Periyakulam) on Sunday evening, after completing the election campaign at Thondamuthur here. The Coimbatore Corporation has taken up a lake development project under the Central government’s Smart Cities Mission. Various parts of the beautified lakefront were decorated with lights and fireworks lit up the evening sky to welcome the leaders. Speaking at the event, Mr. Velumani said that the two-day election campaign was the first time that Mr. Palaniswami had extensively toured the entire Coimbatore district and termed the works done at the Ukkadam Big Tank under the Smart Cities Mission as ‘world-class.’ HM members removed The Periyanaickenpalayam police removed around 250 members of Hindu Munnani, who were planning to stage a demonstration in front of the Chief Minister’s convoy at Press Colony, on Sunday afternoon. The police said that the members have been staging demonstrations for the past few days alleging that a mosque was functioning near a temple in Press Colony. To prevent any law and order issues, the Hindu Munnani members were detained at two wedding halls in Periyanaickenpalayam and were released on Sunday evening, according to the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-inspects-ukkadam-big-tank-in-coimbatore/article33653128.ece
25 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||No foul play in doctor’s death, say police||The staff of Chennai Hospitals and the family members of Dr. Umashankar, who was killed in an accident at Kannappa Nagar on Saturday, thronged the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) on Sunday, alleging foul play in his death. They initially refused to accept the body. The Thudiyalur police held talks with the family members following which they accepted the body after post-mortem. The Thudiyalur police said their investigation done so far could not find any foul play in the death. Driver’s claim According to the police, Richard from Coonoor drove the car which also had his wife, sister-in-law and three kids inside. “When questioned, the driver said that they were heading to a theatre in a hurry using a navigation app. The driver has claimed that the car hit the doctor when he lost its control,” said a police officer. The accident took place when Umashankar, who ran Chennai Hospitals on Sathyamangalam Road, was standing on the side of the road in front of a bakery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-foul-play-in-doctors-death-say-police/article33653126.ece
25 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||New cyber cell station to be functional soon||The crime station allotted for Coimbatore District (Rural) Police is expected to become functional soon. Sources said that the cyber crime station along with several others in different districts were likely to be inaugurated before the announcement of the model code of conduct for the upcoming Assembly elections in the State. As part of setting up the cyber crime station for Coimbatore rural, a space has been readied on the ground floor of the office of the Coimbatore Rural Superintendent of Police. Police personnel, who were working in the cyber cell on the first floor of the building, were shifted to the new facility. Inspector Sastha Somasekaran and sub-inspector Mahendran have been appointed to the cyber cell. Coimbatore Rural Superintendent of Police Ara. Arularasu said that the personnel who were interested in working in cyber crime related cases were trained for the purpose. The facility can register cases and conduct investigations on its own only when it is officially declared as a cyber crime station, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-cyber-cell-station-to-be-functional-soon/article33653111.ece
25 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Rally taken out||The Indian Medical Association (IMA), Coimbatore, in association with Coimbatore Royal Enfield Club, conducted a motorcycle rally on Sunday as part of observing the National Road Safety Month. Participants highlighted the use of helmet while riding two-wheelers and the importance of following road safety norms in places through which the rally passed. IMA Tamil Nadu State Branch honorary secretary A.K. Ravikumar flagged off the rally in the presence of Coimbatore branch president V. Rajesh Babu and secretary Priya Kubendiran. A total of 50 riders took part in the rally to Bhavani Sagar Dam and back to the IMA office. “Participants of the rally distributed notices on road safety, especially safety measures to be followed while riding two-wheelers, to people. A logo of an infant inside a helmet was printed on the notices to highlight the importance of wearing helmet. The practice not only protects the rider but the family depended on the rider,” said Dr. Rajesh Babu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ima-conducts-road-safety-awareness-rally/article33653123.ece
25 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Head constable chases pickpocket, video goes viral||A head constable attached to the Annur police station on Sunday chased a pickpocket who has been targeting passengers at Annur bus stand and the video of the chase went viral in social media. Following complaints about pocketpicking from passengers, the Annur police examined CCTV camera visuals and identified two suspects. Head constable Manikandan and Karunakaran from the Special Branch went to the bus stand and spotted the two men. When the policemen called them, one of them started running. Manikandan chased the suspect and nabbed him. Manikandan suffered injuries to both his knees. The arrested were identified as Sheik Thavooth (54) and S. Arumugam (53) of Selvapuram. The police seized a stolen mobile phone from them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/head-constable-chases-pickpocket-video-goes-viral/article33653112.ece
25 January 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Annamalai University students continue protest||Students of the Rajah Muthiah Institute of Health Sciences (RMIHS) at Annamalai University continued their indefinite protest for the 45th day on Sunday as talks with the administration yielded no positive result. The RMIHS Students Council said that they would not call off the protest until the administration agreed to their demands, including collection of reduced fees. Earlier, Chidambaram AIADMK MLA K.A. Pandiyan and Annamalai University Vice-Chancellor Prof V. Murugesan held talks with the agitating students.  No end to protest Sources said that Mr. Pandiyan urged the students to call off their agitation and that he would arrange for a meeting with Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on January 27 to look into their demands. But the students refused to end the protest. Meanwhile, women students of Annamalai University have lodged a complaint with the National Commission for Women alleging that the university administration had denied them access to basic amenities in the hostels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/students-continue-protest/article33653133.ece
25 January 2021||DEVAKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||House burgled||Unidentified miscreants decamped with 79 sovereigns of gold jewellery, six and a half kg of silver ornaments and Rs. 12,000 from a locked house at Kottur near here on Saturday. Police said Rajamani, a widow, was living in her house alone. Two days ago, Rajamani and her daughter-in-law Radhika had gone their relative’s house when the burglary occurred.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/house-burgled/article33653374.ece
25 January 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Services of farmers, labourers should be utilised, says Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday felt that if the services of farmers, labourers and workers are utilised, the country does not need an army to stand at the border and China will not have the guts to enter the country. Interacting with weavers and textile associations at Odanilai in Arachalur in Erode district, he said many saw farmers and labourers as weak. “But they are proud of the nation and the country is indebted to them for their contributions,” he added. Terming the policies of the Central government as anti-worker and anti-farmer, Mr. Gandhi said the idea behind demonetisation was that no poor man should run his own business. “Next is the Goods and Services Tax (GST) which is complicated and difficult so that no poor man understands,” he added. During COVID-19 pandemic, the Centre waived loan of Rs. 10 lakh crore given to the richest people in the country, he alleged. “How many farmers and workers loans were waived,” he asked. Every single action of the country was strengthening only five industrialists and weakening others. He said the Congress’s 2019 electoral promise of providing Rs. 72,000 per annum to poorest people would be implemented when the party returned to power as they needed to be repaid for their services made to the country. He said that there was no shortage of money in the country, but the problem was that the money was not distributed evenly. Power loom associations raised the issue of the proposal to levy anti-dumping duty on viscose spun yarn, to which Mr. Rahul said that he would raise the issue in Parliament.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/services-of-farmers-labourers-should-be-utilised-says-rahul-gandhi/article33653208.ece
25 January 2021||ERODE/COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘People struggling due to govt. policies’||The people of Tamil Nadu are struggling because of the policies of the BJP-led government at the Centre and the AIADMK government in Tamil Nadu, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi said on Sunday. Addressing a gathering during a reception organised in Perundurai, Erode, he said, “Demonetisation, the Goods and Services Tax (GST) and the response to COVID-19 has severely damaged [the lives and livelihoods of] the people of Tamil Nadu.” Tamil Nadu used to be a manufacturing and industrial centre but its strengths have been eliminated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, he said. “Mr. Modi thinks that by controlling and blackmailing the State government, he can control the people. But he does not realise that people cannot be controlled by anyone,” he said. Only the Tamil people and the Tamil spirit can control the future of the State and not “knicker-walas from Nagpur [RSS].” Campaigning in Kangeyam and Dharapuram in Tiruppur district, he said Mr. Modi was destroying the foundation of the country, and it was due to this that China had occupied Indian territory. “Mr. Modi has hit the poor, labourers, weavers, farmers, fishermen and youth hard with demonetisation, and destroyed the industrial backbone with GST. He did so to help his five or six industrial friends, while claiming to work for the people of the country. This has weakened the country and that is why the Chinese have occupied our territory,” he said. Just as a building cannot be raised over a weak foundation, a country cannot be built after destroying its foundation, a part of which are its farmers, weavers, fishermen, workers and small and medium enterprises. Earlier, garlanding the statues of various former Chief Ministers at Panneerselvam Park in Erode, Mr. Gandhi said the Prime Minister, the BJP and the RSS did not have respect for the culture, the language and the people of Tamil Nadu. “They do not understand that no force can make Tamil people do what they do not want to,” he said. Language of love The MP said that if Mr. Modi had read Tamil history, he would understand that for over 1,000 years, Tamil people have only believed in one language — “the language of love”. He asserted that the country was known for many languages and cultures and it was the duty of its people to protect every single one of them, even as the BJP and the RSS were seeking to deny the uniqueness of Tamil culture. He said that for the first time, Indians were seeing thousands of Chinese troops occupying the country’s territory, and blamed the Prime Minister for not even uttering the word “China”. “Where is Mr. Modi, who claims to have a 56-inch chest?” he asked at another campaign point. Mr. Gandhi said he was here to help the people to elect a government for farmers, labourers, MSMEs, and one that looks after the welfare of the people and cannot be blackmailed. He also garlanded the statue of freedom fighter Dheeran Chinnamalai at Odanilai in Arachalur, and also interacted with weavers. In Tiruppur district, he said that through the farm laws, Mr. Modi had started destroying mandis . If the farm laws were pro-farmers, as Mr. Modi claims, why was it that the farmers were protesting outside Delhi, Mr. Gandhi asked, and said farmers and the Congress would not allow the Central government to destroy the livelihood of lakhs of farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/people-struggling-due-to-govt-policies/article33653079.ece
25 January 2021||KARAIKUDI,TAMIL NADU||‘Do not hero-worship Rajiv case convicts’||When the courts had found them guilty of having assassinated the former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi and awarded punishment as per the laws of the land, there was no reason to worship the convicts in the case like heroes, said Congress MP Karti Chidambaram in Karikudi on Sunday. Speaking to reporters, he said that after exhaustive investigations and trial, the judgement in the case was delivered. “If the court had acquitted them, then it was a different issue. Moreover, along with the then Prime Minister, many Tamils had died, but nobody talked about them or had visited the dependents and heard their plights till date,” he said. Asked about sections of people joining the BJP, Mr. Karti claimed that those who were wanted by police and people who had committed crimes went there (BJP) for a safe hideout. There was nothing big about this. The people are clear to send both the AIADMK and its partner BJP out. It will take place in Tamil Nadu in three months and in the country in three years, he said. On the Makkal Needhi Maiam, he said that Kamal Hassan’s ideology appeared to be secular. Hence, he should align with major secular parties. In Tamil Nadu, he should come together and strengthen the hands of the DMK and Congress. If the idea was to chase away the corrupt AIADMK and the Hindutva-backed BJP in TN, secular forces should come together. Only then, it would serve the purpose or else, Mr. Hassan may walk away with miniscule votes, which may not be of any use. The MNM founder should take a firm and bold decision at this juncture by coming together with the DMK front, which would place him at an advantage in the long run in Tamil Nadu politics. The people, especially the youth, looked for a change, he responded. Asked to comment about the prospects for the DMK front, he said that there would be a repeat performance of 2019, where the people voted for the DMK-Congress combine in the Lok Sabha election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/do-not-hero-worship-rajiv-case-convicts-karti-chidambaram/article33653180.ece
25 January 2021||KARAIKUDI,TAMIL NADU||‘AIADMK has pledged rights of Tamils’||AIADMK leaders have pledged the identity and rights of Tamils with their political bosses in New Delhi for their own welfare, DMK MP M.K. Kanimozhi said on Sunday. Speaking in a number of villages and village panchayats in Sivaganga district, interacting with womenfolk, weavers and other sections of society, she said when Karunanidhi was the Chief Minister, he had brought in the Cauvery-integrated drinking water scheme here. However, the AIADMK, having remained in power for 10 years, had not brought in a single project worth mentioning, she lamented, urging the people to vote 100% for the DMK and its allies in the ensuing election. She said khadi outlets in Sivaganga faced closure despite it being the hometown of the Khadi and Village Industries Minister. Many weavers had long tales to tell. If this was the plight in the Minister’s constituency, one could imagine the performance elsewhere in the State, she said. In a direct reference to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, she said instead of laying village roads and inter-district roads, the government was keen only on laying six-lane and eight-lane projects. She said only big projects filled pockets and hence, the Chief Minister was not worried about the common man. The Chief Minister, who claimed to be a farmer, had actually backstabbed them by supporting the BJP on the farm laws, she said. “Let the election get over and when M.K. Stalin takes the reins, you will all see a new beginning in Tamil Nadu.” Former Ministers K.R. Periakaruppan and Thennavan, among others, took part in the meetings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-has-pledged-rights-of-tamils/article33653173.ece
25 January 2021||Karaikudi,TAMIL NADU||Do not hero-worship Rajiv case convicts, says Karti Chidambaram||When the courts had found them guilty of having assassinated the former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi and awarded punishment as per the laws of the land, there was no reason to worship the convicts in the case like heroes, said Congress MP Karti Chidambaram in Karikudi on Sunday. Speaking to reporters, he said that after exhaustive investigations and trial, the judgement in the case was delivered. “If the court had acquitted them, then it was a different issue. Moreover, along with the then Prime Minister, many Tamils had died, but nobody talked about them or had visited the dependents and heard their plights till date,” he said. Asked about sections of people joining the BJP, Mr. Karti claimed that those who were wanted by police and people who had committed crimes went there (BJP) for a safe hideout. There was nothing big about this. The people are clear to send both the AIADMK and its partner BJP out. On the Makkal Needhi Maiam, he said that Kamal Hassan’s ideology appeared to be secular. Hence, he should align with major secular parties. In Tamil Nadu, he should come together and strengthen the hands of the DMK and Congress. If the idea was to chase away the corrupt AIADMK and the Hindutva backed BJP in TN, secular forces should come together.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/do-not-hero-worship-rajiv-case-convicts-says-karti-chidambaram/article33653178.ece
25 January 2021||Karur,TAMIL NADU||Yi YUVA signs MoU with Valluvar College||Yi YUVA of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Valluvar College of Science and Management, Karur, for providing entrepreneurial training, said S. Raghavi, Governing Council Member and Yi YUVA Coordinator. S. Raghavi said the members will engage students in various entrepreneurial initiatives and guide them to conceptualise, plan and execute. The MoU was signed by K. Senguttuvan, Chairman, Valluvar College of Science and Management, Karur and S. Karthigeyan, Chairman, YUVA, in the presence of G. Vincent, Principal of the college. Alongside engaging students in skill building, community service and nation building, YUVA will act as a bridge for the students to work with corporate leaders and take up live projects from the industries based out of the district, Ms. Raghavi said. The objective was to create a platform for the students to work in cross-functional teams with a broad objective of enhancing their leadership skills. There were plans to organise industrial visits, a series of expert talks and motivational programmes. It would ultimately imbibe a mindset of entrepreneurship among the students, Ms. Raghavi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/yi-yuva-signs-mou-with-valluvar-college/article33653170.ece
25 January 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Union Minister inspects fish farm||Giriraj Singh, Union Minister for Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying, on Sunday inspected a recirculating aquaculture system (RAS) Tilapia farming at Therkkupethampatti near Kavanur in the district. Accompanied by Rajeev Ranjan, Secretary, Union Ministry of Fisheries, and K. Balaji, Joint Secretary, he inspected Svara Biotechnovations run by two fisheries professionals, S. Vaitheeswaran and S. Alagu Ravi. The farm, started in 2014, has been raising three strains of Tilapia – genetically improved farmed Tilapia (GIFT), Chitralada Tilapia and Red Tilapia. “We had set up our unit with a hatchery to produce 3.5 million seeds and a demonstrative table size farm that produces 25 tonnes of fish using funding from the National Fisheries Development Board,” said Mr. Vaitheeswaran. After going around the farm and the hatchery, the Minister enquired about the possibility of replicating such projects in other areas of the country. The entrepreneurs explained to the Minister that the RAS and biofloc methods of aquaculture used the minimum amount of water in comparison to traditional agriculture. “RAS Tilapia farming was ideally suited for areas where water is scarce and market for fish is good,” Mr. Vaitheeswaran said. The farm has market for its seeds across the country, while its fish is being sold in Madurai district. “This profitable venture also helps meet the protein requirement of the people as fish has balanced nutritional values when compared to other meats like mutton and chicken. Besides, Tilapia costs just Rs. 200 a kg,” he added. Dr. Rathinaraj, Executive Director of National Fisheries Development Board, Dr. V. Kripa, Member-Secretary, Coastal Aquaculture Authority, J. Jayakanthan, Commissioner of Fisheries, and Prabavathy, Deputy Director (Fisheries), were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/union-minister-inspects-fish-farm/article33653177.ece
25 January 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. had best govt. transport facilities, says Minister||Tamil Nadu had the best government transport infrastructure among the States in the country, said Minister for Cooperation Sellur K. Raju. He was addressing a function in which pensionary benefits to the tune of Rs. 63.44 crore were distributed to 225 retired employees of Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation of Madurai Region on Sunday. Besides providing buses in best conditions, the State government was providing concession to several sectors of society. The bus fare in Tamil Nadu was the lowest among the southern States, the Minister said. While the Kerala government was collecting 70 paise per km as fare, the Karnataka government 66, the Andhra Pradesh government 73 paise, the Tamil Nadu government was charging only 58 paise, he added. While the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam government had disbursed only Rs. 928.86 crore as pension benefits to TNSTC workers between 2006 and 2011, the present government had distributed Rs. 6,958.45 crore between 2016 and 2020. Similarly, while the DMK government had effected an increment in salary of the TNSTC workers in the range of Rs. 2,000 to Rs. 2,684, the increment given by the AIADMK government was between Rs. 6,500 to Rs. 11,361, Mr. Raju said. Collector T. Anbalagan and MLA V.V. Rajan Chellappa (Madurai North) said the TNSTC workers had touched the lives of all sectors. Electric buses proposed by the State government would reduce the operating cost of transport corporations significantly, Mr. Anbalagan said. TNSTC (Madurai Region) Managing Director M.A. Murugesan and General Manager Rajeswaran were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-had-best-govt-transport-facilities-says-minister/article33653185.ece
25 January 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Ask officials about cancellation of DISHA meeting’||Minister for Cooperation Sellur K. Raju on Sunday expressed ignorance over the reasons that led to cancellation of District Development Coordination and Monitoring Committee (DISHA) meeting scheduled for Saturday. On Saturday, MPs Su. Venkatesan (Madurai) and B. Manickam Tagore (Virudhunagar) had charged that Madurai Collector T. Anbalagan could not have taken a unilateral decision to cancel the meeting. They had alleged that since he was under pressure from the State Ministers, the Collector cancelled the meeting. “How could we be reasons (for the cancellation)”, Mr. Raju told The Hindu . Stating that the Ministers were only members of the committee and it was only the MP who was the chairman, he said he had nothing to do with it. He suggested that workload could have been the reason. “Please ask the officials,” he said. When asked about the charge that 90% of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme funds had gone to Tirumangalam Assembly constituency, the Minister said he was unaware of it. “I need to check with the officials,” he said. On poor allocation of funds to his (Mr. Raju’s) constituency, the Minister said whatever was allocated was being put to use. Mr. Venkatesan had said since the MPs were co-chairpersons of the panel, the Collector, who was the member-secretary, had no powers to cancel the meeting. The Collector had cited an “administrative reason” as a cause for cancellation of the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ask-officials-about-cancellation-of-disha-meeting-in-madurai/article33653183.ece
25 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK should start seat-sharing talks: DMDK||Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam (DMDK) treasurer Premalatha Vijayakant on Sunday said the AIADMK must immediately initiate seat-sharing talks among alliance partners. Stating that the DMDK was still in the same alliance, Ms. Premalatha, without naming the AIADMK, said whoever was leading the alliance should immediately commence seat-sharing talks. She was talking to reporters after attending a wedding in the family of a party functionary in Usilampatti on Sunday. In a veiled threat, she said just because the DMDK continued in the same alliance, those leading the front should not reason that talks could be conducted after the poll schedule for the Assembly is released. “Otherwise it will lead to [unnecessary] delay,” she said. She was quick to add that whichever alliance the DMDK was part of would win the election and form the next government. Alleging that all parties in Tamil Nadu were using money power to pull in crowds for their meetings, she said the DMDK was the only one that had a strong cadre base, assembling for their love for party founder Vijayakant. Ms. Premalatha said the party had completed election preparatory works and had appointed persons in-charge of regions, districts and Assembly constituencies. “We have kept booth committees ready for all the 234 Assembly constituencies. Even if the election date is announced tomorrow, the DMDK is ready to face it,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-should-start-seat-sharing-talks-dmdk/article33653075.ece
25 January 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin to take part in government staff association meeting||Leaders of opposition parties, including M.K. Stalin (DMK) and K. Balakrishnan (CPI (M)), K.S. Alagiri (Congress) and Thol. Thirumavalavan (VCK) will participate in a State-level conference of Tamil Nadu Employees’ Association, said general secretary of the Association A. Selvam. ‘With vengeance’ Talking to reporters here on Sunday, Mr. Selvam said the State government was treating the employees and teachers with vengeance and was not ready even to hold talks with their representatives on their long-pending demands. Among their major demands were scrapping of contributory pension scheme, withdrawal of cases against over 5,000 JACTO-GEO members for their participation in a strike in 2019 and provision of time-scale pay for 3.5 lakh workers like noon-meal workers, angawadi workers, village assistants and nurses.  DA, leave surrender The association also demanded withdrawal of freeze on dearness allowance and leave surrender and filling up of 4.5 lakh posts lying vacant. As per the State representatives general body held on December 20 last, the association had carried out two phases of protests. A State-level preparatory conference for protest would be held in Madurai on January 27, in which Leader of the Opposition Mr. Stalin and other leaders of opposition parties would take part. “If the government failed to fulfill our genuine demands, the association will begin an indefinite dharna and jail bharo protest on February 2,” he said. Association State president M. Anbarasu, district president J. Moorthi and district secretary K. Neethiraja were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-to-participate-in-government-staff-association-meeting/article33653175.ece
25 January 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Justice V.R. Krishna Iyer Award presented||Quoting Tamil poet Kaniyan Poongundranar’s verse ‘Yaadhum Oore Yaavarum Kelir’ (all places are our own, everyone is our kin), Justice R. Mahadevan of the Madras High Court commended the efforts put in by the recipients of this year’s Justice V.R. Krishna Iyer Award for their contribution to society. He was speaking at the event organised by SOCO Trust here on Saturday. Former Chair for Panchayat Raj Studies at Gandhigram Rural Institute G. Palanithurai, former Principal of Tamil Nadu Theological Seminary Dhyanchand Carr and Director of Dr. Kumaraswami Health Centre in Kottaram (Kanniyakumari) Gnanasoundari were presented the award. Justice Mahadevan said the awardees led by example and prioritised the welfare of others. Book released The judge released a book at the event, a collection of various works of Justice V.R. Krishna Iyer which was translated into Tamil by Sampath Srinivasan. The judge lauded the efforts put in by the translator/writer in bringing out the book in Tamil. A children’s grama sabha was also held at the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/justice-krishna-iyer-award-presented/article33653182.ece
25 January 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Awareness meet on rainwater conservation||Nehru Yuva Kendra, which functions under the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports, and Madurai district administration organised an awareness programme on rainwater conservation here on Thursday. Collector T. Anbalagan participated in the programme, ‘Catch the rain where it falls, when it falls.’ The aim was to create awareness on water conservation, rainwater harvesting, reuse of water and sensitising villagers to the need to conserve water and minimise wastage. S. Senthil Kumar, District Youth Officer and Assistant Director, NYK, delivered the welcome address.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/awareness-meet-on-rainwater-conservation/article33653372.ece
25 January 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||343 tamers take part in Komarapalayam jallikattu||The famous Komarapalayam jallikattu was conducted at a private college here on Sunday. According to officials, 585 bulls from Salem, Tiruchi, Erode among other districts took part and 343 tamers contested. Injured Forty-four tamers sustained injuries in the event. Ministers P. Thangamani, K.A. Sengottaiyan, Udumalai Radhakrishnan, V. Saroja, M.R. Vijayabhaskar, K.C. Karuppanan and C. Vijayabhaskar flagged off the event. Collector K. Megraj, Superintendent of Police S. Sakthi Ganesan and other senior officials were present. Over 400 police personnel were present at the arena for security purposes. Medical teams and animal husbandry teams were present to conduct medical checks on tamers and the bulls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/343-tamers-take-part-in-komarapalayam-jallikattu/article33653205.ece
25 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||L-G directs officials to repair damaged roads||Acting on civic complaints, Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi on Sunday directed officials to undertake repairs of damaged roads in the city on a war footing. Ms. Bedi, who carried out an inspection of a few stretches, including Ariyankuppam on the road to Cuddalore, issued instructions to accompanying PWD officials to use bitumen to fill the potholes. Officials estimated that around 15 km on the stretch from Puducherry to Cuddalore had been damaged and around 215 km stretch of roads in the whole Union Territory needed to be repaired. Ms. Bedi directed officials to procure bitumen at competitive rates if stocks were insufficient and repair the damaged roads on a war footing for the safety of roadusers. Later, the Lt. Governor urged the public to post pictures of potholes or bad roads on the number 9500560001 or inform the toll line 1031.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/l-g-directs-officials-to-repair-damaged-roads/article33653483.ece
25 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||BJP bid for power will come to nought, says CM||Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Sunday said the BJP’s ambitions of coming to power in Puducherry would come to nought in the upcoming Assembly elections. Addressing the Congress executive committee meeting here, he said that BJP would not be able to secure even a single seat in Puducherry or Tamil Nadu in the elections. The Chief Minister, who was dismissive of the BJP as a party to seriously reckon with in Puducherry, added that the saffron party instead of taking issue with Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi for obstructing the functioning of the government was hitting the streets and burning the copies of Congress’ election manifesto. The people will reject the BJP as well as political parties who ally with it in the Assembly elections, Mr. Narayanasamy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-bid-for-power-will-come-to-nought-says-cm/article33653487.ece
25 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||CM commissions elevated bridge across Sankarabarani||Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Sunday commissioned an elevated bridge across the river Sankarabarani at Thirukanji in Villianur commune. The project was taken up at a cost estimate of Rs. 29.97 crore. It was part of a slew of infrastructure upgrades to ease traffic congestion in the city and approach routes that include a four-lane highway between Mamallapuram and Puducherry, besides a four-lane road from Madagadipattu to Puducherry. PWD Minister A. Namassivayam, S.V. Sugumaran, MLA of Mangalam, and officials also participated in the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-commissions-elevated-bridge-across-sankarabarani/article33653475.ece
25 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. logs one more COVID-19 death||The Union Territory registered one more COVID-19 death as it added 30 new cases on Sunday. A 87-year old patient succumbed to severe Covid pneumonia and ARDS at the IGMCRI to raise the COVID-19 toll to 645. The toll in Puducherry stands at 527, followed by Karaikal (64), Yanam (45) and Mahe (nine). The distribution of the new cases, which were identified from testing 3,046 samples, were 15 in Puducherry, nine in Mahe and three in Karaikal. Yanam did not report any fresh infections. With 43 patients discharged in the last 24 hours, the active cases in the Union Territory stood at 288. Of this, 100 patients were in hospitals and 188 in home isolation. The cumulative total was 38,860 while 37,927 patients had recovered so far. The test positivity rate was 0.98%, case fatality rate 1.66% and recovery rate 97.60%. Of an estimated 5.57 lakh samples tested so far, about 5.13 lakh samples returned negative.  Cuddalore Cuddalore district reported five fresh cases of COVID-19 on Sunday, taking the district’s tally to 24,881. While 24,565 persons have been discharged, the active cases in the district stands at 32. In Villupuram district, two persons tested positive, taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 15,152. No fresh case was reported in Kallakurichi district||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-logs-one-more-covid-19-death/article33653481.ece
25 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Crux of Jean Deloche’s invaluable work on five French settlements on display||In his writings, French historian-researcher Jean Deloche has projected erstwhile Pondicherry as the crown jewel of the Coromandel coast, “a small Versailles” which evoked the admiration of visitors. It was Deloche’s lifelong mission to delve into, and memorialise the shared Franco-Indian heritage of the settlement that were built by French merchants and local people, traders, fishermen and boatmen. A crux of his invaluable work on the five French settlements — Pondicherry, Chandernagore, Mahe, Karaikal and Yanam — has been showcased at an ongoing exhibition at the French Institute of Pondicherry (IFP). Deloche’s work serves both as an introduction to the history of old French establishments in India as well as an inventory of vanished monuments. A series of 27 panels present a nuanced understanding history of the French settlement as recorded in 18th century plans, of which a rich watercolour collection is maintained at the French archives at Aix-en-Provence and Paris and sources including FRANOM archives in France, Dutch plans and survey reports of the field work of Jouveau-Dubreuil (who excavated the place where the Bharathi Park now stands). The French establishments until the middle of the 18th century when they came under British onslaught, were prosperous fortified towns, with administrative buildings, warehouses, markets, temples and churches. A little-known fact is that the French once also controlled territories (loges) in Eastern India such as Patna and Machilipatnam that were relinquished to the British in 1816. Until the arrival of the French in 1673, Pondicherry was nothing more than a small weavers’ centre. From that point on and before the place was taken by the Dutch, the French managed to set up a factory, build a fort, attract craftsmen and create a fairly large and prosperous settlement. The fall of Pondicherry to the British in 1761 saw all the fortifications razed to the ground as well as warehouses, churches and choultries, built by the local people. Deloche notes that during the periods of misfortunes as well as prosperity, Indian inhabitants shared the fate of their French neighbours. “The town in which they lived had been built jointly by the Company’s staff and the local population, merchants, farmers, fishermen. It is thus a shared heritage that should be better known and although it no longer stands above the ground, it should be considered part of the collective memory of present-day society”, observed Mr. Deloche, who was a senior member of the Ecole Francaise d’Extreme-Orient and academic at the IFP. The historian, who died in Puducherry which was his second home in 2019, saw in the Ananda Ranga Pillai mansion, the only building to fortuitously escape destruction in the invasion, the enduring example of this expression of two cultures to which the great dubash belonged. As the seat of French rule, Pondicherry’s past is represented over five periods. The 1673-1700 (urban development) phase concerning the Dutch geometric layout for a new town with rectangular blocks of houses separated by straight streets intersecting at right angles, 1700-1761 (urban expansion, defence works, major constructions) that saw a pentagon-shaped Fort Louis with five bastions and a moat modelled on the French Fort constructed by military engineer Vauban in Tournai, construction of a new St. Louis Chapel and a Government palace, a hospital and a mint. The 1761-1778 phase focuses on the post-1761 reconstruction of the town literally from scratch by the new governor Law de Lauriston while the 1777-1778 period is on development of the White Town precinct, 1761-1825 on outer fortifications and Boulevards, the 18th century French showcase the Hotel Lagrenee de Mezieres and the Ananda Ranga Pillai mansion. The event, hosted as part of the Pondicherry Heritage Festival, is supported by the Alliance Française, the city chapter of the École française d’Extrême-Orient (EFEO) and the Tourism Department. The show is on till January 28 (9 a.m. to 5.30 p.m.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/crux-of-jean-deloches-invaluable-work-on-five-french-settlements-on-display/article33653485.ece
25 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||NDMA team visits U.T.||A five-member team from the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) led by Additional Secretary V. Thiruppugazh on Sunday visited Puducherry to study the best practices undertaken by the administration during the recent Cyclone Nivar. At a review meeting held at the Chief Secretariat, Secretary (Revenue)-cum-Relief and Rehabilitation Ashok Kumar explained about various preventive measures taken by the administration to mitigate losses. The NDMA team later visited the Emergency Operation Centre on the East Coast Road, Cyclone shelter in Nonankuppam and agricultural fields at Sivaranthagam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ndma-team-visits-puducherry/article33653480.ece
25 January 2021||Rajapalayam,TAMIL NADU||Pension benefits given to 80 retired TNSTC employees||Pension benefits to the tune of Rs. 23.78 crore were disbursed to 80 retired employees of Tami Nadu State Transport Corporation, Virudhunagar Region, on Sunday. Minister for Dairy Development, K.T Rajenthra Bhalaji, distributed the benefits at a function held at Rajapalayam. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Bhalaji said that the Government was making all arrangements through the TNSTC to ensure good transport connectivity for easier movement of the people. The buses were connecting villages, towns and even neighbouring States. Besides, the infrastructure of the corporation was being improved with new vehicles and depots, bus stands and online booking facilities, he said. Those who had retired between April 2019 and December 2019 got their benefits. Collector, R. Kannan, TNSTC General Manager, Virudhunagar region, Sivalingam, Manager, Commercial, Marimuthu, Rajapalayam Tahsildar, Sridhar, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pension-benefits-given-to-80-tnstc-retired-workers/article33653186.ece
25 January 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Three killed in road accident||In a tragic incident, three people including an aged woman died in a road accident when the vehicle in which they were travelling, collided head-on with a tourist van from Karnataka at Thapal Chavadi near here in the early hours of Sunday. Police said that Haja Shahul Hameed (52) of Keelakarai was heading to Madurai airport in an omni van with his family members, including his wife Rubeena, daughter Rahmath Fatima, son Inaaz and mother-in-law Shahjahan Beevi. The van was driven by Ahmad Hassan of Keelakarai. As the van was approaching Thapal Chavadi, it had a head-on collision with a tourist van from Kolar in Karnataka that was heading to Rameswaram on a pilgrimage. In the impact of the accident, Haja Shahul Hameed, Shajahan Beevi and the driver of the vehicle died on the spot. Six people, including three from the tourist van, suffered multiple injuries. Police rushed the injured people to the Government Hospital at Ramanathapuram. Preliminary inquiries by the police revealed that Shahul Hameed was proceeding to Kuwait. In order to reach Madurai airport, they had left home in the van in the early hours. Poor visibility in the early hours might have led to the accident. As the four-way lane road works are under way on the stretch, the drivers might have erred on the wrong side, a police officer, who visited the accident spot, told reporters. Chatrakudi police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-killed-in-road-accident/article33653192.ece
25 January 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Stalin forced to hold ‘Vel’ due to ‘yatra’: Murugan||BJP State president L. Murugan on Sunday said DMK president M.K. Stalin was forced to hold the ‘Vel’ (the spear of Lord Murugan) only because of the “success” of the BJP’s ‘Vetrivel Yatra’. Mr. Stalin had held a ‘Vel’ presented to him by devotees of Lord Murugan at a meeting near Chennai on Saturday. Mr. Murugan, who was in Coimbatore for a Kalkol Vizha event, ahead of the BJP Yuva Morcha State conference on February 6, near Silanaikenpatti, told journalists that those who called the ‘Vetrivel Yatra’ political were now forced to hold the spear. “Mr. Stalin would speak against Hindus at some occasion, and would later say the party stood with the Hindu community. What is the need for these double standards? Everyone is aware that it is being done for votes,” he said. “The people are aware and they are not ready to believe you [DMK],” he said. He said BJP national secretary C.T. Ravi would take the kavadi forThai Poosam, after fasting on January 27. He said people had started realising that the BJP was the only party that would question any disgrace meted out to Tamil gods. Mr. Murugan said more parties were expected to join their alliance, and the DMK-led front would split before the upcoming election. He felt Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s campaign in Tamil Nadu would not have any effect, and first-time voters were gravitating towards the BJP, since they wanted good governance under the guidance of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. BJP Yuva Morcha State president Vinoj P. Selvam and other party cadre were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-forced-to-hold-vel-due-to-yatra-murugan/article33653076.ece
25 January 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Rig owners in Salem demand reduction of diesel prices||Members of Salem rig owners association demanded that the governments should take measures for reduction of diesel prices and they should be offered subsidy for services offered to farmers. The members lamented that the recent hike in diesel prices had severely affected the industry and they were forced to operate at costs lesser than that of diesel prices. At present, they were collecting Rs. 75 for per ft of borewell and they were not able to meet the expenses with the existing prices. Gunasekaran, president of All India Rig Owners Association, said there were 15,000 vehicles across the country and about 15 lakh persons were dependent on this industry. Mr. Gunasekaran said strikes were happening at different parts of the country demanding reduction in diesel prices and it should be included in GST. The association also demanded that the rig owners should be offered subsidies for operations in farm lands to support farmers. They had not operated their vehicles for a week due to hike in fuel prices and they were mulling over increasing their charges, the members said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rig-owners-in-salem-demand-reduction-of-diesel-prices/article33653206.ece
25 January 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||OPS orders repair of roads||Visiting a remote tribal hamlet Muduvarkudi in the district on a rough and slushy track for about seven kilometres on a jeep, Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam said that the AIADMK government would continue to reach out to the people irrespective of whether they were in isolated villages or urban locations and provided welfare assistance, here on Sunday. As the information spread about the Deputy CM's arrival, the villagers had assembled at the 'chavadi' here and accorded a rousing reception. Accompanied by Theni MP O.P. Raveendranath, Cumbum MLA S.T.K. Jakkayan, DRO K Ramesh and other officials from the Agriculture, Adi-Dravidar Welfare, Disaster Management, Rural Development and Revenue departments, he said that from the time the AIADMK was founded, it had been serving the poor and needy. The government's objective was to uplift the tribal population in every sphere. By doing so, they can equip themselves on the economic front. By selling their produce grown deep in the hills here in the markets in Bodinayakkanur and other pockets, they can earn a decent income. Products such as honey and gooseberry were much sought after in many markets, he said. By helping the people in giving value addition to their products, they get good returns and also make way for sustained earning, Mr Panneerselvam said and added that the Amma's government had always reached out to the people in remote hamlets. When some of the villagers pointed out the need for repairing the road between Kurangani and Muduvarkudi, he readily agreed to get it done. " I travelled seven kilometres...and I have already requested the officials to get the road repaired under the MGNREGA at a cost of Rs. 49.20 lakh on a war-footing," he said. He gave away welfare assistance to 738 beneficiaries from Muduvarkudi, Mundal, Siraikaadu, Solaiyur and among other hamlets. There were 19 tribal villages in the district covering Bodi, Andipatti, Periakulam and Uthamapalayam blocks. Among them, Muduvarkudi was considered the mother of the tribal villages. , the Amma's government would take care of the needs of the people here, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ops-orders-repair-of-roads/article33653196.ece
25 January 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Fish waste raises a stink in Uyyakondan canal||Rotting fish waste are being dumped into the Uyyakondan canal flowing near Kasivilangi Market by vendors, much to the chagrin of civic activists. The waste from the market is thrown after being stored for days, some say. The Uyyakondan canal built by Raja Raja Cholan and renovated by Kulothunga Cholan feeds over 36 tanks. The city stretch of the canal, which is about 10 km, has been subject to heavy pollution. According to residents and civic activists, vendors have been dumping fish waste into the canal, polluting it further. “We have tried explaining to them why it is wrong, but they pay no heed,” Manoj Dharmar of Citizens of Uyyakondan, a action group focussed on the conservation of the waterbody, said. Garbage is dumped into the canal in various parts, sewage water is released untreated and now even fish waste, he rued. Retail vendors point their fingers at wholesale dealers claiming they throw fish into the canal after it starts rotting. “We do not have a choice but to sell all the fish we have, even at a loss. But these wholesale vendors store them in ice for weeks. Sometimes the fish goes bad and they discard them,” V. Rajendran, a retail vendor said. Mr. Rajendran said that the wholesale vendors called the shots in the market and would not sell fish to retail vendors the next time if they questioned their actions. “Our livelihood depends on them, so we go about our work,” he said, but felt that a deterrent effect could be created by officials of the civic body through inspection of the market. “Officials can determine beforehand if fish is stored in containers for a lengthy duration and they can come out with options for safe disposal of the rotten stock. The onus is on the civic body to make sure that the waterbody is safeguarded from pollution,” Mr. Rajendran said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fish-waste-raises-a-stink-in-uyyakondan-canal/article33653530.ece
25 January 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Steps taken to check wrong side driving on Oyyamari Road||In an effort to check wrong side driving resorted to by several motorists on the Oyyamari Road along the Cauvery river, the City Police after consultation with the State Highways and the National Highways Authority of India has come out with a trial measure of closing the opening near the Regional Transport Office East and removing a portion of the traffic island at the far end of the Oyyamari road near the Chennai Bypass Road for movement of light vehicles towards Sanjeevi Nagar. A portion of the traffic island was removed using an earth mover to make a path for light vehicles such as two-wheelers and cars to take a right turn at the far end of the Oyyamari Road to proceed towards Sanjeevi Nagar. The move was put in place after a joint team of officials from the City Traffic Police, State Highways and the National Highways Authority of India inspected the spot recently following complaints from the public that wrong side driving on the Oyyamari road was posing danger to rule abiding motorists. Although the Oyyamari Road has a median till the far end where it meets the Chennai Bypass Road, there are very few openings along the stretch: one leading to the Bhairavar Temple, another opposite to the crematorium, the other leading to a fuel outlet and the one near the Regional Transport Office East. Police sources say several motorists proceeding towards Sanjeevi Nagar side from the Oyyamari Road take a right turn at the opening near the Regional Transport Office East and resort to wrong side driving posing danger to motorists coming in the opposite direction. The danger due to wrong side driving is acutely felt during night along the stretch. Following complaints from the public and after inspection of the stretch and deliberations, it was decided to temporarily close the opening near the Regional Transport Office East and remove a portion of the traffic island at the far end of the Oyyamari Road to make a path for light vehicles to proceed towards Sanjeevi Nagar side, Traffic Police sources said. This was being done on a trial basis to ascertain how the system worked, saids a Traffic Police officer adding that only light vehicles would be allowed in the portion where the traffic island had been removed. Barricades would be placed at the spot where a portion of the traffic island had been removed to control the speed of vehicles taking the right turn, he added. The City Police has requested the National Highways Authority of India to install a high mast lamp at Sanjeevi Nagar side.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/making-oyyamari-road-safe-for-public/article33653172.ece
25 January 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Decision to bring back garbage bins, a welcome one: residents||The decision of the Tiruchi Corporation to restore bins on the streets for garbage collection has been welcomed by the residents. This has been a long-felt demand of the public. Henceforth, residents will be free from the trouble of waiting for the waste-collection vans, and can discard the garbage in the bins at their convenience, S. Pushpavanam, Secretary of Consumer Protection Council, Tamil Nadu, said. Similarly, the Corporation can collect the garbage as and when the vehicles are available. This practice has been there for long in developed countries, he said. The council was prepared to supply garbage bags free of cost to residents. The council had, during 2015, made a suggestion for use of vehicles with GPS tracking facility to track the garbage vans. Inner roads that have become mini dumpyards requires attention on a priority basis, Mr. Pushpavanam said. There must be a sustained and continuous mechanism to keep the town clean, Thirumeni. J of Cantonment said, citing the instance of a heap of garbage lying uncleared in Raja Colony 4th cross road, for the past few months The garbage bins that were placed at strategic locations were removed a few years back for enforcing the system of collecting the garbage from the residents' door with a good intention. But, the implementation has been a failure, as many workers involved in collecting garbage were not courteous towards the residents. In such a situation, the residents had no other go but to throw the garbage on the roadsides, Mr. Thirumeni pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/decision-to-bring-back-garbage-bins-a-welcome-one-residents/article33653537.ece
25 January 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Organic ginger cultivation will be a game-changer||Taking cue from the success of a pilot project, the tribal residents of Pachamalai have decided to raise ginger as an organic crop on 10 acres of land. Tapioca has been a predominant crop in the Pachamalai for several decades, fetching Rs. 5-7 per kilogram. Under a tribal development project titled Hand in Hand, being implemented on Pachamalai hills with the financial support of National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development, a group of tribesmen was taken on a visit to a KVK institution and model farmers’ fields in Wayanad, Kerala, for exploring various cash crops and to learn the best practices so as to introduce the viable crops in Pachamalai. Ginger crop was selected as a viable one for this location. On a trial basis, 20 farmers were provided with the quality ginger “rhizome“ seeds procured from Wayanad district vegetable and fruits cooperative society in the end of March 2020, before the COVID-19 lockdown. Towards cultivating them organically, the sustainable practices were taught to the farmers by Hand in Hand India project team. During the trial, a high yield after 8-9 months was determined by Chandran of Nathilipatti. Following the success of ginger crop, 100 more persons have shown interest to take up organic ginger cultivation in the current season with partial support from project grant. V.P. Elumalai, project manager, said that ginger would be raised on 100 acres in Pachamalai hills. The cultivation would begin in February and it would mature in November or December. Y. Joe, vice-president, Hand in Hand, said that ginger would emerge as a major alternative crop to tapioca. It would be a game-changer for the tribesmen of Pachamalai. Organic ginger had a great demand and their revenue would go up by at least five times. Owing to the bountiful harvest and premium price, Pachamali tribal villages would soon become a hub for organic ginger with restoration of soil ecology, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pachamalai-farmers-take-to-ginger-cultivation/article33653165.ece
25 January 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||WhatsApp traffic-related issues, say City Police||Factoring in the increasing incidences of road rule violations by motorists, the Tiruchi City Police have appealed to the general public to join hands with them in enforcing traffic rules for safer ride. The City Police have asked the public to take a photo or video clip of traffic-related issues and violations and post them in the dedicated WhatsApp number 96262-73399 maintained by it for speedier action. The City Police also posted their latest initiative on the official Facebook account appealing to the public to send photos of traffic hold ups, congestion, violations and any other problems obstructing smooth flow of traffic. The Social Media Cell of the Tiruchi City Police would immediately forward the photo or the video clip sent by public regarding traffic-related issues and violations happening within the city limits to the jurisdictional traffic police officer concerned for speedier action, says Commissioner of Police J. Loganathan, adding that the law-enforcers would book a case and initiate action against the violations. The move has been taken to involve the public in enforcing traffic rules, says Mr. Loganathan. The Commissioner of Police said the City Police have identified 18 accident hot-spots within its jurisdiction and remedial measures required for each one of them were being discussed with the stakeholders such as State Highways and National Highways Authority of India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/whatsapp-traffic-related-issues-say-city-police/article33653531.ece
25 January 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Police deny permission for tractor rally in Thanjavur||The Thanjavur District Police has denied permission for a tractor rally proposed by farmers in the district on January 26 (Republic Day) to express their solidarity with their counterparts who have been agitating near New Delhi demanding the withdrawal of the new farm laws. A press release issued by the Superintendent of Police, Thanjavur, Deshmukh Shekar Sanjay, said the farmers had announced to take out a tractor rally from Melavasthasavadi to Tholkappiar Sadhukkam in Vallam subdivision. Legal action The release said legal action would be taken if the rally was taken out. Since the prohibitory orders were in place till January 31 in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, permission was denied for the tractor rally. It further said action under Motor Vehicle Act, Indian Penal Code and under Special Laws against vehicles and its owners would be taken if an attempt was made to take out the rally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-deny-permission-for-tractor-rally-in-thanjavur/article33653166.ece
25 January 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||48 new COVID-19 cases recorded||The central districts on Sunday recorded a slight drop in fresh COVID-19 cases, with 48 patients testing positive. The region had recorded 65 cases on Saturday, and no death was reported. Tiruchi recorded the highest number of cases with 17 patients testing positive. Thanjavur reported 13 cases. The other districts in the region reported less than 10 cases.Nagapattinam reported eight, and Tiruvarur four. Both Pudukottai and Karur reported an equal number of cases with three patients testing positive in each. Patients in both districts were local contacts with no contact or travel history, patients detected through fever camps and those with a history of Influenza-Like Illnesses. Among the patients who tested positive in Karur were two women, aged 62 and 34. Both Ariyalur and Perambalur reported no fresh cases on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/48-new-cases-recorded/article33653171.ece
25 January 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level in Mettur dam stood at 105.92 feet on Sunday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 1,230 cusecs and the discharge 4,000 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article33653533.ece
25 January 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Farmers end hunger strike||The farmers, who went on a hunger strike for five days in Kangeyam demanding adequate release of water to the Vellakoil branch canal, ended their strike on Saturday evening. One of the members of the PAP-Vellakoil Branch Canal Water Protection Committee P. Velusamy said on Sunday that representatives from the committee met Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami in Coimbatore and submitted their demands, to which he assured action at the earliest. The strike began on Tuesday demanding the Public Works Department (PWD) to release water for 14 days per month to the Vellakoil branch canal under the Parambikulam-Aliyar Project. With water being released for 12 days at present, the PWD officials have assured the farmers to extend the release for two more days, Mr. Velusamy said. District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan also recently announced formation of committees to monitor siphoning of water in the PAP canal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kangeyam-farmers-end-hunger-strike/article33653119.ece
25 January 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Laboratory in Ooty comes up with technique to identify wildlife species from DNA||The Molecular Biology Lab at the Government Arts College (GAC) in Udhagamandalam has designed and standardised a DNA amplification technique that will allow researchers to identify the species and sex of tigers and leopards from scat and tissue samples. The results were published in Springer, a scientific journal recently. The authors of the paper note that species authentication from scat and tissue samples is essential for detecting illegal wildlife trade and for formulating conservation strategies.  As DNA in old scat from tigers has a high chance of degradation, very short, specific, DNA sequences can be targeted to identify the species and sex of tigers and leopards, the researchers said. Previous allele-specific (gene variant) methods at species identification targeted a specific nucleotide for amplification, but researchers at the GAC also altered a nucleotide, resulting in precise species and sex-specific amplification, making identification quick, and extremely efficient. R. Sanil, associate professor, Department of Zoology and Wildlife Biology, and one of the co-authors of the paper, said the technique would allow for species identification for a fraction of the cost it would take otherwise. The researchers collected a total of 190 scat samples of tigers and leopards from across the Nilgiris and the Arignar Anna Zoological Park, including 37 samples in different stages of deterioration from the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve. Using the new techniques, they were able to identify 107 samples as belonging to tigers, 74 from leopards, six as members of the Canid family, while only three were unidentifiable. The papers were authored by research scholars and professors working at the GAC with the co-operation of the Tamil Nadu Forest Department – Nittu George, P.M.Bhavana, T.T.Shameer, B.Ramakrishnan, R. Archana, K.K.Kaushal, G.Mohan, M. Jyoti and R. Sanil. K.K.Kaushal, Field Director of MTR and co-author of the paper, said that DNA analysis was of extreme importance and the fact that there was such an excellent lab for analysis was a great benefit for the forest department. B. Ramakrishnan, assistant professor at the GAC and co-author of the paper, said that in the future, building a DNA database of tigers in the wild could help in tracing wildlife crimes. College principal M. Easwaramurthi said that such insightful research was a testament to the excellent students, faculty and facilities available at the college. J. Ebanaser, Head, Department of Zoology and Wildlife Biology, said the research further cemented the credentials of the department in training students for a career in wildlife research and conservation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/laboratory-comes-up-with-technique-to-identify-wildlife-species-from-dna/article33653117.ece
25 January 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Expert group to assess threats to plant species in the Nilgiris||Threats to endemic flora in the Western Ghats will be assessed by experts comprising the Western Ghats Plant Specialist Group (WGPSG). Members of the WGPSG of the Species Survival Commission of the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN) met here recently, to chart a future course of study of endemic plant species in the Nigiris and across the Western Ghats. “The study of these species will include documentation, assessing the threats they face as well as understanding their distribution in local landscapes,” said Aparna Watve, Red List Assessment Coordinator for the group. There are more than 2,100 endemic species of flora in Western Ghats. Dr. Watve said that the WGPSG hopes to formulate conservation policies for specific species of flora as well as habitats through documentation and research by members of the group, comprising over 50 botanists, conservationists and landscape researchers familiar with the Western Ghats ecology. Anita Varghese, the Chair of WGPSG, and Director-Biodiversity of Keystone Foundation, a Nilgiris-based NGO, said that existing studies done by local conservation groups and experts will provide a “solid base” that will help in establishing conservation policies that can ensure the long-term survival of a variety of flora threatened by localised extinction. Shiny Mariam Rehel, Programme Co-ordinator for the Biodiversity Restoration Programme at Keystone Foundation, said that in the Nilgiris, particular focus needs to be given to the conservation of flora found in hill wetlands, swamps and high altitudes. Ms. Rehel said that plants such as Anaphalis neelgerryana, Elaeocarpus recurvatus and grasses such as Eriochrysis rangacharii face a number of threats, including habitat loss, climate change and being outcompeted by invasive species. Godwin Vasanth Bosco, a Nilgiris-based restoration ecologist, said that it was of paramount importance that endemic species of flora are properly studied and species that are facing the most serious threats, such as Eriochrysis rangacharii be added to the IUCN’s red list, so that steps can be taken to conserve the species. Also present at the meeting was Aditya Gadkari, who is working with the WGPSG. “We hope that the work we do raises awareness among the public about native flora. We urge people to follow our social media page – ‘Western Ghats Plant Specialist Group’ on Facebook and Instagram to get regular updates about the work that the group is doing,” Mr. Gadkari said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/expert-group-to-assess-threats-to-plant-species-in-the-nilgiris/article33653212.ece
25 January 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore logs 15 new cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 20,659 with 15 new cases reported on Sunday. While a total of 20,198 have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 114. The district's death toll is 347. In Ranipet district, 10 cases were reported positive taking the total to 16,085. In Tirupathur district, the total number of positive cases stood at 7,553 with four new cases on Sunday. In Tiruvannamalai district, one new case was reported, taking the total number of cases to 19,330. Out of this, 19,014 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 33.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-records-15-new-cases/article33653478.ece
25 January 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||After check dam is damaged, officials begin reconstruction||The Public Works Department (PWD) has begun work on restoring the portion of the newly constructed check dam between Enathimangalam and Thalavanur that breached on Saturday resulting in heavy flow of water into irrigation channels. Built at a cost of Rs. 25 crore, the check dam was inaugurated by Law Minister C.Ve. Shanmugam in September last. Six vents The check dam is 650 m long and 3 m high and is sandwiched between Cuddalore and Villupuram districts. It has six vents — three each in Enathimangalam on the Cuddalore side and three at Thalavanur on the Villupuram side. Located about 10 km from Villupuram, it was designed to trap floodwaters and help recharge ground water. PWD sources said that the check dam had reached its storage capacity in the wake of the recent incessant rain. However, cracks developed beneath the structure due to erosion on Saturday, resulting in heavy flow of water into the irrigation channels. “We have plugged the breach using sand bags. Work to restore the damaged portion has begun and it will be competed in a time-bound manner,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/after-check-dam-is-damaged-officials-begin-reconstruction/article33653477.ece
25 January 2021||January 25 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore dist. reports 55 cases, two deaths||Two more persons from Coimbatore district have died of COVID-19, taking the death toll to 668. According to the Health Department bulletin, a 74-year-old man from Coimbatore died at the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital on Friday. A 79-year-old woman died of the disease at the hospital on Saturday. Coimbatore district reported 55 new cases on Sunday while 73 persons got discharged from hospitals after recovering from the disease. The district had 478 active cases of the disease on Sunday. In the Nilgiris district, nine people tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 8,156. The number of deaths in the district stood at 47 on Friday while 55 people are undergoing treatment. According to health department officials, a total of 1,808 people have been administered the Covid-19 vaccine in the district till January 22, with no adverse reactions reported so far. Tiruppur district reported one death and 36 new cases, taking the tally to 17,734 cases. The Health Department said that a 72-year-old man died at the Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital, taking the district's death toll to 221. As many as 17,337 patients have recovered and 176 were active cases. On Sunday, 24 patients from Tiruppur district were discharged from various treatment centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-dist-reports-55-cases-two-deaths/article33653125.ece
25 January 2021||January 25 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||CM hints at more sops before polls||“The State government does not have the authority to do so,” he said. He said DMK was “not a party, but a corporate company”. Speaking in Singanallur, the Chief Minister said he had requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to ensure that a defence industrial corridor is established in Coimbatore at the earliest. “Many view the district as being conducive for setting up industries as the government has ensured law and order as well as uninterrupted power supply,” he said. He accused DMK president M.K. Stalin of enacting a drama ahead of the Assembly election by holding a ‘vel’ (presented to him at a meeting). “Actors can never succeed. Only those who work can succeed,” he said in Kalapatti. Reacting to Mr. Stalin’s assurance on investigating former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s death, he alleged that her health had deteriorated because she was imprisoned over the “false cases” pursued by former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi. He also accused Mr. Stalin of not having provided the necessary treatment to Karunanidhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-hints-at-more-sops-before-polls/article33653072.ece
25 January 2021||January 25 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||29 new COVID-19 cases in Erode||Erode district reported 29 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday, taking the district’s tally to 14,224. While 13 persons were discharged, 147 persons continue to be under treatment. In Salem, 19 cases were reported of which 16 were indigenous. Three persons returned from Chennai, Namakkal and Krishnagiri. In Namakkal, 13 cases were reported. Three persons returned from Chennai and Coimbatore. In Dharmapuri, two indigenous cases were reported and in Krishnagiri five.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/29-new-covid-19-cases-in-erode/article33653202.ece
25 January 2021||January 25 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||With concentration||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/with-concentration/article33653210.ece
25 January 2021||January 25 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Readers Mail||The stretch branching off from Sanjeevi Nagar along the Tiruchi-Chennai National Highway to Devathanam Railway Gate is in a bad shape. The road frequented by motorists as a second entry to the city limits is shorn of gravel and replete with potholes, causing damage to two-wheelers and four-wheelers. Two-wheeler riders tend to lose balance and are suffocated by dust. Motorists expect the civic body to examine the matter in right earnest. Saravanan Natesan Puthanampatti   Cleanliness is as much important as vaccine to prevent water-borne diseases like diarrhoea, cholera and jaundice and also to prevent air-borne diseases like coronavirus and also non-communicable diseases like cancer, chronic obstructive lung disease, memory problem, stroke and heart disease. Residents need to realise that a healthy environment without garbage and without pollution will make ones life hale and healthy. M.A. Aleem Tiruchi   The Electricity department ought to announce power cut well in time for consumers to plan things accordingly. For instance, the announcement on power cut effected on January 20 at Adavathur from 9.00 am to 7.00 pm was made in newspapers only on the previous day. The usual practice of the department was to suspend power supply for undertaking maintenance works on the last Saturday of every month. But, of late, the power shutdown at short notice causes much discomfort in a household. For, the stock of stored vegetables, cooked food and raw items kept in the refrigerator will not withstand the atmospheric condition and it would become stale. Instead, the authorities could consider staggering power cut to twice every month, each of four-hour duration preferably during the afternoon hours. Immanuel Amirtharaj P Sakthinagar   Stray cattle, dogs and monkeys roam freely in Sundarraj Nagar, Highways Colony and Kauvery Nagar, posing a big nuisance to the local residents, particularly morning walkers and visitors to Arulmigu Sundara Vinayagar Temple, the Mosque and Church situated on the Tank Bund road, Subramaniyapuram. The forest department did capture the monkeys a few years ago and released them in the reserve forests far away but the animals have managed to return. Joint handling of the issue by the City Corporation and the Forest Departent will be much appreciated. S. Mohamed Danish Subramaniyapuram   In recent days, the Tiruchi City Corporation has issued a warning that stray cattle will be impounded and released only on payment of fine. But, it is apparent that cattle-rearers let the animals to roam in the city due to soaring cost of haystack. But these cattle are a threat to morning walkers. T.M. Ranganathan Srirangam   A variety of birds can be seen in large numbers on trees, especially in the evening hours on the premises of the Karur municipality office. Since the passing vehicles honk continuously, the unbearable noise disturbs these birds. If signboards indicating 'No Horn Please' are put up on roads around the municipality campus, motorists will desist from using the horns. The Forest department officials should inspect the site and declare it as a 'protected site' thereby making it a suitable habitation for birds. M. Saikaruna Karur    In Kumbakonam, drainage work is nearing completion. The road is ridden with potholes, broken concrete, sink-holes and cracks. For vehicle-users it is a nightmare. The above problems lead to heavy traffic congestion during peak hours, in the morning and evening. Now that schools have reopened, the problem of vehicular traffic is getting more acute. S. Krishnan Thippirajapuram    Mosquitoes have resurfaced and are invading the households in large numbers. As they are capable of breeding in stagnant waters, all the municipal administrations should act on a war-footing to take measures to eradicate them. Or else, dengue outbreak is possible. The civic bodies should map potential areas that are sources of the dengue-carrying mosquitoes. Fogging and spraying is to be done on priority basis to prevent the mosquito menace. R. Soundararajan Nagapattinam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail/article33653164.ece
25 January 2021||January 25 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||ERODE||RD National College of Arts and Science: Virtual meeting on Road safety awareness, Regional Transport Officers, R. Pradeepa (Erode East) and M. Paduvainathan (Erode West), guest speakers, 11 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode/article33653203.ece
25 January 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Belagavi to get two art galleries under Smart City project||Belagavi will get two art galleries on the Vaccine Depot Grounds under the Smart City project at a total cost of Rs. 14 crore. The Civil Aviation Gallery will have paintings, installations and working models. The Art Gallery will have space for exhibition, training and discussion related to art. Abhay Patil, MLA, laid the foundation stone for the two works on the Vaccine Depot Grounds here on Saturday. He said that it was the first time in the State that a Civil Aviation Gallery was being set up. It has the potential to become a tourist attraction, he said. Smart City officers said that the Civil Aviation Gallery will be completed at a cost of Rs. 8 crore. It will be a central information repository. Tourists and visitors from world over will be able to experience and celebrate mankind’s pursuit of flight, spirit of invention, innovation and discovery. It will help children learn the evolution of human flight. It will celebrate mankind’s pursuit of flight, spirit of invention, innovation and discovery to give the visitors an overview of the modern aviation industry and to inspire young minds to take up a career in aviation and space. It will have various zones with details of different sectors of aviation. They will be ancient history like the flight of birds, with interactive exhibits and LED panels, canvas prints and other mediums. Another zone will speak of the story of the myths, legends on the science of flying across civilizations like China, India, Egypt and Greece with copies of drawing by Leonardo Da Vinci and Vimānika Shastra, ancient Indian science of flight. There will be an interactive zone to give a simulated experience of flying like a bird and an airplane. There will be a central aisle with suspended models showing the evolution of aircraft and models of Bats, White Stork, Leonardo Da Vinci’s Ornithopter, LZ – 127 GrafZeppelin, Lilienthal Glider, Voisin 1907 Biplane, Wright Flyer 2, Cornu’s Helicopter, German Etrich Taube Monoplane, Messerschmitt Me 262, de Havilland Comet (DH Comet) and Concorde G-BOAB (Alpha Bravo). A zone dedicated to hot air balloons, steerable airships and early attempts in designing powered flight like backpack gliders. There will also be models and replicas of actual objects, used flights, uniforms and tools. A section of aerial war, with aircraft technology with in-built weapons, development of radar systems and air combat tactics, and a detailed section on Indian Air Force. IAF history in the two World Wars, Hindustan Aircraft Limited and other agencies will be displayed. There will be a section of working models and miniature models of planes, ambient lighting and signalling system. There will be a section to introduce commercial aircraft such as Boeing and sound barrier breakers. A section will be dedicated to state-of-the-art technology such as unmanned aircraft, solar-powered jets and drones and negative effects such as air congestion and pollution. A miniature airport will be built to expose children to the facilities available in actual airports such as ATC tower, passenger terminal, runway, hangars, bridge, apron and others. The Art Gallery will come up at a cost of Rs. 6 crore. It will have zones dedicated to the art of India, Karnataka and Belagavi. There will be areas earmarked for folk art, modern art and tribal art. There will also be a wing for dance, drama, jewellery, pottery, wood metal and stone work, music and musical instruments, according to Smart City officers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/belagavi-to-get-two-art-galleries-under-smart-city-project/article33653221.ece
25 January 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Kirana shop owner shot at in Belagavi||Armed men shot at and injured a shop owner in his shop in the city market area in Belagavi on Saturday night. Rakesh Rupchand Jain (45), though survived the attack as the bullet grazed his skull, had to be rushed to hospital for emergency treatment. His friends and shop owners in the area rushed him to the hospital at night. Doctors stopped the bleeding and gave him a dozen stitches on his scalp. He is recovering, the police said. Mr. Jain was in his wholesale Kirana shop on Math Galli when two unidentified men entered his shop at around 9.30 p.m. They said that they wanted to buy biscuits and demanded to see samples. When one of them was holding a box of biscuits, the other tried to pull down the shutters of the shop. He brandished a revolver and demanded money from Mr. Jain. The startled shop owner did not respond immediately and the robber shot at him, as if to intimidate him. The bullet passed very near the victim’s head and in retaliation, Mr. Jain threw a box full of soap at the two men. The two men, as if unprepared to face such retaliation, pushed Mr. Jain to a corner, threw open the shutter and fled. A few minutes later, Mr. Jain realised that he had begun to bleed, as the bullet had grazed his skull. The shop owner told the police that he suspected that there was a third person involved who was waiting in the street to alert the two men if he saw a policeman nearby. He remembers that the two persons who walked in were wearing masks. Investigators said that they were collecting CCTV footage from nearby shops. A case has been registered in the Market Police Station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kirana-shop-owner-shot-at-in-belagavi/article33653223.ece
25 January 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Minister helps people at accident spot||Minister for Mines and Geology Murugesh Nirani helped those in distress at the accident spot on Sunday. He turned a Good Samaritan for the victims of the accident at the Chichadi Cross in Belagavi district. He called up senior officers to help the victims. The Minister, who is in charge of Republic Day celebrations at Yadgir, was travelling from his home town of Mudhol to Belagavi to go to Yadgir on Monday. He saw a crowd gathered at the accident site near Nesargi Chord Road. He stopped his vehicle and spoke to the onlookers. He observed that some people in the bus were injured while all the travellers in the car were dead. He spoke to Superintendent of Police, Belagavi, Laxman Nimbargi and District Health Officer of Belagavi Shashikanth Munyal. He also spoke to some officers in Bagalkot district. He asked health officers to send as many ambulances as possible to the spot at the earliest. The Minister also waited for some time till the police cleared the highway. He comforted the relatives of those who were injured and asked them to contact his office if they faced any problems.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minister-helps-people-at-accident-spot/article33653222.ece
25 January 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Dharwad road accident toll rises to 12||The toll in the Itigatti road accident near Dharwad on January 15 rose to 12 after an injured woman died in Bengaluru on Sunday. Veda Manjunath (47) of Davangere died in a private hospital. She was the daughter in-law of a former MLA H. Chandrashekar. She had suffered injuries in the road accident and was treated for a few days at KIMS, Hubballi. Her relatives shifted her to Bengaluru a few days ago. But she died of her injuries on Sunday, the police said. She was among the 18 women who were travelling from Davangere to Goa in a mini-bus which met with the accident on the National Highway between Hubballi and Belagavi. Her family members told reporters in Bengaluru that her organs were donated to Manipal Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dharwad-road-accident-toll-rises-to-12/article33653224.ece
25 January 2021||BELAGAVI,KARNATAKA||Vinay Kulkarni allowed to attend funeral||The former MLA Vinay Kulkarni was released from the Hindalga Central Prison here to attend the funeral of his father in-law Gangappa Shintri in Yadravi village in Belagavi district on Sunday. The former MLA has been an inmate of Hindalga Jail since the CBI named him as an accused in a charge-sheet in relation to the murder of the former zilla panchayat member Yogeeshgouda Goudar. Two vans of the District Police took the accused from the jail to the village and brought him back, prison authorities said. He had obtained permission from the court to visit his in-laws place for the funeral. Gangappa Shintri died of a heart attack on Sunday. He was among the accused in the building collapse case in Dharwad that claimed 19 lives. His daughter Shivaleela is married to Vinay Kulkarni.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vinay-kulkarni-allowed-to-attend-funeral/article33653225.ece
25 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||2020 saw fatal road accidents dip in city||The COVID-19 lockdown and the subsequent restrictions that were put in place to restrict the spread of the virus wreaked havoc on the economy, but it had a positive effect on fatal road accidents. With most people remaining at home and vehicular movement restricted, fatal accidents in Bengaluru dropped by 21.9% in one year. In 2019, before the pandemic, 832 people lost their lives in 810 road accidents. Last year, the number of fatal accidents and fatalities fell to 632 and 657, respectively. However, during the same period, deaths owing to ‘self road accidents’ went up from 144 to 164. Report These are some of the insights from a report on fatal road accidents reported from 2018 to 2020 by the city traffic police. According to the data, on an average 525 men and 100 women are victims of road accidents every year. A majority of them were aged between 21 and 40. The most number of people who were killed in road accidents had an education till high school. The professional background of the majority of the deceased showed that they either worked in the private sector or were self-employed, said the report. An analysis by the traffic police suggested that the highest number of accidents occurred on main roads and highways, but dropped on the ring road and flyovers in the city. Fatalities on Sundays The report states that in the last three years, the maximum number of deaths were reported on Sundays, while Saturdays saw the least number of fatal accidents. Here, too, 2020 saw a fewer number of fatalities on Sundays when compared with the previous two years. Pedestrian deaths With lack of good footpaths and other infrastructure, pedestrians remain vulnerable to road accidents. However, data showed that the number of pedestrian fatalities dropped from 273 in 2019 to 164 in 2020. “In 2018 and 2019, pedestrian deaths constituted 32% of the total deaths. It has come down to 24% in 2020. The lockdown could be one factor,” stated the report. In the last three years, the highest number of hit-and-run cases were reported between 6 p.m. and 6 a.m. However, this too dropped from 318 in 2019 to 194 in 2020. Around 50% of the hit-and-run cases were reported on main roads. Accidents involving buses Accidents involving BMTC, KSRTC, and private buses dropped in 2020 as most of the buses remained off the road during lockdown and even after. The number of people killed in road accidents involving buses dropped from 68 in 2019 to 44 in 2020. The report stated that the number of vehicles is rapidly increasing in the city, and it touched 95.59 lakh in May 2020. On an average, 2,000 new vehicles are registered every day in Bengaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/2020-saw-fatal-road-accidents-dip-in-city/article33653032.ece
25 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Ridership remains at 20-25% despite slash in AC bus fares||At the start of the New Year, the Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) reduced the fares in air-conditioned buses in its fleet by 20% in what it termed as a “gift” to commuters. The corporation’s attempts to woo the public and increase ridership, however, is not yielding required results. A majority of its AC bus fleet still remains off the road. With most people avoiding public transport on account of COVID-19, the AC buses have a ridership of 20 to 25%. Since the outbreak of the pandemic, the BMTC has been struggling to find patronage, but people are still wary of travelling in these luxury buses. For the most part, people are still working from home, which has directly impacted ridership. Only a few buses are running on once popular routes such as Outer Ring Road, Kadugodi, and Electronics City. An official with the BMTC said, “After slashing bus fares, people started turning up, but not at the expected level. Running buses with less than 25% occupancy is not financially viable as we cannot even meet fuel expenses.” Corporation officials said they would need another fortnight or so to assess the response from the public. “The work from home culture has also affected taxis and the restaurant industry. Once restrictions ease, we may see more people commuting to work in AC buses,” the official added. At present, the BMTC is operating around 150 of its 860-strong fleet of AC buses. Those operating on routes to the Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) are seeing a “moderate demand” by air passengers. Around 60 buses are operated to the KIA every day, but the fares for these services were not reduced. A majority of the AC bus fleet has been idle for over nine months at the depots. To keep these luxury buses in good condition, the BMTC is spending Rs. 50 lakh a month on periodical maintenance. On the positive side, ridership of regular non-AC buses has gradually increased over the months. At present, the BMTC is operating around 5,100 buses. This is cumulatively generating operational revenue of Rs. 2.5 crore a day. But the road to recovery will be long and bumpy, as the revenue it is currently earning is only half of what it generated before COVID-19 outbreak. Feeder service The BMTC is currently operating 16 feeder bus services from the metro stations which were opened on Kanakapura Road between Yelachenahalli and Silk Institute. The official said based on the requirement, the number of services would be increased in the coming days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ridership-remains-at-20-25-despite-slash-in-ac-bus-fares/article33653049.ece
25 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Circular on vaccination for airport staff withdrawn||The Department of Health and Family Welfare has withdrawn a circular issued last week which stated that airport staff should be considered as frontline workers. The circular had stated that all staff members at airports across Karnataka were to be considered as COVID-19 frontline workers permitted to get vaccinated on a “priority basis”. It had also tasked district health and family welfare officers to make necessary arrangements and ensure that all staff members at airports received the vaccine as per the existing protocol. Late on Saturday, however, the Commissioner of Health and Family Welfare Department stated that the circular had been withdrawn. “At airports in Karnataka, only the staff covered as healthcare worker or frontline worker as defined by the Government of India instructions will be included in the list for COVID-19 vaccination,” a new circular stated. Criticism Explaining why the first circular was withdrawn, a senior official said the decision to prioritise airport staff was criticised “There are many other frontline workers such as police personnel who should be vaccinated and given preference over the airport staff. As these objections were raised, the department decided to withdraw the order,” an official said. According to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, besides health workers, personnel from the armed forces, prison staff, and municipal workers, among others, are considered as frontline workers but the list does not include personnel in the aviation sector. The Civil Aviation Ministry has, however, written to the Union Health Ministry stating that after health workers, those in the aviation industry should be given preference to get the jabs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/circular-on-vaccination-for-airport-staff-withdrawn/article33653028.ece
25 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||The rise and fall of ‘political fixer’ Yuvaraj Swamy||The arrest of Ramesh alias Yuvaraj Swamy, 52, a former seer of the Banjara community, who presented himself as a “political fixer” and claimed to be close to several BJP leaders in Delhi and a member of a right-wing organisation, has opened a can of worms in the ruling party here. Yuvaraj has been accused of cheating people of crores of rupees by promising them coveted posts in the government and on boards and corporations through his political connections. Opposition leaders, however, are unhappy with the police probe, which they allege is being limited to certain specific instances where the victims have lodged complaints and not his alleged links to BJP leaders. According to sources, BJP circles are also abuzz with talk that a former BJP Rajya Sabha member had paid him several crores to ensure another term in the Upper House and for a berth in the Central Cabinet, though there has been no complaint in this regard. “Multiple Ministers in the State were trying to lobby and make their case in Delhi through him and often went to his house,” party sources said. 14 cases   The Bengaluru police are currently probing 14 cases of cheating against him. In one of the cases, he has been accused of cheating a former High Court judge of Rs. 8.3 crore, promising a Governor’s post. As the investigation picked up pace, photographs of the accused with political leaders started circulating on social media. Yuvaraj is seen in photos alongside Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP national president J.P. Nadda, among other leaders, which are prominently displayed at his residence. The police said he introduced himself as a former seer and an astrologer, which allowed him to meet several politicians. He took photographs with them which he misused to cheat people claiming he was close to central BJP leaders. “We have not come across a single case where he promised to get a job done and has delivered,” a senior official said. No politician has been questioned till date in the case. N. Ravikumar, general secretary, BJP Karnataka, said that it was their government that busted the conman and even attached his properties. "There is no question of saving anyone,” he said. Humble beginnings BJP insiders say the story of Yuvaraj Swamy is more nuanced. He was born in Devarapurada Hatti, Chitradurga district and after being anointed by Murugha Sharana Swami he took the name Sanganabasava Swami and became a seer of the community’s Sevalal Banjara Gurupeetha in the district in 1997-98. He was reportedly pushed out of the post over corruption charges and alleged womanising. Eight cases were registered against him in 2004 for cheating students after promising them seats at a dental college run by the community trust. Around this time, the BJP was beginning to build a larger social coalition, cultivating a support base among Dalits, OBCs, and other minor communities including the Banjaras. Yuvaraj, who by then also claimed he was an astrologer, is learnt to have become a ‘political player’. During the first tenure of BJP in power in the State, Yuvaraj, then popularly known as ‘Sevalal Swami’, was often sighted at the Chief Minister’s residence, a senior BJP legislator said.    On recent developments, a senior BJP leader said, “He had recently emerged as a key coordinator among certain MLAs trying to oust B.S. Yediyurappa as the Chief Minister. He developed hubris and bit off more than he could chew, prompting the government to take action.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/the-rise-and-fall-of-political-fixer-yuvaraj-swamy/article33653059.ece
25 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Drone cameras to be used to trace leopard that strayed into apartment complex||Forest Department officials have stepped up combing operations for the leopard that was caught on CCTV camera strolling around an apartment complex at Begur on Saturday morning and later at night. S.M. Shivaratreshwara, Range Forest Officer, K.R. Puram range, who is heading the operations, said they would use drones with cameras from Monday as part of the operations. Residents have been asked to keep their pets on a tight leash and avoid walking on grounds alone late at night or early in the morning. “We have instructed them to not venture out for at least two days for morning or evening walks. As a precaution, residents have been asked to move in groups and not walk or cycle alone in the area,” the official added. CCTV camera grabs that were circulated on Saturday show the leopard crossing what appears to be an internal road of the Prestige Song of the South apartment complex. “We have installed a cage at a strategic location to trap the leopard,” he said. Forest officials suspect that the leopard may have strayed into the complex grounds from the Bannerghatta park. The apartment has around 50 acres of space around with a lot of bushes and rocky hills. A team comprising Forest officials, wildlife NGOs, and a few volunteers from the apartment combed the old quarry area nearby covering around 40 acres .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/drone-cameras-to-be-used-to-trace-leopard-that-strayed-into-apartment-complex/article33653030.ece
25 January 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||State told to prepare DPR on plastic park in Mangaluru||The State government has been asked to prepare a Detailed Project Report to set up a plastic park in Mangaluru as soon as possible, Union Minister for Chemicals and Fertilizers D.V. Sadananda Gowda said on Sunday. In a note, he said that two places — Mangaluru and Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh — have been chosen to house the plastic parks, in a bid to promote the plastic industry as part of Atmanirbhar Bharat. The State has been asked to prepare a DPR and provide acceptance to the proposal. “Within six months, the final approval will be given and the project will be started. The park will provide common facilities for the state-of-the-art industries that will be set up to produce international-class plastic products,” the Minister said. Explaining the joint venture project between the State and the Centre, he said it would be implemented through a special purpose vehicle under the Karnataka State Industrial Development Corporation. “Half the expenditure on setting up common facilities will be borne by my ministry, which has already set aside Rs. 40 crore for the purpose. This amount will be released in four instalments,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-told-to-prepare-dpr-on-plastic-park-in-mangaluru/article33653040.ece
25 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||31% of targeted health workers vaccinated||COVID-19 vaccination drives were carried out in only four districts — Ballari, Bengaluru Urban, Dharwad, and Gadag — in Karnataka on Sunday and although 6,504 health workers were scheduled to receive the dose, only 31% of them were vaccinated. The Department of Health and Family Welfare stated that to reconcile and update the Co-WIN portal and owing to holidays, vaccination sessions were not being held on Saturdays and Sundays in other districts. No severe or serious adverse effects following immunisation were reported on Sunday. A total of 1.86 lakh, of the target of 3.34 lakh, health care workers have received the dose since January 16.  573 new cases Meanwhile, 573 new COVID-19 cases were reported in the State, taking the total number to 9.36 lakh. As many as 401 patients were discharged, taking the total to 9.16 lakh. Four people succumbed to the virus on Sunday, taking the total number of fatalities to 12,197.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/31-of-targeted-health-workers-vaccinated/article33653025.ece
25 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||R-Day celebration amid heightened security, safety||Republic Day celebration at Field Marshal Manekshaw Parade Grounds in Bengaluru on Tuesday will be a low-key affair when compared with previous years on account of the COVID-19 pandemic. Only a limited number of guests will be allowed to attend the flag hoisting ceremony and parade in keeping with the guidelines issued by the Union and State governments. Bengaluru city police personnel, along with those from the KSRP and CAR, Home Guards, and paramilitary force have been deployed for security and law and order. Entry to the public will be restricted to 500 invitees. Masks and maintaining social distance is mandatory, said officials. Traffic diversions Traffic will be diverted from 8.30 a.m. to 10.30 a.m. on Tuesday from BRV Junction to Kamaraj Road Junction on Cubbon Road. Vehicular movement from Manipal Centre Junction to BRV Junction on Cubbon Road will be prohibited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/r-day-celebration-amid-heightened-security-safety/article33653047.ece
25 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Farmers planning to hold parade on R-Day||Bengaluru is set to see its own farmers’ parade on Republic Day in solidarity with the farmers protesting in Delhi. Thousands from across the State are expected to drive into the city in tractors and other vehicles as part of the parade. More than 50 farmers’ organisations, Dalit organisations, and labour associations are expected to take part in the parade. While some organisations are taking out a rally from NICE Road junction on Tumakuru Road, some others are taking out a rally from city railway station. All these rallies will converge at Freedom Park. “Several farmers from Karnataka have left for Delhi in their own vehicles to take part in parade planned on Republic Day. However, not all can make it since there as train facility is not there and also because of the bitter cold,” said Kurubur Shanthakumar, president of Karnataka Sugarcane Farmers’ Association. He said that the parade was to protect the interests of farmers and to protest against the “anti-farmer acts” of the Centre. “MSP should receive legislative support,” he added. “We do not want to insult the Republic Day programmes organised by the State or Union governments. Our parade will be after the State function,” he said, adding that the parade would be peaceful and would not inconvenience the public. A note from Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha and Hasiru Sene said that farmers would drive through the city with national flags on their vehicles after Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa unfurls the national flag.  We do not want to insult the Republic Day programmes. Our parade will be after the State function Kurubur Shanthakumar,president, Karnataka Sugarcane Farmers’ Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmers-planning-to-hold-parade-on-r-day/article33653039.ece
25 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Police permission for parade is unlikely||The proposed farmers’ parade on Republic Day is unlikely to be permitted by the city police. Two parades are proposed — one from KSR railway station to Freedom Park and the other a tractor parade, led by Kodihalli Chandrashekar, from Tumakuru NICE Road junction to Freedom Park, via Goraguntepalya, Marammat Circle, Malleswaram, Seshadripuram, and Anand Rao Circle. The protesters have sought permission for a peaceful parade as they want to parade with tractors to extend support to the farmers’ agitation in Delhi and seek the repeal of the new farm laws. Highly placed sources said that permission would not be granted, considering similar experiences in the past. The farmers can protest without tractors, but once vehicles, estimated to be around 10,000, are allowed, things will likely turn unruly and the situation will be difficult to contain, sources said. The protesters, who are already gathering in the outskirts of the city to prepare for the parade, said they would block the entries and exits of the city if permission is denied for their protest. But police have been given instructions to ensure law and order and seize vehicles if the farmers try to disrupt normalcy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-permission-for-parade-is-unlikely/article33653041.ece
25 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Award for Fr. Stan Swamy||Human rights activist Father Stan Swamy has been named the recipient of the Mukundan C. Menon Award for 2020. The award was instituted in 2006 by National Confederation of Human Rights Organisations (NCHRO), an NGO, in memory of human rights activist Mukundan C. Menon. Father Stan Swamy, 83, was arrested on October 8, 2020in connection to the Bhima Koregaon case. In his absence, Father Joseph S.J., director of Indian Social Institute, Bengaluru, accepted the award, said general secretary of the NCHRO’s Karnataka committee Mohammed Farukh in a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/award-for-fr-stan-swamy/article33653034.ece
25 January 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Voters’ day programme||The Chief Electoral Officer of Karnataka will hold a programme to mark National Voters’ Day in Bengaluru on Monday. It will see the distribution of EPICs to some chosen new voters and specially abled persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/voters-day-programme/article33653044.ece
25 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Accused in question paper leak will be arrested’||Minister for Home, Law and Parliamentary Affairs Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday said that all the accused in the question paper leak of the First Division Assistant examination will be arrested soon. The investigation is on to identify the prime accused in the case, and action will be initiated against who is involved in leaking the question paper, the Minister told presspersons here. The examination was put off by Karnataka Public Service Commission after the leak was noticed on Saturday.  “It is suspicious and unfortunate that the question paper has leaked despite precaution by KPSC. Several people have been arrested in this connection and rest will be arrested soon.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/accused-in-question-paper-leak-will-be-arrested/article33653055.ece
25 January 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Daily special express train service||The Railways has decided to run a daily special express train between Kacheguda in Hyderabad and Yelahanka in Bengaluru. Train no. 07603 will depart from Kacheguda at 9.05 p.m. and reach Yelahanka at9.35 a.m. the next day, starting from January 27. Train no. 07604 will leave Yelahanka at 4.20 p.m. and reach Kacheguda at 5 a.m. the next day, from January 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/daily-special-express-train-service/article33653023.ece
25 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Two held for robbing pedestrian||Almost a year after a 27-year-old engineer from Bantwal was attacked by two men while he was on his way to the railway station, the Cottonpet police have arrested two habitual offenders. The accused, Nagaraj, 30, and Suresh, 32, confronted the victim, Sudhakar Umaraj, in an autorickshaw on Cottonpet main road and snatched his bag. “Sudhakar tried to stop them and followed them in an autorickshaw. He confronted them in an isolated location behind the station and begged them to return his bag. The duo, however, overpowered him and assaulted him. They threatened to kill him before making off with his mobile phone, Rs. 1,000 in cash, and his debit card,” said a police officer. They allegedly also forced him to reveal his debit card PIN. In his complaint, Sudharkar said the accused threatened to douse himin petrol and set him on fire. The duo fled after getting the PIN, and later withdrew Rs. 20,000. With the help of passersby, Sudhakar went to his relatives house in Kengeri Satellite Town. After reaching Bantwal, Sudhakar filed a complaint. Based on the complaint, the police analysed CCTV camera footage and identified the accused. On Sunday, they tracked down Nagaraj and Suresh and recovered valuables worth Rs. 3.14 lakh, a motorcycle, and the autorickshaw they had used to commit the crime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-held-valuables-recovered/article33653033.ece
25 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||RGUHS 23rd convocation on Feb. 7||The 23rd annual convocation ceremony of Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences - Karnataka, will be held on February 7. According to RGUHS release, it will be held at Nimhans convention centre at 11 a.m. For details, visitwww.rguhs.ac.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rguhs-23rd-convocation-on-feb-7/article33653054.ece
25 January 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Complaints on illegal quarrying fall on deaf ears||For many years, the residents of Hunasodu, Kallu Ganguru, and Abbanagere, and those living in layouts close to the Shivamogga-Shikaripura road, have complained to the district administration about the blasts and illegal quarry activities in their area. However, the administration has hardly taken any action to stop this. The administration has sanctioned quarry leases of building stone material at Sulebylu, Gajjenahalli, and Kallu Ganguru villages of Shivamogga taluk over an extent of 32.25 acres. The locals who live close to the quarry points hear blasts and experience tremors often. They have submitted several memorandums to the Deputy Commissioner and officers of the Mines and Geology Department and Karnataka State Pollution Control Board, besides complaining to the Karnataka Lokayukta. K.P. Sripal, advocate and spokesperson of Swaraj India’s Shivamogga district unit, said the illegal activities in Abbanagere, Hunasodu, Gejjenahalli, Jagatikoppa and other areas were very well known to the officers of the district administration. “The quarry owners use explosives extensively. Whenever the locals complain or stage protests on the issue, the administration issues notice, but does not bother to act. Shockingly, Ministers and legislators often instruct officers not to stop the mining activities, saying that it would affect development works. This clearly shows that the people involved in illegal activities have the support of influential people,” he said. Residents of layouts on the city’s outskirts have often complained to the administration about the blasts. Shashi Sampalli, a resident of Shivamogga, told The Hindu that his place was barely 3 km from a quarry point. “We often hear blasts at night and have brought this to the notice of senior officers. But no action has been taken.” Notice from KSPCB Residents have also complained to the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) many times about the pollutioncaused by the crushing units. A KSPCB official told The Hindu whenever they received complaints, they issued notice to the quarry owners instructing them to take corrective measures. “The dust from the crushing units caused air pollution in the area. Upon receiving the complaints, we held meetings with representatives of theassociation of those into mining,” an officer said on condition of anonymity. Following the incident, a news report published in a Kannada daily in 2015 quoted the then Leader of the Opposition in the Council K.S. Eshwarappa instructing officials not to act on those involved in mining. Former MLA and Congress leader K.B. Prasanna Kumar told The Hindu , “All quarry owners enjoy the patronage of powerful people, including Eshwarappa, who is now the Minister in charge of Shivamogga district. If the police or any other official stops an illegal act, they will immediately get a call from the Minister.”  The quarry owners use explosives extensively. Whenever locals complain or stage protests, the administration issues notice, but does not bother to act. Ministers and legislators often instruct officers not to stop the mining activities... K.P. Sripal, spokesperson, Swaraj India Shivamogga unit||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/complaints-on-illegal-quarrying-fall-on-deaf-ears/article33653042.ece
25 January 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||BSY has neglected development of Hassan district: Deve Gowda||Former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda has said that B.S. Yediyurappa had neglected the development of Hassan district whenever he became Chief Minister. Speaking to presspersons here on Sunday, he said the JD(S) did not discriminate against any district during its rule in the State. “I’m not envious of Shivamogga’s development during Mr. Yediyurappa’s rule. But not providing funds for development works in Hassan is not fair. The previous coalition government had approved the development of Channapatna tank in Hassan at a cost of Rs. 144 crore. But now the amount has been diverted to other tanks. With that, the work proposed to develop Hassan as a tourist centre has suffered,” he said. Referring to Hassan MLA Preetham Gowda’s opposition to the project, Mr. Deve Gowda said he would appeal to the BJP MLA to join hands for the development of the city. Many projects, including Hassan airport and improvement of Bilikere-Belur road had been delayed as the successive governments did not give attention. During H.D. Kumaraswamy’s rule, land was earmarked for IIT in Hassan. However, the parties which came to power later did not implement it, he said. Mr. Deve Gowda said he had sought time to meet Chief Minister on Monday in Bengaluru along with JD(S) MLAs on the pending projects in Hassan. “If the CM agrees to meet, I will discuss these projects with him. JD(S) MLAs had planned to stage a protest. I feel discussing the issue during the legislature session would be better,” he said. Mr. Deve Gowda also said Mr. Yediyurappa had a term until 2023. “The JD(S) had never attempted to disturb him since he took over the CM’s office. He will complete the term,” he said.  I’m not envious of Shivamogga’s development during Mr. Yediyurappa’s rule. But not providing funds for development works in Hassan is not fair.H.D. Deve GowdaFormer Prime Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bsy-has-neglected-development-of-hassan-district-deve-gowda/article33653425.ece
25 January 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Panel led by DC formed to probe Hunasodu blast||The government has appointed a committee headed by Shivamogga Deputy Commissioner K.B. Shivakumar to probe the blast at Hunasodu which claimed six lives. Shivamogga Superintendent of Police K.M. Shantharaju and three technical experts are also in the committee. When The Hindu contacted Mr. Shivakumar, he said the committee has begun its work on the ground. “We are making progress in the investigation,” he said. He, however, refused to share names of the experts on the panel. The committee has attracted the wrath of Opposition parties, who have maintained that an investigation headed by the Deputy Commissioner would not bring out the truth. K.B. Prasanna Kumar, former MLA, alleged that the investigation by this committee was just an eyewash. “Nothing will come out of this. For a fair investigation, the Minister in charge of the district, K.S. Eshwarappa, should resign first. Then the matter should be handed over to the CBI or a probe by a sitting High Court judge should be ordered,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/panel-led-by-dc-formed-to-probe-hunasodu-blast/article33653038.ece
25 January 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Corruption comes in many ‘grades’, says Annamalai in book||The recently-released book by K. Annamalai, who joined the Bharatiya Janata Party after resigning as IPS officer of Karnataka cadre, has highlighted systemic corruption in the police system. The book ( Stepping Beyond Khaki – Revelations of Real-Life Singham ), without taking the names of any officers, politicians or political parties, talks about how bribe plays an important role in the policing world. “It starts right from the time an officer enters into a new posting,” he writes. He says that police postings are graded into four categories based on the “economic potential” of the area and nature of policing challenges. They are “tough and income-generating”, “tough and non-income generating”, “easy to work and income-generating”, and “easy to work non-income generating.” Economically backward areas which tend to have issues like Naxalism form the “tough and non-income generating areas”. These areas attract either the idealistic or “thoroughly useless” officers, he said. “Tough and income-generating places” are those where caste and communal conflicts keep the officers busy and also have income generating sources. They normally attract officers who are “practical, efficient, and also generally good but sometimes with suspect intentions.” Such areas could be managed by idealistic officers but they are not preferred by political set up or the senior officers. However, “easy to work and income-generating” areas are those in major cities. This is where the “officers fight like cats and dogs to get posted,” says Mr. Annamalai. And, the “easy to work and non-income generating areas” normally get either idealistic or “useless officers.” The author says he shared this information in detail in the book to help the readers understand that “bribe in policing is systemic.” The local politicians decide who gets posted to their district. “Needless to say, money plays a huge role in getting the post. Good, idealistic guys continue to be sidelined while resourceful ones keep moving up the ladder,” he writes. The author also remembers in the book Constables, Head Constables, Sub-Inspectors, and Inspectors, who excel in their job assigned, facing the challenges successfully.  Former police officer K. Annamalai, who joined the Bharatiya Janata Party, says postings are graded into four categories based on the “economic potential” of the area and nature of policing challenges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/corruption-comes-in-many-grades-says-annamalai-in-book/article33653052.ece
25 January 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Leopard cat killed in accident||A female leopard cat, aged about two, was killed in a road accident near Tejaswi Circle in Sakleshpur town on Sunday. The animal died after it was hit by an unknown vehicle. Local people noticed the animal and informed the Forest Department. K.N. Basavaraj, Deputy Conservator of Forests of Hassan, told The Hindu that the department had registered a case. Captured The Forest Department officials captured a leopard near Bisale in Yeslur range in Sakleshpur taluk on Saturday night. The officials had kept a cage in the area following complaints of the animal roaming in the area. “The animal is healthy. It would be released later into forest area,” the officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/leopard-cat-killed-in-accident/article33653426.ece
25 January 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Karjol tells officials to complete pending works before March 31||Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol, who is also the Minister for Public Works, has directed the officials concerned to complete all the pending works taken up by his department before the end of the financial year. During a review of the progress of works taken up by the Public Works Department at the Conference Hall of the Taluk Panchayat in Humnabad, Bidar district, on Sunday, he also directed the officials to blacklist the contractors who failed to maintain quality in implementing projects. “All the works should be completed before March 31 this year. The officials should ensure that quality is maintained. They should also ensure that those contractors who failed to maintain quality are blacklisted and are barred from participating in future tenders,” he said. Executive Engineer of Public Works Department Prashant Jadav said that focus was on repair of roads and bridges that were damaged in heavy rain and floods in September and October last year. “The tender process for the development of a road stretch between the entrance of Basavakalyan and Tripuranta which is to be taken up at Rs. 10 crore is in progress,” Mr. Jadav said. Lok Sabha member from Bidar Bhagwanth Khuba, legislator Rajashekhar B. Patil, Raghunath Rao Malkapure, Aravind Kumar Arali, Chandrashekhar B. Patil, Deputy Commissioner Ramachandran R. and Chief Executive Officer of the Zilla Panchayat Gyanendra Kumar Gangwar were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karjol-tells-officials-to-complete-pending-works-before-march-31/article33653229.ece
25 January 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Revoor foundation sets up free dialysis centre||To commemorate the birth anniversary of the former MLA, late Chandrashekar Patil Revoor on January 26, the Chandrasekhar Patil Revoor Foundation has announced the launch of a free dialysis centre in Kalaburagi. President of the foundation Appu Kanaki and member Dayaghan Dharwadkar, addressing presspersons here on Sunday, said that it would be a first-of-its-kind standalone dialysis centre in the region to be entirely paperless. The centre would act as a major help for the dialysis patients in the region who travel miles for treatment. The late leader will always be remembered as a visionary man who was always open to new ideas and served the people of the region, Mr. Dharwadkar said. Sharan Malkhedkar, facility director of the dialysis centre, said that the centre would have five dialysis machines, with a well-equipped facility, and a 12-member team comprising a nephrologist, a resident doctor, dialysis technicians and a nurse. The foundation will be offering dialysis services free for all patients, while Rs. 500 will be charged for consumables, he added. A patient usually requires two dialysis sessions a week with each session lasting up to four hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/revoor-foundation-sets-up-free-dialysis-centre/article33653227.ece
25 January 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Support for Hampa Nagarajaiah||The former MLA B.R. Patil has extended his support to writer Hampa Nagarajaiah’s statement comparing the Union government with Mahabharata character Duryodhana, citing their lack of response to the farmers protest in Delhi. Addressing presspersons here on Sunday, Mr. Patil also accused the BJP workers of lodging a complaint against him and condemned the police calling Mr. Nagarajaiah to the police station for recording his statement. The BJP government’s act is an attempt to curb the freedom of expression of people, he said and remarked that it was an insult to the literary fraternity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/support-for-hampa-nagarajaiah/article33653226.ece
25 January 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||65-year-old makes it to India Book of Records in swimming||The 65-year-old Gangadhar G. Kadekar, a former employee of the Regional Transport Office, made it to the India Book of Records by swimming a distance of 1.4 km in 73.7 minutes by chaining his legs in the ‘Padmasana’ pose in the sea in Padukare in Udupi district on Sunday. He breaststroked against the wind and reached the flag on the east side of the shore at Padukare - the destination. Harish R., the adjudicator from India Book of Records, presented the provisional certificate to him. Mr. Kadekar told reporters that he was a bit worried when he saw a big group of jelly fish deep inside the water. “Fortunately the jelly fish did not come up. Had they come up, I would have had to give up covering the distance,” he said. Mr. Kadekar took up swimming at the age of 50. Concerned about so many youngsters drowning in the sea, he has since been training youth in swimming in the sea for the last two years under the Jai Durga Swimming Club. Mr. Kadekar has won gold, silver and bronze medals in the State-level national level swimming competition for seniors. He said he trained in swimming by chaining his legs for 20 days, before attempting the feat. Similar feat On December 18, 2020, government school teacher Nagaraj Kharvi made it to India Book of Records by swimming a distance of 1 km in 25 minutes and 16.63 seconds by chaining his legs in the Padmasana pose in the sea in Mangaluru. He accomplished this feat at Tannirbhavi beach in Mangaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/65-year-old-makes-it-to-india-book-of-records-in-swimming/article33653382.ece
25 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Toys made from paper mache launched||Toys made from paper mache or paper pulp are the new attractions among the eco-friendly products being made by a social entrepreneurship called Paper Seed near Mangaluru. Paper Seed, located at Pakshikere on the outskirts of the city, launched the paper toys on Sunday. Entrepreneurship founder Nitin Vas, who is also an artist, said that Paper Seed wants to promote the new product as Mangaluru Toys by making them reflect the culture of the region in the coming days to build a brand image. There are limited edition toys made from paper mache in Jammu and Kashmir, he said and added that paper toys had their origin in Persia. Mr. Vas said that efforts will be made to project the toys as Mangaluru Toys on the lines of the Channapatna Toys which are made of soft wood. “No plastic has been used in making Mangaluru Toys. Natural colours have been used in making them,” Mr. Vas, who is also an alumnus of Chamarajendra Academy of Visual Arts (CAVA), Mysuru, said. For Raksha Bandhan last year, Paper Seed had launched rakhis having seeds of tomato, cucumber, capsicum, tulsi and the like. It had also made some terracotta rakhis with seeds. Paper Seed also makes eco-friendly jewellery, earrings, key chain, ladles, cups from coconut shells, driftwood sculptures, baskets from locally available creepers and climbers. Some of the other products include seed pens, bamboo toothbrush, designed paper mache, seed paper notepad, paper straw, recycled paper cards, newspaper seed pencils and organic agarbatti.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/toys-made-from-paper-mache-launched/article33653389.ece
25 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Discussion today on distance edn. courses||The Syndicate of Mangalore University, which is scheduled to meet on Monday, will deliberate upon whether to continue offering distance education courses through its Centre of Distance Education. Conventional universities in the State have now begun in-house deliberations following a recent decision of the State government which offered the exclusive right of offering Open and Distance Learning (ODL) courses to Karnataka State Open University (KSOU) in Mysuru. The State government issued a Gazette notification on this last month after amending the Karnataka State Universities and Certain Other Law (second amendment) Act 2020. In addition to KSOU, six other conventional universities in the State now offered courses under the distance education mode. Minister for Higher Education C.N. Ashwath Narayan tweeted on January 2 that the government had notified the Karnataka State Universities and Certain Other Law (second amendment) Act 2020. “Henceforth, all distance education programmes will be carried out under the aegis of KSOU,” the Minister tweeted. “With COVID-19, there has been an increased demand for quality distance education from cross the State. This move will help us streamline and upgrade all Open and Distance Learning (ODL) courses making them accessible, effective and engaging for our students,” Mr. Ashwath Narayan said. Vice-Chancellor of Mangalore University P. S. Yadapadithaya, who also heads the Syndicate, told The Hindu that the Distance Education Bureau under the University Grants Commission (UGC) has allowed the university to offer its courses under the distance education mode till the academic year 2020-21. With the recent notification of the State government, the Syndicate will decide whether to continue the courses from the academic year 2021-22 or how to address the issue. The Vice-Chancellor said that the university might also explore the options of seeking legal remedy subject to the approval of the Syndicate. “We have already obtained legal opinion on the matter,” he said and added that if the Centre of Distance Education is wounded up, the university will lose an annual revenue of about Rs. 6 crore. The university now offers BA, B.Com and BBA courses under the distance education mode. In addition, it offers post-graduate courses in Economics, History, Political Science, Sociology, English, Kannada, Hindi, Commerce and Tourism Administration.  Conventional universities in the State have now begun in-house deliberations following a recent decision of the State government The Vice-Chancellor said that the university might also explore the options of seeking legal remedy subject to the approval of the Syndicate||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/discussion-today-on-distance-edn-courses/article33653393.ece
25 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Beneficiaries of employment schemes for BCs to be trained in various skills||The D. Devaraj Urs Backward Classes Development Corporation will provide training to beneficiaries of employment schemes of the corporation to help them obtain skills, chairman R. Raghu Kautilya said here on Sunday. It will then grant them loans also. Talking to reporters, Mr. Kautilya said that the corporation is actively pursuing Kaushalya Karnataka scheme mooted by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to provide skills and boost entrepreneurship. The corporation has decided to provide skill training to a minimum of 50 beneficiaries from Backward Classes (BCs) in each taluk every month. “By the end of the year, there will be more than a lakh skilled beneficiaries,” he said and added that the skill training will make beneficiaries self-employed and capable of repaying loan. “As much as Rs. 400 crore of loan amount is yet to be recovered,” he said. The corporation is listing out the skills that beneficiaries need. It includes skills for marketing of forest products and of limestone paste traditionally extracted by a backward class tribe. “We want beneficiaries to adopt technology in their traditional skills. We are also working on providing an avenue for them to market their products,” he said. The corporation has proposed to the State government to have people, other than officials, as members for selecting beneficiaries for the Ganga Kalyana scheme under which borewells are drilled in agriculture land. The corporation will work with elected representatives and others to reach the benefits of the schemes to members of all the 206 castes coming under the Backward Class categories 1, 2A and 3A, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/beneficiaries-of-employment-schemes-for-bcs-to-be-trained-in-various-skills/article33653396.ece
25 January 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Puttur student awarded PM Bal Puraskar||A first year PU student, Rakesh Krishna K., is among the 32 children awarded the Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar this year. Rakesh Krishna from Bannur in Puttur taluk and 10-year-old Veer Kashyap from Bengaluru are among the nine children to receive the award under the Innovation category. Seven children are receiving the award under the Art and Culture category, five for Scholastic Achievements, seven under the Sports category, three under the Bravery category and one in the Social Field category. Rakesh Krishna, who studied at Vivekananda English Medium School, Puttur, has focused on the agriculture sector and come out with many prototypes.One among these is the “Novel seeder for systematic cultivation”, which he presented at the Jignyasa 2018 competition organised by Agastya International Foundation in Bengaluru. Rakesh Krishna did not want to speak more about his work till Monday. He will be among the award winners with whom Prime Minister Narendra Modi will have a virtual interaction through video conferencing at around noon on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pm-bal-puraskar-for-two-from-karnataka/article33653020.ece
25 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Another 100 Olive Ridley eggs found||Another batch of about 100 Olive Ridley turtle eggs were found on Kodi beach, near Kundapur, in Udupi district on Sunday. They were found while Clean Kundapur Project volunteers were cleaning the beach as part of their weekly cleaning drive. Fisherman Babu Mogaveera who sighted the nesting first informed the volunteers and members of FSL India, which is working towards turtle conservation. Later, all of them in association with the Forest Department took steps to conserve them. The volunteers said that the eggs have been found on the Kodi beach after four years now. The incubation period ranges between 45 days and 52 days. They said that usually dogs eat the eggs by sensing their odour. The eggs found on Sunday lay about 50 m south of the place where the locals had sighted about 100 eggs on Friday. The nesting season usually starts after monsoon by September, though in the recent past, it has shifted to January and ends in April. This could be due to climate change, the volunteers said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/another-100-olive-ridley-eggs-found/article33653391.ece
25 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||NAAC team visiting varsity next month||A peer team of the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) will visit Mangalore University for three days from February 8 in connection with review as the university is opting for the third cycle accreditation. Vice-Chancellor of the university P.S. Yadapadithaya said that the five-year validity of the second cycle NAAC accreditation in which the university received A grade expired in May 2019. Now, the NAAC has completed 70 % of the assessment which covered self study for quantitative matrix. The peer team visiting next month will assess the university for qualitative matrix of remaining 30 % assessment, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/naac-team-visiting-varsity-next-month/article33653392.ece
25 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Man killed in road accident||A 30-year-old man from Kuttrupady in Kadaba died and 10 were injured in a collision between a sports utility vehicle (SUV) and a car near Kunturu village of Kadaba taluk on Sunday. The Kadaba Police gave the name of the deceased as Naveen (30). He was driving the car in which his wife, his parents and sister were travelling. They were returning to Kuttrupady in the car after meeting their distant relative in a nearby place. At around 4 p.m., Naveen reportedly lost control over the car and rammed the approaching SUV, which was being driven by Babin S.V., who is also from Kuttrupady. There were four more people in the SUV. The police said that Naveen died on the spot. Among the injured, some have suffered serious injuries. They have been taken to private hospital in Mangaluru, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-killed-in-road-accident/article33653394.ece
25 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Flag hoisting||Minister for Fisheries, Ports and Inland Transport A. Angara will hoist the National Flag during the Republic Day celebration in Udupi on Tuesday. Minister in-charge of Dakshina Kannada Kota Srinivasa Poojary will hoist the flag in Mangaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/flag-hoisting/article33653398.ece
25 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||After smooth trial run, ‘Ambari’ set for launch||Thanks to its successful trial run, the countdown for the launch of KSTDC’s double-decker open-roof bus tours has begun as all constraints had been cleared, ending the wait for experiencing in a different way. The bus had a few trial runs on the 36-km long route within the city limits, mostly covering the best part of Mysuru’s heritage beauty. The open roof bus tours are expected to attract tourists at a time when the stakeholders were striving to revive the tourism sector hit by the pandemic. The roll out was delayed over the pandemic and the KSTDC had to wait for other hurdles to be cleared to bring the bus on the road. Chamundeshwari Electricity Supply Corporation (CESC) relocated the overhead electricity lines that were obstructing the free movement of the bus on the designated route. The KSTDC had requested the CESC for shifting the transmission lines besides urging the Forest Department and the Mysuru City Corporation for pruning tree branches along the route to facilitate unhindered movement. Accordingly, the overhead HT and LT transmission lines on the route had been removed and laid underground to facilitate the movement of ‘Ambari’. The CESC had warned agencies which had used the electric poles for running its cables, including the cable TV networks, for clearing them immediately. A KSTDC source facilitating the trial runs said: “All hurdles have been cleared and the bus has been smooth run on the designated route. What remains is the formal launch of the tours. The KSTDC will take a final call on the date on which the bus will roll out.” ‘Ambari’ is a specially-built double-decker bus for open-roof bus tours. The launch was planned in March last year but was put off indefinitely in view of pandemic. However, the KSTDC was keen to roll out the open-roof bus tours and ferrying tourists on the designated route to help them experience the beauty of Mysuru’s rich heritage on the go during Dasara last year. However, the launch was hit since the overhead electricity lines had not been cleared by then for the smooth movement of the 16-feet tall bus. The 40-seater bus, with lower and upper decks, was built in Bengaluru.  Besides four ‘Ambari’ buses for Mysuru, the KSTDC plans to operate two buses in Hampi, the UNESCO world heritage site, as well. Ambari is a hop-on, hop-off initiative for tourists to experience the palaces and heritage buildings of Mysuru. Tourists will get an audio guide the moment the bus reaches the tourist sites identified on the route. The audio will be available in two languages in the beginning — Kannada and English. The KSTDC plans to add foreign languages subsequently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/after-smooth-trial-run-ambari-set-for-launch/article33653419.ece
25 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||NGOs suspect cover-up in bonded labour case||Non-governmental organisations and activists suspect a conspiracy to suppress and cover up a case of bonded labour in a stone quarry at Yaladahalli village in Nagamangala taluk of Mandya district despite complaints by the victims. They have sought a inquiry into the case as the complainant has alleged that she was also molested. The Swabhimana Trust of Mandya took up the case following which the Assistant Commissioner of Pandavpur, Shivananda Murthy, ordered an inquiry last December. Officials, including the tahsildar of Nagamangala taluk, had visited the spot and had concluded that there was neither evidence of bonded labour nor illegal quarrying in the Yaladahalli village as alleged. They also reported at that time there were no signs of anybody overseeing or intimidating the complainant to work under duress as alleged. In all, 13 people were said to be forced to work in the quarry. However, NGOs have alleged that the authorities rushed to the conclusion to hush up the case as the accused was connected to a prominent politician of the district. Meanwhile, a First Information Report (FIR) was registered on December 18, 2020, in the Belur police station, based on a complaint by a woman that her family including her two children, were forced into bonded labour by the owner of the stone quarry, identified as Madhu. “My father-in-law had taken an advance of Rs. 40,000 about 20 years ago which is yet to be repaid and hence my family is forced to work from 6 a.m. to 8 p.m. at Rs. 200 per week,” according to the complainant. An expert on human rights said that the complaint indicates that it a inter-generational bondage with the debt accrued by the father being passed on to his son and daughter-in-law, and hence this called for a serious inquiry. He said though there are charges of caste atrocity and sexual molestation in the FIR, the accused was yet to be arrested which lends credence to suspicions of a cover-up. As per a 2016 State government order, in case any SC/ST member is subjected to bonded labour Rs. 1 lakh is due as compensation of which 25% has to be paid at the time of registering the FIR and it has not been done so far, said the human rights scholar. When contacted, Belur SI Dayanand said “investigation is still on”. Meanwhile, Venkatagiriah, State President of Dalit Shoshit Samaj Sangharsh Samiti (DSSSS or DS-4) said illegal mining and bonded labour were intrinsically linked and they are present to a large degree in Mandya district. “There are attempts to hush up the case against which we held a protest in Nagamangala on Saturday. We will fight till the victims secure justice,” he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ngos-suspect-cover-up-in-bonded-labour-case/article33653057.ece
25 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Explosives seized in crackdown on illegal quarrying in Mandya||The Mandya district administration has seized explosives and detained vehicles in different parts of the district as part of a crackdown against illegal quarrying, carried out in the wake of the recent blast in Shivamogga. Residents of many parts of Mandya, particularly Baby Betta, situated close to the Krishnaraja Sagar, had voiced concerns over the illegal quarrying in the area. The stone-crushing units in different parts of Mandya supply stones used in construction activity in not only Mandya, but also Mysuru district. Officials of the taluk administration, including those from the Department of Mines and Geology, besides the police, are keeping an eye on the mining activity in the district to check illegal quarrying. After Deputy Commissioner M.V. Venkatesh visited Baby Betta on Friday, teams of taluk administration officials and the police inspected illegal stone crushers in different parts of Nagamangala and Srirangapatna on Saturday. While a few vehicles had been seized in Baby Betta during a recent raid, Parashurama K., Superintendent of Police of Mandya, said the police had seized explosives in two places in the district — in Arakere police station limits of Srirangapatna and in Bellur police station limits in Nagamangala taluk. While 350 detonators were seized in Arakere, 16 gelatin sticks and 18 detonators were recovered from Bellur. The inspection of stone-crushing units across the district will continue in the coming days, he added. ‘A big warning’ Sumalatha, MP for Mandya, said she would continue her efforts till illegal mining activity was stopped completely. Following the blast in Shivamogga, Ms. Sumalatha tweeted that the incident should serve as a “big warning” for Mandya too. “Most times it is unfortunately done in connivance with local politicians and a few corrupt government authorities. I urge the government to take immediate action and give strict instructions to all district administration officials to take action against all illegal mining activities,” she tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/explosives-seized-in-crackdown-on-illegal-quarrying-in-mandya/article33653043.ece
25 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Mysuru zoo to screen documentaries as part of ‘Green Good Deeds’ campaign||Next time when you visit the Mysuru Zoo, make sure you don’t miss to watch the movies and documentaries that promote conservation and environment protection. Thanks to the Ministry of Environment’s ‘Green Good Deeds’ campaign, an initiative of spreading the message of environment protection, a big LED screen is being installed at the amphitheatre inside the zoo for regular screening of documentaries and short films on wildlife produced by the Forest Department, the Mysuru zoo and other conservationists. The best practices of the zoo and others that go a long way in protecting nature will be screened for educating the visitors on a variety of issues that need attention. Like how the foreign zoos engage visitors on their zoo tours, informing them about their roles in wildlife protection, the zoo has proposed a similar move, screening movies on a regular basis and making it part of the zoo tours. The Central Zoo Authority, New Delhi, has partly funded the LED screen whose installation work is done and the trial run of screening films is under way. “We have many films on wildlife which can be shown to the visitors. As we had no LED screen, we could not screen documentaries on every occasion. To make screening a routine exercise to engage the visitors, the zoo got the LED screen installed. Henceforth, the visitors can get to see many films on wildlife that sheds light on many fascinating things about nature and the wild animals, besides explaining the roles humans can play,” said zoo Executive Director Ajit Kulkarni. He told The Hindu that the CZA partly funded the project as part of the Green Good Deeds campaign of the Union Ministry of Environment where the best practices of the zoo and its sustainable and eco-friendly measures that are made into documentaries can be screened. Be it vermicompost from the animal waste, rainwater harvesting that has helped recharge the water table and the rejuvenation of ponds within the zoo campus, many such initiatives that have received praise can be highlighted among the visitors. Mr. Kulkarni said not all the Indian zoos have received special funding under the Green Good Deeds campaign and the select zoos including Mysuru zoo which are among the country’s leading had been chosen. “From February onwards, the screening of films on wildlife will be regularly done on the LED screen,” he replied. Karanji Lake’s rejuvenation by the zoo was described as a success story and a model in lake conservation. After its conservation, it became a prominent tourist destination. Such success stories can be told to the visitors through audio-visual presentations. The rejuvenation of Hebbal Lake has also come under appreciation after the zoo adopted the lake and took up its restoration. In a span of less than two years, the habitat at the Lalithadripura Lake, one of the city’s last few remaining water bodies, has seen a considerable change in its ecosystem, attracting many winged visitors. The zoo adopted the water body on the foothills of Chamundi about three years ago and developed the place making use of its expertise in managing the Karanji Lake. Besides creating an island and planting vast varieties of plants, the zoo developed the lake environs as lung space for the residents living in the vicinity, establishing a walkway and building a gazebo for the benefit of yoga enthusiasts and walkers. The zoo hopes to retell such stories to the public and spread the message of caring for nature for future generations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysuru-zoo-to-screen-documentaries-as-part-of-green-good-deeds-campaign/article33653417.ece
25 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||HDK targets Narayana Gowda over illegal mining in Mandya||Former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy on Sunday targeted Minister for Youth Empowerment and Sports K.C. Narayana Gowda over illegal mining activity in Mandya. Mr. Gowda, who is also the Minister in charge of Mandya district, was among the MLAs who quit the JD(S) and joined the BJP in 2019 to bring down the Mr. Kumaraswamy-led coalition government. Referring to the crackdown on illegal mining activity in different parts of Mandya in the wake of the recent blast in Shivamogga, Mr. Kumaraswamy sought to know what was preventing Mr. Gowda from taking steps to stop illegal quarrying in the district during the last 14-15 months. Stating that he had never allowed any illegal mining nor supported people engaged in the activity during his entire political career, Mr. Kumaraswamy asked Mr. Gowda whether the district in-charge Minister should realise that rampant illegal mining was going on in the district only after the explosion in Shivamogga. Tops State The former Chief Minister referred to media reports and claimed that Mandya district topped the State in illegal mining activity and alleged that the grapevine is that the NOCs for mining are issued against payment of a bribe. More than half of the C forms or NOCs issued in Mandya district were for illegal mining activity, Mr. Kumaraswamy alleged and sought to know where has the bribe money had gone. If Mr. Narayana Gowda was to really have concern for protecting the district’s natural resources and environment, he would have taken action against the illegal mining activity much earlier and would not have waited for the Shivamogga explosion, the former Chief Minister said. Mr. Kumaraswamy trained his guns on Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa also for his statement asking people to regularise all their mining activity. “The Chief Minister’s statement is quite revealing. The BJP government wants to send a message to people that they are in favour of regularising all illegal activities,” he said before warning Mr. Yediyurappa against playing with the lives of the people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hdk-targets-narayana-gowda-over-illegal-mining-in-mandya/article33653423.ece
25 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Sandalwood museum to be inaugurated today||The country’s first sandalwood museum showcasing different variety of the species will be inaugurated on Monday. District in charge Minister S.T. Somashekar will inaugurate the museum which is at Sri Gandha Koti on the Aranya Bhavan campus in Ashokapuram at 10 a.m. Deputy Conservator of Forests Prashanth Kumar said that though Karnataka is known for sandal and it has a pride of place in the State’s history and heritage, there was no one source of information pertaining to it. Hence senior Forest Department officials thought it fit to create a museum for the benefit of public, he said. It is only in fitness of things that Mysuru which is known for sandalwood oil, incense sticks, sandal soap and the Kannada film industry is known as Sandalwood, also has a sandal museum, said Mr. Prasanath The display includes 20 species of sandal, threegiant logs of sandal the kind of which is not to be seen in the present times and a few handicraft works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sandalwood-museum-to-be-inaugurated-today/article33653424.ece
25 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Moderate surge in footfall||Footfall to the Mysuru zoo has seen a moderate surge, raising hopes of tourism revival post COVID-19. The weekend footfall has now crossed 7,000, which according to the zoo authorities was promising. Last year, after the lockdown was lifted and the zoo was reopened, the footfall did not pick up as expected and it was less than 1,000 during weekends for a long time. The weekday numbers were even discouraging, bringing down the zoo’s revenue. However, with the cases seeing a sharp fall and most curbs eased, tourism picked up slightly though it is not like the pre-COVID-19 days. Yet, there is a ray of hope and the past glory could be achieved sooner or later, said zoo director Ajit Kulkarni. The zoo can be sustainable if it gets an average footfall of 7,000 a day. It is yet to happen, indicating it is yet to recover fully from the COVID-19 impact. The visitors’ numbers in weekdays were around 3,000. “The zoo needs Rs. 7 lakh a day to meet the expenditure and for maintenance of animals and birds. We are yet to get this sum and we hope the footfall picks up further so that we can be become sustainable post COVID-19,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/moderate-surge-in-footfall/article33653415.ece
25 January 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Video shows women sleeping on the ground after surgery||A video that shows women sleeping on the ground in the taluk hospital in Shahapur of Yadgir district after tubectomy surgery has gone viral. Sources said that there were 100 beds but of these, only 60 are in good condition and all of these had been preoccupied by other patients. Owing to shortages of beds, doctors managed to handle the situation and arranged for bedsheets to be laid on the floor where women undergoing tubectomy surgery were asked to take rest until they were discharged from hospital. “We conducted more than 200 laser surgeries in a day on Saturday. We kept them under observation for three hours and later discharged them. The discharged women, who were probably waiting for vehicles or attendees to take them home, slept on the ground in the meanwhile,” Mallappa, in-charge of the hospital, clarified. “We had actually stopped tubectomy surgeries during lockdown. After the withdrawal of lockdown, the demand for surgery has significantly increased. On request, we increased the number of surgeries too. I will check about what happened in the instant case. It may not have happened as a deliberate case,” District Health Officer Indhumathi Patil told The Hindu . She, however, promised that such incidents will not happen in the future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/video-shows-women-sleeping-on-the-ground-after-surgery/article33653230.ece
25 January 2021||January 25 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Prices soaring||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/prices-soaring/article33653384.ece
25 January 2021||January 25 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Deadly||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/deadly/article33653232.ece
25 January 2021||January 25 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Towards a cleaner city||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/towards-a-cleaner-city/article33653421.ece
25 January 2021||January 25 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||CoP||For long, Janata Dal (S) has been described by its political adversaries as the “father and sons” party, referring to the control of the party by former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda and his sons H.D. Kumaraswamy and H.D. Revanna. Over the years, partymen have watched the ascent of the sons, particularly Mr. Kumaraswamy, in the party hierarchy, relegating the patriarch to the shadows. But few have dared to publicly point out that the ageing party supremo’s writ no longer runs in the party, lest they incurred the family’s wrath. However, G.T. Deve Gowda (in picture),former Minister and JD(S) MLA representing Chamundeshwari constituency, dared do so recently. “What will he [Mr. Deve Gowda] do if his children do not listen to him?” he asked reporters in Mysuru while praising the senior Gowda for the administrative capabilities he displayed during his tenure as Chief Minister of the State and the country’s Prime Minister. By going public with what is acknowledged in hushed tones in the party, Mr. G.T. Deve Gowda not only sympathised with the JD(S) patriarch, but also hit out at Mr. Kumaraswamy, who had threatened him with expulsion from the party a few days ago.   Ramesh and Satish Jarkiholi, the two big brothers of the Gokak clan, routinely spar in public over various political issues. But this time, it was about something less interesting — they differed on the colour of the cap that Mr. Ramesh wore in his childhood. Addressing gram panchayat members in Ganesh Bag village, Mr. Ramesh(in picture)said that he came from a family of freedom fighters and Sangh Parivar followers. “My father Lakshman Rao used to be a follower of Jagannathrao Joshi, the former MP. Lakshman Rao went to jail for three months for his involvement with the Jan Sangh. We brothers wore a black cap, which is part of the RSS uniform. It is a different matter that we joined the Congress later. But now I have come back to the BJP and the Sangh Parivar,” he said. But Mr. Satish countered this by saying that no one had seen Mr. Ramesh wearing a black cap. “We all remember that he always wore the white skull cap, usually worn by Muslims. He used to be a defender of the rights of Muslims. But now he has changed a lot,” Mr. Satish told journalists. He also displayed an old photo of Mr. Ramesh wearing a skull cap. Mr. Ramesh Jarkiholi reacted to this angrily. He said that Mr. Satish did not remember the events from his childhood properly. “When I was fighting elections, he was writing campaign slogans on compound walls. Does he remember that?” he asked.   The recent incident of a woman slapping a 41-year-old man in police custody, who was arrested for alleged harassment during her travel in a city bus, has raised many eyebrows. The police had acted upon the ordeal she narrated on social media and arrested the accused, who was present as Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar briefed the media on the case. The woman slapped the accused once, soon after Mr. Kumar left the conference hall after the press briefing. She slapped him another time in the corridors of the Police Commissioner’s office. This was as presspersons watched. Questioned were raised later about the appropriateness of the accused being slapped while he was already in custody. Others asked if the woman was keen to create “drama” for the visual media to capture. A senior police officer overseeing the investigation said the woman’s reaction was an outburst of rage against the harassment she had faced.  Laiqh A. Khan   Rishikesh Bahadur Desai   Raghava M.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cop/article33653037.ece
25 January 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Plastic wreaks havoc in Munnar||The hill station of Munnar faces an environmental threat from the plastic wastes and food items discarded on the roadside after it was opened for tourists in the post lockdown period. As one passes through the Kochi-Dhanushkodi National Highway and bylanes leading to tourist destinations, the scenes of vehicles parked on the roadside and food being shared are a common sight. After sharing the food, the disposable plates and plastic bottles are discarded on the roadside. There is a heavy inflow of tourists to Munnar and the trend continues even after the Christmas/ New Year season. Own vehicles The tourists prefer to come in their own vehicles with families. This is a new trend post the lockdown. Devikulam taluk, including Marayur and the vegetable cultivating villages of Kanthallur and Vattavada, faces the threat of discarded food and non-biodegradable items. This was posing a threat to wildlife, forest and environment, Munnar Diivisional Forest Officer R.V.G. Kannan told The Hindu on Sunday. He said that it seemed there was a breakdown in the system of waste collection in the post lockdown period when heavy tourist inflow was witnessed. He said that two meetings were already held to discuss the issue. In Chinnakanal, it was noticed that the thrown-away food inside the plastic containers posed a threat to wild animals. The panchayat has now taken some concrete action. However, in other areas, the Forest Department has no direct involvement in the issue. “A warning was given against throwing away of plastic and food remains on road side,” the Forest official said, adding that cases would be charged for hampering wildlife. Responsible tourism According to him, the visitors should have the responsibility to dispose of the waste properly. If enforced as in the case of the Wagamon hill station, a habit would slowly be developed among the visitors in Munnar also, said Arunkumar, a staff at a resort in Munnar. Haritha Kerala Mission district coordinator G.S. Madhu said that there was already a ban by the Pollution Control Board against the use of plastic and non-biodegradable items in Devikulam taluk. Meeting A meeting of the Haritha Karma Sena in all the panchayats has been convened next week and the Wagamon model green check posts and waste collection centres will be soon set up there. Entry of vehicles from Ernakulam district and Udumalpet in Tamil Nadu will be screened.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plastic-wreaks-havoc-in-munnar/article33653335.ece
25 January 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Six held in fake currency racket, Rs. 3 lakh seized||The police arrested six persons and busted a gang involved in the supply of counterfeit notes worth Rs. 3 lakh on Sunday. They were arrested after a tip-off received by the district police. The arrested were from Tamil Nadu and one was from Kumily. Arrested persons The T.N. residents are Muthuvendran, 43, and Churuli, 32, from Coimbatore, P. Maharajan, 32, from Chinnamannoor, Pandiyan, 53, from Veerapandi, Subbayyan, 53, from Uthmapalayam, and Sebastian, 42, from Kumily. Cumbummettu Circle Inspector G. Sunilkumar said the district narcotic cell had received a tip-off about the fake currency deal. The police in disguise contacted them through phone and made a deal with them for Rs. 3 lakh fake currency that would cost Rs. 1.5 lakh in original currency. The gang on Sunday reached Cumbummettu for the deal. When the police offered the money, the accused tried to deceive the police who then conducted a search and found Rs. 1 lakh worth fake currency from a Scorpio vehicle and Rs. 2 lakh currency from a motor cycle, said the official. The vehicles were also seized. Idukki SP R. Karuppusami, Narcotic Cell deputy SP A.G. Lal, Kattappana DySP Rajmohan, and Cumbummettu CI G. Sunilkumar led the police team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/six-held-in-fake-currency-racket-rs-3-lakh-seized/article33653337.ece
25 January 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Guidelines to be issued: Minister||Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran has said that the government would issue guidelines for outdoor stay, including for putting up tents, in the State. The decision was taken in the wake of the death of a woman in an elephant attack at a resort at Elambilery, near Meppady, on Saturday. Directions had been issued to the Adventure Tourism Promotion Authority for the purpose, Mr. Surendran said. The incident was unfortunate, Mr. Surendran said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/guidelines-to-be-issued-minister/article33653363.ece
25 January 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Cong. leader’s house attacked||The house of a Congress leader was damaged after attackers allegedly threw crude bomb in the early hours of Sunday. According to the police, the house of A.V. Ramakrishnan, Congress Muzhakkunnu constituency vice president, was damaged. The Congress alleged the role of the CPI(M) in the incident. Mr. Ramakrishnan was threatened by a CPI(M) activist during the local body polls, the party said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cong-leaders-house-attacked/article33653291.ece
25 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Andhakarathodu to be made navigable for small boats||Work on cleaning and restoring the 2.17-km-long Andhakarathodu in Thripunithura has picked up pace and could be complete by March, making the canal navigable for small boats and creating a walkway along the sides. A Rs. 10-crore project funded by the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) to clean and desilt the canal, replace the existing footbridge and skew bridge for vehicular movement, and create a well-lit walkway along the entire stretch of the waterbody is under way after having missed several deadlines including one in February 2020 and another in January this year, said an official associated with the project. The man-made water body connects the Champakkara canal and the Konothupuzha river and is said to have been navigable decades ago when goods were brought to the Thripunithura market via the waterway, said an official of the Minor Irrigation Department which has been supervising the project. A small boat jetty has now been constructed on the end of the Andhakarathodu that links it to the Champakkara canal, creating a waterway. While another jetty was proposed at the other end of the canal where it meets the Konothupuzha river. The river would have to be cleaned before a jetty can be built, the official said. The Kerala Irrigation Infrastructure Development Corporation (KIIDC) is the special purpose vehicle for implementing the project. An official with KIIDC said that work on the main components of the project was progressing. Another round of cleaning is to be done since water hyacinth has made a comeback despite an initial clean-up, he said. Construction of a walkway, around 3-m wide, and setting up street lights and benches along the path are also yet to be complete. Fencing and piling work along the sides of the canal has been done along some stretches. Fencing is expected to reduce the dumping of waste into the canal. The Minor Irrigation Department official added that structural work on the footbridge and skew bridge were complete. Small boats would be able to make their way through the canal under the two bridges, he said. Around 300 truckloads of plastic waste had been cleared from the canal, he said, adding that the Thripunithura Municipality would have to ensure that waste from the market would not end up in the canal. Sections of the canal remain buried under a layer of hyacinth with an overgrowth of weeds in some places. The COVID-19-induced lockdown and containment zone restrictions had delayed work, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/andhakarathodu-to-be-made-navigable-for-small-boats/article33653309.ece
25 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Hill Palace reopening next month||When the Hill Palace throws open its gates to the public next month after almost a year-long break, the Centre for Heritage Studies (CHS) authorities, entrusted with the maintenance of the sprawling garden spread over 52 acres and the adjoining deer park sequestering over 250 sambars and spotted deer in over two acres, may heave a sigh of relief. The pandemic-induced closure of the tourist destination in last March was further extended by maintenance work, which is nearing completion, and it deprived CHS of the vital revenue stream.  Sudden loss The extended closure meant that the annual revenue by way of entry tickets that, despite seasonal fluctuations, averaged anything between Rs. 1.25 crore and Rs. 1.50 crore was suddenly lost, leaving CHS, an autonomous institution under the Cultural Department, solely dependent on government grants to meet its expenses. As per the existing arrangement, CHS is entitled to 50% of ticket revenue plus government grants. So far this financial year, CHS has received a combined grant of Rs. 50 lakh under plan and non-plan funds. “We have to meet all expenses, including those for the maintenance of the garden and deer park, salary, and office management, from the grant,” said K.V. Sreenath, CHS registrar and officer in charge of Hill Palace. The drop in income had hit the running of the deer park, which entails a monthly expense of around Rs. 5.50 lakh towards feeding and treatment charge. The donation of Rs. 15 lakh for the upkeep of the park by Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited under its corporate social responsibility initiative came as a big relief. Even during normal times, the deer park did not have an income stream and was dependent on the entry ticket revenue from the Hill Palace. “But the park was never affected in the past owing to paucity of funds,” said Mr. Sreenath. The number of deer has registered a steep increase over the years, and a few animals had jumped the fencing in the past, following which it was mended. The death of adult animals and calves in 2018 also had left the CHS authorities worried. The deer park has no in-house veterinarians and has to fall back on outside help in times of need.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hill-palace-reopening-next-month/article33653524.ece
25 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Haritha Keralam in mission mode||Haritha Keralam Mission, launched across the State as a joint effort by local self-government bodies, Clean Kerala Company and Suchitwa Mission to make Kerala totally clean, has forged ahead in its efforts in Ernakulam district with the formation of Haritha Karma Sena (green army) for seggregation and proper disposal of non-biodegradable waste under all the local bodies in the district. The green initiative, which has support from the Kudumbashree Mission, Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme  as well as organisations like Sasthra Sahitya Parishad, has been able to create awareness in society about the need for proper waste disposal and, at the same time create income-generating opportunities for a group of women, said a communication from the Public Relations Department here. Green army members have been given training in 54 panchayats and 13 municipalities in the district so far.  Central facility  Non-biodegradable waste is collected and sorted at a central facility from where materials are sent to recycling units. The Mission also ensured compliance with green protocol in the recently-concluded elections to local bodies. Activities to protect water resources in the district included works to clean up and take steps to protect the Cheruvelikunnuchira in Vazhakkulam panchayat and Manjalithodu and Punjakuzhithodu, which pass through Mudakuzha and Vengoor panchayats. One of the significant achievements under the green mission was the regeneration of 100 waterbodies and ponds over a period of 50 days in the district. The programme was able to regenerate and take measures to protect a total of 163 ponds and small waterbodies over a period of 60 days, the communication added. The Mission swung into action post-2018 floods to properly dispose of waste materials. The action of the green army was most visible in the worst affected Aluva and Paravur areas. A total of 3,000 lorry-loads comprising 10,110 tonnes of non-biodegradable waste was disposed of after the floods subsided. The Haritha Keralam Mission is a comprehensive programme to achieve total sanitation, protect soil and water, expand agricultural activities and conserve rainwater.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/haritha-keralam-in-mission-mode-in-district/article33653314.ece
25 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Kudumbashree gears up for its own elections||More than 4.5 million members of the Kudumbashree Mission will vote to elect the heads of neighbourhood groups, area development and community development societies in July as the unique, all-women, democratic process rolls on, impacting a whole array of development decisions at the grassroots level. Elections are being held in July this year because of the upcoming elections to the Assembly, Kudumbashree sources said on Sunday. Earlier, the triannual election of Kudumbashree leadership was expected to commence in the second week of February so that the new office-bearers would be in place by March 1. Postponed Elections, normally held in January to enable new office-bearers to take charge by January 26, was postponed this year in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic. According to the earlier schedule, elections were to commence on February 9 and end by 28. With 45,11,834 members spread over 2,99,997 neighbourhood groups, the Kudumbashree women will elect the leaders of the NHGs as well as leaders of 19,489 area development societies at the ward/division levels and 1,064 leaders of the community development societies at the local body level. Election of Kudumbashree office-bearers is a unique process. There is nothing like it under direct government control anywhere else in the country. There are voluntary agencies and NGOs, engaged in uplifting people. But they are all private entities. The Kudumbashree elections are fought very hard with members vying for goodwill and votes just as in an election to the State Assembly or Parliament. Among aspiring leaders, a healthy mix of competition and cooperation is on display. In local bodies too Voting for Kudumbashree leadership is on the heels of the recent elections to the local self-government institutions in which 7,058 Kudumbashree members were elected to various councils. A total of 16,000 Kudumbashree members were in the fray. Seventy per cent of the seats reserved for women in the local bodies have been won by Kudumbashree members, sources said, pointing out that the democratic process had gotten more robust with the Kudumbashree Mission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kudumbashree-gears-up-for-its-own-elections/article33653369.ece
25 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Vested interests trying to alter NH 66 alignment: MP||Even as protest is brewing against Revenue and NHAI officials over the alleged moves to acquire more land from one side of the road as part of widening the Edappally-Moothakunnam NH 66 corridor, Hibi Eden, MP, has called upon officials to give up what he termed as their “vested interests” in acquiring land in the Mesthiripady-Tirumuppam part of the NH stretch. As per the current plan, a total of 27,500 sq ft has to be acquired and buildings demolished, to widen the NH into a 45-m stretch. It will further result in over five acres that had been acquired over two decades ago to widen the corridor into a 30-m-wide NH, lying unused. “The new alignment would entail unnecessary acquisition of land and also cause a curve on the road. I had apprised the NHAI’s Kochi project director and the Deputy Collector in charge of land acquisition about the issue in December 2020, and a meeting had been convened by V.D. Satheesan, MLA,” Mr. Eden said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vested-interests-trying-to-alter-nh-66-alignment-mp/article33653307.ece
25 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||‘Roll out seaplanes, choppers to woo high-end tourists’||The lull in tourist arrivals to Kerala due to the pandemic situation has intensified the demand that the government promote seaplane and helicopter services to woo high-end tourists to destinations across Kerala. This comes in the wake of industrialists and other well-off tourists preferring the aerial mode of commute than spend time on the road route. There are others who don’t mind availing short trips to view scenic locales while seated in a helicopter that provides a bird’s-eye view. Hectic schedule, choked and often ill-maintained roads were hitherto cited as the reasons, while the pandemic situation has accentuated the demand for fast and hassle-free travel to a locale and back. A seaplane service mooted a decade ago failed to take off for a host of reasons, including what was then portrayed as opposition from a section of fisherfolk. Chipsan Aviation began operating helicopter services from Kochi to locales like Munnar, Kumily and Kumarakom a few years ago. “We are making efforts to ready a tour circuit linking these places. It will help if Kerala Tourism helps in marketing the service since there is demand for such services, especially from affluent tourists who want to get away from stressful life in noisy cities to spend a few days in the high ranges and other scenic locales,” said Sunil Narayanan, co-owner of the firm that is a non-scheduled service operator. Helicopter service Much of the business comes from northern Indian States, while Bengaluru too has a good market, with many tourists wanting to fly to destinations like Coorg. Up north, helicopters operate shuttle service, including to Kedarnath, located at a height of 12,000 feet. Similar services can be operated to Sabarimala for devotees who want to avoid crowds in Pampa. All that a helicopter needed is half an acre of obstruction-free space to land. They can also be used for health emergencies. Seaplane connectivity too is good, since these aircraft can land in backwaters that abound in the State, he said. Seven-seater, twin-engine helicopters generally has tariff between Rs. 2 lakh and Rs. 2.50 lakh per hour, while single-engine ones charged Rs. 90,000. Apt for peninsular India Jose Dominic of CGH Earth and the convener of CII Kerala Tourism Panel said that there is tremendous scope for operating seaplanes or mini aircraft which can land in small air strips, in Kerala. “The services could take off from Kochi as the hub and operate services to locales like Lakshadweep, Maldives, Wayanad and to States in peninsular India like Karnakata, Tamil Nadu, and also to Puducherry. Sri Lanka, which is much like Kerala in terms of topography, has such services that land in lakes or reservoirs. Such services would bring in high-end tourists who would like to avoid travelling in crowded commercial airlines. They would also capture the imagination of alert independent travellers who want to be far from the madding crowd,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/roll-out-seaplanes-choppers-to-woo-high-end-tourists/article33653520.ece
25 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Sculptures being made in solidarity with farmers||In solidarity with farmers protesting on the outskirts of Delhi, a group of artists, poets, sculptors, and theatre artistes in far-away Kochi have been working on terracotta sculptures representing the protest. “We hope to send some energy to the protesters from here. A protest like this one, where those who grow our food have been out on the streets for so many days, should have brought the country to a standstill, but most of us here go on with our regular lives,” said artist Sunil Vallarpadam. The artists, part of a collective called Kalakar Keralam, have set up a makeshift workshop in the courtyard of the Durbar Hall Art Gallery, where sculptures, several of seeds and birds, and many figurines, are being created for a show at Jos Junction on January 26, the day the farmers’ groups will take out a tractor rally in Delhi. Scarecrows, made of hay and cloth, will also be part of the show, and hundreds of these will be installed across the city on the day of the show, said V.K. Jayan, sculptor and artist. Since the project, called Kathirum Kalayum, began on Friday, between 50 and 100 people have been part of it daily, he added. “Sitting here, far away from Delhi, art is one way for us to react to the situation,” said Anil B. Krishna, artist and sculptor from Thuravoor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sculptures-being-made-in-solidarity-with-farmers/article33653304.ece
25 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Geotextile tube works at Chellanam to be completed by March 31||The ongoing works on setting up geotextile tube walls along the most vulnerable segments of the coast of Chellanam will be completed by March 31. The decision was taken after a recent meeting Chellanam residents had with senior officials of the Irrigation Department. Panel to monitor work A committee comprising K.J. Maxi, MLA; Irrigation Department officials; the panchayat president; and representatives of residents will monitor the progress of works. Shaji George of Care Chellanam, who is also the secretary of Kerala Region Latin Catholic Council, said that the visit by officials was to study the progress of works and to make an assessment of the immediate works to be undertaken. A fresh proposal for a permanent solution for the protection of the coastal village has also been submitted to the government, said a spokesman for Care Chellanam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/geotextile-tube-works-at-chellanam-to-be-completed-by-march-31/article33653312.ece
25 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Parliamentary panel inspects Kochi metro||Members of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Urban Development led by Jagadambika Pal, MP, travelled in the Kochi metro on Sunday from Jawahar Lal Nehru station to Muttom station, as part of their inspection of the metro rail and other infrastructure in Kochi. At Muttom station, the committee members interacted with women employees of the Kochi metro. They appreciated the role played by women and transgender employees in running the metro system. They further appreciated measures taken by Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) for maintaining station, besides the COVID-19 safety drive. “This is my first visit to an Indian metro as chairman of the committee, and I appreciate the initiatives taken by KMRL for women empowerment, an example of its social responsibility and commitment,” Mr. Pal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/parliamentary-panel-inspects-kochi-metro/article33653315.ece
25 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Crossing NH bypass a harrowing experience||The commissioning of six-lane flyovers at Vyttila and Kundannoor and the temporary scrapping of traffic signal system at Palarivattom have resulted in pedestrians and motorists on Edappally-Aroor NH bypass having a harrowing time crossing the 16-km-long stretch due to the incessant flow of speeding vehicles. This has given rise to the demand that the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), which owns and maintains the NH bypass and also levies hefty toll on motorists using the stretch, step in and take proactive measures to augment safety of all types of road users. Risky U-turns Availability of public transport buses is inadequate on the stretch, despite plethora of residential colonies and commercial establishments on either side. This prompts people to venture out in two-wheelers and cars, which are nowadays finding it extremely difficult to take U-turns, said Lakshmanan A., a resident of Chakkaraparambu, who retired from Cochin Shipyard. “The commissioning of flyovers has resulted in additional influx of vehicles into the NH bypass, which have uninterrupted flow. This has made U turns, many of which are unscientifically located, more dangerous than before. One has to wait much longer than before to negotiate U-turn on the bypass and yet another turn to enter service roads from where side roads take off. Oftentimes, motorists escape colliding with oncoming vehicles by providence. The NHAI must install warning boards, reflectors, pedestrian lines and high-mast lights at U-turns and at junctions on the stretch, to avert accidents. Thought must also be given to installing a signal system at busy U-turns,” he said. Even earlier, pedestrian-dense junctions like the one in front of EMC and ones at Chakkaraparambu, Chalikkavattom, Vyttila, Thykoodam, Kannadikkad and Madavana were highly accident prone, prompting the City Traffic Police to shoot off letters seeking the attention of NHAI. Poor patronage Foot overbridges built at five junctions are underutilised, since they are steep and do not have lights for use at night. “The NHAI is most often slack in responding positively to our recommendations,” said a senior traffic police official. Sources in NHAI said that residents’ associations, people’s representatives and the police have been submitting representations seeking redressal of safety and other issues on the congested NH bypass corridor. “They include requests for erecting adequate number of street lights on the entire stretch to improve visibility at night. We will take this up with our head office, although it is the responsibility of local bodies to light up roads in their jurisdiction.” “We have also sent a proposal to our head office to erect reflective studs (cats-eye studs) on the centre and either side of the carriageway to ensure safe night navigation even if street lights are not switched on for some reason. We are aware of the poor patronage for foot overbridges and would take a call on installing escalators in them,” they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pedestrians-motorists-have-a-harrowing-time-crossing-nh-bypass/article33653306.ece
25 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Relay hunger strike completes 454 days||The relay hunger strike demanding protection of the coastal areas of Chellanam, under the aegis of Chellanam Kochi Janakiya Vedhi, completed 454 days on Sunday, said a communication here. Vedhi leaders said protection of the shores was what was needed and not eviction of people from their homes. They demanded that dredged material from the Cochin shipping channel should be deposited in such a way that shore formation in Chellanam could be made possible. They also said the authorities should not wait till the rainy season to take measures to prevent sea intrusion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/relay-hunger-strike-completes-454-days/article33653313.ece
25 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Unscientific road shoulders on NH 66 cause accidents||A spate of recent accidents caused by the steep gap between the tarred road and ill-kept road shoulders at many places on the Edappally-Moothakunnam NH 66 corridor has sent alarm bells ringing. Accidents have become the norm, since the PWD (NH Wing), which resurfaced many parts of the corridor recently, failed to raise road shoulders on either side. “The 22-km-long NH corridor is very accident prone and has claimed the life of around 300 people during the past two decades. Two young motorbike riders were the latest to die in an accident that occurred three weeks ago at Thirumuppam. It happened because they lost control of the bike which slid off the road’s steep edge, following which they fell on the road and were run over by a lorry. The height difference between the road and its shoulder is over a feet in many places,” said Joseph U.P., an activist of the local unit of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), which has launched an agitation on the issue. The tarred surface of the busy stretch has hardly two-lane width. Vehicles often have to deviate from the tarred surface, while giving side to other vehicles, or to stay safe when vehicles come overtaking others from the other side. This has been causing fatal and non-fatal accidents in the corridor. Making matters worse, the PWD has not painted zebra lines and road markings to demarcate lanes. Warning boards and street lights too are lacking in many accident-prone areas. As an immediate measure, road shoulders too must be raised and strengthened, to prevent accidents and pooling of water on the side which ultimately damage the road, he added. Party activists organised a signature campaign and submitted a memorandum to the PWD officials concerned, demanding remedial measures to avert accidents. Sources in the PWD said the road was officially handed over to the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) in 2020 for widening. “The PWD is currently resurfacing the stretch, following which the handing-over process will be taken up. The contractor who undertook the work has been directed to raise road shoulders by filling a metre of the shoulder on either side with red earth, since members of the public and residents associations are flooding us with complaints of accidents occurring due to unscientific construction work,” they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/unscientific-road-shoulders-on-nh-66-causing-fatal-accidents/article33653301.ece
25 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Venad Express engine gets detached from rake||The engine of Venad Express got detached from rest of the rake as it entered Ernakulam Town railway station on Sunday morning. The train resumed its journey after a delay of 45 minutes, after workers re-attached the engine. Railway sources said the incident occurred at 10.30 a.m. A preliminary enquiry suggests it happened due to technical fault, following which the coupling that links the engine with rest of the Linke Hoffman Busch (LHB) rake got detached. Personnel of Integral Coach Factory in Chennai have been informed of the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/venad-express-engine-gets-detached-from-rake/article33653310.ece
25 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||822 new cases in Ernakulam||Ernakulam recorded 822 new COVID-19 cases and 1,045 recoveries on Sunday. The active case load of the district is 10,895. While Kavalangad recorded 33 new cases, Kanjoor registered 29 and Thripunithura 27. Three health workers have tested positive. For testing, 5,540 samples were sent on Sunday. Testing has dipped compared to Saturday when over 7,000 samples were sent. While 8,530 people are recovering at home, 41 patients are admitted at the Government Medical College Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/822-new-cases-in-ernakulam/article33653302.ece
25 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Proposal for new bridge yet to get nod||The Public Works Department (PWD) has resubmitted the proposal for a new bridge replacing the more-than-a-century-old iron bridge at Thripunithura after the proposal failed to receive administrative sanction from the government when it was originally submitted in October 2019. The new bridge, which is estimated to cost Rs. 29 crore, was included in the list of 26 new bridges planned across the State after Thripunithura MLA M. Swaraj raised the issue in the Assembly as a submission a few months back. “The preliminary proceedings, including soil test, design, and detailed project report, have already been completed” said Mr. Swaraj.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/proposal-for-new-bridge-yet-to-get-nod/article33653473.ece
25 January 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Pool of skilled artisans soon||With nearly 20,000 artisans belonging to a wide spectrum of trades in their labour databank, the Kerala Artisans Development Corporation (KADCO) is all set to form industrial cooperatives across the State to supply a skilled workforce in the public and private sectors. Along with the listed trades, the corporation is also collecting the data of those engaged in allied activities under a separate category in order to create an extensive pool and provide labourers for every trade to complete a project. Ward-level registration “Since the registration is ward level, it will be easy to deploy artisans as per requirements and convenience. We can also provide the workforce for allied trades, especially in sectors like construction where a range of skilled labourers are needed,” says Neduvathoor Sundaresan, chairman, KADCO. Although 174 trades starting from carpentry, goldsmithery and pottery are part of the list, many of the traditional trades are on the brink of extinction, rendering many artisans jobless. The corporation plans to support the artisans by helping them adapt to the demands of modern labour market and identifying the right schemes and projects for them. “At present, the State government has outsourced us some renovation works and we can now search in the databank for artisans from the nearby places. Each time we will form a collective of artisans from all trades needed for a particular project before handing over the work. It will ensure job opportunities for artisans from every region and even private parties can avail themselves of this facility,” he adds. In the initial phase, the corporation will form taluk-level industrial cooperatives across Kerala controlled by an apex body functioning under the direct supervision of KADCO. Since there are different grades among skilled workers, the corporation also plans to conduct training sessions offering them an opportunity to upgrade and fine-tune their skills. “We will offer them skill development programmes so that they can work in the next level.” The registration for the labour databank had started in February 2020 through 2,717 Akshaya centres in the State and KADCO had instructed all artisan organisations to register the names of their members. “Since we started the process in February, many of the artisans failed to register their names due to the pandemic. Since only a percentage could reach out to us, we have kept the option open and in future we will continue to update it with the support of the IT Mission,” says Mr.Sundaresan.  The Kerala Artisans Development Corporation has in its labour databank nearly 20,000 artisans from varied trades||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pool-of-skilled-artisans-soon/article33653354.ece
25 January 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Steps to curb black fever launched||District Medical Office vector control unit and Kerala State Youth Commission have jointly launched black fever preventive measures in Cherukara, Mullumala and Villumala in Kulathupuzha region. A case of black fever (visceral leishmaniasis) was last reported in the district from Villumala tribal area in 2018. Also known as kala-azar , the infection spread by sandflies is one of the most dangerous epidemics and can be fatal if left untreated. As per reports, the disease is the second cause of death by parasites after malaria, killing 50,000 people worldwide every year. Sandfly survey, medical screening camp, and spraying were conducted in the region as part of preventive measures. Though infected persons cannot transmit the infection to others, blood-sucking sandflies who act as carriers can easily spread the disease. The infection will destroy red and white blood cells and it mainly affects internal organs like liver, spleen and bone marrow. The parasitic disease is called black fever, as it also leads to the darkening of skin and the larva causing it usually grows in sand. Reporting of the disease After black fever was reported in Chembanaruvi and Villumala in the district, a team from National Centre for Disease Control had visited Kulathupuzha and the officials had said that spraying would be conducted two times a year for three years to completely eradicate the parasite. “Since its incubation period is long and goes up to one year, it is important to eradicate the parasite completely and lambda-cyhalothrin will be used for the same this year as well,” said District Medical Officer Dr. R. Sreelatha. A team of doctors including specialists led the camp, while Kulathupuzha grama panchayat president Anil Kumar and Youth Commission chairperson Chintha Jerome were also present on the occasion. Screening Around 300 residents were screened and tests to detect lifestyle diseases were also conducted. Since vector control is very important in preventing black fever, the residents were also given mosquito nets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/steps-to-curb-black-fever-launched/article33653338.ece
25 January 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||New health guidelines issued for Munroe Thuruthu||The Health Department has issued new guidelines for Munroe Thuruthu, a major tourism hub in the district where 56 people tested positive for COVID-19. The triple zero campaign to curb the spread of the pandemic will be intensified in the island and St.Mary's Cashew, which reported several cases of late, will be closed till January 29. Persons who operate country boats and canoes in the tourism sector have been instructed to take antigen test every month. At present operators who have not undergone the test are not allowed to work. The Department will conduct antigen tests in Peringalam and Villimangalam on January 27 and 29 respectively. COVID-19 norms Canoe operators, drivers, cashew labourers and merchants have been directed to take the test while the public has been advised to strictly follow the COVID-19 protocol and break the chain norms. “Social distancing should be maintained and persons belonging to the vulnerable category should stay indoors avoiding unnecessary travels. Crowding in public places and in events like weddings should be avoided,” said the officials after a meeting of the rapid action committee. Munroe Thuruthu grama panchayt president Mini Suryakumar presided over the function attended by medical officers, health inspectors, public representatives, politicians and those working in tourism sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-health-guidelines-issued-for-munroe-thuruthu/article33653343.ece
25 January 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||CM’s grievance adalat to be held on Feb. 1, 2, 4||Santhwana Sparsham 2021, Chief Minister’s public grievances redressal adalat for the district, will be held on February 1, 2 and 4. Ministers J. Mercykutty Amma, K. Raju and Kadakampally Surendren will lead in the programme scheduled to be held in all taluks. Public can register their complaints online and through Akshaya centres till January 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cms-grievance-adalat-to-be-held-on-feb-1-2-4/article33653341.ece
25 January 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Women’s panel seminar on mental health||Kerala State Women’s Commission and the NSS unit of MSN Institute of Management and Technology jointly organised a seminar on mental health among children. Commission member M.S. Thara inaugurated the event and principal R. Madhu presided over the function. Rajan Pillai, managing trustee, delivered the keynote address on the occasion while Dr. A.M. Basheer led the classes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/womens-panel-seminar-on-mental-health/article33653342.ece
25 January 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Drone survey to map Meenachil river||The traditional ways of river restoration is all set to get a 21st century makeover with the authorities now set to harness the power of drone technology to bring back the Meenachil river to its full flow. In a unique initiative, the Meenachil-Meenanthara and Kodoor River-Linking initiative, in association with the Major Irrigation Department, will soon conduct a survey of the Meenachil river to identify its boundaries and hazards on the riverbed. The project, a first-of-its-kind in the State that will begin with a survey of the river stretch from Ettumanur to Kottayam, is aimed at reviving the water flow and cutting down the flood risk faced by the Kottayam town. According to K. Sreekala, assistant executive engineer of the Major Irrigation Department, the drone survey is intended to give a 3D view of the waterbody, which has taken a meandering course along the ten-km stretch owing to siltation along the banks.  Disruptions The disruptions in its waterway, besides pointing to a gradual death of the waterbody, has also raised the risk of floods. “The aerial survey will help to design a field measurement map and based on the sketch, boundary stones will be planted at points close to the Maximum Flood Levels recorded during the mega floods of 2018. Additionally, it will also help assess river conditions for restorative work,” the official said. The floodwater that originates in the high ranges of Kottayam join the Vembanad lake through the Meenachil river in three routes — Neelimangalam, Thiruvatta, and Thazhathangadi. During the monsoons, the authorities have noticed a difference of 8 m in the maximum water level recorded in the Meenachil river at Pala and Ettumanur. “This clearly shows that the slope in the river is nearly consistent and what needed is a stabilisation of the riverbed by removing the silt and cutting down the trees and vegetation along the course. The use of drones is expected to spot such hazards, besides the encroachments on the banks,” she added. Commenting on the initiative, K. Anilkumar, convener of the Meenachil-Meenanthara and Kodoor river linking initiative, said the Kottayam district panchayat had expressed willingness to associate with the pilot survey, the cost of which was estimated to be around Rs. 17 lakh. Seperate maps “The plan is to create separate maps on the river for each local body and ensure the river its room,” he said. The initiative, according to him, assumes significance as the scale of flooding in the Meenachil river has been unprecedented since 2018.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/drone-survey-to-map-meenachil-river/article33653346.ece
25 January 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||622 new cases in Kottayam||As many as 622 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Sunday. Of the fresh cases, 612 persons contracted the virus through local contact. 44 children The fresh cases also included 44 children and 116 persons aged above 60. With 80 cases, Kottayam municipality led the tally, followed by Kanjirappilly with 32 cases. With 320 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 6,758 active cases. Kollam The district reported 543 new COVID-19 cases and 138 recoveries on Sunday. Those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 include 537 contact cases, three NRIs, one person from other States and two cases without any known source. The district currently has 12,670 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 6,97,077. While 1,041 persons completed home quarantine on Sunday, the Health Department has traced 1,57,683 primary and 13,900 secondary contacts of the positive cases. Pathanamthitta As many as 458 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Sunday. Of the fresh cases, 443 persons contracted the virus through local contact and among these, the contact source of 27 cases are yet to be identified. Among the local bodies, Pandalam reported 39 cases, followed by Kulanada with 24 cases. The disease claimed four more lives in the district and the victims were identified as 87-year-old Ezhamkulam native, 48-year-old Adoor native, 73-year-old woman from Pallickal, and a 72-year-old Ranni native. With 253 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 6,158 active cases. Idukki Kattappana and Thodupuzha municipal areas continued to record high number of COVID-19 cases as the number of positive cases crossed 300 mark on Sunday. A total of 320 cases were reported here. A large number of them was from the grama panchayats of Adimali, Erattayar, Karunapuram, Kumily, Manakkad, Kumaramangalam, Upputhara, Karunapuram and Velliyamattom. Of the new cases, the source of 15 cases remained untraced, said a release here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/622-new-cases-in-kottayam/article33653350.ece
25 January 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Locals clash with police||Two persons, including a grade sub inspector with the Erattupetta police station, sustained injuries after a group of locals clashed with the police near Chennadu Junction on Sunday. The incident took place around 11 a.m. when a police team reached the spot in search of a person, against whom a complaint was pending. Locals, however, resisted the move and asked the police to leave the place. “The cops had reached there, as the person concerned refused to appear at the station. The situation, however, took a violent turn as a group led by the municipal councillor Anas Parayil confronted the officials, asking them to drop the move and go back immediately,” said the Station House Officer, Erattupetta. The Grade Sub-Inspector and a local resident, identified as Sajeev, sustained injuries during a clash that ensued. The police have booked cases against 10 persons including the municipal councillor for using criminal force to deter public servants from discharge of their duty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/locals-clash-with-police/article33653347.ece
25 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Residents flay poor quality of road work||Complaints are on the rise against the poor quality of re-tarring works recently completed in various parts of Kozhikode district. Residents are irked by the condition of smaller roads which were dug up for laying pipes in the rural areas of the district and the outskirts of the city corporation. Many of them have demanded the reinspection of roads by a high-level committee to check the quality of completed works. Local citizens’ forums have also been considering blocking of roads to register their protest and press for their demands. “Many roads which were earlier dug up for pipe-laying work have not been properly re-tarred. The condition of many such re-tarred roads connecting the Kozhikode-Kannur road and the Kozhikode bypass within the City Corporation is proof that such patch works will not be completed with perfection,” said N. Jagadeesh, a resident of Vengali. The saddest thing was that many such roads were in good condition before the pipe-laying work, he added. The stretch between the checkpost and Adivaram in Thamarassery, where the first phase of tarring was completed recently, has developed many potholes and cracks. The local residents said the shoddy work could lead to a rise in the number of accidents. A local action committee leader from Thamarassery said many residents remained silent about such issues afraid of hostile action from road workers. Political reasons also discouraged people from taking up such issues with the authorities, he added. Meanwhile, Public Works Department (PWD) sources said any complaints related to the quality of work could be communicated to the department for prompt action.  The saddest thing was that many such roads were in good condition before the pipe-laying work N. Jagadeesh Vengali resident||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/residents-flay-poor-quality-of-road-work/article33653282.ece
25 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Surveillance stepped up in forest areas near sanctuary||The Forest Department and the police have stepped up surveillance measures against the illegal entry and camping of tourists in restricted forest areas around the Malabar Wildlife Sanctuary in Kozhikode district. The measures come in the wake of an incident in which a young woman was trampled to death by a wild elephant while she was camping in Wayanad district on Saturday. Though such highly vulnerable camping locations are fewer in number in Kozhikode, social media posts and videos by some travellers have been attracting many people from remote areas to restricted forest sites in Kozhikode. Trekking activities in unpermitted regions have also been noticed by local residents, and police and forest squads. There have been many incidents in which tourists from other districts were found illegally camping near various ecotourism spots such as Kakkayam, Vayalada, Kakkadampoyil, Arippara and Vellarimala. On many occasions, it was local residents who opposed the entry of such persons and informed the police. A Forest official from the Thamarassery range office said the forest area around Peruvannamoozhi was frequented by such illegal entrants. “This spot can be accessed by people from multiple interior roads from villages such as Thalayad, Vayalada, Kattippara and Muthukad. It is very difficult to constantly monitor all these paths,” he said. A Thiruvambady resident said there were many incidents in which people trekking through forest areas had fallen into rivers and lost their lives. Many first-time visitors were least bothered about safety issues while joining alcohol parties and dangerous photoshoots, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/surveillance-stepped-up-in-forest-areas-near-sanctuary/article33653290.ece
25 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Hearing on demolition of bunds today||Deputy Collector (Disaster Management), Kozhikode, will hold a hearing on Monday on the demand to demolish the bunds constructed across a stream at PVR Naturo Resort owned by P.V. Anvar, an LDF-backed Independent MLA, at Kakkadampoyil. The resort is part of a tourism project, which also includes a water theme park, which was shut down in 2018 by the district administration after landslips were reported in the area. Several individuals and organisations had filed complaints against the construction of the bunds over the past two years, but the District Collector reportedly had not taken any action. Later, Kerala Nadi Samrakshana Samiti State general secretary T.V. Rajan petitioned the Kerala High Court. The hearing is based on a court order to the Collector to take a decision on the earlier complaints in two months. The village officer of Koodaranhi and secretary of Koodaranhi grama panchayat had earlier submitted reports that the bunds had been illegally constructed. The court has asked the district administration to take those reports into consideration while taking a decision. The report of the Koodaranhi Village officer says that the four bunds have been constructed across a tributary of the Iruvazhinji, blocking the natural flow of water. The road to the resort has been laid on a bund. The bund constructed near the origin of the tributary is 50 metres long, 12 metres wide and 1.5 metres deep. A pipeline has been laid beneath the road to take water to the second bund which is 40 metres long, 17 metres wide and 2.5 metres deep. Another bund on the north-western side is 22 metres long and 2 metres wide, while yet another one on the northern side is 15 metres long. The Koodaranhi grama panchayat secretary has also submitted a report which said that the bunds disrupted the natural flow of water in the stream.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hearing-on-demolition-of-bunds-today/article33653287.ece
25 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||763 more positive cases in Kozhikode||Kozhikode reported 763 fresh COVID-19 cases on Sunday. For the second consecutive day, the district was just behind Ernakulam in terms of the high number of cases. According to the District Medical Officer, there were 737 locally acquired infections and the source of 23 others was not known. Kozhikode Corporation accounted for 184 cases of local transmission, Vadakara 34, Maniyoor 28, Puthuppady 25, and Changaroth 23. As many as 5,057 samples were tested. The active caseload from the district reached 7,684.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/763-more-positive-cases-in-kozhikode/article33653289.ece
25 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Protest against farm laws on Republic Day||The Kozhikode Pourasamithi (civic committee) is launching a novel protest against the new farm laws on Republic Day. Declaring support to the protesting farmers in Delhi, copies of the farm laws will be thrown into the sea at 9 a.m. A signature board will be set up next to the Martyr’s Column on Kozhikode beach, and signatures collected will be sent to the Prime Minister’s Office. M.K. Raghavan, MP, will open a public meeting in support of farmers at 8.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/protest-against-farm-laws-on-republic-day/article33653279.ece
25 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Home labs to involve family in education||Concepts such as home laboratories will expand the possibility of the family’s involvement in children’s education, General Education Minister C. Ravindranath has said. He was speaking after declaring all government, aided, and approved unaided schools in Kozhikode covered under the home lab project of the District Institute of Education and Training (DIET), Kozhikode, on Sunday. The event was held through video conference. The project involves setting up of little home-based laboratories to make science learning more effective. As many as 1,280 schools, three lakh students, and their 10 lakh family members are involved in it, according to DIET sources. “The general notion is that studies happen only in classrooms. It is wrong. Studies can happen anywhere in our eco-system,” Mr. Ravindranath added. The project was launched to help students conduct scientific experiments at home using substances that are easily available in their surroundings. Initially, students of Classes 5 to 7 were involved in the project. Later, it was extended to those from Class 1 to 10. Clive Thomson, Chief Scientist, Life Sciences, Rotherham University, United Kingdom, who was the chief guest, said the most important thing was to encourage investigative learning at a young age. He pointed out that students should keep in mind that any measurement was subject to errors. “And, you need to estimate what those errors are, to the best of your ability,” Mr. Thomson said. He added that it was also important to ensure health and safety compliance. “... Certainly if you are doing any chemical experiment... Eye protection is absolutely essential. Alkalis are dangerous to the eyes, more so than acids. Anything in the eye is very serious. Safety glasses should be compulsory,” he said. Aji Peter, Senior Chartered Consultant Scientist, Brunel University, London, U.K., was another chief guest. District panchayat president Kanathil Jameela presided over the event. V.P. Mini, Deputy Director of Education, released the activity packages designed for students and teachers for the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/home-labs-to-involve-family-in-education/article33653280.ece
25 January 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Pukasa poetry fest begins||A four-day poetry festival organised by the Purogamana Kala Sahitya Sangham (Pukasa) began on Sunday. Keralites from across the world are taking part in the festival titled ‘Kavithavizha’. Poet Alankode Leelakrishnan inaugurated a poetry debate. Manambur Rajan Babu presided over the function. Festival director Ravunni, Sreelata Varma, Krishnan Namboothiri, Vimeesh Maniyur, Varghese Antony, Jayakumar Chengamanad, Niranjan, Rajan C.H., and Manju Vaighari took part in the debate. M.M. Narayanan commemorated Vailoppilly, and S. Rajasekharan commemorated Neelamperur Madhusoodhanan Nair. Karivallur Murali and N.P. Chandrasekharan delivered the introductory speeches. C.P. Aboobacker and Kuzhur Vilson presided over the sessions. P.M.G. Nambeesan, C.N. Kumar, K. Priya, Sona Bindu Jiji, Abhinand K.T., Rajila Sherin, Chitra Devi, Natasha Padma, Santhosh Pala, Padmaraj Eravil, Vinu Neeleri, Aysha Haseena, Harita Haridas, Rajeev Pallath, Meharoos, Pramod, Abhimanyu, Harikrishnan, Samaja Krishna, and Smita Chelakkode took part in a discussion on poetry. The organisers said more than 100 Malayalam poets from across the world would attend the meet. The festival will conclude on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pukasa-poetry-fest-begins/article33653278.ece
25 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||10,000 govt. offices to be declared ‘green’||As many as 10,000 government offices in the State will be declared ‘green’ on Tuesday. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will make the official declaration via videoconference at 11.30 a.m., an official statement said on Sunday. Mr. Vijayan will also inaugurate the distribution of cheques to Haritha Karma Sena members for transferring inorganic wastes collected through local self government institutions to the Clean Kerala Company Ltd. Following the declaration by the Chief Minister, cheques will be handed over at the respective local bodies to Haritha Karma Sena members. Heads of government offices will be handed the certificates for the compliance of green protocol at the functions. Government offices have been classified into ‘A,’ ‘B’ and ‘C’ categories based on the norms for the compliance of green protocol. The dos and don’ts for employees and visitors will be displayed prominently at the ‘green’ offices.  No disposables Use of disposables including plastics and thermocol will be avoided. The offices will persist in their efforts to reduce the volume of wastes generated and take steps to segregate organic and inorganic wastes. The offices have shifted gears to comply with green protocol by satisfying the criteria of the green protocol verification index, Haritha Keralam Mission executive vice chairperson T. N. Seema said. Local Self-government Minister A. C. Moideen will preside over the inaugural function. The event can be watched live on the Facebook pages and YouTube channels of the Haritha Keralam Mission, Suchitwa Mission and the Kerala Institute of Local Administration (KILA).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/10000-govt-offices-to-be-declared-green/article33653283.ece
25 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||TPA to handle medical claims||In a move which will cause huge losses to the exchequer, the State government, despite having a full-fledged State Health Agency (SHA), has decided to rope in a third party administrator (TPA) to process the claims of public hospitals empanelled under the Ayushman Bharat-Karunya Arogya Suraksha Padhati (AB-KASP). Orders have been issued awarding the contract for processing claims of public hospitals to M/s Vidal Health Insurance TPA Private Ltd., for a period of one year. The order says that there are KASP claims of public sector hospitals, pending since July 2020, which the new TPA will have to handle. The AB-KASP was launched in 2019 in the insurance mode, wherein the insurance company (Reliance General Insurance Ltd.) was handling claims processing and settlement. Last year, the government took the decision to shift the AB-KASP from the insurance mode to the assurance mode. The reason cited was the delays in claims settlement and high claims rejection rate. The assurance mode was claimed to be advantageous as the government would have direct control over claims scrutiny, processing and settlement. The fact that the delays in claims settlement was due to the government failure to pay premium to the insurance company on time. The KASP, when it was launched in 2019, was being run by the Comprehensive Health Insurance Agency-Kerala (CHIAK). Then came the proposal to set up a separate SHA. The government also sanctioned 33 new posts for the same. The CHIAK was told to handle only the legacy issues of the old RSBY schemes. “It was touted as a big advantage that in the assurance mode, the insurance company can be avoided and that claims processing as well as pre-authorisation of treatments of public hospitals would be directly handled by the SHA. It had been decided ahead that claims management of private hospitals would be handed over to a TPA, till the SHA built up its capacity. Now it emerges that the SHA cannot handle the claims processing of public hospitals either,” sources at the Finance Department said. Questions are being asked now why it was felt necessary to dislodge CHIAK, which had been running the health insurance schemes without a hitch for many years. “If the claims of both private and public sector hospitals are to be processed by a TPA now, how different is the new scheme from the old insurance mode? If the insurance company’s high-handedness was the issue earlier, then CHIAK could very well have directly run the scheme, at no extra cost to the government. ” a senior finance official pointed out. Due to COVID-19, claims from public hospitals under the KASP in 2020 would have drastically come down. Yet claims worth lakhs have been pending since July 2020 because the SHA seems to have scant expertise in claim processing. Health financing experts had warned earlier that given the high claims rate in the State, in the assurance mode, the government would never be able to keep up its monetary commitments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tpa-to-handle-medical-claims/article33653367.ece
25 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||City development top on agenda||The city Corporation will organise a development seminar to generate ideas for the city’s developmental priorities as a newly elected administration takes charge. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan is expected to take part in the seminar to be held on January 29, a day ahead of the first council meeting of the new administration. Experts to take part Experts from various fields will be taking part in the seminar. On Saturday, an all party meeting was convened to request the cooperation of all the parties and fronts for the smooth conduct of the council meetings. The new council has its task cut out, as it has to prioritise the ongoing projects, as well as prepare the plan for the next financial year as well as the next five years. “The agenda for the first meeting is yet to be finalised. All the standing committees met on Saturday. We have the revision projects from the current year to be considered. Quite a few projects are remaining to be implemented by March. There are also decisions to be made regarding the selection of beneficiaries for the various welfare projects and pensions,” said a Corporation official Meanwhile, Deputy Mayor P.K.Raju said that preparations for the budget have begun. The Corporation’s budget will be presented in February, before the assembly elections are announced. The work on preparing the annual plan for the 2021-22 financial year will begin this month. It has to be completed before February end. The State government had four years back stipulated that all plan preparation of the local bodies have to be completed before the beginning of the financial year, allowing a full year for implementation. This change had reflected in the increased fund utilisation of the local bodies. Previously, plan preparation used to happen during the financial year, leaving only three or four months for the actual implementation on the ground. Working groups The working groups will meet ahead of the plan preparation. The planning committee will be re-constituted. Ward sabhas will also be convened.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/city-development-top-on-agenda/article33653510.ece
25 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Airport expansion to hit BrahMos||A reported move to acquire land held by BrahMos Aerospace Thiruvananthapuram Ltd (BATL) at Chakka for the development of the Thiruvananthapuram airport would adversely impact the expansion plans of the missile unit, fear BATL employees. Employees, under the aegis of the BrahMos Aerospace Staff Federation, have approached Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan urging him to ensure that BATL is compensated with an equal area of land if at all the unit's land is taken over for airport development. BATL stands to lose 5.3 acres, including land obtained from the Indian Air Force (IAF) for further expansion of the unit, under a proposal to transfer land for the development of the airport, the federation said in its petition to the Chief Minister. “'The acquisition of land for the airport is a concern for BATL at this moment as DRDO-GTRE (Gas Turbine Research Establishment) has already sanctioned Rs. 30 crore to set up facilities for the manufacturing of turbofan engine on this land in a time-bound programme,” the petition says. Besides, there is no clarity on whether BATL would be compensated with substitute land. In such a situation, the land acquisition will adversely impact the future expansion plans of BATL, it said. The staff federation has proposed that if BATL is compensated with an equal area of land from the nearby Government ITI at Chakka, the crisis into which BATL will be plunged can be averted as it can go ahead with the strategically-important work unhindered. The federation has urged the Chief Minister to urgently look into the issue. Subsidiary BATL was established in 2008 as a subsidiary of the Indo-Russian JV BrahMos Aerospace Pvt Ltd (BAPL) by taking over State government’s public sector unit, KELTEC.  BATL staff want compensation with an equal area of land if the unit's land is taken over||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/airport-expansion-to-hit-brahmos/article33653517.ece
25 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||EMC to improve energy efficiency in farm sector||The Energy Management Centre (EMC), the State-designated agency for energy efficiency initiatives, has kicked off activities aimed at improving energy efficiency in the farm sector, particularly in the use of agriculture pump sets. EMC has started a series of webinars dealing with techniques to improve energy efficiency in the different stages of farming. The EMC is also poised to implement a joint programme of the Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE) under the Union Power Ministry and the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) for a capacity building programme for farmers through Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVK) on the energy efficient use of farm pump sets. “'We have started a series of webinars which provide farmers with tips to improve energy efficiency in different aspects of farming including post-harvest technologies and energy-efficient use of machinery such as tractors and tillers,” EMC director R. Harikumar said.  Last Thursdays The webinars are organised on the last Thursdays of every month with the assistance of the Kerala Agricultural University (KAU) and the Kelappaji College of Agricultural Engineering and Technology under the KAU, he said. A major thrust area is on improving the efficiency of electricity-guzzling agricultural pump sets. As part of the BEE-ICAR initiative, a few sessions were held in the State, but the programme had to be discontinued following the COVID-19 outbreak. EMC expects to relaunch the initiative in the 2021-22 financial year. “'The idea is to provide tips on the selection of energy-efficient pumps. But that alone is not sufficient. Selection of appropriate allied equipment such as suction pipes, foot valves and delivery pipe also is important,” Mr. Harikumar said. A study on agriculture pump sets undertaken by EMC in 2018 had revealed poor energy efficiency levels. The findings pointed to selection and use of energy inefficient and undersized pump sets and improper selection of allied equipment as some of the reasons for the problem. At the time of the study, it was estimated that Kerala had around 4.45 lakh agriculture pump sets in all.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/emc-to-improve-energy-efficiency-in-farm-sector/article33653511.ece
25 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Kadakkavoor POCSO case accused claims innocence||The woman, accused of sexually harassing her minor son in Kadakkavoor, has claimed that she was a victim of a false case foisted against her by her estranged husband and his second wife. The accused, who had been booked under provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, was released from the Women Prison and Correctional Home in Attakulangara on Saturday after the Kerala High Court accepted her bail plea. Speaking to media persons on Sunday for the first time since her arrest on December 28, the 45-year old woman said that the case was intended to wreak vengeance against her for having moved a family court for divorce and to gain custody of their four children. Dowry assault alleged Levelling serious allegations at her husband, she accused him of having frequently assaulted her for dowry. The police had failed to adopt any action in a complaint she had submitted in 2019. While their children also used to be manhandled, the husband allegedly issued threats to one of their four children who had chosen to stay with her. Referring to the complaint submitted against her by her son, who is the victim in the particular case, she said her son could have been coerced into providing a false statement against her. While the Kadakkavoor police had claimed to have seized medicines that she could have administered to her son, she maintained that her son suffered from an allergy and used to consume only a medicine that was prescribed for him. She expressed confidence that she will receive justice and the truth will emerge after a senior woman police officer is entrusted with the investigation in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pocso-case-accused-claims-innocence-says-she-was-framed/article33653351.ece
25 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Phone call lacked clarity: Josephine||There was no circumstance that warranted a direct call to the Kerala Women’s Commission chairperson in connection with the case of Lakshmikutty Amma since legal proceeding by the police and the commission were under way, a statement from M.C. Josephine, chairperson, has said. Ms. Josephine has been in the eye of a storm after a caller came out against her alleging she scolded him for enquiring about a complaint filed by his elderly relative in Pathanamthitta. Failure to appear In the statement on Sunday, Ms. Josephine said the complaint of Lakshmikutty Amma, was registered on March 10, 2020, and notice had been issued for hearing the complaint at an adalat at the Parakode block panchayat hall on Thursday next (January 28). Her son Narayana Pillai had also filed a complaint on February 6, 2020, and notice issued for attending an adalat on December 18, 2020. However, neither Ms. Lakshmikutty Amma nor Mr. Pillai appeared for the adalat, or inform the commission about their inability to attend. Moreover, the Perumpetty police had registered a case under sections of the Indian Penal Code on Mr. Pillai’s complaint. Lack of clarity in the call made to her led to the assumption that it pertained to a fresh complaint and Ms. Josephine’s consequent response, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/phone-call-lacked-clarity-josephine/article33653362.ece
25 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||6,036 new cases, test positivity 12.48%||Kerala’s case graph is climbing steadily, with an average of 6,500 cases being reported daily for the past one week, the highest in the country. Test positivity is also soaring and stood at 12.48% on Sunday, with the State reporting 6,036 cases when 48,378 samples were tested. Active case pool has also been on the rise. Kerala’s active caseload of 72,891 is the highest in the country. The State now accounts for 39.19% of the active cases in the country, followed by Maharashtra, which accounts for 24.45%. However, , unlike Kerala, the active case pool in Maharashtra is going down. If it had 55,702 cases on December 24, one month later on Sunday the cases are 45,093. Public health experts point out that what Kerala is witnessing now is the result of the Christmas and New Year celebrations. Also, with the State simultaneously opening up schools, theatres, gyms and spas, it is only natural that there would be an amplification effect, they say. Indoor gatherings have proven to be the riskiest when it comes to COVID-19 transmission. People have also been behaving in a lax manner. A total of 5,173 persons recovered on Sunday. The addition of 20 deaths to the official list has taken the State’s COVID toll to 3,607. Among districts, Ernakulam, continues to report the highest number of new cases and has 822 cases on Sunday. Kozhikode 763, Kottayam 622, Kollam 543, Pathanamthitta 458, Thrissur 436, Malappuram 403, Thiruvananthapuram 399, Kannur 362, Idukki 320, Wayanad 292, Alappuzha 284, Palakkad 208 and Kasaragod 124 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/6036-new-cases-test-positivity-1248/article33653366.ece
25 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||399 positive cases in capital||After witnessing a worrying COVID-19 spike during the last few days, the district’s case graph slid significantly on Sunday as 399 people tested positive from among 4,541 people who were subjected to tests during the last 24 hours. Nevertheless, the test positivity rate stood at 8.78. While 345 COVID-19 patients tested negative for the infection, the number of active cases stood at 4,068. The district’s death toll stood at 720. Barring one imported case, all of the freshly-reported cases have been attributed to local transmission. Seven health workers in the capital have also contracted the disease. The source of infection in 120 cases is unknown. As many as 1,713 people were placed under quarantine, while 1,104 others were permitted to conclude quarantine after testing negative for the infection. There were currently 21,711 people quarantined in houses and 55 in various institutions.  As many as 1,713 people were placed under quarantine||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/399-positive-cases-in-capital/article33653512.ece
25 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Minister to launch ‘Play for Health’ in Kannur today||Play for Health, a programme of the Sports and Youth Affairs Department to nurture a healthy young generation in schools, will kick off at Government Talap Mixed Upper Primary School, Kannur, on Monday. Minister for Sports and Youth Affairs E.P. Jayarajan will inaugurate the programme at 9.30 a.m. Minister for Ports Kadannappally Ramachandran will preside. Play for Health is aimed at ensuring students’ physical and mental health and guiding them to sporting excellence. It will be implemented in 25 schools in the State in the first phase with technical assistance from Kerala Small Industries Development Corporation Limited. Training and monitoring Indoor and outdoor sports equipment has been set up in schools to promote sporting abilities. Training will be given to determine interest in sports such as basketball and football. Spiral bumpy slider that improves health of spine and muscles and improves balance and R&H park that improves movement of arms and legs are some of the outdoor equipment. Indoor, basketball attemptor, football trainer, and balancing walk have been installed. Schoolteachers will be entrusted with the training. They will be provided special training for the project. A special monitoring mechanism will be put in place to review the implementation of the programme.  Indoor and outdoor sports equipment has been set up in schools to promote sporting abilities||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/play-for-health-to-be-launched-in-kannur/article33653292.ece
25 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Security tightened for Republic Day fete||Tight security arrangements will be in place for the Republic Day celebrations that will be held at the Central Stadium on January 26. According to the City Police Commissioner, Inspector General Balram Kumar Upadhyay, the venue has been divided into four zones, each helmed by an Assistant Commissioner, for effective security coordination. Each zone will be further divided into two sectors each led by two Inspectors each. Around 200 police personnel will be deployed within and outside the stadium in all. In addition, seven special striking forces will stationed at major locations in the city. Deputy Commissioner of Police Divya V. Gopinath will supervise the security arrangements. Entry to the ceremony will be restricted to 100 invited guests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/security-tightened-for-republic-day-fete/article33653509.ece
25 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Samagra Shiksha to hold five-day camps for students||The district unit of the Samagra Shiksha, Kerala, is organising five-day camps next month for socially backward students hailing from the tribal and coastal areas of the district. The camps, named Nattarangu, for students in the 12-15 age group are aimed at making them more familiar with the cultural heritage and history of the area they live in, possibilities of traditional and non-traditional sources of livelihood, and indigenous knowledge. The main objective is to guide students to a livelihood that is in tune with their identity and traditions, say Samagra officials. For instance, students from the coastal areas will be introduced to new trends related to fishing and allied areas and opportunities in sales and marketing, not to mention the importance of their traditional source of livelihood. Using Google Maps, the children will first be made to understand special aspects of the areas they live in, be it art or heritage, and recent changes brought about by knowledge and technology. Activities aimed at talent identification and its development through the talent centres will also be taken up through the camps. A twinning programme involving participants from both the coastal and tribal areas, using the possibilities of technology, is also planned to introduce students from one area to the culture of the other and share their experiences. Fourteen camps will be held in all. Thirty students from each region will take part in each camp. Seven camps will be held in the first phase from February 1 to 5 and the remaining seven in phase two that lasts from February 8 to 13.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/samagra-shiksha-to-hold-camps-for-students/article33653339.ece
25 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Adalats settle 1,523 complaints||The District Collector’s grievance redressal adalats have succeeded in settling 1,523 complaints during the last six months. As many as 13 adalats have been organised in the six taluks in the district during the period. While a total of 1,888 applications mostly related to LIFE Mission, revenue, electricity and ration cards were received, as many as 1,454 could be settled after listening to the applicants through video-conference, apressnote said. District Collector Navjot Khosa said the practice of meeting complainants in person had to be scrapped owing to the COVID-19 scenario and replaced with online interactions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/adalats-settle-1523-complaints/article33653513.ece
25 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Science congress gets under way today||The 33rd Kerala Science Congress (KSC) organised by the Kerala State Council for Science, Technology and Environment will begin on Monday. The event is being organised on the theme Pandemics: Risks, Impacts and Mitigation. The technical sessions in 12 subject areas will be held on a virtual platform from January 25 to 28, followed by the Children’s Science Congress on the January 29, where 16 students selected for the National Children’s Science Congress will present papers. A session has been arranged for postgraduate students in science to interact with scientists and academics. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will present the Kerala State Young Scientist Award and the Chief Minister’s Gold Medal on January 30. He will also give away the Dr. S. Vasudev Award for the best science research scheme, the science literature award, and the awards for the best oral and poster presentations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/science-congress-gets-under-way-today/article33653356.ece
25 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Pulse Polio on January 31||The Pulse Polio immunisation drive will be held in the State on January 31. Minister for Health K.K. Shylaja said on Sunday that more than 24.49 lakh children under the age of five would be administered oral polio vaccine on the day. Polio drops will be administered from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. as part of the national polio immunisation drive. A total of 24,690 booths have been arranged for the drive, to be held in compliance with polio prevention and COVID-19 guidelines. Booths would be set up in anganwadis, schools, bus-stands, health centres, libraries, airports, and railway stations. Mobile units and other arrangements would be made in areas where migrant workers live. In case some children miss out, they would be administered polio drops at home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pulse-polio-on-january-31/article33653357.ece
25 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Power sector employees to go on nationwide strike||Power sector employees will stage a nationwide strike on February 3 to register their protest against the draft Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020, which, they allege, seeks to privatise the sector. The strike is being organised under the aegis of the National Coordination Committee of Electricity Employees’ and Engineers (NCCOEEE), a joint platform of trade unions in the power sector. At a press conference here, trade unions in the State’s power sector said the strike was aimed at retaining electricity distribution in the public sector and to protect the interests of the power sector employees and the consumers. The draft, published on April 17, 2020, aims at total privatisation of power distribution in the States. They demanded the Centre to withdraw the draft bill and the the draft standard bidding documents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/power-sector-employees-to-go-on-nationwide-strike/article33653340.ece
25 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Minister flays CBI probe||Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan has said that the government’s decision to institute a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe against Congress leaders in the alleged rape charge by solar-case accused smacked of political opportunism and pettiness. The Left Democratic Front government had sat on the cases for five years. It had passed the buck to the CBI on the eve of the Assembly polls. The LDF government itself was the subject of multiple inquiries by Central agencies. It had lost the moral right to sit on judgement on the Congress. The government had banned the CBI when it moved to investigate violations of the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act in the LIFE Mission-UAE Red Crescent deal. It had also opposed a CBI inquiry into the Periye twin murder case, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minister-flays-cbi-probe/article33653359.ece
25 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CPI(M)-BJP alliance: Mullappally||Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president Mullappally Ramachandran has accused the CPI(M) of striking a tacit electoral understanding with the BJP in a dangerous move to deny Congress political space in the State. He said the BJP had shifted 2,000 votes to aid the CPI(M) candidate in the by-election for Thillenkery division in Kannur district panchayat. The UDF candidate, who died in harness, had won the seat by 285 seats. The BJP had collected 3,333 votes. The latest election results showed that the BJP’s votes had come down by 2,000 while the CPI(M) candidate registered a corresponding increase. The local RSS leader Valsan Thillankery had publicly stated that he served as a bridge between the Sangh Parivar and CPI(M) in Kannur, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-bjp-alliance-mullappally/article33653360.ece
25 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Two arrested for bike-lifting||The Nemom police have arrested two history-sheeters in connection with stealing a motorcycle and the belongings of its owner after assaulting him. The accused were identified as Giri Manoharan alias Giri, 21, of Nemom, and Ambu, 26, of Thiruvallam. They have been arrested for allegedly intercepting Vellayani native Haja Hussain in Kakkammoola on January 17 at around 8.30 a.m. Assaulted After pushing him off his motorcycle, the duo assaulted him using a helmet and stomped on him. The duo fled on the motorcycle after snatching his mobile phone and Rs. 2,500. The police had initiated an intensive search for the duo after they had gone into hiding. They have been involved in various criminal cases including a bike theft case in Malayinkeezhu and another relating to two motorcycles set ablaze in Nemom.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-arrested-for-bike-lifting/article33653514.ece
25 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Man accused of raping minor girl||The Kadinamkulam police have registered a case under provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act against a youth for allegedly raping a minor girl during multiple instances since August last. According to the police, the accused, a 30-year old man, allegedly raped the victim, who is his neighbour, after threatening to circulate a compromising picture. The victim has been found to be two-months pregnant during medical examination. The police have intensified the search for the accused, who has been absconding, after a magistrate recorded the victim’s statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-accused-of-raping-minor-girl/article33653515.ece
25 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Techie held with drugs||The Sreekaryam police have arrested a 31-year-old techie with alleged possession of drugs. MDMA Abhimanyu alias Kurishu Abi, who hails from Oolampara in Peroorkada, was arrested with several packets of synthetic drug MDMA. An employee of a Technopark firm, the accused is suspected to have peddled such narcotic substances among those working in the IT sector, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/techie-held-with-drugs/article33653516.ece
25 January 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Azhikode stood with humanity: Minister||The scary fact we face now is that we do not have any scholarly leaders to resist the fascist forces that are trying to conquer the country, Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar has said. He was speaking after inaugurating Sukumar Azhikode Smruthy organised by the Ayanam Samskarika Vedi at the Kerala Sahitya Akademi hall on Sunday. “Azhikode’s words had a mesmerising impact on the audience. He always stood with humanity. Azhikode, who thought that silence of the writers is a shame for the culture, provided generations with cultural energy. His role in preparing a vigilant society will be remembered forever,” the Minister said. The words provide energy to people even in his absence. He insisted that writers should be free from all bias. Fearlessness gave energy to Azhikode’s words, said writer N.R. Gramaprakash while delivering a remembrance speech. Azhikode put the image of writers on a high pedestal, he said. Ayanam Samskarika Vedi chairman Vijesh Edakunny presided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/azhikode-stood-with-humanity-minister/article33653522.ece
25 January 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||436 new cases reported in Thrissur district||A total of 436 COVID-19 cases were reported in the district on Sunday while 383 people recovered from the disease. There are 5,010 active cases in the district and 93 people from the district are undergoing treatment in hospitals in other districts. So far, 84,519 COVID-19 cases have been reported from the district and 78,959 people have recovered. According to official statistics, 423 people, including three health workers, contracted the disease through local contact on Sunday. Of them, 67 people are above the age of 60 and 23 are below the age of 10. In all, 3,638 people are in home care and 127 people were admitted to the hospital for treatment for COVID-19 on Sunday. A total of 3,430 samples were collected for tests on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/436-new-cases-reported-in-thrissur-district/article33653471.ece
25 January 2021||January 25 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Acting keeps afloat this archetypal drunkard tale||Liquor consumes Murali, rather than the other way around, as it is with most people. Every waking hour is spent thinking about the way to get his next drink, without which he just cannot function. Once, he sells even his daughter’s study table to buy a drink while another time he is shown drinking a whole bottle of cough syrup to get high. Vellam , a colloquial usage to refer to drunkards, is this man’s story. Filmmaker G. Prajesh Sen, who made his debut with Captain , yet again teams up with Jayasurya for Vellam . Said to be inspired from a real-life story, it chronicles how Murali (Jayasurya), who becomes a burden for his family, and the society around him, comes back from the brink and rebuilds his life. No parallel narratives Quite a few films have been made on people struggling with drinking problems, most recently the Pirthviraj-starrer Paavada . Much has been said about it already that there is little to add. Vellam also does not really say anything new, but tries to go much deeper into the issue, portraying the sheer helplessness of someone wanting to get over addiction, and that of the people around him. It does not have any parallel narratives taking the attention away from the drunkard. But after a point, the scenes of a drunk Murali lying on the road or having a tiff with his family becomes repetitive. It seemed the director wanted to drill in the message and make the viewer feel the drunkard’s plight. Editing out some of these would have helped in cutting down the run-time of two-and-a-half hours. If not for Jayasurya’s earnest performance, these parts would have become even more of a drag. He gives it his all as the man who cannot imagine life without alcohol, even crawling on the floor and licking drops of spilt spirit. For Samyuktha Menon too, the role of Murali’s wife gives ample scope to perform. Some of the scenes, like the one involving a missing gold ring during a family function and the suspicion turning to the good-at-heart protagonist, were reminiscent of quite a few other ones we have watched before. Sequences like these seemed to be just there to milk some emotion. Whether due to the compulsions to stick to the real-life story or a reluctance to stray into uncharted territory, there is nothing out of the box here. The film stays afloat strictly on the strength of Jayasurya’s performance. S.R. Praveen||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/acting-keeps-afloat-this-archetypal-tale/article33653277.ece
25 January 2021||January 25 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Ecosystem’s health equals human health||T. Jacob John,   alumnus of Government Medical College, Thiruvananthapuram, and retired professor of virology, Christian Medical College, Vellore, is the Chairman of the Kerala Science Congress 2021.  The theme of the 33rd Kerala Science Congress (25-30 January) is “Pandemics – Risks, Impacts and Mitigations”. Due to COVID-19, the proceedings are being conducted on the virtual platform. Last century there were several pandemics: flu in 1918 (H1N1), 1957 (H2N2) and 1968 (H3N2); cholera in 1961; HIV/AIDS in 1981. This century, the pandemics so far have been: SARS in 2003; chikungunya in 2006; flu in 2009 (H1N1) and COVID-19 in 2020. The public memory of the miseries and mortality of chikungunya and flu is still fresh. Chikungunya affected Kerala badly because of widespread prevalence of Aedes mosquitoes that had already wreaked havoc with dengue and dengue haemorrhagic fever (DHF). Yellow fever remains an ever-present threat since its vector is also Aedes species. Density and COVID-19 The 2020 COVID-19 pandemic affected the State severely on account of the high density of population (860/sq.km). Kerala is one of the four most densely populated States, along with West Bengal, Bihar, and Uttar Pradesh. Another risk factor was the diaspora travelling back and forth, plus tourists arriving from all over the world. Migratory birds bring avian viruses, mostly not a threat to human health, but we cannot be sure of the next outbreak. We must be prepared for pandemics any time, with known or unknown microbes. Kerala must always be alert for Nipah virus outbreaks since bats foraging in our skies harbour the virus. Proximity to the Western Ghats spells constant threats of Kyasanur Forest and rabies viruses. Our landscape makes us vulnerable to leptospirosis. Japanese encephalitis, once allowed in, never leaves the territory. All these are on top of endemic typhoid, hepatitis and dysentery. High literacy alone is insufficient to inculcate intolerance of infectious diseases. For mitigation measures, science and technology are our most reliable allies. High literacy has ensured low rates of births and child mortality – many families opting for one child. When DHF hit, some families lost their only child. Kerala tops life expectancy among all States. Flu and COVID-19 have taken a heavy toll of our elder relatives. Chronic chikungunya was bad enough, but chronic COVID-19 is worse. The adverse impacts on people’s livelihoods and economy in general, have been heart-rending. The government has been compassionate, but there are limitations. Children have been the worst affected – intellectually, emotionally, socially, developmentally. Kerala is unique among States with its own annual Science Congress, complementing the yearly Indian Science Congress. The intention is to inculcate scientific temper in young minds, besides providing a platform for scientists and innovators to share ideas in Kerala’s larger interests. Idea of One Health Young scientists are given recognition as encouragement; best performers are honoured with ‘Kerala State Young Scientist Award’. The Children’s Science Congress provides inspiration to talented children to pursue science. Microbes are our inseparable companions in ecology, with both having home territories. Unfortunately their borders get breached often and microbes cross species barriers, seeding new diseases. So, animal and environmental microbiology is a crucial subject to be encouraged, covering the concept of ‘One Health’. Human health can be managed successfully only with the synergy of: Public Health preventing diseases with environmental and social determinants; Healthcare that Kerala excels in, as the low COVID-19 mortality has proved; and Research to constantly raise the bars of Public Health and Healthcare, and to provide new tools – diagnostics, therapeutics and prophylactics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ecosystems-health-equals-human-health/article33653355.ece
25 January 2021||January 25 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||A tribute with colours||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-tribute-with-colours/article33653285.ece
25 January 2021||January 25 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Few takers||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/few-takers/article33653519.ece
25 January 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Demand grows for new dist. HQ at Penukonda||Citizens of Penukonda have begun mounting pressure on the State government to declare Penukonda the headquarters for the new district to be carved out of Anantapur. People from Hindupur and Puttaparthi also have been raising their voice to get the two towns declared the new district headquarters. On Sunday, a massive programme was organised by the Penukonda Paryataka Porata Committee inviting all senior citizens and influential people from the region irrespective of political affiliation to give an impetus to their demand for forming the new district with Penukonda, the second capital of Sri Krishnadevaraya, as the headquarters. A 16-page brochure compiled by committee president Pratap Reddy explains why Penukonda fits the bill and outlines the infrastructure available, industries, highways, reservoirs, rivers and forest assets. Penukonda is geographically located at the central point of the Hindupur Parliamentary constituency. The supporters of this idea feel Penukonda, where the ancient palace exists, would be the centre point with good connectivity for people in the entire Hindupur Parliamentary constituency right from Tanakallu/Kadiri to Amarapuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/demand-grows-for-new-dist-hq-at-penukonda/article33652985.ece
25 January 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Employees boycotting SEC meet incorrect: BJP||BJP State general secretary S. Vishnuvardhan Reddy has objected to the government employees boycotting the video-conference called by State Election Commissioner N. Ramesh Kumar . In a statement on Sunday, he said it was nothing but dishonouring the constitutional body / process. “Some regional parties like the YSRCP are trying to behave as they like, which will have serious consequences. The employees’ action is uncalled for,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/employees-boycotting-sec-meet-incorrect-bjp/article33653448.ece
25 January 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cases booked against 4 shops||The Guntakal Legal Metrology Inspector, Meer Mohammed Ghouse, on Sunday raided some fertilizer shops, retail and electronic goods shops and bakeries, and registered four cases levying a penalty of Rs. 35,000. Mr. Ghouse said that many of the packaged items being sold in these shops did not have the date of manufacturing, customer care number, Maximum Retail Price and details of manufacturers with the address. He said in case of any discrepancy in the bill or excess money being charged, people should inform the officers at contact numbers: 78938 13707 or 9398112675.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cases-booked-against-4-shops/article33652983.ece
25 January 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Movement of 13-member herd of elephants worries officials, public||Reports of a 13-member herd of wild elephants from the Tamil Nadu forests lingering close to the Chittoor-Vellore road in Gudipala mandal are keeping the officials and public on an edge. Earlier, the inter-State zone had seen smaller herds and lone elephants, but it is for the first time that a big herd of elephants making its appearance in the thinly-vegetated area, causing concern to the public and officials as well. It is from this border area that a three-member group of wild elephants had crossed into Chittoor district early in January, before straying over 150 kilometers away towards Nagari plains. Still, the herd is lingering at a hilly terrain near Puttur, making the retreat difficult for the forest staff. Yoga centre launched Meanwhile, the forest officials on Sunday launched a yoga centre for the walkers at its City Park, spread over 200 hectares in the heart of Chittoor Municipal Corporation. Chittoor MLA A. Srinivasulu and Divisional Forest Officer (Chittoor East Wildlife) G. Narentheran participated in the inaugural function. “Well-trained yoga personnel will give classes at the centre for the interested visitors. So far, we have enrolled at least 100 members on annual subscription,” the official said. The DFO said that another highlight of the City Park is the cycling track, resumed on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/movement-of-13-member-herd-of-elephants-worries-officials-public/article33652987.ece
25 January 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Launch of schemes marks dairy founder’s death anniversary||Sangam Dairy has launched several welfare schemes under the DVC Abhaya for the benefit of milk producers at large, staff of the milk societies and centres and also to producers marking the 27th vardhanti of former Minister and founder of Sangam Dairy Dhillpalla Veeraiah Chowdary. Sangam Dairy chairman and former MLA D. Narendra Kumar said that the board took a unanimous decision to launch welfare schemes under the DVC Abhaya. Keeping in mind the welfare of milk producers, the dairy proposed to pay Rs. 50,000 to the family members of milk producers of societies and centres. This scheme was now extended to the milk producers of the vendor points also. Out of the annual premium of Rs. 270, Rs. 90 is borne by dairy as subsidy, Rs. 90 by society / centre /vendor point and only Rs. 90 is contributed by the milk producer. Any milk producer can join the scheme directly by contributing Rs. 180 and become a member in the scheme, said Mr. Narendra Kumar. Under the employee’s retirement benefit fund, the staff working in societies, centres and vendor points contribute Rs. 100 per month to a society to be formed for the purpose. The contributions go to a corpus fund created for the purpose and maintainable by the society. The persons desiring to enroll in the scheme should be 18 years of age and should have working experience of 20 years in the society / center / vendor points. Under the death relief fund, all presidents, staff of societies and centres contribute Rs. 50 in case of a death of a president or staff member. Thus a huge amount is pooled and paid to the heirs of the deceased person. The dairy, on its behalf, pays an additional sum of Rs. 20,000 to the family of the deceased. The vendors of the district and other districts should have supplied milk continuously for the last one year to enroll in the scheme. Price increase Later, the chairman announced that the milk price (kg fat rate) of buffalo milk would be increased to Rs. 655 from February 2, 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/launch-of-schemes-marks-dairy-founders-death-anniversary/article33652988.ece
25 January 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three killed in two mishaps in Kadapa||A worker died at a cement factory in Jammalamadugu area, triggering panic among fellow workers. The dumper operator, identified as Vasudeva Reddy, was found dead reportedly under suspicious circumstances, as his family members alleged that his body was found at a place different from where he was believed to have died. Tense moments prevailed at the factory as his relatives had got down to a verbal duel with the representatives of the factory management. Other workers also joined the issue and imposed a condition to lift the body only after the management rendered justice to the bereaved family. Accident kills man, son In another incident, a man and his four-year-old son died in a road mishap near Vampalli tank in Brahmamgari Matham mandal, when an RTC bus proceeding on the Mydukur-Badvel main road reportedly rammed into their two-wheeler. The boy, who was seated atop the petrol tank, died on the spot, while his parents and sibling sustained grievous injuries. They were rushed to the Badvel government hospital for treatment, where the father, identified as Rami Reddy, succumbed to his injuries. The injured mother and the other son were shifted to RIMS Kadapa for better treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-killed-in-two-mishaps-in-kadapa/article33652989.ece
25 January 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fire accident victim battling for life||Boddu Nookaraju, one of the four victims of a fire accident in a fishing boat at Kakinada fishing harbour on Friday, is battling for life in the Government General Hospital (GGH) here. Native of Visakhapatnam district, Nookaraju was admitted to the hospital with over 90% burns. GGH-Kakinada Superintendent M. Raghavendra Rao said: “Nookaraju, though his condition is critical, is responding to the treatment.” In the case of the three other victims, their condition is out of danger and they will require to be under the watch of the doctors for one more week, according to hospital sources. The three persons -- Malli Yerrayya, Mugi Dhanayya and Dydupalli Suribabu -- also belong to Visakhapatnam district. On Friday, the boat caught fire while the crew was starting the engine and it was completely gutted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fire-accident-victim-battling-for-life/article33653460.ece
25 January 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Republic Day preparations in full swing in Kurnool||The dress rehearsals for the Republic Day parade were held at the Parade Grounds at the District Police Office here on Sunday with eight units of civilian police, armed reserve, fire, and scouts participating in it. Superintendent of Police Fakkeerappa Kaginelli, who was here to inspect the parade, said six units of security forces and one each from the Fire Department and Scouts and Guides would participate in the parade.  The district administration will showcase all the welfare schemes of the State government in the form of 11 tableaux, 11 stalls on the ground providing information on Navarathnalu and other benefits being provided to the eligible persons at their doorstep.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/republic-day-preparations-in-full-swing-in-kurnool/article33652991.ece
25 January 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. will abide by SC verdict on local body polls, says Botcha||Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development Botcha Satyanarayana on Sunday said that the State government would abide by the verdict of the Supreme Court on holding elections to the local bodies. Addressing the media, along with his Cabinet colleague P.Anil Kumar Yadav, Mr. Satyanarayana said the State government is empowered to decide when to hold the polls and it was the duty of the State Election Commission (SEC) to announce the poll schedule and conduct it. He alleged that State Election Commissioner N. Ramesh Kumar had timed the local body elections to favour an opposition party. The Minister also condemned Mr. Ramesh Kumar for his reported remarks that he would relook the Grama Panchayat seats. “The panchayat seats were decided on a unanimous basis and now, Mr. Ramesh Kumar is trying to go against the spirit of encouraging the unanimous elections in villages,” he said. Public health The Minister questioned as to why the polls were abruptly stopped then when the number of COVID-19 cases was only about 50 last year and why the SEC was ‘adamant’ on holding the polls now without having concerns for the people’s health at a time when the vaccination programme was under way in phases. “It is unfortunate that when the matter is sub judice , the SEC is calling for transfer of revenue and police officers. He is behaving more like an opposition leader,” said Mr. Satyanarayana. The Minister showered praises on Panchayat Raj Secretary Gopalakrishna Dwivedi, then Chief Election Officer (CEO) for conducting the 2019 elections to the Lok Sabha and the Assembly seats in a free and fair manner. ‘Attack on temples’ “Chief Minister Y.S.Jagan Mohan Reddy is implementing welfare schemes on a scale not seen before. Unable to digest his popularity, the opposition parties are instigating attacks on temples and resorting to political mudslinging. Probe has revealed that it was the men of TDP leader K. Atchannaidu who were responsible for shifting of a Nandi idol at Santabommali temple recently,” he said. Mr. Satyanarayana laid the foundation stone for projects to give facelift to a Siva temple, Venugopalaswamy temple and recycling of water in the temple tank with the municipal corporation funds. Replying to a question, he promised to consider taking up of the outer ring road project in consultation with Mr. Anil Kumar.  It is unfortunate that when the matter is sub judice , the SEC is calling for transfer of revenue and police officers. He is behaving more like an opposition leader.   Botcha Satyanarayana,  Municipal Administration Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-will-abide-by-sc-verdict-on-local-body-polls-says-botcha/article33653450.ece
25 January 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||MLA denies abusing deceased JSP activist||YSRCP MLA from Giddalur Anna Ram Babu on Sunday denied that he had abetted the suicide by Jana Sena Party activist Vengaiah Naidu. Addressing the media in Giddalur of Prakasam district, he clarified that he had a war of words only with a person named Chandu, a YSRCP activist from Singampalli village, when the activist along with other persons blocked his car by placing boulders on the road. He justified his outbursts saying “that is the way people talk in local parlance”. The said Vengaiah Naidu from the village had resettled in Kanigiri and had no knowledge of the local problems. He had taken the extreme step allegedly due to personal problems”, the MLA claimed, adding that he had no issues with him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mla-denies-abusing-deceased-jsp-activist/article33653451.ece
25 January 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Spandana’ gains traction at training programme||The ‘Spandana’ programme, evolved and implemented using low-cost information and communication technology(ICT) by the Prakasam police, caught attention of the participants at an online training programme for IPS officers organised by the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy. Addressing senior officers from across the country at the ‘Mid Career training programme(MCTP)’, Prakasam Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal highlighted the working of the ICT initiative through video conferencing after giving a power-point presentation on ‘Spandana Online, Spandana Online Beyond Borders’. He explained how the initiative, birthed to make the process of getting one’s grievance resolved easier, has helped petitioners from not just within the district and elsewhere in the country but also from foreign countries. Earlier, people from the faraway areas had to travel long distances from remote places to reach the District Headquarters, spending a lot of money and time. Many a time their grievances remained unresolved despite running from pillar to post. “Now, through ‘Spandana Online’, people can talk to us directly from their nearest police station via video conference and get their grievances resolved virtually. The digital process ensures faster justice, thereby reducing the cost incurred by the government and the public. It also makes police personnel more accountable,” he said. Every petition received by the complainant in this online programme is recorded in Crime and Criminal Tracking Network Systems(CCTNS) to ensure accountability, continued the SP. The whole process is video-recorded and streamed live on the social media. This makes it easier for the police to provide services with 100% reliability and transparency. Every officer, from all the police stations, circle offices and sub-divisional offices in the district, takes part in the programme, he added. ‘Affordable price’ According to the available market price, the conventional video conferencing facility in 84 police stations across the district could cost up to Rs. 3.3 crore. But, ‘Spandana’, which required computers and low-cost software, costed Rs. 2 lakh, he said. So far more than 4,300 people across the district have availed the services. The SP also said that the programme was able to reach 10.5 million people on social media in a very short span of time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/spandana-gains-traction-at-national-level-training-programme/article33652993.ece
25 January 2021||RAMPACHODAVARAM (EAST GODAVARI DT),ANDHRA PRADESH||Polavaram project: rehabilitation of families to be affected speeded up||The East Godavari district authorities have stepped up the process of rehabilitation of the families to be affected by the Polavaram irrigation project. They target to rehabilitate those falling under the 39th contour of the project by March-end. By Sunday, as many as 250 Project Displaced Families (PDFs) were rehabilitated from four villages -- Kutchuluru, Suddakonda, Enugulagondi and K. Gonduru in Devipatnam mandal, where 44 habitations are falling under the 39 contour of the project in the district. Rampachodavaram RDO and Rehabilitation and Resettlement Officer V.K. Seena Naik told The Hindu: “A target has been set to rehabilitate the people living in over 25 habitations by March-end, shifting them to resettlement colonies. Except drainage and other major ones, all basic facilities will be provided in resettlement colonies before the affected families are shifted to there." “People will be shifted from their habitation only after their grievances are addressed, if any. However, the compensation has been awarded to every eligible family,” claimed Mr. Seena Naik. CPI East Godavari district secretary Thatipaka Madhu and tribal rights activist Balu Akkisa on Sunday lamented that the State government launched the rehabilitation exercise without completion of resettlement colonies, particularly in the case of the people of four villages rehabilitated over the past few days. Cut-off date “Cut-off date should be extended from 2012 to 2020 to offer compensation to those who attain 18 years. If the government do so, those attain the age of 18 years by the end of 2020 will get compensation that is entitled to the family,” said Mr. Madhu and Mr. Balu at a press conference here. Mr. Madhu announced that CPI State secretary K. Ramakrishna and other senior leaders would conduct a meeting here next month to chalk out a plan to intensify agitation seeking fair compensation to the displaced of the Polavaram irrigation project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/polavaram-project-rehabilitation-of-families-to-be-affected-speeded-up/article33653459.ece
25 January 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Saura yagam’ begins at Arasavalli temple||Sri Suryanarayana Swamy temple at Arasavalli wore a festive look on Sunday with the beginning of Sri Madaruna Maha Saura Homam, which will continue till February 4, 201. The temple authorities made special arrangements for the ‘saura yagam’ which was aimed at getting the blessings from the Sun God for the people who suffered from COVID-19 and other problems for the last one year. According to chief priest Ippili Sankara Sarma, ‘maha saura yagam’ was conducted previously in 1982, 1999, 2007 and 2013. Sri Chakrarchana, Maharudrabhishekam, and cultural events are also being organised every day under this auspicious programme.  COVID-19 protocol Former Minister and Srikakulam MLA Dharmana Prasada Rao and other people’s representatives attended the homam. The temple authorities said that only 15 devotees were being allowed every day as part of COVID-19 protocol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/saura-yagam-begins-at-arasavalli-temple/article33653462.ece
25 January 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Focus on research, job-oriented courses’||B.R. Ambedkar University new Vice-Chancellor Nimma Venkata Rao has said that he will further improve infrastructure in the university and strive to get top grade from the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) which is essential for higher educational institutions. Speaking to the media here, he said the university would focus on research and job-oriented courses with the approval of authorities concerned. Dr. Venkata Rao, who hails from Kuppili village of Etcherla mandal, could get the opportunity to serve the university of his native district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/focus-on-research-job-oriented-courses/article33653464.ece
25 January 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TS Governor prays at Tirumala temple||Telangana Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Sunday offered prayers at the hill shrine of Lord Venkateswara at Tirumala on Sunday. Ms. Soundararajan reached the town on Saturday night as part of her two-day pilgrimage. She was accorded a traditional welcome at the main temple complex on Sunday morning. She spent 10 minutes in the sanctunm sanctorum. TTD Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy presented her a memento and laddu prasadam. SBI donates Rs. 26.98 lakh Meanwhile, the State Bank of India (SBI) donated Rs. 26.98 lakhs for the telecast of dharmic programmes on the TTD’s Sri Venkateswara Bhakti Channel (SVBC). SBI Managing Director Challa Srinivasulu Chetty handed over a demand draft for the amount to Mr. Dharma Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ts-governor-prays-at-tirumala-temple/article33653270.ece
25 January 2021||Tirupati,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telangana Governor all praise for medical fraternity||Telangana Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan has appreciated the free services rendered on charity basis by Sri Venkateswara Medical College Alumni Association stating that such events will benefit the future generations a lot. She was participating in the golden jubilee celebrations of the association. She appreciated the global medical fraternity for fighting the COVID-19 pandemic and protecting humanity. The doctors and medical students extended wholehearted services to the patients affected by the virus and stood fearless in the fight. “Since the vaccine is available for the virus now, each one of us should shed suspicion over the apprehensions and get themselves vaccinated to stay healthy,” said Dr. Soundararajan, herself a medical practitioner. After the Governor gave away merit certificates to the participants at the seminar on cardiology held on the occasion, she was felicitated by the office-bearers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telangana-governor-all-praise-for-medical-fraternity/article33652913.ece
25 January 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Playground inaugurated at SVIMS||The renovated and modernised playground on Sri Venkateswara Institute of Medical Sciences (SVIMS) University campus was formally declared open by its Vice-Chancellor and Director B. Vengamma here on Sunday. The playground, developed with Rs. 9 lakh from the University Sports Fund, is meant to be used for conducting sports and events for the students of College of Nursing, College of Physiotherapy and Sri Padmavathi Medical College for Women. Dr. Vengamma encouraged students to utilise the facility to overcome academic pressure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/playground-inaugurated-at-svims/article33652994.ece
25 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||IGMC Stadium being spruced up for R-Day||In view of the COVID-19 pandemic, Republic Day celebrations are being scaled down this year, according to Principal Secretary (political) Praveen Praksash. Mr. Praveen Prakash, along with Krishna District Collector A. Md. Imtiaz and other officials, visited the Indira Gandhi Municipal Corporation (IGMC) stadium, the venue of the celebrations, and reviewed arrangements. Rehearsals complete He said unlike in the past when a crowd of nearly 10,000 people gathered at the stadium to be part of the celebrations, this year only 1,500-2,000 people would be allowed. Final rehearsals of the police parade and other programmes were completed, arrangements at the dais and other places were nearing completion. The parade and the tableaux exhibiting the rich flavours of the State would be the highlights of the event. The number of people present in each tableau was being reduced from 10 to four this year, he said, adding that wearing of masks was mandatory and hand sanitisers would be made available at the venue. Mr. Praveen Prakash said even at the national level celebrations in Delhi, a tableau from Andhra Pradesh would be part of the 15 tableaux invited from as many States, reduced from the usual 35 exhibits. He said the State was hopeful that its exhibit at the celebrations would bag a prize this year also. Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan will give a message to the people of the State at the programme to be attended by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and others. Mr. Imtiaz said that the progress achieved by various government departments would reflect in their tableaux on R-Day. Municipal Commissioner V. Prasanna Venkatesh, Joint Collector (development) L. Sivasankar, Joint Collector (welfare) K. Mohan Kumar were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/igmc-stadium-being-spruced-up-for-r-day/article33653571.ece
25 January 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Banana farmers export 977 tonnes to Middle East||Banana farmers of Kadapa and Anantapur districts have exported the produce to the Middle East. The first train with 43 refrigerated containers carrying 977 tonnes of bananas had left Tadipatri to the Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust Mumbai (JNPT), Mumbai, on January 22. The Container Corporation of India (CONCOR) and the Business Development Unit (BDU) set up at the Guntakal division of the South Central Railway (SCR) played a vital role in exporting the banana stocks, said SCR General Manager Gajanan Mallya. The 43 reefer containers were loaded from the storage and warehousing units located at Tadipatri, Pulivendula, Obulapuram and the neighbouring areas, he said. CONCOR had arranged reach stacker for container handling, reefer plug points, diesel generator, genset mounted trailers and uninterrupted power supply to the trains en route. “The farmers have benefited with the exports,” the authorities said. “Transportation of bananas by road takes much time and the loss will be high due to damages. To provide a hassle-free transport and prevent losses to the farmers, the SCR, in coordination with CONCOR, is arranging reefer containers for exports,” a railway officer said. Farmers said they had suffered heavy losses during the lockdown period as they had to sell the produce for a lesser prices or leave the bunches without cutting them in the orchards. Mr. Mallya praised the efforts of the SCR, CONCOR and the BDU officers for helping the farmers. “The facility will bring down the losses and give a boost to the export opportunities from the region,” he said, and appealed to the farmers to make use of the rail transport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/banana-farmers-export-977-tonnes-to-middle-east/article33653574.ece
25 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State reports zero deaths, 158 new cases in 24 hours||The State reported zero coronavirus deaths and 158 new infections in 24 hours, ending on Sunday morning. With the new cases, the cumulative tally went up to 8,87,010, with a recovery rate of 99.03%. With a total of 7,147 deaths, the death rate remained at 0.81% and the number of recoveries increased to 8,78,387. In the past day, 155 patients recovered and the number of active cases in the State was put at 1,476. In the past day, 44,382 samples were tested for the infection and only 0.36% of them were confirmed positive. The overall positivity rate of the 1.28 crore samples that have been tested so far came down to 6.89%. West Godavari reported 24 new infections, the highest single-day tally among the districts. It was followed by Visakhapatnam (22), Krishna (20), Chittoor (16), Guntur (15), East Godavari (14) and Anantapur (10). The remaining six districts reported single-digit infections. Krishna and Guntur districts contribute 30% of the total active cases in the State. Krishna has 252 active cases, while Guntur has 191. Six districts have more than 100 active cases while Vizianagaram has the lowest of 34.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-reports-zero-deaths-158-new-cases-in-24-hours/article33653447.ece
25 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APSRTC to create facilities for crew members in Hyderabad||The Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) has planned to create facilities for the bus crew members in Hyderabad. ARSRTC Vice-Chairman and Managing Director R. P. Thakur on Sunday inspected the existing facilities at the BHEL bus station in Hyderabad. He, along with, RTC Executive Director (Operations) K.S. Brahmananda Reddy, Executive Director (Engineering) Krishna Mohan, Chief Civil Engineer Sreenivas and other officials, inspected the 2.25 acre facility and discussed how best the property could be improved. He inspected the bus parking area, the rooms where the crew members and other staff take rest, maintenance sheds and vehicle washing plant. Mr. Thakur asked the officials to spruce up the facility by February 15. In the pipeline The APSRTC has plans to spend Rs. 12.85 crore in creating infrastructure for the staff like air-conditioned rooms. The ground floor will have 60 beds and the first floor will have 95 rooms with attached washrooms. “Parking space will be created to accommodate 80 buses at a time, apart from a kitchen that can be used by the staff and a dining hall,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apsrtc-to-create-facilities-for-crew-members-in-hyderabad/article33653456.ece
25 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Farmer dies with ‘symptoms’ of undiagnosed illness||A farmer, Yesupadam (65), of Komirepalli village in Denduluru mandal of West Godavari district died while working in an agriculture field on Sunday. Yesupadam collapsed suddenly in the nearby irrigation canal after showing symptoms of epilepsy, convulsions etc., said his family members, and attributed it to the case of undiagnosed illness. The body of Yesupadam was sent to the Eluru Government General Hospital (GGH) for a post-mortem examination. The police arranged security at the GGH as a precautionary measure. In all, 29 persons were admitted to the Primary Health Centre (PHC) at Denduluru, Eluru GGH and other hospitals with similar symptoms in the last three days. More than 700 persons had fallen sick with the undiagnosed disease in Eluru, Pulla, Denduluru and other villages in West Godavari district in the last one-and-a-half months. Officials of the Medical and Health and Public Health departments, researchers and experts from the World Health Organisation (WHO) and AIIMS had collected samples of blood, water, vegetables, milk, chicken, fish, mutton, rice, and pulses and sent them for analysis to the laboratories to ascertain the reason behind the unknown disease. “The laboratory reports are awaited,” said the officials. ‘Situation under control’ Speaking to The Hindu , Eluru GGH superintendent A.V.R. Mohan said the body of Yesupadam was sent for a post-mortem examination, and the reason for the death would be known in the autopsy report. “About 29 persons fell sick in the village. All the patients have been discharged and the situation is under control,” Dr. Mohan said. “We are monitoring the situation at Komirepalli, Pull and other villages. Doctors, anganwadi and ASHA workers, village volunteers and health secretaries were making a door-to-door visit and monitoring the situation,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-farmer-dies-of-undiagnosed-illness/article33652921.ece
25 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gold, silver seized, 4 held||Sleuths of the Police Commissioner’s Task Force on Sunday conducted a raid at Bandar locks and took four persons into custody, and seized 1.75 kg of gold jewellery and 1.43 kg of silver ornaments, which were not having proper documents. The team, led by Task Force Additional DCP K.V. Srinivas Rao and ACP G.V. Ramana Murthy, took Krishnakanth Varma, Karan Singh and Dileep Singh of Rajasthan and Tohit Thomar of Madhya Pradesh, who checked into a lodge, into custody. They came from Hyderabad to Vijayawada, said Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu. The task force seized the jewellery and hand over the four persons to Governorpet police for further action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gold-silver-seized-4-held/article33653577.ece
25 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor must intervene to save democracy, says Yanamala||Terming the government officials refusing to attend to duty during the local body elections as the ‘breakdown of administrative machinery’ in the State, Telugu Desam Party (TDP) politburo member and Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Council Yanamala Ramakrishnudu has sought the intervention Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan in this regard. “It is unprecedented that government officials are openly refusing to attend the election duty. In no other State in the country, government employees have ever publicly defied the decisions of the State Election Commission (SEC). It is time the Governor intervened and set the things right,” said Mr. Ramakrishnudu, in a statement, on Sunday. He said the Governor must take the necessary steps to address the issue to ‘restore the confidence of the people in democracy’. “The YSRCP should not be allowed to run the State by the whims and fancies of one individual,” said Mr. Ramakrishunudu. Pillars of democracy The TDP leader called upon the public to teach a lesson to the ruling party. “The arrogance of the YSRCP leaders has caused untold harm to the State. Ever since Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy assumed the office, the State has been witnessing a systematic demolition of all pillars of democracy,” he alleged. Accusing the Chief Minister of having no respect to democracy, Mr. Ramakrishnudu said, “Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy is openly disrespecting the constitution, judiciary, legislature and even the media. False cases are being foisted against the media persons to terrify them.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/governor-must-intervene-to-save-democracy-says-yanamala/article33653217.ece
25 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Union leader denies making personal comments||A.P. Government Employees’ Federation chairman K. Venkatrami Reddy said on Sunday that he did not make any comments against any individual, but only referred to the rights enshrined in the Constitution. Addressing the media, Mr. Venkatrami Reddy said it was not correct on the part of State Election Commissioner N. Ramesh Kumar to ask the Director General of Police (DGP) to step up vigil against him. “Only constitutional rights were pointed out at a press conference on Saturday. No personal comments were made,” he asserted, adding that he would request the DGP to provide security to him. Mr. Venkatrami Reddy said the employees were at the receiving end in the tussle between the government and the SEC. “How can the SEC conduct the elections when the electoral rolls are not ready?” he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/union-leader-denies-making-personal-comments/article33653454.ece
25 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SEC seeks return of seized properties from CID||State Election Commissioner (SEC) N. Ramesh Kumar has written a letter to the Additional DGP, CID, seeking the return of a laptop, a mobile phone, a CPU, a scanner, and a despatch register the investigating agency had taken possession in connection with an inquiry. In the letter, the SEC stated that the CID had taken the above properties containing election-related material in spite of an interim order by the High Court that the CID should not proceed with the investigation during the pendency of a quash petition filed by the commission. He pointed out that the said properties contained vital information that was required to conduct the gram panchayat elections. ‘Will apprise HC’ Replying to the SEC, the CID Additional DGP, P.V. Sunil Kumar, said the request to return the commission’s properties would be apprised to the High Court as the quash petitions filed by the SEC were pending disposal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sec-seeks-return-of-seized-properties-from-cid/article33653457.ece
25 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||City sways to old Hindi film songs||Music lovers in the city swayed to some old Hindi film songs belted out by a team of singers at an event organised at Kowtha Purnanandam Kala Vedika in city and called 'Yaadein' (memories). Popular songs of the 70s, 80s and the 90s sung by legends like Kishore Kumar and Mohammad Rafi, dominated the show. The team, comprising Sridhar Jayaram, Bhagyasree, Shanawaaz and Pragnya regaled the audience by crooning yesteryear hits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/city-sways-to-old-hindi-film-songs/article33653573.ece
25 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Traffic diversions||Tight security has been arranged for the Republic Day celebrations at the Indira Gandhi Municipal Corporation (IGMC) Stadium here on Tuesday, to be attended by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Police imposed traffic diversions and regulation on M.G. Road, Police Control Room and some major thoroughfares in view of the event. Traffic will be diverted at RTC ‘Y’ Junction, State Guest House, Prakasam Road, Pushpa Hotel Centre, Raghavaiah Park, Benz Circle, ‘5’ No. Route, Eluru Road and other junctions, the police said and appealed to the public to cooperate. Parking lots have been arranged for AA, A1, A2, A3 and B2 pass holders at the Bishop Hazaraiah School, Armed Reserve Police grounds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/traffic-diversions/article33653575.ece
25 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||RGUKT asks freshers to report by Jan. 31||The newly-admitted PUC-1 students in the Rajiv Gandhi Universirty of Knowledge Technologies (RGUKT) campuses have been asked to report to their respective campuses on or before before January 31. In a statement on Sunday, RGUKT Chancellor K.C. Reddy said the special category (PH, CAP, NCC and Sports) provisional selection list is available on the university’s websitewww.rgukt.in. Students can send their grievances or queries to admissions@rgukt.in before January 29. Counselling for the special category seats has been scheduled for February 7 (Sunday) at the RGUKT’s Nuzvid campus, on the Mylavaram Road in Krishna district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rgukt-asks-freshers-to-report-by-jan-31/article33653466.ece
25 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Spell Bee’ winners to get prizes on R-Day||P. Jayasree Dheemanth from Viva School, K. Sai Tejaswini from Bhashyam Blooms and B. Charitasree from K.L.P. Public School bagged the first, second and third prizes respectively in the final round of the district-level inter-school Spell Bee competition, organised by Dr. KLP Public School in Guntur on Sunday. Students from 25 schools participated in the preliminary round. The winners will receive prizes and all the participants will be given certificates during the Republic Day celebrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/spell-bee-winners-to-get-prizes-on-r-day/article33653572.ece
25 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||JNUSU president calls for united struggle till farm laws are repealed||Jawaharlal Nehru University Students Union (JNUSU) president Aishe Ghosh has said that it is high time that all sections of the people unite to oppose the ‘anti-farmer’ policies of the Union government, which she alleged are intended to benefit corporate groups like Adanis and Ambanis. Addressing a large gathering of students, Left party activists and leaders and the public at the Gandhi park near GVMC on Sunday, Ms. Ghosh, who is also national executive member of the Students Federation of India (SFI), said that the nation was going through turbulent times and called upon all sections of the people to continue their struggle against the Union government, till the farm laws were withdrawn. She alleged that there was growing unrest all over the country, with the BJP-RSS fanning communal passions and violence. Women were being assaulted as never before, and the BJP leaders were supporting the perpetrators of those crimes, she alleged. She recalled that a journalist from Kerala, who had gone to cover the Hathras incident, was jailed under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). Alleging that the fundamental rights of the people were being snatched by the government, she described the situation as an ‘undeclared emergency’. A large number of PSUs like BSNL and LIC were being ‘put up for sale’, and the railways was also being privatised. When Prime Minister Narendra Modi went to Kolkata to pay homage to Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose on his 125th birth anniversary, someone from the audience had raised slogans of ‘Jai Sri Ram’, she said. Alleging that RSS activists were behind it, Ms. Ghosh said that nationalism was not to divide people on the basis of religion. Earlier, a huge rally was taken out by students, social activists and Left parties and representatives of various organisations from the AU College of Engineering Ground, near Maddilapalem Junction, to the Gandhi statue. Hundreds of students, including children, participated in the rally carrying the national tricolour and flags representing various organisations. SFI State president A. Ashok, DYFI State secretary M. Surya Rao, city secretary U.S.N. Raju, SFI Central Committee members L. Chinnari and Mounika, AIDWA city president G. Priyanka and Visakha Children’s Club(VCC) convener K. Suseela were among those who participated. Earlier, when media persons asked her on the need for students to participate in the protest, Ms. Ghosh said that many of the students were children of farmers. It was the duty of all citizens to support farmers, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jnusu-president-calls-for-united-struggle-till-farm-laws-are-repealed/article33653468.ece
25 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Support striking farmers, CPI urges people||CPI State secretary K. Ramakrishna has called upon all sections of people, irrespective of political affiliations, to stage protests all over the State on Republic Day to express their solidarity with the farmers, who are on a protest in Delhi seeking repeal of the farm laws. At a meeting with representatives of various political parties, peoples organisations, youth and women organisations and students, Mr. Ramakrishna said that the striking farmers would hold a tractor rally in Delhi on Republic Day and everyone should support their cause. He spoke at length on the travails of the striking farmers, who were out in the biting cold on the streets of the national capital. The BJP government was unmoved by their plight. He recalled that the BJP had promised ahead of the 2014 general elections of implementing the Swaminathan Commission report but failed to do so till this date. TDP leader Pasarla Prasad and Congress leader Pedada Ramani Kumari expressed solidarity with the striking farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/support-striking-farmers-cpi-urges-people/article33653584.ece
25 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two missing girls traced||Two girls, who had gone missing at various beaches in the city due to heavy crowd, were traced and handed over to their parents here on Sunday. In one incident, a six-year-old girl Rishitha from Marripalem, who had gone missing at Ramakrishna Beach was traced by a young woman Aruna from the city. The police applauded Ms. Aruna, who is from Poorna Market. In another incident, family of Riaz from Gajuwaka came to Rushikonda beach on Sunday evening. Their five-year-old daughter Rishika had gone missing in the crowd. Duty Police Constable Das traced the girl and handed her over to her parents and also created safety awareness among the crowd. Beach tourists congratulated Mr. Das.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-missing-girls-traced/article33653588.ece
25 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Motorcycle rally taken out on protection of girl child||A motorcycle rally was taken out by the district unit of Youth Hostels Association of India (YHAI) as part of the ongoing 32nd Road Safety Month celebrations and National Girl Child Day on Sunday. The rally which began at the Gandhi Park, near GVMC, passed through Gurudwara, Kancharapalem, NAD, Gajuwaka, Balacheruvu Road, Gantyada and Gangavaram before reaching Yarada. At Yarada Beach, the participants told visitors and the public on girl child’s protection and road safety. They displayed messages on road safety. Later, the rally continued via Yarada Hill, Sagara Durga temple, Scindia Junction and Naval Dockyard to conclude at Convent Junction. A total of 40 persons, including a girl and seven women, participated in the motorcycle rally. Earlier, the rally was flagged off by YHAI State honorary secretary Ch. Ravi Paul and former chairperson of Visakhapatnam district unit Paluri Seshumamba.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/motorcycle-rally-taken-out-on-protection-of-girl-child/article33653583.ece
25 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Painter comes under wheels of lorry on flyover||A 40-year-old painter, who was working on the NAD flyover, died on the spot after reportedly coming under the rear wheels of a lorry, in the city on Sunday. This is said to be the first accident on the flyover, which is yet to be fully completed. The police said that theidentity of the victim is yet to be established. The Airport Police registered a case and investigation is on. The body has been shifted for post-mortem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/painter-comes-under-wheels-of-lorry-on-flyover/article33653585.ece
25 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Drowning victim identified||A 35-year-old man, who drowned in a water body in Ananthagiri mandal in the district, on Saturday, was identified as V. Ravi from Visakhapatnam. The police said Ravi had visited Borra Gedda along with his family and friends. He had allegedly gone for swimming and went missing. Ravi was traced and shifted to a hospital. But he died while undergoing treatment. A case was registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/drowning-victim-identified/article33653586.ece
25 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Blood donation camp organised||A blood donation camp was organised by CREDAI-Visakhapatnam chapter in association with the Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS) at KSR Complex, Seethammadhara, here on Sunday. More than 150 donors, including CREDAI-Visakhapatnam chairman Peela Koteswara Rao, president B. Srinivasa Rao, honorary secretary V. Dharmender, vice president and convener-CSR Activity Committee N. Srinivasa Rao and members donated blood at the camp. MP M.V.V. Satyanarayana participated as the chief guest .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/blood-donation-camp-organised/article33653582.ece
25 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Drunk youth ‘threatens’ locals with fake gun, held||A 30-year-old youth was thrashed by group of villagers after he allegedly threatened people with a gun at Araku in Visakhapatnam district on Saturday night. The locals handed over him to the police and later it was found that the youth was carrying a fake gun. According to police, some locals complained that the accused was moving with a gun on the main road. He was beaten by some of the locals, as he was threatening them, and was handed over to the police. Case registered “In our enquiry, we found that the youth works in a shopping mall in Visakhapatnam. He along with a group of friends came to Araku on Saturday night. He was found to be in an inebriated condition. We have informed his parents,” the Araku police said. A case was registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/drunk-youth-threatens-locals-with-fake-gun-held/article33653469.ece
25 January 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Posters released||MLC Penumatsa Suresh Babu on Sunday hoped that more number of girls would pursue higher education in future following introduction of several programmes such as Amma Vodi, Vidya Divena, and Vasati Divena. Dr. Suresh Babu formally released posters designed by AP Pro-Child Group organisation on the occasion of National Girl Child Day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/posters-released/article33653492.ece
25 January 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plea to address problems of power staff||Andhra Pradesh Electricity Employees’ Union State general secretary V.S.R.K. Ganapathi has urged the government to resolve the pending issues such as recruitment of additional workforce, uniform PF deduction direct payment to contract labourers and others. He was attending as chief guest for the election of new body for Vizinaagaram unit. Mr. Ganapathi said that the employees and workers were overburdened with shortage of manpower at all levels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/plea-to-address-problems-of-power-staff/article33653494.ece
25 January 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor urged to intervene in SEC-govt. row||Lok Satta Party State executive president Bhisetti Babji has urged Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan to find an amicable solution to avoid direct conflict between State government and State Election Commission which have been at loggerheads over conducting local body elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/governor-urged-to-intervene-in-sec-govt-row/article33653493.ece
25 January 2021||January 25 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||ASHA worker dies days after vaccination||Her death triggered a protest with hundreds of ASHA workers staging a sit-in at the GGH demanding that the family of the deceased be given a job, farm land and Rs. 50 lakh as compensation. District Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar rushed to the GGH and consoled the family members. He assured them of a job and land and promised to take up compensation issue with the Chief Minister’s Office. Later in the day, the AEFI committee, comprising heads of the departments of Pathology, Virology and other wings, held an emergency meeting at the GGH and discussed the event. A post-mortem examination was being done when reports last came in. Senior doctors said this could be an AEFI case study that would probably provide vital information about the complications after the vaccination. Detailed probe “This, perhaps, comes under the rare episode of ‘Thrombogenic Ischemic Demyelination’ caused by vaccination. We have to make a detailed investigation. Her family history shows a record of stroke. In fact, her mother suffered a similar stroke last year. But we are not making any conclusive statements for now,” said a senior doctor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/asha-worker-dies-days-after-vaccination/article33653445.ece
25 January 2021||January 25 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Celebration time||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/celebration-time/article33653579.ece
25 January 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Praja Garjana today to back podu cultivators||To galvanise public support for defending rights of tribal people and other traditional forest dwellers over forest lands as per legal provisions, the CPI(M) district committee has called for a “Praja Garjana”, a rally-cum-public meeting to highlight the issues of podu cultivators in Kothagudem on January 25. CPI(M) Polit Bureau member and former MP Brinda Karat, former Bhadrachalam MP Midiam Babu Rao, party State committee secretary and former Khammam MP Tammineni Veerabhadram, and a host of other senior party leaders will address the public meeting. The Telangana Vyavasaya Karmika Sangham, Rythu Sangham, Girijana Sangham and other frontal wings of the party have conducted an extensive campaign on Praja Garjana in tribal areas of the district in the past few days for mass mobilisation for the cause of podu cultivators. Posters were released and meetings were held in various villages in Charla, Manuguru, Annapureddypalli, Chandrugonda, and several other mandals in the tribal-dominated district. Posters containing a slew of demands including grant of pattas for all podu lands under cultivation as per the Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act, 2006, and halt to alleged repressive measures against podu cultivators, among others, sprang up in the district. Organisers also brought out pamphlets highlighting the TRS regime’s alleged “unfulfilled promise” to resolve issues of tribal farmers cultivating podu lands. Controversial laws Meanwhile, the CPI(M) Khammam district committee will hold a seminar on “CAA, NRC – Three Farm Laws – Challenges Faced by People” at Varthaka Sangham Bhavan in Khammam at 5 p.m. on January 25. Ms Karat will address the seminar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/praja-garjana-today-to-back-podu-cultivators/article33653240.ece
25 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State will strengthen agriculture, says Chief Minister||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has said that the government will not only keep agriculture live but strengthen it further in the State irrespective of the transformation in the agricultural marketing sector at the national level due to the new farm laws. He asked agricultural officers to record details on cropped area at the micro level within 10 days. At an eight-hour-long meeting with district heads of agriculture and marketing on Sunday, he reminded them that their responsibilities had taken a big leap due to a large expansion of extent of agriculture in the State. The agriculture department must shift focus from `pen-paper’ to `field-plough’ method of extension service. The farmers’ premsies that the government was constructing, he said should house offices of Agriculture Extension Officers and farmers coordination committees. The platforms which were constructed in 2,600 clusters should be brought into use immediately. Mr. Rao said the foodgrains production in the State when it was formed in 2014 was only 35 lakh tonnes per annum. Now, it was 1.10 crore tonnes. With an additional 1.25 lakh acres of area brought under cultivation due to ongoing irrigation projects and 40 lakh acres irrigated by bore wells, the production went up to four crore tonnes. “In these circumstances, the agriculture department had to be strengthened in a big way. The agriculture officers must always be available to assist farmers. They should be advised to stop cultivation of a single crop and instead go for alternate cropping which was more fetching”. A release said the Chief Minister issued several instructions at the meeting, including a disciplined approach by farmers to sell their produce at agricultural market yards. The yards will be continued and remain as the only platforms to dispose of produce. Tokens will be issued to farmers village-wise to sell the produce on given dates. He wanted a research and analysis wing in the marketing department to suggest the best price that farmers could fetch across locations. The purchasing capacity of traders to markets-wise should be gathered. He wanted identification of strategic points for the setting up of oil palm processing units. The agricultural tools should be made available to farmers on hire basis in villages. A simplified procedure should be followed for issue of trading licences at market yards. The meeting was attended by Ministers S. Niranjan Reddy, G. Kamalakar and V. Prashant Reddy, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar and other officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-will-strengthen-agriculture-says-cm/article33653252.ece
25 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||1.10 lakh health workers in TS inoculated||In the five days of COVID-19 vaccination held in Telangana from January 16, as many as 1.10 lakh healthcare workers (HCWs) have been administered the first dose of the vaccine. The target was 1.71 lakh. A total of 88 minor cases of Adverse Event Following Immunisation (AEFI) have been reported from various parts of the State. Two HCWs who received the vaccine died and Central labs have launched investigation to find out the cause of deaths. The vaccination drive is held on four days of a week — Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Friday. Senior officials in the Health department said they would provide another chance to those who missed out on the vaccination. Overall, there are around 1.65 lakh HCWs in State Health department and another 5,000 in Central Health department in Telangana. After the HCWs, frontline workers from the municipality, police and other key departments would be inoculated. As per the priority list, people above the age of 50 years and those below 50 years with co-morbidities would be vaccinated in subsequent phases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/110-lakh-health-workers-in-ts-inoculated/article33653262.ece
25 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Traffic diversions during Republic Day celebration||Hyderabad police issued traffic diversion around Public Gardens, Nampally, in view of Republic Day celebrations between 9 a.m. and 12 noon on Tuesday. Vehicles from MJ Market moving towards Mehdipatnam would be diverted at Taj Island towards Ek Minar, Bhazarghar, Asif Nagar / Red Hills, Ayodhya Hotel, Lakdi-ka-pul. Motorists from Nampally Railway Station towards Public Garden would be diverted at Chapel Road T junction towards Gunfoundry, Abids or BJR Statue, Basheerbagh Flyover. Similarly, traffic coming from Nirankari Bhavan and Khairatabad towards Ravindra Bharati will be diverted at Old PS Saifabad towards Telephone Bhavan, Iqbal Minar, Secretariat Road, Telugu Talli, Ambedkar Statue, Liberty, Basheerbagh, and Abids. The general traffic coming from Hyderguda, King Koti and BJR Statue towards PCR, Public Garden, would be diverted at Basheerbagh Junction towards Liberty, Telugu Talli, NTR Marg, Iqbal Minar, Old PS Saifabad, Lakdi-ka-pul and BJR Statue, Abids. While commuters going towards Ravindra Bharati from Tank Bund would be diverted at Iqbal Minar towards Telephone Bhavan Road, Old PS Saifabad, Lakdi-ka-pul Bridge. Traffic coming from Nampally Railway Station towards Public Garden would be diverted at AR Petrol Pump towards BJR Statue/Gunfoundry. And at Adarsh Nagar (New MLA Quarters), vehicles coming from Telugu Talli, NTR Marg and Liberty sides towards PCR Junction via Adarshnagar would be diverted towards Liberty Road and Telugu Talli flyover. However, car pass holders attending celebrations will be allowed at diversion points.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/traffic-diversions-during-republic-day-celebration/article33653244.ece
25 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Paddy cultivation on course||Cultivation of paddy in the current Yasangi (Rabi) season has crossed the normal extent for the season already, although it is only little over 50% of its extent during the last Yasangi. According to officials of the Agriculture Department, transplantation of paddy has already been completed in about 22.85 lakh acres out of the total season coverage of over 32.06 lakh acres for all crops put together so far. By the same period last year, paddy transplantation was done only in over 14.23 lakh acres and total extent covered by the same time was over 25.82 lakh acres. Officials stated that the extent of paddy cultivation could exceed the last Yasangi seasons total of a record 39.31 lakh acres since all major projects have sufficient water for irrigation and those depending on groundwater too could go for higher extent due to improved groundwater table. Coarse grains Although the cultivation of coarse grains including maize has come down, they have been cultivated in over 2.69 lakh acres so far this season against over 3.35 lakh acres by the same time last year. Cultivation of maize, jowar ad wheat have been in less than 70% of their normal extent for the season so far. Another major Yasangi crop bengalgram has been cultivation in nearly 3 lakh acres against nearly 3.67 lakh acres sown during the last Yasangi. Besides, groundnut has been sown in about 2.16 lakh acres so far this season against 2.86 lakh acres sown by the same time last year. Yasangi crops were cultivated in a record extent of 53.82 lakh acres during the last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/paddy-cultivation-on-course/article33653246.ece
25 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Vaccination for private health staff from today||Healthcare Workers (HCW) in private hospitals of Telangana would receive their first dose of COVID-19 vaccine from Monday. From January 16, when the immunisation drive was launched, only HCWs from government healthcare facilities have been inoculated so far. Senior officials from the State Health department stressed that the vaccination sessions shall be conducted only after scheduling a person on the Co-WIN portal. Offline procedures would not be followed. The vaccination programme would be conducted at private hospitals or health facilities with more than 50 beneficiaries. If there are less than 50 HCWs, the staff would be tagged to a nearby government healthcare facility, or to a larger private health facility for vaccination. “If a private facility such as a teaching hospitals or bigger private hospital has a large number of HCWs, more than one session may be planned at the same facility in compliance with all protocols. Each session should be scheduled with not more than 100 healthcare workers,” senior officials have directed private hospitals managements. AEFI kits Adverse Event Following Immunisation (AEFI) kits would be made available at each session. Staff from the Health department will administer the shot. This would help officials monitor vaccine doses and the procedure. District Medical and Health Officers concerned would deploy required teams at the vaccination sessions. A nodal officer would be appointed at each private facility to coordinate flow of information to their HCWs about scheduled vaccination site and date of immunisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vaccination-for-private-health-staff-from-today/article33653263.ece
25 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Three booked for poaching spotted deer||Forest department officials in Jayashankar-Bhupalpally district have booked three persons under Wildlife Act, for poaching a spotted deer, on Saturday. The accused — Kandela Sampath, Pulyala Poshaiah and Vankdoth Mangu Naik from Ethnaram village of Mahamutharam mandal — were arrested and sent for remand. Four others mentioned in the Preliminary Offence Report are at large. A team headed by Forest Range Officer of Pegadapally Range (Mahadevpur division) Sushma Rao conducted a raid and seized meat and body parts of a spotted deer and binding wire weighing 25 kg, from the houses of the accused. Additionally, wire running a length of 660 meters, along with deer skin, was confiscated from the site of the offence inside the reserve forest. Ms. Sushma Rao said the accused used the wire to draw power from the electrical lines above and left it hanging from a height so that the passing wild animal could come into contact with it and be electrocuted. This case has raised special concerns as tiger movements were recently noticed in some parts of the district, officials said. Main accused Sampath was booked in two more cases earlier. Following the arrest, villagers in large numbers arrived at the range office and laid siege to the premises, refusing to allow the accused to be presented before the judge, Ms. Sushma Rao said adding efforts are on to press charges under PD act against the offenders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/three-booked-for-poaching-spotted-deer/article33653267.ece
25 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Feeling of oneness increased under Modi’||Former general secretary of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Ram Madhav has argued that under Prime Minister, Narendra Modi India's national consciousness and feeling of oneness has strengthened on the basis of cultural and spiritual identities overcoming the caste, religion and regional identities. He cited the peaceful acceptance of Ram Janmabhoomi verdict of the Supreme Court by Indians of all faiths to strengthen his argument, during a conversation with senior journalist T.S. Sudhir on his new book "Because India Comes First", here on Sunday. The programme was organised by Forum for Nationalist Thinkers. The BJP leader quoting swami Chinmayanand argued that the Ram Janmabhoomi conflict was like Mahabharata war that finally brought peace. "Now people of all faiths are contributing to the temple construction." Mr. Ram Madhav felt that the post Covid world has a huge challenge of ensuring peaceful growth of China, which is bound to become a superpower, negating its aggression. It has to be a collective effortand India being its neighbour has to be much firmer, he felt . Mr. Ram Madhav said ever since Mr Modi took over there is a visible change in the approach to China that only believed in armed-coexistence. Modi's doctrine has been "We will talk peace, but we will not leave the LAC, which we recognise." The earlier Indian governments had peaceful agreements fully following the Chinese doctrine "What I have declared as mine is mine but we will discuss what we claim is ours," Mr. Ram Madhav said adding that China's 'Act of War' has always been a 'War of Deception'. N. Ramchander Rao, MLC presided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/feeling-of-oneness-strengthened-under-modi/article33653255.ece
25 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Youth ends life days after friend’s death||Two days after his ‘girlfriend’ ended her life, a youngster from Jagtial district was found dead in his room in Dubai on Saturday. Rakesh of Govindapalli village, who migrated to Dubai a year ago, was allegedly in love with Lingampally Manisha (21). On Thursday night, Manisha died by suicide as her family members started looking for prospective grooms. On learning about her ‘suicide’ from friends, Rakesh recorded a selfie video and ended his life. In a one minute 37 second video, he was seen crying inconsolably, and asked his mother to take care.  (Roshni suicide prevention helpline: +914066202000)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/youth-ends-life-days-after-friends-death/article33653241.ece
25 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BC bodies want hike in their quota||Several Backward Classes associations have demanded that the State Government enhance the quota for BC communities from the existing 25% to 52% in proportion to their population along with the implementation of 10% reservation to economically weaker sections (EWS) among the upper castes. A meeting of BC associations attended by 14 bodies held here on Sunday to discuss the government decision to extend 10% EWS quota to the poor among the upper castes. President of National BC Welfare Association R. Krishnaiah sought to know how far it was justified to give only 25% reservation to BCs who comprise 52% of the population, when the government was planning to extend 10% quota to the poor among upper castes who comprised only 9%. BC associations leaders G. Krishna, N. Venkatesh, T. Rajkumar, R. Chandrasekhar Goud, T. Ashok, Srinivas, M. Chanti, and B.C. Venkat attnded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bc-bodies-want-hike-in-their-quota/article33653247.ece
25 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Telangana records 197 new COVID cases||Telangana on Saturday recorded another 197 COVID-19 cases after 29,560 people were examined, pushing up the tally to 2,93,253. The death toll has reached 1,589 with one more patient succumbing. The new cases include 32 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation, 13 from Karimnagar, and 12 each from Medchal-Malkajgiri and Rangareddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/telangana-records-197-new-covid-cases/article33653258.ece
25 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Don’t believe fake news about vaccine: Kishan||Union Minister of State for Home Affairs G. Kishan Reddy has underscored the need for people to be vigilant and take proper precautions until everyone is vaccinated against COVID-19. He urged people not to believe rumours and false news being spread about the vaccine. “It is necessary to dispel the myths and this would be possible only by constantly presenting the facts about the vaccine to the public with the help of media,” he said while flagging off an awareness programme and campaign vehicles on Saturday. The awareness programme will be carried out on mobile vans in Hyderabad, Rangareddy, Medchal-Malkajgiri, Sangareddy, Siddipet, Nizamabad, Warangal Urban and Karimnagar districts till January 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dont-believe-fake-news-about-vaccine-kishan/article33653264.ece
25 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||FGG plea to Governor||The Forum for Good Governance has urged Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan to direct the State government to release the funds and incentives assured to the gram panchayats before the elections. The government has announced an incentive of Rs. 10 lakh each to the panchayats that elected the whole body unanimously. Minister K.T. Rama Rao assured Rs. 15 lakh each under MLA funds to gram panchayats where election was unanimous.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fgg-plea-to-governor/article33653502.ece
25 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Two killed in ORR accident||Two persons were killed on the spot after their groundnut laden-mini transport vehicle crashed into a median on Outer Ring Road at Himayatsagar on Sunday morning. The victims were identified as vehicle driver Munna (21) and helper Sharath (21) from Pupla in Bidar district of Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-killed-in-orr-accident/article33653501.ece
25 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Mosque||Members of the Muslim JAC, who tried to stage a protest near the old secretariat against the demolition of two mosques on the complex, were detained by the police here on Sunday. Central Zone DCP P. Viswa Prasad said that 85 persons were shifted to various police stations across the city. They were let off in the evening. He said that anticipating a large gathering, police diverted traffic at a few junctions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mosque/article33653243.ece
25 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Special care for women employees||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has ordered special measures for the safety and facility of women employees at all government employees. The Chief Minister gave the instructions while interacting with them during lunch break at the meeting of agriclture and marketing officials that was conducted in the State capital on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/special-care-for-women-employees/article33653253.ece
25 January 2021||MEDAK,TELANGANA||Farmer electrocuted in Medak||A farmer – T Nagaraju (47) -- was electrocuted while working at his farm at Togita village in Haveli Ghanapur mandal on Sunday. According to sources, he came in contact with a live wire while trying to set the service wire properly and died instantly. Nearby farmers informed the police. He is survived by wife and a son. Haveli Ghanapur police registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/farmer-electrocuted/article33653256.ece
25 January 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Entrepreneurship summit at IIT-H ends on high note||Curtains came down on the three-day E-Summit 2k21 - A Pragmatic Advent, touted as one of the biggest entrepreneurship conclaves in the country organised by IIT-Hyderabad, on Sunday. The aim of the event was to inspire and educate students and corporates inclined towards entrepreneurship, and encourage early entrepreneurs to take and manage bigger risks. A series of talks and panel discussions were held to delve deep into the idea of innovation itself, and what a startup needs to flourish in the market. Highlighting the unique aspects of the summit, Vaibhav Kumar, head of the institute’s E-Cell, said, “It was a great success with more 1,500 registration and 300 participants for the panel discussion.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/entrepreneurship-summit-at-iit-h-ends-on-high-note/article33653507.ece
25 January 2021||ZAHEERABAD,TELANGANA||Land cost affects acquisition||Golla Vithal is a farmer from Elgoi village in Jarasangam mandal. He and his brother lost about 12 acres in land acquisition to National Investment and Manufacturing Zone (NIMZ) that is coming up in two mandals - Jarasangam and Nyalakal- on about 12,635 acres. The land was purchased by the government under GO 123 and they were paid a compensation of Rs. 5.65 lakh per acre for patta land. Under this act the government has acquired about 2,800 acres out of the total requirement. Later, for the reasons best known to them, the officials had slowed down the process of land acquisition. Mr. Vithal performed marriage of his three daughters. Now, he lost his land and does not know what to do, though he has roof on his head. The land rates have skyrocketed after the proposed establishment of NIMZ and per acre the market rate is about Rs. 20 lakh and above even in interior areas. However the rates vary from place to place, depending on road connectivity. Majority of farmers are not in a position to buy farm land as it was beyond their reach. The amount they had received from the government was already spent. “We will not sell our land for NIMZ to the government. We will be left with no option except committing suicide,” said a farmer while participating in public hearing on environment clearance held at Bardipur on January 20. “It will be difficult to acquire lands from the farmers as they are demanding higher compensations. They are also demanding implementation of LA Act- 2013, which makes the process more cumbersome,” said an officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/land-cost-affects-acquisition/article33653504.ece
25 January 2021||January 25 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Change of guard in State?||As reports about the possibility of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao handing over the reins of administration to his son K.T. Rama Rao sooner or later gather pace, there is an interesting debate in the political circles over the role Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao would play after the transfer of power. According to one section, Mr. Rao will most likely concentrate on strengthening the party from the grassroots besides playing an advisory role in government. Another view is that the TRS president would move on to Delhi and focus on national politics after studying the outcome of the West Bengal elections slated later this year. These results are tipped to have a bearing on the national politics and hence, the scope for reviving the front of regional parties, advocated by Mr. Rao in the past. There is, however, no official comment on the speculation.   Two recent incidents involving two legislators of the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) have not only raised eyebrows in the political circles but also provide a point or two about their political acumen. At a time when leaders of all political hues are doing their best to deny the political mileage to Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on the issue of Ayodhya Ram Mandir construction either by donating generously for the cause or collecting donations to hand them over to the trust concerned, and at a time when the BJP is going all out to unsettle the TRS and spread its base, first-time MLA from Andole Chanti Kranti Kiran has taken to the path of going around his constituency collecting donations for the Ram temple. However, three-time MLA from Korutla K. Vidyasagar Rao’s call not to give donations for Ram temple construction too has raised eyebrows as a ruling party leader termed it a political self-goal.     Logic eludes political rhetoric sometimes. One such incident involving TRS and BJP leaders has taken place recently when there were challenges and counter challenges to prove their religion. In the ongoing war of words between leaders of the two parties, some TRS leaders remarked that State president of BJP Bandi Sanjay Kumar should get his ‘DNA’ tested to know whether he’s a Hindu or not stating that the latter’s outbursts sometimes were unmaking of a Hindu. In response, Mr Sanjay Kumar, at a meeting at Vikarabad, said he was ready for the DNA test to prove himself a Hindu and whether the TRS leaders including the party president and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao are game for it!  (M. Rajeev, B. Chandrashekhar)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/change-of-guard-in-the-offing-in-state/article33653248.ece
25 January 2021||JIND,||Toll gates in Haryana now a rallying point for farmers’ stir||For more than a month, the ‘Khatkar toll plaza’ in Uchana here on National Highway-352, connecting Narwana, Jind and Rohtak, has been abuzz with protesters holding a sit-in against the three contentious farm reform laws and allowing free travel for commuters. Not just the youth, those coming to this sit-in site at the toll plaza include the elderly, the women and the children from several surrounding villages. The protesters sit through a large part of the day – arriving in the morning and returning to their homes late in the afternoon. While the male protesters spend their time playing cards and discussing politics over hookahs , it is an opportunity for the women folks to take some time off from the daily drudgery and be in the company of peers. Local farm activists and politicians address the crowd sometimes, but folk singers and stand-up comedians putting across the message in local dialect are major crowd-pullers. Binain Khap member Vikas Nain, a farmer rights’ activists from Laun village, said the farmer unions’ call to picket the toll plazas in Haryana in December found a “huge” support among the locals and proved to be a catalyst to spread and strengthen the agitation in the State. He explained how the villagers, forced to pay toll tax for travelling even small distances in the vicinity, saw the toll barriers as nuisance, especially with these plazas now coming up across the State and therefore, the call to make them free struck instant chord. “The sit-ins at the toll plazas across the State attract crowd being close to the villages and gradually became a rallying point for the locals,” he added. Except in Gurugram and Faridabad, the toll plazas across the State, including Jind, Bhiwani, Rohtak, Kurukshetra, Sirsa and Hisar districts, are shut. Vice-president of All-India Kisan Sabha, Haryana, Inderjit Singh, said that committees, comprising Khap and farmer union leaders, were set up to spearhead the sit-ins at plazas and these also helped in local co-ordination for the movement. Political leaders, not allowed to share dais at the Tikri and Singhu borders, also frequent sit-ins at the toll plazas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/toll-gates-in-haryana-now-a-rallying-point-for-farmers-stir/article33653160.ece
25 January 2021||Mumbai,||Activists release book on Sudha Bharadwaj||Human rights activists released a book on Sudha Bharadwaj, the trade unionist and lawyer incarcerated in the 2018 Bhima-Koregaon violence case, on Sunday, the last day of a five-day session, Repeal UAPA, organised by the People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL). The 316-page book, A Life in Law and Activism: Sudha Bharadwaj Speaks, was unveiled during a webinar titled, ‘Why is the State afraid of Sudha Bharadwaj?’. Published by PUCL, the book chronicles Ms. Bharadwaj’s early life and work as an advocate and activist and is based on interviews by lawyers Darshana Mitra and Santanu Chakraborty. At the webinar, Harsh Mander, activist, author and former IAS officer, said Ms. Bharadwaj “fought through the instrument of law even before she studied it.” Lawyers who worked with Ms. Bharadwaj in Chhattisgarh at Jagdalpur Legal Aid Group recounted stories of her grit, resilience and strength. Over 100 human rights organisations have been part of the Repeal UAPA campaign, which began on January 15, marking 100 days since Father Stan Swamy, a 83-year-old co-accused in the case, has been lodged at Taloja Central Jail. On January 21, 22 and 23, several human rights activists, lawyers, and academicians shared instances of how the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act has been misused in 13 States in the country, targeting protesters and the marginalised. Mihir Desai, senior advocate and vice-president of PUCL, explained the amendments to the UAPA in 2008 and the role of the National Investigation Agency. The first chapter of the book, ‘Sudha Bharadwaj and the Right to Dissent’, has been written by Advocate and author Arvind Narrain. The second chapter, ‘Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA): Law as Instrumentality of State Tyranny and Violence’, has been penned by PUCL national general secretary and human rights lawyer Dr. V. Suresh. The third chapter reveals the details of the Bhima-Koregaon case and includes a series of interviews conducted with Ms. Bharadwaj before her arrest on August 28, 2018. The interviews shed light on the life of Chhattisgarh Mukti Morcha (CMM) founder Shanker Guha Niyogi, his killing and the subsequent murder trial.  ‘A people’s lawyer’ The remaining chapters delve into Ms. Bharadwaj work at CMM, life during Salwa Judum, and being a people’s lawyer by fighting cases dealing with labour rights, land displacement, and gender justice. The other chapters in the book are titled: ‘Challenging arbitrary arrests in a militarised zone’, ‘Filing repeated cases: State’s vindictiveness’, ‘Role of State Human Rights Commission’ and ‘Dangers of the draconian law-Chhattisgarh Special Public Security Act’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/activists-release-book-on-sudha-bharadwaj/article33653328.ece
25 January 2021||Mumbai,||Indo-Polish action thriller aims to rekindle bilateral ties||An upcoming action thriller, No Means No , aims to deepen bilateral relations between India and Poland, just like Raj Kapoor’s 1970 movie, Mera Naam Joker, rekindled the bond between India and Soviet Russia. The movie is the first Indo-Polish production and has been made in Hindi, Polish and English by Mumbai-based filmmaker Vikash Verma. The director said he has tried to weave the socio-cultural, religious, and bilateral ties between the two nations through a love story. The movie revolves around the story of an Indian man (played by debutant Dhruv Verma) who visits Poland to participate in a ski championship and falls in love with a Polish woman. The cast includes actors Gulshan Grover, Deep Raj Rana, Sharad Kapoor, Nazia Hassan and Kat Kristian from India; and Natalia Bak, Anna Guzik, Sylwia Czech, Pawel Czech, Jersey Handzlik and Anna Ador from Poland. The playback singers include Shreya Ghoshal and Hariharan. Produced by G7 Films Poland, the snowy mountains and picturesque locations featured in the movie provide a glimpse into life in Poland and is likely to give a boost to the country’s tourism. One of the central themes of the film is women empowerment and features powerful female characters. Mr. Grover, who plays a lawyer from India, said, “Will the character of women be judged according to the length of their skirt? On the one hand, we pray to the deities of holy goddesses Durga and Kali, and on the other, we humiliate and objectify their real living forms. How long will this go on?” Mr. Verma said when a woman says “no, it is a no. And nothing more beyond that. There lies the full stop.” The filmmaker said he plans to make another movie titled ‘The Good Maharaja’, which will be based on Digvijaysinhji Ranjitsinhji Jadeja, the Maharaja Jam Sahib of Nawanagar, Gujarat. In the pre-Independence era, the Maharaja provided shelter and education to around 1,000 Polish children evacuated from the USSR to escape German bombings during World War II. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi wants people from around the world to know how an Indian Maharaja, without caring for any adverse impact, went ahead to give shelter to the Polish children. One of these children went on to become the Prime Minister of Poland,” Mr. Verma said. The filmmaker said while researching for the movie, he found that the Polish government had installed a statue of the Maharaja in their Parliament and a road had been named after him. “But unfortunately not many people in India know about the great contribution of the Maharaja. Sanjay Dutt will play the titular role,” Mr. Verma said. In a letter to Mr. Verma, Małgorzata Pępek, Member of Parliament, Poland, and chairwoman of the Polish & Indian Parliamentary group, said she is convinced this film will lead to interesting projects which will prove to be a marvellous way to promote Poland. In a statement, Ajay Bisaria, former Indian Ambassador to Poland (now High Commissioner to Canada), said, “It [the film] underlines the cultural connections and friendship between the two countries.” Deputy Prime Minister of Poland Professor Piotr Glinski, who is also in-charge of the culture ministry, has played a key role in the movie’s making.  The film underlines the cultural connections and friendship between the two countries Ajay Bisaria Former Indian Ambassador to Poland||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/indo-polish-action-thriller-aims-to-rekindle-bilateral-ties/article33653321.ece
25 January 2021||Nagpur,||Plan to build one lakh police housing units: Deshmukh||The Maharashtra State Police Housing and Welfare Corporation will construct one lakh quarters for police personnel, Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said on Sunday. Speaking at the inauguration of a DGP camp office and police residential units in Nagpur's Pachpaoli and Teka, Mr. Deshmukh said the MSPHC had prepared three proposals for the mass housing scheme that would not require funding from the government, which is reeling under a cash crunch due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Mr. Deshmukh said a government resolution will be issued soon. Nagpur Police Commissioner Amitesh Kumar said a proposal to build 1,500 residential units for its personnel will be submitted to the State government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/plan-to-build-one-lakh-police-housing-units-deshmukh/article33653329.ece
25 January 2021||Nagpur,||CM to open zoological park in Nagpur tomorrow||Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray will open an international zoological park in Nagpur on January 26, an official said on Sunday. The project is named Balasaheb Thackeray Gorewada International Zoological Park, he said. “This is one of the largest zoological parks in India spread over an area of over 564 hectares. If the Gorewada Rescue Centre and the Gorewada Reserve are included, the total area of the park is 1,914 hectares,” Managing Director of Forest Development Corporation of Maharashtra N. Vasudevan said. Indian Safari, a major attraction of the park, is ready for the people to enjoy. It has four different safaris: leopard safari, sloth bear safari, tiger safari and herbivore safari, he said. The first animal which was released in the safari is a tiger called Rajkumar that was captured in 2017 from Tumsar in Bhandara district. A tigress, Lee. will also be part of the safari. “There is a plan to introduce two more tigers in that safari,” he said. The leopard safari will have seven leapords — two males and five females. These animals have been procured from different sources and shifted to Gorewada with the approval of the Central Zoo Authority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/cm-to-open-zoological-park-in-nagpur-tomorrow/article33653330.ece
25 January 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Four held for firing at real estate agent||The Kharghar police have arrested four men who shot at a real estate agent in Kharghar while attempting to rob him on Saturday night. The accused have been identified as Gopal Nanu Singh (23), Abhinandan Kumar Ganesh Sharma (23) and Vipin Shailendar Thakur (19) from Haryana, and Muchan Nagendra Thakur (19) from Bihar. The accused said they planned to start a hotel with the money earned through looting. The firing incident took place in Kopra village at 11 p.m. on Saturday, an official said. “A group of four people came to the victim Pratik Aher (24) and tried to loot his two-wheeler and cash. When he resisted, they shot at him, injured him, and fled from the spot,” said Kharghar police station senior inspector Shatrughan Mali. “Based on clues from CCTV footage, we arrested them. We have seized a firearm and a live cartridge,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/four-held-for-firing-at-real-estate-agent/article33653322.ece
25 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi records 185 new virus cases, 9 deaths||Delhi recorded 185 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday with nine deaths and 315 recoveries in 24 hours, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government. Since January 15, this was the second time that the number of daily new cases has dipped below 200. The total number of cases now stands at 6,33,924, with 6,21.375 recoveries. The death toll has climbed to 10,808. The case fatality is 1.70%. The health bulletin added that 62,307 tests were conducted with a positivity rate of 0.30%. The number of active cases was 1,741 on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/delhi-records-185-new-virus-cases-9-deaths/article33653161.ece
25 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi sees cold, overcast day||It was a cold, overcast day in Delhi on Sunday with the maximum temperature falling to 15 degrees Celsius, which is six degrees colder than normal for the season. Fog engulfed the city in the morning with visibility falling under 100 metres at several places. Due to cloud cover and overcast conditions, the minimum temperature settled at 8.8 degrees Celsius, which is one degree above normal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/delhi-sees-cold-overcast-day/article33653162.ece
25 January 2021||Pune,||Thousands of farmers reach Mumbai for joint sit-in today||Thousands of farmers from across Maharashtra reached Mumbai on Sunday evening to participate in a joint sit-in at Azad Maidan on Monday against the Centre’s three new farm laws. The farmers from the Left-affiliated All-India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) and other farm outfits had begun their 180-km march from Nashik district. Police have stepped up security and personnel of the State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) have been deployed at Azad Maidan. Drones will also be used to keep an eye on the event, an official said. On Sunday morning, a sea of red snaked out of Nashik district, with farmers on foot, on jeeps and vans steadily clogging roads, toll plazas and mountainous routes of Nashik’s Kasara Ghat. The agitators steadily made their way to the outskirts of Mumbai, waving red banners and chanting slogans against the Bharatiya Janata Party-led Centre. The scene echoed the ‘Long March’ of 2018, which was also organised by the AIKS to demand better milk prices for dairy farmers. “Over 15,000 AIKS Maharashtra-led farmers from 21 districts of the State began their march on foot down the seven-km-long Kasara Ghat joining Nashik and Thane districts. Comprising a large number of women farmers and young farmers, the march began at 9 a.m. and ended at 11.30 a.m. The peasants were followed down the Kasara Ghat by hundreds of their vehicles,” said AIKS State general secretary Dr. Ajit Nawale. Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar, whose party is part of the ruling Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government, is expected to attend the rally. The Congress has already announced its support for the agitation. Dr. Nawale said the farmers, who formed a part of the AIKS’s ‘Vehicle Jatha’ (vehicle convoy), were welcomed by hundreds of Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU)-affiliated factory workers from Igatpuri and Shahapur tehsils. Activists of the CPI(M)’s Thane urban committee distributed food to the protesters on their way to Mumbai. “The farmers will be proceeding to Azad Maidan, where there will be a massive public meeting from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m on Monday. This will be addressed by top leaders of the Maha Vikas Aghadi government and by leaders of the Left, and democratic parties and organisations,” said Dr. Nawale. Rally to Raj Bhavan He said a 50,000-strong rally will then proceed to Raj Bhavan to submit a memorandum to the Governor. The agitation will conclude on January 26, Republic Day, with the hoisting of the national flag, singing of the national anthem and a pledge to make the struggle of farmers and workers victorious. (With PTI inputs)  Over 15,000 AIKS Maharashtra-led farmers from 21 districts of the State began their march on foot Dr. Ajit Nawale AIKS State general secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/thousands-of-farmers-reach-mumbai-for-joint-sit-in-today/article33653326.ece
25 January 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra’s active case tally rises; 2,752 new cases recorded||After days of recoveries outweighing cases, Maharashtra’s witnessed a reversal on Sunday, with the State reporting just 1,743 recoveries as opposed to 2,752 new COVID-19 cases. As a result, the State’s active case tally has marginally risen to 44,831. The total case tally has reached 20,09,106. With 45 fatalities, the total death toll has climbed to 50,785. The cumulative recoveries stand at 19,12,264, while the State’s recovery rate is 95.18%. “Of a total of 1,42,07,595 laboratory samples tested thus far, 20,09,106 (with the case positivity rate down to 14.14%) have returned positive, with over 62,000 samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate. He added that the State’s case fatality now stands at 2.53%. 479 cases in Mumbai Pune reported more than 500 new cases to take its total case tally to 3,85,442. Two deaths saw the total death toll rise to 7,901. As per district administration figures, the district’s active case tally stands at a little over 4,800, while the recovery rate is 96.35%. Mumbai city reported 479 new cases to take its total case tally to 3,06,050, of which just 6,328 are active. Seven fatalities saw the city’s death toll reach 11,304. Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported more than 300 new cases, taking the district’s total case tally to 1,34,033, of which 4,048 are currently active. Four deaths saw the total death toll reach 3,326. In western Maharashtra, Satara reported four deaths, while 64 fresh cases saw the total case tally rise to 56,027, of which just 734 are active. Its death toll stands at 1810. Neighbouring Sangli reported a mere 27 cases and no deaths. The district’s case tally reached 50,721, of which 516 are active. Its death toll stands at 1,779. Kolhapur reported just nine cases and a single death as its total case tally reached 49,074, of which just 188 are active. The total death toll stands at 1,671. In north Maharashtra, Nashik district reported over 161 cases and just one fatality as its total case tally reached 120,174, of which 1,332 are active. Its death toll stands at 1,976. Jalgaon reported just 19 new cases and no deaths as its total case tally reached 57,218, of which 584 are active, while its death toll stands at 1,474. Dr. Awate informed that currently a total of 2,08,993 people across the State are in home quarantine and 2,309 are in institutional quarantine facilities.  Of 1,42,07,595 laboratory samples tested thus far, 20,09,106 have returned positive, with over 62,000 samples being tested in the last 24 hours Dr. Pradeep Awate State Surveillance Officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtras-active-case-tally-rises-2752-new-cases-recorded/article33653324.ece
25 January 2021||January 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Dream home||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/dream-home/article33653332.ece
25 January 2021||BEIJING,||U.S. vows support to Taiwan as Chinese incursions enter Day 2||A total of 15 Chinese aircraft, including 12 fighter jets, entered the southwestern corner of Taiwan’s air defence identification zone on Sunday, the island’s Defence Ministry said, the second day of incursions by China. A map provided by the Ministry showed the Chinese aircraft again flew in between the southern part of Taiwan and the Taiwan-controlled Pratas Islands in the South China Sea. ‘Intimidation’ bid The U.S. State Department has said it was concerned by China’s “pattern of ongoing attempts to intimidate its neighbours, including Taiwan.” “We urge Beijing to cease its military, diplomatic, and economic pressure against Taiwan and instead engage in meaningful dialogue with Taiwan’s democratically elected representatives,” Ned Price, a spokesman for the department, said in the statement. The State Department statement said Washington will continue to deepen ties with Taiwan and ensure its defence from Chinese threats, while supporting a peaceful resolution of issues between the sides. Meanwhile, a U.S. aircraft carrier group led by the USS Theodore Roosevelt has entered the South China Sea “to ensure freedom of the seas, build partnerships that foster maritime security”, the U.S. military said on Sunday.  Taiwan’s Defense Ministry said China on Saturday sent eight bombers capable of carrying nuclear weapons and four fighter jets into its air defence identification zone just southwest of the island. The Ministry said China on Sunday sent another 15 military aircraft of various types into the same area. Missiles deployed The Ministry said Taiwan responded by scrambling fighters, broadcasting warnings by radio and “deploying air defence missile systems to monitor the activity.” There was no immediate Chinese response. The overflights were part of a long-standing pattern of incursions aimed at pressuring the government of President Tsai Ing-wen into caving to Beijing’s demand that she recognise Taiwan as a part of Chinese territory. This comes on the heels of U.S. President Joe Biden’s inauguration, emphasising the island’s enduring position amidst a host of divisive issues between Beijing and Washington that also include human rights, trade disputes and, most recently, questions about China’s initial response to the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-vows-support-to-taiwan-as-chinese-incursions-enter-day-2/article33652904.ece
25 January 2021||London,||Scottish leader seeks ‘legal referendum’||Scotland’s First Minister Nicola Sturgeon on Sunday said she planned to hold a legal referendum on independence from Britain despite Westminster’s opposition, as an opinion poll showed a majority would vote yes. If her Scottish National Party (SNP) wins a strong showing in regional elections in May, Ms. Sturgeon said she would seek a fresh referendum even though Prime Minister Boris Johnson has said such a vote should only be held once in a generation. “I want to have a legal referendum, that is what I am going to seek the authority of the Scottish people for in May and if they give me that authority, that’s what I intend to do,” she told the BBC’s Andrew Marr Show . Mr. Johnson “will flatly refuse the demand,” The Sunday Times quoted senior government sources as saying. Ms. Sturgeon cited the fact that “the polls now show that a majority of people in Scotland want independence”. A Sunday Times poll found 50% of Scottish voters wanted another referendum in the next five years and 49% would vote for independence, while 44% would reject it. A 2014 referendum saw 55% vote “no.” Victory projected The newspaper quoted a forecast that the SNP will win a “landslide” in May polls for the Scottish Parliament, giving Ms. Sturgeon a basis to call for the vote. She spoke as the Scottish National Party (SNP) was due to discuss its “roadmap to a referendum” at a policy forum on Sunday. The SNP says it will request a Section 30 order from the British government allowing the holding of another referendum. If this is refused it intends to push through its own legislation to prepare for a referendum and “vigorously” oppose a legal challenge from London. “Scotland could hold a preliminary referendum, calling for negotiations on independence,” Alan Trench of University College’s constitutional unit said. The newspaper poll found 50% of Scottish voters wanted another independence referendum in the next five years, despite the fact that only 22% thought an independent country would be better off economically. “Brexit and the coronavirus crisis... appear to be driving Scottish voters away from England,” the newspaper wrote. According to the poll, 22% thought Mr. Johnson had done a good job in tackling the pandemic, versus 61% for Ms. Sturgeon. The poll also found 53% in Scotland would vote to rejoin the European Union.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/scottish-leader-seeks-legal-referendum/article33652901.ece
25 January 2021||Washington,||Johnson presses Biden for new trade deal||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson made clear to President Joe Biden on Saturday that he’s eager to forge a new U.S.-U.K. trade deal. The push for a new deal came in a broad-ranging call between the two leaders that touched on the global response to the coronavirus pandemic as well as the Biden administration announcing this week that the U.S. would rejoin the Paris climate accord and the World Health Organization, according to a statement from Downing Street. A new trade agreement between the allies is a higher priority for Mr. Johnson than it is for Mr. Biden. The U.K. regained control over its national trade policy at the start of the month following the end of a post-Brexit transition period. White House press secretary Jen Psaki said on Friday that the administration had no timeline for forging a new trade deal as Biden’s attention is largely focused on getting the coronavirus pandemic under control and pressing Congress to pass the President’s $1.9 trillion coronavirus relief plan. Janet Yellen, Mr. Biden’s Treasury secretary nominee, also signalled during her confirmation hearing earlier this week that Mr. Biden wasn’t eager to negotiate new trade deals until the administration makes “major investments in American workers and our infrastructure”. Downing Street said on Saturday that Mr. Biden and Mr. Johnson discussed “the benefits of a potential free trade deal between our two countries,” and Mr. Johnson “reiterated his intention to resolve existing trade issues as soon as possible.” The White House in its own statement said that the two leaders spoke about combating climate change, containing COVID-19, and ensuring global health security. But the statement notably made no mention of discussion on trade.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/johnson-presses-biden-for-new-trade-deal/article33652894.ece
25 January 2021||Washington,||U.S. interfering in domestic affairs: Russia||The Kremlin on Sunday accused the U.S. Embassy of interfering in Russia’s domestic affairs after the mission distributed a “demonstration alert” to U.S. citizens in Russia recommending they avoid protests. Nearly 3,500 protesters were arrested at demonstrations in support of jailed Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny on Saturday, a monitor reported, as Russian authorities probed violence on the part of both protesters and police. Police clashed with demonstrators in Moscow as tens of thousands took to the streets across the country on Saturday following Mr. Navalny’s call to demonstrate against President Vladimir Putin’s 20-year rule. Ahead of the demonstrations, the U.S. Embassy issued a safety warning to Americans based in Russia. “Of course, these publications are inappropriate,” President Vladimir Putin’s spokesman Dmitry Peskov told a state TV channel. “And of course indirectly, they are absolutely an interference in our domestic affairs,” he added. He accused the U.S. Embassy of “indirectly” supporting the violation of Russian legislation and backing “unauthorised protests”. The Russian Foreign Ministry on Saturday said the representatives of the U.S. Embassy would be summoned and would have to “explain themselves”. A U.S. mission spokeswoman earlier on Sunday said U.S. Embassies and consulates around the world routinely issue safety messages to U.S. citizens. “This is a common, routine practice of many countries’ diplomatic missions,” she told AFP. On Saturday, the U.S. Embassy in Moscow also said it was following the rallies, adding that Washington supported “the right of all people to peaceful protest, freedom of expression”. “Steps being taken by Russian authorities are suppressing those rights,” embassy spokeswoman Rebecca Ross said on Twitter. Washington on Saturday rebuked Moscow over its use of “harsh tactics“ against protesters demanding the release of jailed opposition leader Alexei Navalny “The United States strongly condemns the use of harsh tactics against protesters and journalists this weekend in cities throughout Russia,” State Department spokesman Ned Price said in a statement. “We call on Russian authorities to release all those detained for exercising their universal rights and for the immediate and unconditional release of Navalny,” Mr. Price said, using an alternative spelling. France said on Sunday that mass arrests of Russian demonstrators posed “an intolerable affront” to the rule of law and indicated a drift towards authoritarian rule. “We urge Russia to fully cooperate with the international community’s investigation into the poisoning of Aleksey Navalny and credibly explain the use of a chemical weapon on its soil.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-interfering-in-domestic-affairs-russia/article33652898.ece
25 January 2021||Beijing,||11 workers rescued from China mine after two weeks||Eleven workers trapped for two weeks by an explosion inside a Chinese gold mine were brought safely to the surface on Sunday. State broadcaster CCTV showed workers being hauled up one-by-one in baskets on Sunday afternoon, their eyes shielded to protect them after so many days in darkness. One worker was reported to have died from a head wound following the blast that deposited massive amounts of rubble in the shaft on January 10 while the mine was still under construction. The fate of 10 others who were underground at the time is unknown. Authorities have detained mine managers for delaying reporting the accident. The official China Daily said that seven of the workers were able to walk to ambulances on their own. CCTV showed numerous ambulances parked alongside engineering vehicles at the mine in Qixia in Shandong province. Increased supervision has improved safety in China’s mining industry, which used to report 5,000 deaths per year. However, demand for coal and precious metals continues to prompt corner-cutting. Two accidents in Chongqing last year killed 39 miners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/11-workers-rescued-from-china-mine-after-two-weeks/article33652902.ece
25 January 2021||JAKARTA,||AS--Indonesia-Iran-Vessels Seized||Indonesian authorities said that they seized an Iranian tanker and Panamanian tanker suspected of carrying out the illegal transfer of oil in their country's waters on Sunday. The tankers — the Iranian-flagged MT Horse and the Panamanian-flagged MT Frea — were seized in waters off Indonesia’s West Kalimantan province, said Wisnu Pramadita, a spokesman for the Indonesia Maritime Security Agency. He said the tankers are suspected of a variety of violations, including not displaying national flags, shutting off their identification systems, anchoring illegally as well as the illegal transfer of fuel between ships and spilling oil.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/as-indonesia-iran-vessels-seized/article33652896.ece
25 January 2021||Wellington,||New Zealand detects first community virus case in two months||New Zealand health officials on Sunday confirmed the first case of COVID-19 in the community for more than two months, sparking urgent contract-tracing efforts north of Auckland. A 56-year-old woman who recently returned from Europe, tested positive 10 days after completing a compulsory two weeks in managed isolation, although she had noticed symptoms several days before getting tested. Contact tracing is under way as the woman and her husband travelled to around 30 locations in the Northland region while she was potentially infectious.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/new-zealand-detects-first-community-virus-case-in-two-months/article33652899.ece
25 January 2021||January 25 2021 00:00 IST,||On Iran, it is decision time for Biden||U.S. President Joe Biden faces a number of challenges at home and abroad. In the foreign policy arena, relations with China and Russia pose the most intractable problems, as does the estrangement of key European allies who former U.S. President Donald Trump alienated by his isolationist rhetoric and gratuitous insults. However, the most pressing issue facing the Biden administration is America’s relations with Iran given the concern that the present scenario may upend Washington’s non-proliferation strategy and increase tensions in the energy-rich Gulf region. Several of Mr. Biden’s top appointees in the foreign policy and security arenas were involved in the negotiations with Iran that led to the nuclear deal of 2015. They include Wendy Sherman, the original deal’s primary negotiator, who has been nominated Deputy Secretary of State, and William Burns, who was involved in the early stages of forging the Iran nuclear deal, as head of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA). Trump action, Iran reaction In May 2018, Mr. Trump unilaterally withdrew the U.S. from the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) — reached by the five permanent members of the UN Security Council, plus Germany and the European Union with Iran — and re-imposed sanctions, especially on shipment of Iranian oil, to put ‘maximum pressure’ on Tehran to force it to accept America’s maximalist demands that went far beyond the agreement. The Trump administration argued that the 15-year time limit on Iran’s nuclear programme was insufficient and that Tehran must renounce in perpetuity its right to enrich uranium. Washington also demanded that a moratorium be imposed on Iran’s ballistic missile programme and that Tehran withdraws its support to regional allies and proxies opposed to U.S. policies. After waiting a year for the European signatories of the JCPOA to persuade Washington to return to the agreement, Iran decided in 2019 to breach the limit for uranium enrichment imposed by the JCPOA. It also began increasing its stockpile of enriched uranium beyond the amount permitted under the agreement. In a confidential document, the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) estimated that as of November 2, 2020, Iran’s stockpile of low-enriched uranium had reached more than 2,442 kilograms, eight times the limit permitted by the JCPOA. These developments indicated that Mr. Trump’s policy of exerting maximum pressure had produced the exact opposite result, bringing Iran closer to weaponisation. This outcome has generated additional pressure on the Biden administration to reverse course and bring Tehran into compliance with the JCPOA by renewing America’s commitment to the agreement and lifting sanctions. Biden strategy, complexities Mr. Biden’s Press Secretary, Jen Psaki, in her very first press conference, clearly stated that the new administration intends to constrain Iran through diplomacy, not sanctions, and reaffirmed Mr. Biden’s position that he would be willing to return to the JCPOA if Tehran does the same. On its part, the Iranian regime has signalled that it is willing to honour the agreement and reverse the steps undertaken recently if the U.S. withdraws all sanctions imposed on Tehran by the Trump administration. Hours before Mr. Biden’s inauguration, Iran’s Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif reiterated Iran’s readiness to return to the JCPOA, but went on to say: “We are not in a hurry…If they lift the sanctions and comply with their obligations, we will also fulfil our obligations.” However, a return to the JCPOA is not as simple as it sounds, as there is wide divergence between Washington’s expectations and those harboured by Tehran. The U.S. sees a return to the JCPOA as the first step towards curbing Iran’s missile programme as well as its regional ambitions that clash with those of the U.S. and its allies, especially Israel and Saudi Arabia. On the other hand, Iran considers the JCPOA as a stand-alone agreement covering only Iran’s nuclear programme. Mr. Zarif told journalists on the day of Mr. Biden’s inauguration that subjects such as Iran’s missile programme and its regional policy were extraneous issues and should not be linked to the nuclear deal. Furthermore, opinions in both Washington and Tehran have hardened over the past two years. The consensus in the U.S. has shifted to a much more uncompromising position because of Iran’s refusal to change the course of its West Asian policy and its deleterious consequences for U.S. interests. Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps has trained proxy militias that have played a major role in helping the Assad regime in Syria to turn the tide of war against U.S.-supported opposition forces. Tehran continues to finance and arm the fiercely anti-Israeli Lebanese Hezbollah and is the principal supporter of the Houthis in Yemen who have not only fought Saudi Arabia to a standstill but also attacked major Saudi oil facilities with Iranian-supplied drones and missiles. It also continues to train and arm Shia militias in Iraq and to checkmate American policies in that country. Boost to hardliners At the same time, the U.S. decision to unilaterally withdraw from the JCPOA has played into the hands of the Iranian hardliners and discredited those such as Mr. Zarif and Iran’s President Hassan Rouhani who had argued in favour of the JCPOA, and by implication improved relations with the U.S. The Rouhani government signed the JCPOA in 2015 with the reluctant endorsement of Iran’s supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, who has become far more sceptical now after the unilateral re-imposition of stringent sanctions by the Trump administration. This has reinforced his belief that America’s principal goal is regime change in Tehran. Moreover, Mr. Rouhani is a lame duck President. Under Iranian laws he cannot run again when presidential elections are held in June 2021 because he has already served two terms. The recent parliamentary elections have resulted in the domination of the legislature by the hardline conservative faction known as the ‘principlists’. It is almost certain that the next President will belong to the same grouping unless an agreement is reached with the U.S. about lifting economic sanctions and returning to JCPOA, thus vindicating Mr. Rouhani’s moderate position. A new radical Iranian dispensation is unlikely to accept a mere return to the original JCPOA and will insist on a foolproof clause that will preclude a repetition of the U.S.’s unilateral withdrawal. Even if the Biden and Rouhani administrations come to an understanding about returning to the JCPOA, the hardliners who dominate the Iranian Parliament are likely to insist that the renewed agreement must include a clause that would preclude a signatory from unilaterally abandoning the JCPOA. This was foreshadowed in the legislation passed by the Iranian Parliament in November and approved by Iran’s Guardian Council watchdog body in December 2020 that requires the government to boost uranium enrichment and limit United Nations inspections if sanctions are not removed by February 2021. Within the U.S. One can also expect a great deal of opposition in the U.S. Congress, particularly in the delicately balanced Senate, to a return to the JCPOA without the imposition of some restraint on Iran’s ballistic missile programme and perceptible indication of a change in its adversarial policy in West Asia. The clearly expressed opposition of America’s leading regional allies, Israel and Saudi Arabia, who consider Iran to be their principal antagonist, will add to the constraints on the Biden administration about re-engaging with Iran on the nuclear issue and removing sanctions imposed in 2018. It is decision time for the Biden administration. Unless it is able to overcome the multiple hurdles in its path and reach an agreement with Iran in the next couple of months, it could lead to the installation of a more hardline administration in Tehran in June, thus ensuring that U.S.-Iran relations will be mired in hostility well into the future and will continue contributing hugely to instability in West Asia. Mohammed Ayoob is University Distinguished Professor Emeritus of International Relations, Michigan State University||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/on-iran-it-is-decision-time-for-biden/article33652880.ece
25 January 2021||January 25 2021 00:00 IST,||In agri-credit, small farmers are still outside the fence||Farmers on the warpath would mean that agriculture reforms have again occupied centrestage not just in the minds of the politicians but also policymakers. To enable small farmers to diversify their crops or improve their income they must have access to credit at reasonable rates of interest. This has been an agenda of the triad of the Centre, the States and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) for decades. Unfortunately, while the volume of credit has improved over the decades, its quality and impact on agriculture has only deteriorated. Agricultural credit has become less efficient in delivering agricultural growth. Otherwise, why should over 85% of farmers’ income remain stagnant over the years? Any other sector which has access to a low rate of interest credit has always boomed and ballooned so much so it has created a bubble of its own. Every year, the central government announces an increase in the target of subsidised agriculture credit limit and banks surpass the target. On February 1, Budget day, the Union Finance Minister will again set a new agricultural credit target for 2021-22. In 2011-12, the target was Rs. 4.75-lakh crore; now, agri-credit has reached the target of Rs. 15-lakh crore in 2020-21 with an allocated subsidy of Rs. 21,175 crore. The question is: where is the credit and subsidy going and are they really benefiting the farmers? Most small farmers left out In the last 10 years, agriculture credit increased by 500% but has not reached even 20% of the 12.56 crore small and marginal farmers. Despite an increase in agri-credit, even today, 95% of tractors and other agri-implements sold in the country are being financed by non-banking financial companies, or NBFCs, at 18% rate of interest; the banks’ long-term loans rate of interest for purchasing of the same is 11%. The central bank, the RBI, has also questioned agricultural households with the lowest land holding (up to two hectares) getting only about 15% of the subsidised outstanding loan from institutional sources (bank, co-operative society). The share is 79% for households belonging to the highest size class of land possessed (above two hectares), beneficiaries of subsidised institutional credit at 4% to 7% rate of interest. As in the Agriculture Census, 2015-16, the total number of small and marginal farmers’ households in the country stood at 12.56 crore. These small and marginal holdings make up 86.1% of the total holdings. As in the Situation Assessment Survey of Agricultural Households by the National Sample Survey Office (NSSO), Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation, the share of institutional loans rises with an increase in land possessed — showing that the bulk of subsidised agri-credit is grabbed by big farmers and agri-business companies. A loose definition of agri-credit has led to the leakage of loans at subsidised rates to large companies in agri-business. Though the RBI had set a cap that out of a bank’s overall adjusted net bank credit, 18% must go to the agriculture sector, and within this, 8% must go to small and marginal farmers and 4.5% for indirect loans, bank advances routinely breach the limit. In 2017, 53% of the agriculture credit that the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) provided to Maharashtra was allocated to Mumbai city and suburbs, where there are no agriculturists, only agri-business. It made indirect loans to dealers and sellers of fertilizers, pesticides, seeds and agricultural implements undertaking work for farmers.  Many irregularities A review by the RBI’s internal working group in 2019 found various inconsistencies. It found that in some States, credit disbursal to the farm sector was higher than their agriculture gross domestic product (GDP) and the ratio of crop loans disbursed to input requirement was very unevenly distributed. Examples are in Kerala (326%), Andhra Pradesh (254%), Tamil Nadu (245%), Punjab (231%) and Telangana (210%). This shows the diversion of credit for non-agriculture purposes. One reason for this diversion is that subsidised credit disbursed at a 4%-7% rate of interest is being refinanced to small farmers, and in the open market at a rate of interest of up to 36%. Subsidised credit should be the ‘cause for viable agriculture but, unfortunately, the agriculture sector’s performance has not been commensurate with the subsidised credit that it has received’. Even new farm laws have not addressed the reform in the agriculture credit system. The way forward is to empower small and marginal farmers by ‘giving them direct income support on a per hectare basis rather than hugely subsidising credit. Streamlining the agri-credit system to facilitate higher crop loans to farmer producer organisations, or the FPOs of small farmers against commodity stocks can be a win-win model to spur agriculture growth’. Technology as a solution With mobile phone penetration among agricultural households in India being as high as 89.1%, the prospects of aggressive effort to improve institutional credit delivery through technology-driven solutions can reduce the extent of the financial exclusion of agricultural households. Farmers have been able to avail themselves of loans through mobile phone apps, says a media report. These apps use satellite imagery reports which capture the extent of land owned by farmers in States where land records are digitised and they grow the crop to extend the Kishan Credit Card loans digitally. Instant, otherwise, farmers have to produce the certified land record copy from the revenue department, which is much time consuming. Other steps are reforming the land leasing framework and creating a national-level agency to build consensus among States and the Centre concerning agriculture credit reforms to fill the gap and reach out to the most number of small and marginal farmers. A.S. Mittal is Vice Chairman (cabinet minister rank), Punjab State Planning Board and Sonalika Group, and Chairman-ASSOCHAM (Northern Council). The use of various media reports and documents is acknowledged. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/in-agri-credit-small-farmers-are-still-outside-the-fence/article33652883.ece
25 January 2021||January 25 2021 00:00 IST,||The shipping sector is at sea||The major economies of the world have always realised the potential of shipping as a contributor to economic growth. Today, for instance, control of the seas is a key component of China’s Belt and Road Initiative (BRI). China is trying to take control of the Bay of Bengal and the Indian Ocean Region. However, geographically, China is not as blessed as India. It has a great variety of climates and it has a coast only in the east; yet, seven of the top 10 container ports in the world are in China, according to the World Shipping Council. What aided China’s growth are strong merchant marine and infrastructure to carry and handle merchandise all over the world. Prior to the 16th century, both India and China were equal competitors on GDP. Historical records prove that India had maritime supremacy in the world. But over the past 70 years, India has lost its global eminence in shipping due to poor legislation and politics. Helping foreign shipping liners Starting from the establishment of new ports in independent India to the establishment of the present-day Chabahar Port in Iran, all of India’s actions on the shipping front have been counter-effective. This is due to a visionless administration. All the shipping infrastructure in peninsular India only helps foreign shipping liners. India has concentrated only on short-term solutions. In the past, colonial traders had strong merchant marine, but they also developed optimum shore-based infrastructure with road and rail connectivity to facilitate their trade. There was balanced infrastructure onshore and at sea. Shore-based infrastructure was developed to cater to the carrying capacity. This needs to be understood with a clear economic sense. Foreign ship owners carry our inbound and outbound cargo. This is the case in container shipping too. As a country, we have still not optimised our carrying capacity. Foreign carriers and their agents continue to ransack EXIM trade with enormous hidden charges in the logistics cycle. Much of foreign currency is drained as transhipment and handling cost every day. Given this state of affairs, members of our maritime business community have also preferred to be agents for foreign ship owners or container liners rather than becoming ship owners or container liners themselves. This is a historical mistake and a major economic failure of the country. As a result, there is a wide gap between carrying capacity and multi-folded cargo growth in the country. Today, Ministry officials are happily relaxing “Cabotage” regulation in the name of coastal shipping. This benefits only the foreign container-carrying companies and not Indian shipowners. Official actions allow foreign carriers to enjoy the situation here and push the Indian tonnage owners to vanish from the scene. Starting from the Swadeshi Steam Navigation Company of V.O. Chidambaram Pillai to the Scindia Steam Navigation Company of our times, Indian owners have not got the blessings of successive governments. In the port sector, instead of creating regional cargo-specific ports in peninsular India, the bureaucracy has repeatedly allowed similar infrastructural developments in multiple cargo-handling ports. As a result, Indian ports compete for the same cargo. If we make our major ports cargo-specific, develop infrastructure on a par with global standards, and connect them with the hinterlands as well as international sea routes, they will automatically become transhipment hubs. We need to only concentrate on developing the contributing ports to serve the regional transhipment hubs for which improving small ship coastal operations is mandatory. It is our long-cherished dream to be competent and cost-effective in international supply chain logistics. We need quality products to be available in global markets at a competitive price. This will happen only if we develop balanced infrastructure onshore as well as at sea. A ray of hope Sagarmala, a government programme to enhance the performance of the country’s logistics sector, provides hope. Its aims are port-led industrialisation, development of world-class logistics institutions, and coastal community development. When Sagarmala initiates infrastructural development on the shorefront, this will also get reflected in domestic carrying capacity. As of now, shipbuilding, repair and ownership are not preferred businesses in peninsular India. The small ship-owning community in India also prefers foreign registry for their ships instead of domestic registration. If this has to change, there needs to be a change in the mindset of the authorities and the maritime business community. With the call for ‘Make in India’ growing louder and with simultaneous multi-folded cargo growth in the country, we need ships to cater to domestic and international trade. Short sea and river voyages should be encouraged. The ship-owning spirit of the Indian merchant marine entrepreneur has to be restored. Shipbuilding and owning should be encouraged by the Ministry. The National Shipping Board is an independent advisory body for the Ministry of Shipping, where the Directorate General of Shipping (DGS) is a member. The NSB should be able to question the functioning of the DGS, which is responsible for promoting carrying capacity in the country. Sagarmala should include coastal communities and consider evolving schemes to harness the century-old ship-owning spirit and sailing skills of peninsular India. Coastal communities should be made ship owners. This will initiate carriage of cargo by shallow drafted small ships through coast and inland waterways. All minor ports in peninsular India will emerge as contributing ports to the existing major ports and become transhipment hubs on their own. Old sailing vessel owners should be encouraged to become small ship owners. It is sad that most of the global shipping companies which depend on Indian cargo for their business have Indians as either commercial heads or Indian crew onboard their ships. The creamy layer from management and nautical institutions are employed out of India. When the most creative human resource is not used in the country, what is the point of declaring that India has the number one youth population in the world? The youth population is merely a number, not a skill-based strength. In the coastal region, their strength has not been tapped. This is a point of concern and Sagarmala should concentrate on consolidating the strength of the coastal youth and make them contribute to the nation’s economy with pride. R.N. Joe D’Cruz is the CEO of Sasi Logistics Pvt Ltd, Chennai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-shipping-sector-is-at-sea/article33652891.ece
25 January 2021||January 25 2021 00:00 IST,||The starting point for self-regulation||Ever since the Mumbai Police filed a supplementary chargesheet containing about 1,000 pages of WhatsApp messages between Republic TV Editor Arnab Goswami and former Broadcast Audience Research Council CEO Partho Dasgupta, the discussions in the media have been about ethical transgressions, manipulating institutional arrangements to show increased audience reach, and breaching the line meant to protect the autonomy and efficacy of regulating bodies and external research entities. For a news ombudsman, the main issue is that an effective institution of self-regulation for the Indian media does not exist. Media regulation There are four bodies in India for media regulation. The first is the Press Council of India, created through an act of Parliament. It is headed by a former Supreme Court judge. Its mandate is to preserve the freedom of the press and to maintain and improve the standards of newspapers and news agencies in India. It has 28 members — six editors; seven senior journalists; six media managers; one representative from a news agency; one nominee each from the Bar Council of India, the University Grants Commission, and the Sahitya Akademi; three members of the Lok Sabha; and two members of the Rajya Sabha. The tilt is towards the executive writ. This reminds us of Lord Justice Leveson’s recommendation while examining multiple ethical breaches in the U.K. media. He suggested that the regulatory body should be free of serving editors and MPs. But this idea has been rejected by governments everywhere. The second is the News Broadcasting Standards Authority created by the News Broadcasters Association (NBA), an industry body. The broadcast industry has a third body, the Broadcasting Content Complaints Council, to deal with complaints against entertainment and general segment television programmes. A fourth body was created by those who left the NBA, called the News Broadcasters Federation. This is promoted by Mr. Goswami’s Republic TV. However, a close examination of the functioning of these bodies reveals their inability to implement their primary mandate — ensuring freedom while adhering to agreed ethical and professional standards.  In-house mechanism If media organisations are serious about effective self-regulation that ensures freedom not only from the government, but also from other vested interests, the need of the hour is to actively build in-house mechanisms. For instance, the Readers’ Editor (RE) of The Hindu is an independent, full-time internal ombudsman. Readers and other complainants have a designated pointsperson to reach out to. As the newspaper’s RE, I not only examine all the complaints that come to us but also effect course correction if the paper errs. The Organization of News Ombudsmen and Standards Editors has spelled out the responsibility in unambiguous terms: “promote the values of accuracy, fairness and balance in news reporting for the public good... assist media organizations to provide mechanisms to ensure they remain accountable to consumers of their news...” Many studies reveal that having an internal mechanism often helps news media organisations to improve transparency and develop trust with their audience. The latest rigorous study about media regulation happened in South Africa. The South African National Editors’ Forum (Sanef) commissioned a panel, headed by retired judge Kathleen Satchwell, to conduct an inquiry into the ethical challenges facing South African journalism. They commissioned this study because “when humanity is crying for facts, truth-telling, fair reporting and accountability, sometimes ethical journalism seems to be on the ropes.” The panel’s recommendation rightly observed that the statute of ombudsmen would become effective and beneficial to both the news platform and the industry in general only when “news managers heed their rulings.” Unless the news-consuming public demands for an independent, internal ombudsman from outlets from which they receive news, the ethical conundrum will continue to haunt us. We have to remember that the legal route rarely addresses the importance of a toxic-free information ecology. A programme, ‘Bindas Bol-UPSC Jihad’, by Sudarshan TV was found offensive by almost everyone — from the Information and Broadcasting Ministry to the Supreme Court. But that did not prevent the spread of venom and vitriol in our public sphere. readerseditor@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-starting-point-for-self-regulation/article33652888.ece
25 January 2021||January 25 2021 00:00 IST,||A big push for education||On January 24, we celebrated the third edition of the International Day of Education, a day proclaimed by the United Nations General Assembly to honour education and its value to humanity and sustainable development. This day provides an opportunity to discuss the importance of education for citizens around the world, and to find ways to advocate for inclusive quality education. Education disrupted Our theme for 2021, ‘Recover and Revitalize Education for the COVID-19 Generation’, places an emphasis on the way the pandemic has negatively affected learning outcomes for students globally and how we should innovate and combine resources to invest more in education. About 1.6 billion students from some 190 countries were affected by the shutdown of schools caused by COVID-19, reversing years of progress in education. In India, more than 1.5 million school closures affected about 286 million schoolchildren. This added to the six million girls and boys who were already out of school prior to the crisis. According to UNESCO estimates, schools worldwide were closed for an average of three and a half months since the onset of the pandemic. This figure rises to more than five months when localised school closures are taken into account. Because of dire fiscal challenges and the overwhelming need to prioritise public health and social safety spending, global education financing has been significantly reduced. UNESCO estimates that of the $11.8 trillion global COVID-19 fiscal response, a mere 0.78% (or $91 billion) was allocated to education, with $73 billion spent in high-income countries. Yet, the governments of South Asia have made some real progress towards protecting education funding. On average, it is estimated that South Asia allocated 0.85% of its fiscal package to education, compared to 0.73% for Europe and North America and 0.69% for Latin America and the Caribbean. These shifts in public expenditures were mainly driven by Information and Communication Technology measures to support the delivery of education through a mix of radio, television, and mobile technology, as well as the home delivery of printed learning materials for the most vulnerable students who are excluded from technology. In India, inspired by the release of the National Education Policy (NEP), the Education Ministry has made significant efforts to develop courses to reach all learners via the Internet and the airwaves. The introduction of the NEP and the counter-effects of the pandemic have in fact provided a groundswell of change on which true reform is riding. Still, much more needs to be done as remote learning remains out of reach for more than 500 million students globally. As we continue to struggle through this volatile situation, it is more than ever our duty to ensure that learning never stops. To highlight the remaining challenges, UNESCO is releasing new global figures now, one year into the COVID-19 pandemic, which show that over 800 million students, or more than half the world’s student population, still face significant disruptions to their education, ranging from full school closures to reduced or part-time academic schedules. A clarion call The learning crisis brought about by the pandemic therefore represents a clarion call to governments, development partners and businesses to increase funding and make education systems more resilient, inclusive, flexible, and sustainable. Now is the time to step up collaboration and international solidarity and place education at the centre of the recovery and the transformation towards more inclusive, safe, and sustainable societies. The pandemic has been devastating but we can also see it as an opportunity to rededicate ourselves to a big push for education across South Asia. Eric Falt is the Director and Representative of the UNESCO New Delhi cluster office covering Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, the Maldives, Nepal and Sri Lanka||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-big-push-for-education/article33652886.ece
25 January 2021||January 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Troubled waters||The tragic death of four fishermen from Tamil Nadu — one of them a Sri Lankan Tamil refugee living in India — allegedly when the Sri Lankan Navy was about to arrest them last week, is yet another instance of the unresolved fisheries conflict in the Palk Bay taking an unacceptable toll of lives. While fishermen in Tamil Nadu say the four were killed in an attack by the Sri Lankan Navy, the latter maintains that they died when their trawler collided with a naval vessel while trying to avoid being apprehended. India has lodged a strong protest with the Sri Lankan authorities, who have set up a committee to find a permanent solution to the incursions by Indian fishermen. It was less than a month ago that the two countries resumed discussions through their Joint Working Group on fisheries after a three-year gap. India sought the early release of fishermen arrested in Sri Lankan waters, as well as the boats in Sri Lankan custody. Sri Lanka underscored the need to curb the illegal fishing, which adversely affects the livelihood of its war-affected fishermen. When the two sides decided to create a joint working group some years ago, they had agreed that there would be no violence or loss of life in the handling of the fishermen and that a hotline would be established between the respective Coast Guards. It is unfortunate that the hotline is yet to be operationalised, and deaths continue to occur. The humanitarian approach that has been expected to be the cornerstone of the approach to this conflict has not always been discernible. The plan to wean away Tamil Nadu fishermen from the tendency to exploit the remaining fishery resources on the Sri Lankan side by replacing their trawlers with deep sea fishing vessels has not really taken off. Attempts to forge a negotiated settlement through direct talks involving fishermen from both sides have also reached a stalemate. Sri Lanka favours joint patrolling by both countries, and a ban on unsustainable fishing practices by Tamil Nadu fishermen — such as bottom trawling — but the latter want a lengthy phase-out period. Political leaders in Tamil Nadu rarely acknowledge that the State’s fishermen contribute immensely to the problem by crossing territorial waters. Nor is there sufficient recognition that the incursion into Sri Lankan waters is driven by trawler owners who force their poor employees to do so, who then get killed or arrested, leading to the festering conflict. So far there has not been enough political resolve to end this conflict. A comprehensive solution, one that would severely curtail unauthorised fishing and help in an orderly sharing of and sustainable use of resources by fishermen from both sides, is long overdue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/troubled-waters/article33652873.ece
25 January 2021||January 25 2021 00:00 IST,||After the storm||The RBI has proposed a significant shift in its regulatory approach towards India’s non-banking financial companies (NBFCs), from a general approach of light touch regulation to one that monitors larger players almost as closely as it does banks. If implemented, this could be the biggest overhaul of the regulatory framework for such finance companies (or shadow banks) in over two decades. After multitudes of investors were left high and dry as CRB group firms reneged on high-interest fixed deposits in 1997, Parliament bestowed greater powers over such firms to the central bank to fix the mess. The trigger now is similar though the scale of the problem has changed. The size of NBFC balance sheets is now more than a quarter of that of banks’ balance sheets, from just about 12% in 2010. In absolute terms, their balance sheets have more than doubled, from Rs. 20.7-lakh crore in 2015 to Rs. 49.2-lakh crore in 2020. While this growth is a reflection of how lighter regulations have given them the flexibility to meet a range of financing needs, from home loans to micro-finance and large infrastructure projects, it also manifested into a systemic risk. And that risk was apparent when one of the largest infrastructure investment-focused NBFC players, IL&FS, unravelled in 2018, with its payment defaults catalysing a crisis for the entire sector. The collateral damage meant NBFCs could not raise funds easily, and faced liquidity pressures that escalated to solvency concerns in some instances. The descent of one such player, Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Limited (DHFL), began around the same time — its creditors approved a resolution plan for the firm last week. The RBI’s proposed regulatory reaction to such large NBFC failures that have had a systemic impact on the sector, could not have come sooner. It has sought to strike a balance between the need to be nimble and mitigate systemic risks, with a four-tiered regulatory structure. This entails a largely laissez-faire approach for smaller NBFCs, plugging some of the arbitrages available to mid-sized NBFCs vis-à-vis banks, and imposing tougher ‘bank-like’ capitalisation, governance and monitoring norms for the largest players and those which could pose a systemic risk due to the nature of their operations. A top tier has been envisaged with even more scrutiny, but the RBI wants to ideally use this approach only when a certain large player poses ‘extreme risks’. Given the banking sector’s own woes over the past two years (PMC Bank, Yes Bank, Lakshmi Vilas Bank), a holistic reboot of the oversight mechanism for NBFCs and banks is critical to retain confidence and maintain financial stability which central bank Governor Shaktikanta Das has termed a ‘public good’. It is hoped that the blueprint for the regulation of NBFCs which can lend for activities banks often do not support, be it micro-loans or infrastructure projects, is formalised soon. This would ensure the fledgling economic recovery is not hampered by funding constraints.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/after-the-storm/article33652874.ece
25 January 2021||January 25 2021 00:00 IST,||The Duke’s visit||Bombay, January 24: A mass meeting organised by the Central Khilafat Committee was held last night for the purpose of appealing to the people of Bombay not to participate in the functions connected with the Duke of Connaught’s visit. Over fifteen thousand people attended. Mian Mahomed Chotani presided. A resolution moved by Mr. Yakab Hasan to the above effect was carried. Mr. M. Pickthall then moved a resolution condemning the action of the Bombay Corporation in having decided to give an address of welcome to the Duke. As the Corporation did not represent the true sentiments of the citizens it should forthwith rectify the error. Mr. Pickthall said if the Duke came as a messenger of the King-Emperor to hear the grievances of Indian people and take their messages to the King, he would have been most welcome. Two Hindus also supported the resolution. The audience then stood up and took an oath that they would abstain from any function connected with the Duke’s visit to Bombay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-dukes-visit/article33652884.ece
25 January 2021||January 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Pak diplomat asked to quit India||The Government of India to-day [January 24] ordered the expulsion of Mr. Zafar Iqbal Rathod, First Secretary of the Pakistan High Commission, here [New Delhi] for active involvement in organising and directing the underground ‘Al Fatah’ organisation in Jammu and Kashmir, it was officially announced. Mr. Rathod has been declared persona non grata and ordered to leave India within 48 hours. The order expelling him was handed over to Mr. Mehdi Masood, Counsellor of the Pakistan High Commission, by Mr. A. K. Ray, Joint Secretary External Affairs Ministry, this morning. The Government of India’s note said, “As a result of investigations into certain events in the State of Jammu and Kashmir, it has been established that Mr. Zafar Iqbal Rathod, First Secretary in the Pakistan High Commission, has been actively involved in organising and directing the activities of an underground illegal organisation named ‘Al Fatah’ in Jammu and Kashmir which has been engaged in sabotage, espionage and other violent and unlawful activities. The note further said: “The conduct of Mr. Rathod has thus been in total violation of the norms of behaviour and activities of members of a diplomatic mission.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/pak-diplomat-asked-to-quit-india/article33652885.ece
25 January 2021||January 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Take cover from the SIlent killER||A swift change in the lifestyle habits of Indians is taking a severe toll on their health. As per a report by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, India’s total healthcare spending in the financial year 2019-20 was at 3.6% of GDP. This is mostly because the country carries along a significant share of several critical health issues, the most severe being diabetes. Also known as the ‘silent killer’, diabetes is one such condition that severely impacts an individual’s life, both physically and financially. Unfortunately, India currently accounts for 50% of the world’s diabetes burden, with an estimated 78 million cases of diabetes. Considering the current pace at which the number of diabetes cases are rising in India, the figure is expected to reach up to 100 million by the end of 2030 in the 20-79 age group. It is also learnt that Indians develop diabetes at a much younger age than other races of the world. A costly affair Diabetes is a chronic illness that mostly occurs when your body is unable to metabolise the sugars and starch present in the human body efficiently. As a result, sugar starts to build up in the blood and reaches high levels of concentration. High blood sugar can have detrimental effects on your body. Diabetes is classified into two different categories — Type 1 and Type 2. You can control diabetes through medication, strict diet and regular exercise. However, due to rising medical costs, diabetes management can be expensive as it entails medication that can turn out costly, frequent doctor visits, and sugar monitoring tests. As patients age, the probability of hospitalisation also rises for diabetics. At the same time, dealing with the economic impact of diabetes is equally important. On an average, a diabetes patient may have to spend in the range of Rs. 8,000-10,000 a month, including on tests, medicines, insulin shots, customised diet. As per a study by the Association of Physicians of India, the people in urban and rural parts of the country spend 34% and 27% of their income, respectively, on the treatment of diabetes. An efficient solution An effective solution to the meet the rise in cost of treatment of diabetes is securing yourself with a comprehensive health insurance policy. A plan with an adequate sum insured is enough for an individual to meet all the hospitalisation expenses arising out of diabetes. There was a time when buying a plan to cover diabetes was a daunting task. Initially, people had to undergo mandatory physical medical tests to buy medical insurance, and had to serve a waiting period of 24-48 months to get coverage for diabetes. Moreover, people with long-standing diabetes or severe conditions were often denied coverage for the condition. In the last few years, with the change in underwriting policies, it has become easier for people to buy health insurance plans to cover diabetes. Insurers now issue health cover to diabetics through three different options which include tele-medical, policy on the basis of past medical reports and through Straight Through Process — completely on the basis of customer declarations. With such changes and to make sure adequate coverage is available for diabetes and other possible illnesses, insurers have come up with plans that provide coverage for diabetes from Day 1. Customers suffering from Type 1 or 2 diabetes, people on insulin, and those suffering from long-standing diabetes can now easily buy a health insurance policy with or without a waiting period. However, customers must note that health insurance covers that come without a waiting period are slightly more expensive than regular health covers which come with a defined waiting period. A quick glance at pricing With numerous changes in the underwriting process, the pricing of various health insurance policies that offer adequate coverage for diabetes has become quite affordable. While buying a health insurance cover for the ailment, you may choose a policy as per the waiting period you wish to serve. For a 35-year-old individual, a health insurance cover is available ranging from Rs. 6,500- 11,500 per annum for a sum insured of Rs. 5 Lakh. A comprehensive health insurance policy that comes with a waiting period of four years to cover diabetes can be bought for an annual premium as low as Rs. 6,600. Similarly, plans with three-year and one-year waiting period for diabetes are available for an annual premium of Rs. 8,100 and Rs. 9,900 respectively. However, people who have severe diabetic conditions and want to avail coverage for the ailment from Day 1, the plan is available for an annual premium of Rs. 11,400. All the above-mentioned premiums are applicable to a 35-year-old male residing in a metro city buying a plan with Rs. 5 lakh sum insured. It is important to note that all health insurance policies provide adequate coverage for diabetes regardless of how long-standing the condition is once the waiting period is served, as there are no other terms attached.  (The writer is Head – Health Insurance, Policybazaar.com)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/take-cover-from-the-silent-killer/article33652867.ece
25 January 2021||January 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Why SIPs are brain-friendly||Emotions are good for your overall well-being, but those can sometimes get in the way of your financial decision making. For instance, the possibility of a negative future outcome from an investment could prompt you to not take a decision today even though that investment may be required to achieve your life goal. It is, therefore, important that you distance yourself from your investment decisions. Here, we discuss how systematic investment plans (SIPs) help moderate emotions and improve your chances of achieving life goals. The possibility of regret in the future because of a bad outcome prompts many to postpone taking a decision today. Suppose you want to accumulate money to make down payment for a house 7 years hence. You know that investing in bank deposits is not enough; lower post-tax returns would mean you have to save more to achieve your goal. But investing in equity could lead to losses. That is why SIPs are helpful. First, SIPs eliminate the need for you to take a decision every month. The more active decisions you take, the more regret you could experience! An SIP is set up as an automatic debit from your designated bank account into your preferred investment. Such active distancing from an investment decision reduces regret. It also offers a disciplined approach to saving. How? Analytical thinking as opposed to intuitive thinking consumes energy and can be tiring. That is why our brain typically applies mental shortcuts (heuristics in behavioural psychology) to take decisions. You order food from a restaurant that has good reviews. You do not ‘analyse’ this restaurant before placing the order. Investment decisions are different. A wrong decision could reduce your chances of achieving a life goal. So, you cannot risk applying heuristics to choose investment products. But applying analytical thinking each time you make a decision can be overwhelming and stressful. We, therefore, often tend to avoid taking such decisions. By setting up an SIP, you eliminate the need to apply analytical thinking each month you make the investment.  Active distancing Active distancing works well if the entire process is mechanical. First, set up a savings account in a bank other than the one where your monthly income is credited. We call this the master investment account. This savings account is the one designated for all our equity SIPs. It can also be used to set up a recurring deposit with the same bank. Second, every month, transfer your monthly savings from your salary account to this master investment account. This should be set up to happen on the day your salary is credited. Third, your equity SIP should be preferably invested equally over two dates every month if you are allocating 50% or more of your monthly savings to equity. Note that redemptions and dividends from your investments will be credited into this master account, making it easy for you to use the money only for the intended purpose. We cannot set aside emotions when we take decisions. But we can set up a process that can help us moderate the negative effects of emotions when we take financial decisions. SIPs for all your life goals are the best way to temper inertia and regret. Note that an SIP can be set up for all your investments — equity, bonds and even real estate (EMIs). The active decision you have to make is when you set up the SIP — how much to invest, which product to choose and the days of the month the investment should be made. Thereafter, you have to engage your analytical brain only for redemption requests.  (The writer offers training programmes for individuals to manage their personal investments)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/why-sips-are-brain-friendly/article33652868.ece
25 January 2021||January 25 2021 00:00 IST,||loose change||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/loose-change/article33652870.ece
25 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Duhan — loaded with potential||These are exciting times in Indian tennis. There is a lot of talent on view, especially the 6’4’’ tall Chirag Duhan who won the ITF grade-4 title on Saturday. “Chirag is definitely a good package. He has tennis intelligence and is smart on the court,” said Sidharth Rawat, one of the leading tennis players in the men’s circuit, who trains with Chirag under coach Gaurav Sharma at the Defence Colony Club. Mental stability “I was confident he would win the title. We have been working on his game for the past three months. He is playing good tennis and has the mental stability. Chirag didn’t drop a set and beat players who had defeated him before,” said Gaurav. Revealing that Duhan’s second serve and “transition play” were getting sharpened, the coach said that lower body work was being done to ensure better coordination and flexibility. Winning an international junior title may be a breakthrough, but Duhan has been winning the men’s events soon after playing in the Road to Wimbledon under-14 event in UK.  “He is playing a lot of men’s tournaments right from the age of 15. It helps in the development of his game and also improves his maturity level,” said Gaurav. Comparing Duhan with Yuki Bhambri in terms of build and grasp of the game, Gaurav said that the boy had the potential to be a top-50 player in the men’s professional circuit if he continued to work on his fitness and stayed injury-free. Duhan’s father Rambir has done a great job in guiding the boy with his own resources. He is desperately seeking help to ensure international participation for his son in the coming months. “We just need tickets and the accommodation to play in tournaments abroad,” Rambir said. Though Duhan had emerged champion in singles and doubles in the Khelo India Youth Games at Guwahati, no financial backing has come his way. Given that he has arguably the best potential in the country at the moment, it’s probably only a matter of time before he finds support.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/duhan-loaded-with-potential/article33653135.ece
25 January 2021||January 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Bengaluru FC’s agony continues||Bengaluru FC’s winless run extended to seven games as it could only draw 1-1 against Odisha FC at the Fatorda Stadium in Goa on Sunday. After Erik Paartalu’s header on 82 minutes had cancelled out Diego Maurico’s early strike, the game saw a frenetic ending wherein both teams had gilt-edged chances to secure all three points. The best of the lot fell to BFC forward Kristian Opseth in the dying moments, which he fluffed by blazing over from five yards out. Minutes before that Odisha midfielder Jerry Mawihmingthanga — who was excellent through the game — drew a high quality save from Gurpreet Sandhu and Daniel Lalhlimpuia saw his shot brush off the post. For BFC, Sunil Chhetri blasted a shot over the crossbar from close. Earlier, an unchanged BFC started confidently but it was Odisha that took the lead in the eighth minute. Chhetri uncharacteristically misplaced a pass and Parag Srivas fouled Jerry to stop Odisha’s breakaway. But Jerry was up in a flash and set Manuel Onwu free on the right flank, whose low cross was tapped in at the far post by Mauricio. A fairly sedate half hour followed before Odisha custodian Arshdeep Singh came up with two fine saves. He dived low to his left to keep out Paartalu’s left-footed strike and then parried away a powerful Rahul Bheke header by diving sharply to his right. After the restart, Arshdeep was in action again, first to keep a swerving freekick from Opseth away and then ward off a botched clearance from defender Gaurav Bora. On the hour mark Onwu found Jerry with a splendid through ball, but it was saved well by Gurpreet. With barely 10 minutes left, Cleiton Silva’s corner found the back of Paartalu’s head before going in off Arshdeep’s outstretched right arm. It then setup a tantalising finish.  The result: BFC 1 (Paartalu 82) drew with Odisha FC 1 (Mauricio 8); JFC 0 drew with HFC 0.   Monday’s match: Chennaiyin vs Mumbai City, 7.30 p.m .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bfcs-agony-continues/article33653004.ece
25 January 2021||CHENNAI,||‘Made sure people spoke about me after the series’||After a successful tour of Australia, where he produced impactful performances with bat and ball, R. Ashwin relived the experience. Excerpts  In recent times, your batting has come under criticism. How important was the Sydney knock for you? There have been questions raised over my batting since the West Indies tour of 2016. One thing that had to be considered was that I was playing in all formats at that time. Ever since, I have just been playing Tests. It is pretty much one game here or there, and I’m constantly fighting for a place for the lone spinner. If I had to be judged purely on my batting skills and averages, I felt that taking into account only an innings or two wasn’t justified. When I am fighting for a spot, I need to emphasise my primary skill, which is to pick up wickets. I think over the last two years against the SENA (South Africa, England, New Zealand and Australia) teams, I have done justice to say I was the best spinner. Is this the best you have bowled in Australia? I have always maintained that you cannot really say this is the best or anything as something else could lie in front of you. In all honesty, it didn't look like I was going to start the series at Adelaide. Only because Jadeja pulled his hamstring in the T20 series, I got an opportunity in the first Test. Over the last two years, I feel I have been bowling well, how it’s come out of the hand. 2018-19 was good, but 2020-21 was one of the best if you compare the last three years. How did your role change after the first Test. You were more involved and in the bowlers’ ear There was no considerable change, it was probably the requirement of that particular day. We had quite a bit of inexperience in the attack. Earlier, my communication might not have been in the right direction as I have not wondered how people would receive it. Now I know how I should be communicating so that they understand. Comparisons with Lyon and duels with Smith There has been a lot of noise about how I am bowling, and pitting me against someone like Nathan Lyon. During the previous tour, I picked up six wickets at Adelaide and kept bowling despite a tear in the abdomen. After the match, there was a comparison between us with suggestions of how well Lyon bowled. I felt it was extremely insensitive towards a good performance. That was the lowest I ever felt in my life after Southampton (2018). So rather than competing against Lyon, I thought I must be competing against Smith. There were records that Smith had never got out to spinners in Australia. I wanted to turn that around. I am entitled to think I am, probably, the best in the world. A lot of people were talking about who will dismiss Smith. But nobody even gave me a chance. I made sure that people spoke about me at the end of the series.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/i-decided-to-compete-against-smith-ashwin/article33652957.ece
25 January 2021||CHENNAI,||Hemanth Mudappa makes a clean sweep||Bengaluru’s Hemanth Muddappa (Mantra Racing) retained his title in the 2020 MMSC FMSCI Indian National Motorcycle Drag Racing championship which concluded at MMRT here on Sunday. Muddappa ended the 2020 season, delayed due to the pandemic, with a grand double and a clean sweep in both the Above 1051cc and 815-1050cc categories. Ann Jennifer (Sparks Racing) emerged the National champion in the girls’ section.   The results (provisional):   4-Stroke: Above 1051cc: 1. Hemanth Muddappa (07.879s); 2. Baba Satagopan (08.263); 3. Hafizullah Khan (08.362); 815-1050cc: 1. Muddappa (08.071); 2. Zubair Ali Jung (08.202); 3. Baba Satagopan (08.306); 361-550cc: 1. Karthik Mateti (12.325); 2. Aiyaz (12.360); 3. Thulsi Ram (12.447); 226-360cc: 1. PM Soorya (12.532); 2. J. Bharath Raj (12.536); 3. Shankar Guru (13.166).   Upto 165cc: 1. J. Bharath Raj (14.420); 2. PM Soorya (14.46s); 3. R. Aravind Ganesh (14.526).   Girls (165cc): 1. Ann Jennifer (16.858); 2. R.V. Czimkhy (17.077); 3. Niveta Jessica (17.156).   2-Stroke – Up to 165cc: 1. Aiyaz (12.959); 2. Mohammed Touheed (13.220); 3. Kaleem Pasha (13.224); Up to 130cc: 1. Mohammed Rafiq (13.200s); 2. Mujahid Pasha (13.452s); 3. Mohammed Touheed (13.687).   National champions: Hemanth Muddappa (Mantra Racing), Above 1051cc and 851-1050cc; Aiyaz (Pvt), 361-550cc and 131-165cc; J. Bharath Raj (Rulexx Rockers Racing, Up to 165cc, 226-360cc); Ann Jennifer (Sparks Racing, girls). 2-Stroke: Aiyaz (131-165cc); Mohammed Rafiq (2S, Up to 130cc).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hemanth-makes-a-clean-sweep/article33652997.ece
25 January 2021||Coimbatore,||Sandeep has the last laugh; perfect 12 for Amir||Chennai’s A. Sandeep Kumar (Dark Don, 66 pts) edged out teammate Ashwin Datta (63 pts) by three points to emerge the Formula LGB4 champion of the 23rd JK Tyre National racing championship at the Kari Motor Speedway here on Sunday. The national championship class went right down to the wire. Going into the weekend, Ashwin, with 39 points, looked calm and composed to wear the crown. But, Sandeep had other ideas. It was just one point that separated the two going into the final race and it looked like anybody's game. The duo, starting from the back of the grid, planned it well but Ashwin crashed out in the very first lap, while Sandeep hung on to finish fifth. He earned four points, enough to lift the title. Vishnu (54pts), who emerged the winner, was third place in the overall standings. “I did my maths before going into the last race. But we both decided to race clean and let the best man win on track,” said Sandeep. Amir Sayed (MSport) had sealed the JK Tyre Novice Cup title with miles to spare but he did not wish to go slow. He further upped his pace to make it a perfect 12/12 finish.  The results (Provisional): FLGB4: Race 1: 1. Mohamed Ryan (MSport) 20:21.929; 2. Vishnu Prasad (MSport); 3. A. Sandeep Kumar (Dark Don). Race 2: 1. T.S. Diljith (Dark Don) 23:58.426; 2. A. Sandeep Kumar; 3. Sarosh Hataria (Ahura Racing). Race 3: 1. Vishnu Prasad 21:01.907; 2. Mohamed Ryan; 3. Sarosh Hataria.   JK Tyre Novice Cup: Race 1: 1. Amir Sayed (MSport) 14:17.157; 2. Chetan Surineni (Momentum); 3. Aman Chaudhary (DTS). Race 2: 1. Amir Sayed 16:34.084; 2. Chetan Siruneni; 3. Neym Rizvi (Msport) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sandeep-has-the-last-laugh-perfect-12-for-amir/article33652961.ece
25 January 2021||Coimbatore,||Team TVS Racing to the fore; Samuel overall winner||Team TVS Racing dominated the third round of the FMSCI MRF MoGrip INRC Rally of Coimbatore for two wheelers, organised by Coimbatore Auto Sports Club, at the Kethanur windmill farm here on Sunday. Its riders lived up to the expectations winning just about everything that came their way. Samuel Jacob was the man of the moment. He showed promise in the earlier rounds and came up with yet another gutsy show to emerge the overall winner and the Group A Pro Expert class. The rider from Udupi registered the lowest penalty of 01:01:03.089 to finish on top. J. Imran Pasha put up a stellar show as well with a 01:01:39.601. It paid off as he bagged the overall runner. The track was fast and flowing and it did test the riders and their machines. But both Samuel and Pasha handled the stages one better for the top two slots. “There were many challenging aspects that did test our abilities. Also, the event ran as per the clock and without any delay,” said Samuel. The total distance was approximately 80.22 kms with the Special Stage being 67 kms. Local lad K. Saravanakumar won the Star of Tamil Nadu category run exclusively for riders from this part of the State. Deeban Kumar, District Manager (Coimbatore), MRF Limited, the chief guest of the day, gave away the prizes.  The results: Overall: 1. Samuel Jacob (TVS Racing) 01:01:03.089; 2. J. Imran Pasha (TVS Racing) 01:01:39.601; 3. R. Nataraj (TVS Racing) 01:02:28.714 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/team-tvs-racing-riders-to-the-fore/article33652963.ece
25 January 2021||GURUGRAM,||Duhan, Shruti the players to beat||It will be another opportunity for the Indian players to boost their world ranking when the ITF grade-4 tennis tournament begins at Tennis Project on Monday. Chirag Duhan and Shruti Ahlawat, who cashed in on the chance last week in Delhi, will start favourites again. Meanwhile, 13-year-old Manas Dhamne remained in focus, beating Rushil Khosla in the third and final round for a berth in the main draw. He had shocked Agriya Yadav in the second round.  The seedings:   Boys: 1. Nishant Dabas, 2. Sanjith Devineni (US), 3. Nikhil Niranjan (US), 4. Aman Dahiya, 5. Chirag Duhan, 6. Denim Yadav, 7. Dhruv Tangri, 8. Krishan Hooda.   Girls: 1. Sanjana Sirimalla, 2. Reshma Maruri, 3. Vaishnavi Adkar, 4. Riya Uboveja, 5. Veda Raju Prapurna, 6. Hetvee Chaudhari, 7. Suhitha Maruri, 8. Bhakti Shah.   The results (third and final qualifying round): Boys: Aryan Shah bt Parv Nage 6-1, 6-4; Ronin Lotlikar bt Arunava Majumder 6-3, 6-2; Bushan Haobam bt Bhicky Sagolshem 6-0, 6-1; Manas Dhamne bt Rushil Khosla 6-1, 3-6, [10-3].   Girls: Sanvi Ahluwalia bt Aaditi Bhat 7-5, 6-3; Lakshmi Prabha bt Harleen Kaur Dhanda 6-3, 6-1; Kavya Khirwar bt Rachita Talwar 6-1, 6-1; Tanushri Pandey bt Mahi Tyagi 4-6, 6-1, [10-8] .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/duhan-shruti-the-players-to-beat/article33653136.ece
25 January 2021||NOIDA,||Kadian shows he’s still the best; Rohit roars back||On a day when he was the only high-profile name in action, Satyawart Kadian proved he was still the best wrestler in the 97kg category, sailing through his bouts to win his sixth National title at the 65th men’s freestyle National championships which concluded on Sunday. The absence of archrival Mausam Khatri due to injury made things easier for Kadian. Winning his title clash by pinning Services’ Monu in less than three minutes, Kadian insisted that it was never easy on the mat, but said he was satisfied with the triumph nevertheless. “Every wrestler prepares with an aim to knock out his opponent at the earliest and a quick win is always welcome. But, on the mat, anyone can win. Winning a National title is special,” Kadian said.  After a first-round exit at the World Cup last month, this was an opportunity for Kadian to stake a claim for a second shot at the Olympic qualifiers. The 97kg is one of the three categories where India is yet to book a spot for Tokyo. The winners at the National championships are likely to be named for the Matteo Pellicon rankings series in Rome from March 4 to 7. The trials for the Olympic qualifiers in April are expected to be held in March. In the other Olympic weight category (65kg), the 21-year-old Rohit came back from an 8-0 deficit to win 12-8 against Sharvan in the final, scoring all his points in the second half. This was Rohit’s first senior National in a category that has Bajrang Punia as the numero uno.  The results:   65kg: 1. Rohit (Har), 2. Sharvan (SSCB), 3. Amit (SSCB) and Anuj (Har); 70kg: 1. Vishal Kaliraman (RSPB), 2. Parveen (RSPB), 3. Karan (SSCB) and Sushil (Har); 79kg: 1. Rahul Rathee (RSPB), 2. Pritam (RSPB), 3. Veerdev Gulia (SSCB) and Pradeep (SSCB); 86kg: 1. Praveen Chahar (Del), 2. Vetal (Mah), 3. Deepak (RSPB) and Sanjeet (SSCB); 97kg: 1. Satyawart Kadian (RSPB), 2. Monu (SSCB), 3. Sumit Gulia (Har) and Ashish (Del).   Team: 1. RSPB (192 points), 2. SSCB (162), 3. Haryana (138).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kadian-shows-hes-still-the-best-rohit-roars-back/article33652998.ece
25 January 2021||Pune:,||Juliette claims feature event||Trainer Karthik Ganapathy’s champion mare Juliette, ridden by A. Sandesh, won the Western India Race Horse Owners’ Association Eclipse Stakes Of India (Gr.2), the main attraction of Sunday’s (Jan. 24) Mumbai races conducted at Pune. The winner is owned by Mr. M.A.M. Ramaswamy Chettiar of Chettinad Charitable Trust. Sandesh stole the limelight by riding five winners, while trainer S.K. Sunderji saddled three winners.  1. TOROLOCO PLATE (Div. II) (1,600m), Cl. V, rated 4 to 30: IN CONTENTION (Trevor) 1, Minx (Chouhan) 2, Irish Eyes (Nazil) 3 and Chezza (Merchant) 4. 1-3/4, 6-1/4 and 3. 1m, 39.48s. Rs. 22 (w), 13, 11 and 35 (p). SHP: 20, FP: 35, Q: 29, Tanala: 363 and 194. Favourite: Minx. Owners: M/s. P.J. Vazifdar, Firoze A. Vakil, M. Rishad, Prem Vazirani & Miss Soonu J. Davar. Trainer: Imtiaz A. Sait.  2. GREAT INVESTMENT PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), Cl. V, rated 4 to 30: PEPPER (Sandesh) 1, Flash Force (Peter) 2, Isle Of Skye (Trevor) 3 and Aira (Bhawani) 4. 7-1/2, 1-3/4 and Nose 1m, 10.09s. Rs. 18 (w), 12, 25 and 10 (p). SHP: 114, FP: 621, Q: 785, Tanala: 206 and 33. Favourite: Isle Of Skye. Owners: M/s. Geoffrey B. Nagpal, S.R. Sanas & Estate of Late Hiroo G. Matai. Trainer: Sanjay Kolse.  3. AROMA PLATE (1,600m), Cl. III, rated 40 to 66: ONE WISH (Sandesh) 1, Dreams (T.S. Jodha) 2, Oui Sauvage (Neeraj) 3 and Sandman (Trevor) 4. Not run: Antarctica. 3/4, 3 and 2-3/4. 1m, 38.37s. Rs. 17 (w), 10 and 21 (p). SHP: 39, FP: 38, Q: 49, Tanala: 638 and 109. Favourite: One Wish. Owners: M/s. Jatin L. Trivedi & Nitin H. Jain. Trainer: S.K. Sunderji.  4. EMPERADO PLATE (Div. I) (1,000m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46: EXOTIC QUEEN (Aniket) 1, Enlightened (T.S. Jodha) 2, Ms Boss (Sandesh) 3 and Godsword (J. Chinoy) 4. 1, 1/2 and 1-3/4. 57.94s. Rs. 50 (w), 12, 15 and 24 (p). SHP: 31, FP: 103, Q: 28, Tanala: 175 and 112. Favourite: Enlightened. Owners: Mr. Ajay Jalan rep. Ultimo Stud Farm Pvt. Ltd. Trainer: Faisal A. Abbas.  5. TOROLOCO PLATE (Div. I) (1,600m), Cl. V, rated 4 to 30: VENEZUELA (Chouhan) 1, Rudimentary (Trevor) 2, Arrecife (Peter) 3 and Royal Castle (J. Chinoy) 4. Not run: Corus. 5-1/2, 2-1/2 and 1-1/2. 1m, 40.00s. Rs. 19 (w), 13, 12 and 20 (p). SHP: 46, FP: 62, Q: 20, Tanala: 581 and 124. Favourite: Venezuela. Owners: Mr. & Mrs. Vijay B. Shirke & Mr. Jay V. Shirke. Trainer: P. Shroff.  6. SMASHER PLATE (2,000m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46: SUMMER NIGHT (Sandesh) 1, Seasons Greetings (Chouhan) 2, Cabo Da Roca (Dashrath) 3 and Ladida (T.S. Jodha) 4. Not run: Socrates. 1-1/4, 3-3/4 and 1/2. 2m, 4.64s. Rs. 32 (w), 11, 12 and 12 (p). SHP: 57, FP: 103, Q: 162, Tanala: 459 and 590. Favourite: Seasons Greetings. Owners: Mr. & Mrs. Shapoor P. Mistry rep. Manjri Horse Breeders’ Farm Pvt. Ltd., Mr. Vikram Bachhawat rep. Bachhawat Farms Pvt. Ltd. & Mr. Ponkumaran Dhanasekar. Trainer: S.K. Sunderji.  7. CAMPANERO PLATE (1,200m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only: DRAGONESS (Parmar) 1, Circus Queen (Sandesh) 2, Fortune Cookie (Ajinkya) 3 and Alfayiz (Zervan) 4. Not run: Caprifla. 9-1/4, 2-1/4 and 2-3/4. 1m, 9.27s. Rs. 17 (w), 17, 19 and 104 (p). SHP: 61, FP: 593, Q: 316, Tanala: 1,500. Favourite: Dragoness. Owners: Mr. Vijay B. Shirke & Mr. Prashant Nagar and Mr. M.K. Jadhav rep. SKJ Racing and Breeding Pvt. Ltd. Trainer: M.K. Jadhav.  8. WESTERN INDIA RACE HORSE OWNERS’ ASSOCIATION ECLIPSE STAKES OF INDIA (Gr. 2) (2,000m), (Terms) 4-y-o & over: JULIETTE (Sandesh) 1, Parisian (Trevor) 2, Victorious Sermon (Zervan) 3 and Roberta (Chouhan) 4. 1-3/4, 2 and 1/2. 2m, 3.46s. Rs. 25 (w), 10, 12 and 16 (p). SHP: 29, FP: 47, Q: 55, Tanala: 136 and 116. Favourite: Parisian. Owners: Mr. M.A.M. Ramaswamy Chettiar of Chettinad Charitable Trust. Trainer: Karthik Ganapathy.  9. A CAMPBELL TROPHY (1,000m), Cl. III, rated 40 to 66: POKERFACE (Nazil) 1, Sharareh (Bhawani) 2, Namaqua (Parmar) 3 and Memorable Memories (Dashrath) 4. Sh, Sh and 1/2. 58.06s. Rs. 428 (w), 29, 32 and 26 (p). SHP: 48, FP: 1,761, Q: 898. Tanala: C/O. Favourite: Menilly. Owners: Mr. Jaydev M. Mody rep. J.M. Livestock Pvt. Ltd. Trainer: Nosher Cama.  10. EMPERADO PLATE (Div. II) (1,000m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46: AEGON (T.S. Jodha) 1, Sufiyah (Parmar) 2, Phoenix Spirit (Raghuveer) 3 and Sussing (Peter) 4. 6-1/4, 2-1/4 and 3/4. 57. 66s. Rs. 13 (w), 10, 24 and 260 (p). SHP: 73, FP: 87, Q: 154. Favourite: Aegon. Owners: M/s. Bezan Chenoy & Neville H. Bilpodiwala. Trainer: Bezan Chenoy.  Note: Santosh G. (atop Gabriel) was dislodged near 400m but he escaped unhurt. Turmeric Tower (J. Chinoy up) reared up at the start leaving the jockey standing on the gates and came out riderless.  11. GREAT INVESTMENT PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), Cl. V, rated 4 to 30: DHARASANA (Sandesh) 1, Gusty Girl (Ayyar) 2, Gandalf (Peter) 3 and Anoushka (Merchant) 4. Not run: Moment Of Madness. 1, 1-3/4 and Hd. 1m, 11.60s. Rs. 15 (w), 15, 27 and 15 (p). SHP: 140, FP: 4,148, Q: 1,884, Tanala: 2,250. Favourite: Dharasana. Owners: Mr. Vikram Bachhawat rep. Bachhawat Farms Pvt. Ltd., M/s. Jatin L. Trivedi & Nitin H. Jain. Trainer: S.K. Sunderji. Jackpot: (i): 70%: Rs. 978 (6 tkts.) & 30%: 279 (9 tkts.); (ii): 70%: 852 (15 tkts.) & 30%: 342 (16 tkts.). Treble: (i) 647 (4 tkts), (ii) 307 (11 tkts), (iii) C/O. Super Jackpot: 70%: 4, 612 (1 tkt.) & 30%: 1,976 (1 tkt.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/juliette-claims-feature-event/article33653399.ece
25 January 2021||Kochi,||‘Fretting about Olympics not healthy’||There are big doubts whether the Tokyo Olympics will happen this July. And with new coronavirus variants showing up in many countries, even the Japanese are not sure when they would be able to host a safe Games. Neeraj Chopra, the country’s biggest name in athletics, feels that worrying about the Olympics will not help anybody. “Yes, there is some anxiety for sure. If the Olympics are happening, the target is clear. We, as performers, should focus more on performance and training. Thinking that the Olympics will not happen will not be a healthy option,” said Chopra, the brightest hope to win independent India’s first Olympic medal in athletics, from Bhubaneswar. The global pandemic has forced the cancellation of many majors, including the Asian championships in China in May and the Asian race walking championships in Japan in March, but Chopra feels that despite the long break, it will need a big throw to get the Olympic gold. “I think the competition will be tough if the Tokyo Olympics are held. The 90m barrier is something like a benchmark for top throwers, so I think to win a gold we will have to throw more than 90m this time,” said the 23-year-old, the Asian Games and Commonwealth Games champion, who has a personal best of 88.06m. Training affected The Athletics Federation of India had planned to send the javelin throwers to South Africa for training but with visas yet to come and with the new COVID-19 strain popping up in many countries, that trip is almost off. “And with meets also getting cancelled it is tough to plan things. What will be the ideal way to prepare for Tokyo in such conditions? “As of now, we are going to train in India only. Since it’s cold in Patiala, we have come to Bhubaneswar and I feel it’s the best place to train. “If not South Africa, then in summer, we will try to go to any European country, Finland or Germany, or any centre where we can train properly,” he said. “Or may be, Turkey, like we went last year.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/fretting-about-olympics-not-healthy/article33653273.ece
25 January 2021||LOS ANGELES,||Brooklyn Nets wards off Miami Heat||Kevin Durant scored a team-high 31 points as the new-look Brooklyn Nets solved some of its defensive woes on Saturday to hold on and beat the short-handed Miami Heat 128-124. Overtaking Miller Elsewhere, the Golden State Warriors star Steph Curry surpassed Hall of Famer Reggie Miller for second-most three-pointers in NBA history, reaching the milestone early in the third quarter of Saturday’s 127-108 loss to the Utah Jazz. His fourth 3-pointer pushed him past Miller and Curry now has 2,562, 411 behind Ray Allen. The record-breaking three came on his first basket of the second half.  In Chicago, Anthony Davis scored a team-high 37 points and LA Lakers improved to a perfect 9-0 on the road to start the season with a 101-90 win over the Chicago Bulls. LeBron James delivered a double-double with 17 points and 11 rebounds for the Lakers, which won for the seventh time in the past eight games.  The results:   Dallas 108 lost to Houston 133; Brooklyn 128 bt Miami 124.   Utah 127 bt Golden State 108; Phoenix 112, lost to Denver 120 (2OT).   Chicago 90 lost to LA Lakers 101; Minnesota 120 bt New Orleans 110.   Detroit 110 lost to Philadelphia 114.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nets-ward-off-the-heat/article33652999.ece
25 January 2021||Hyderabad:,||Baudelaire takes the honours||Baudelaire (Suraj Narredu astride) won the upper division of the Step A Side Plate, the chief event of Sunday’s (Jan. 24) Hyderabad races. The winner is owned by Mr. K.N. Dhunjibhoy & Mr. Z.K. Dhunjibhoy rep. Five Stars Shipping Co. Pvt. Ltd. & Mr. Teja Gollapudi. Laxman Singh trains the winner. Suraj Narredu rode two more winners on the day.  1. STEP A SIDE PLATE (Div. I) (1,400m), Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II): BAUDELAIRE (Suraj Narredu) 1, Akido (Akshay Kumar) 2, Inside Story (B. R. Kumar) 3 and Indian Glory (Mukesh Kumar) 4. Not run: Yesterday. 8-1/4, 2-3/4 and 2. 1m, 25.96s. Rs. 7 (w), 5, 5 and 9 (p). SHP: 12, THP: 21, FP: 11, Q: 6, Tanala: 49. Favourite: Baudelaire. Owners: Mr. K.N. Dhunjibhoy & Mr. Z.K. Dhunjibhoy rep. Five Stars Shipping Co. Pvt. Ltd. & Mr. Teja Gollapudi. Trainer: Laxman Singh.  2. SANGAM PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), rated up to 25 (Cat. III): DILLON (C. Umesh) 1, Let It Be Me (Abhay Singh) 2, Bob Campbell (Ashad Asbar) 3 and Acadian Angel (Santosh Raj N R ) 4. 1/2, 3-1/2 and Hd. 1m, 13.72s. Rs. 11 (w), 7, 17 and 13 (p). SHP: 62, THP: 37, FP: 174, Q: 146, Tanala: 2,745. Favourite: Dillon. Owners: Mr. Sriram Uppaluri & Ms. Sarojini Gudaru. Trainer: N. Ravinder Singh.  3. STEP A SIDE PLATE (Div. II) (1,400m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II): HORSE O’ WAR (Mukesh Kumar) 1, Galwan (Akshay Kumar) 2, Ashwa Migsun (Suraj Narredu) 3 and Dream Station (C. Umesh) 4. Not run: Mireya. 2, 1 and 1/2. 1m, 28.43s. Rs. 42 (w), 8, 6 and 7 (p). SHP: 13, THP: 25, FP: 137, Q: 34, Tanala: 302. Favourite: Galwan. Owners: Mr. Sarasam Madhusudan Reddy. Trainer: N Ravinder Singh.  4. CROWN TREASURE PLATE (1,400m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): MARK MY DAY (B.R. Kumar) 1, Whiskey Martini (C. Umesh) 2, Chuckit (Mukesh Kumar) 3 and Always Success (Kuldeep Singh) 4. 2-1/2, 1/2 and 1-1/4. 1m, 25.62s. Rs. 82 (w), 13, 10 and 6 (p). SHP: 36, THP: 17, FP: 1,119, Q: 335, Tanala: 9,688. Favourite: Lacrosse. Owners: Mr. M.A.M. Ramaswamy Chettiar of Chettinad Charitable Trust. Trainer: K. Satheesh.  5. SALARJUNG PLATE (1,400m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II): N R I VALLEY (Akshay Kumar) 1, Crazy Horse (B.R. Kumar) 2, City Of Wisdom (P. Gaddam) 3 and Tetra Rama (Suraj Narredu) 4. 4-1/4, 1-1/2 and Nk. 1m, 24.58s. Rs. 11 (w), 8, 11 and 11 (p). SHP: 39, THP: 55, FP: 75, Q: 47, Tanala: 1,011. Favourite: Tetra Rama. Owner: Mr. Ravinder Reddy Male. Trainer: R.H. Sequeira.  6. GREENER PLATE (1,200m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): VIJAYS SIMHA (Suraj Narredu) 1, Amyra (Akshay Kumar) 2, Art In Motion (Arshad Alam) 3 and Battle Ready (A.A. Vikrant) 4. 4, 3 and Nk. 1m, 12.14s. Rs. 10 (w), 7, 8 and 18 (p). SHP: 18, THP: 49, FP: 29, Q: 17, Tanala: 239. Favourite: Vijays Simha. Owners: Mr. Vijay Kumar Gupta & Mr. Susheel Kumar Gupta rep. Vijay Racing & Farms Pvt. Ltd. Trainer: Laxman Singh.  7. SANGAM PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), rated up to 25 (Cat. III): CERTITUDE (Suraj Narredu) 1, Glendale (Afroz Khan) 2, Hashtag (C. Umesh) 3 and Prime Gardenia (Ajeeth Kumar) 4. Not run: New Role. 4, Nk and Nk. 1m, 12.93s. Rs. 8 (w), 8, 14 and 9 (p). SHP: 52, THP: 29, FP: 96, Q: 74, Tanala: 1,351. Favourite: Certitude. Owner: Miss Ameeta Mehra. Trainer: K.S.V. Prasad Raju. Jackpot: 70%: Rs. 24, 516 (6 tkts.) & 30%: 3, 502 (18 tkts.). Treble: (i) Rs. 4, 462 (3 tkts.), (ii) 41 (562 tkts.). Mini jackpot: (i) 7, 020 (52 tkts.), (ii) 1,952 (15 tkts.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/baudelaire-takes-the-honours-in-step-a-side-plate/article33653000.ece
25 January 2021||BENGALURU:,||It’s Prevalent Force vs. Well Connected||Prevalent Force and Well Connected may fight out the finish in the Bangalore Race Course 158th Year Commemoration Trophy (1,600m), the chief event of the races to be held here on Monday (Jan 25). False rails (width about 4m from 1,600m to the winning post) will be in position.  SRINGERI PLATE (Div. III) , (1,200m), rated 15 to 35, 2-00 pm: 1. Bombix (2) Mark 60, 2. Infinite Spirit (10) Jagadeesh 59, 3. Limited Source (8) P.S. Chouhan 59, 4. Pastiche (7) P. Surya 59, 5. Perfect Halo (11) T.S. Jodha 59, 6. Rightly Noble (1) S. Nayak 59, 7. Sand Castles (6) Naveen K 59, 8. Sizzler (12) Vaibhav 59, 9. Star Citizen (3) R. Shelar 58.5, 10. Light Of Love (4) A. Imran 58, 11. Hitomi Sakuma (5) R. Ravi 57 and 12. Roc Girl (9) Chethan G 57.  1. LIMITED SOURCE,   2. LIGHT OF LOVE,   3. SAND CASTLES   BAGALKOT PLATE (1,600m), rated 00 to 20, 2-30: 1. Girl With Pearl (12) Arshad 60, 2. Happy Dancing (9) P. Mani 60, 3. My Vision (10) Nazerul 60, 4. Track Striker (5) Akshay K 60, 5. Daring Sweetheart (6) R. Pradeep 59.5, 6. Eco Friendly (1) M. Naveen 59.5, 7. Ironic Humour (4) S. John 59.5, 8. Reverence (3) A. Imran 59, 9. Iconic Princess (2) Indrajeet Singh 57, 10. Commandpost (11) R. Ravi 56, 11. Jai Vikram (7) Ashhad Asbar 56 and 12. Annalease (8) Khurshad Alam 55.5.  1. MY VISION, 2. TRACK STRIKER, 3. ECO FRIENDLY   SRINGERI PLATE (Div. II) , (1,200m), rated 15 to 35, 3-00: 1. Glenary (8) Suraj 60, 2. Encounter (4) Jagadeesh 56.5, 3. Four Wheel Drive (6) Trevor 56.5, 4. Fulgurant (3) Antony 56.5, 5. Griffin (11) Vaibhav 56.5, 6. Kings Speech (7) Neeraj 56.5, 7. Paradiso (9) Arshad 56.5, 8. Raw Gold (12) Vivek 56.5, 9. Stone House (10) P.P. Dhebe 56.5, 10. Carmine (1) P.S. Chouhan 55, 11. He’s The One (2) Darshan 55 and 12. Lifeisamiracle (5) Naveen K 55.  1. GLENARY, 2. FOUR WHEEL DRIVE, 3. GRIFFIN   STATUE OF UNITY PLATE (1,200m), rated 60 & above, 3-30: 1. Psychic Warrior (10) Srinath 61, 2. Abira (3) S. John 60.5, 3. Attorney General (5) Trevor 60.5, 4. Into The Groove (11) Shreyas 58.5, 5. Star Carnation (1) A. Imran 58, 6. Manchester (6) Rayan 56.5, 7. Louisiana (8) Nazerul 54, 8. Set To Win (2) Darshan 54, 9. Super Smart (9) Khurshad Alam 54, 10. Alexandre Dumas (12) B. Harish 53, 11. Cuban Pete (7) Zervan 52.5 and 12. Galvarino (4) Akshay K 50.  1. GALVARINO,   2. ATTORNEY GENERAL, 3. ABIRA   A.S. RAMAIAH WINTER MILLION (1,200m), 3-y-o, (Terms), 4-00: 1. Scruples (1) Trevor 57, 2. Come Calling (7) Arshad 54.5, 3. Magellan (3) P.S. Chouhan 54.5, 4. Southern Dynasty (2) Darshan 54.5, 5. War Chieftain (6) P.P. Dhebe 54.5, 6. Spectacular (4) Neeraj 53 and 7. Winmylove (5) Sandesh 53.  1. SCRUPLES, 2. COME CALLING,   3. WINMYLOVE   BANGALORE RACE COURSE 158TH YEAR COMMEMORATION TROPHY (1,600m), 4-y-o & over, (Terms), 4-30: 1. Well Connected (3) Trevor 61, 2. Northern Alliance (1) Srinath 57, 3. Prevalent Force (4) Suraj 56, 4. Dream Catcher (5) Chethan G 55, 5. Cosmic Ray (2) Sandesh 54.5 and 6. Shesmyscript (6) P.S. Chouhan 53.5.  1. PREVALENT FORCE,   2. WELL CONNECTED   SRIHARIKOTA PLATE (1,400m), rated 30 to 50, 5-y-o & over, 5-00: 1. Venus Bay (5) Ashhad Asbar 60, 2. Treasure Striker (8) Rayan 58, 3. Brooklyn Supreme (12) Chetan K 57.5, 4. Masada (11) Ranjeet Singh 57.5, 5. Asgardia (2) Trevor 56.5, 6. Tokyo Rose (1) S. John 56.5, 7. Silver Swift (6) L.A. Rozario 56, 8. The Corporal (10) Srinath 55.5, 9. After Hours (7) Darshan 54, 10. Cosmic Feeling (3) P.P. Dhebe 54, 11. Star Sapphire (9) Arshad 53.5 and 12. Dreams United (4) S. Saqlain 52.  1. ASGARDIA, 2. THE CORPORAL, 3. COSMIC FEELING   SRINGERI PLATE (Div. I) , (1,200m), rated 15 to 35, 5-30: 1. Jersey Legend (10) Md. Aliyar 60, 2. Bloom Buddy (5) Suraj 59.5, 3. Areca Angel (9) B. Harish 58, 4. Duxton (12) Vaibhav 58, 5. San Bernardino (7) M. Prabhakaran 58, 6. Princess Pride (8) S. Saqlain 56.5, 7. Ocean Dunes (2) Antony 56, 8. Zehnaseeb (1) Ranjeet Singh 56, 9. Charmaine (11) Ashhad Asbar 55.5, 10. Country’s Jewel (6) P.S. Chouhan 55.5, 11. Comeonson (4) Rayan 55 and 12. See My Heels (3) Akshay K 55.  1. BLOOM BUDDY, 2. SEE MY HEELS, 3. COUNTRY’S JEWEL  Day’s best: ASGARDIA  Double: LIMITED SOURCE — SCRUPLES  Jkt: 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8; Tr (i): 3, 4 & 5; (ii): 6, 7 & 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/its-prevalent-force-vs-well-connected/article33653001.ece
25 January 2021||CHENNAI,||‘Extraordinary journey’||R. Ashwin, when asked about T. Natarajan’s rise, said that it has been an “extraordinary journey.” “I have seen a lot of cricketers emerge from the districts and perform well in the junior category. More often than not, those who come from humble backgrounds tend to choose a Railway or ICF job over their professional careers. “Natarajan is a stark contrast in this regard. He could have settled down well by taking up a Railway or government job, but decided to stay with Chemplast and prolong his career. “He did well in the TNPL and that fetched an IPL contract. I think it’s only justified given the risk he has taken. You must take risks in order to be rewarded. He fully deserves all the accolades,” said Ashwin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/extraordinary-journey/article33652952.ece
25 January 2021||SALEM,||All-round support has motivated me: Natarajan||T. Natarajan said the support and encouragement from teammates and coaches played a vital role in his success on the tour of Australia. “The coaches and teammates were very supportive and motivated me. They were friendly and never treated me as a new guy,” said the left-arm pacer who played his part in the 2-1 Test series win. Natarajan, who received a hero’s welcome on his return to Chinnapampatti a few days back, told reporters he was overwhelmed by the reception and expressed his gratitude to family, friends, villagers and well-wishers who have supported him on his journey. Emotional and elated Natarajan said he was moved when skipper Virat Kohli gave him the T20 trophy at the end of the three-match series. “I was standing in a corner and became teary-eyed when Virat Kohli let me hold the trophy. I felt very elated,” said Natarajan. Though he found it difficult to handle the time between the birth of his child and donning the National colours, the 29-year-old said his family was proud that he was playing for the country. Natarajan, who has started Natrajan’s Cricket Academy with the aim of supporting youth from his village, said that he is an example of what hard work can do. “I dreamt of playing for Tamil Nadu and now have got the opportunity to play for India”. Tamil Nadu Cricket Association secretary R.S. Ramasaamy and office-bearers from the Salem Cricket Association were present at the interaction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/all-round-support-has-motivated-me-natarajan/article33652954.ece
25 January 2021||CHENNAI,||Stokes lands in Chennai||Star all-rounder Ben Stokes arrived in Chennai on Sunday along with a few other English cricketers who are not a part of the ongoing England-Sri Lanka Test series. They will undergo a period of quarantine at Hotel Leela Palace and begin training only from February 2. The rest of the England team, currently in Sri Lanka, will land in Chennai on January 27. It appears that the ECB has requested the BCCI to conduct all the four Tests of the series under closed doors with no spectators. TNCA secretary R.S. Ramasaamy said there had been no communication yet to this effect from the BCCI to the TNCA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/stokes-lands-in-chennai/article33652959.ece
25 January 2021||GALLE,||Root continues to shine, Embuldeniya scalps seven||Joe Root became the first England batsman to score more than 150 in consecutive Tests in 16 years as he tormented Sri Lanka and led his side to 339 for nine in its first innings on day three of the second and final Test here on Sunday. However, the cramping England captain was dismissed in the final over of the day for 186, run out after clipping the ball to short leg Oshada Fernando. England still trails by 42 runs. Left-arm spinner Lasith Embuldeniya returned with career-best figures of seven for 132.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/root-continues-to-thrive-embuldeniya-scalps-seven/article33652955.ece
25 January 2021||January 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Mukti experience||Based on the sastras, the Visishtadvaita philosophy teaches the truths pertaining to the jiva, the Ishwara and to the world of creation, with the aim of helping every jiva to get freed from the cycle of birth. A jivatma bound by samsara is known as the baddha jiva. Once released from this cycle, the jiva becomes a Muktatma and in Moksha, he experiences the joy and bliss gained by rendering uninterrupted service to the Lord who is the sole ruler of all. So, if by the grace of God a baddha jiva gets the chance to imbibe the scriptural teachings of the acharyas and azhwars, the desire to seek release from samsara will take root in him, pointed out Asuri Sri Madhavachariar in a discourse. He is then known as a mumukshu, one who desires mukti or moksha. The path of saranagati promises this release by making the jiva realise that the atma is free of doshas. With this bhava, the baddha jiva learns to shed kama, krodha and the tendency to commit other sins. He spends the rest of his lifetime contemplating on the experience of the liberated atma who will be forever in the presence of the Lord and be engaged in His service. In the eighth chapter of the Bhagavad Gita, the way to meditate on the infinite glories of the Lord is clearly spelt out and can be practised by those jivatmas desirous of mukti. ‘The Lord is the Kavi or the all omniscient Knower, the Purana Purusha. He has no beginning or end. He is greater than the greatest and controls all the affairs of the entire prapancham. He is subtler than the subtlest, more subtle than the atma. He supports all with ease. None can fathom the extent of His immeasurable greatness. His form is beyond Prakriti and all darkness. He is the essence of endless brilliance and effulgence.’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mukti-experience/article33652948.ece
25 January 2021||CHENNAI,||Not clear if journalists will be allowed for Chennai Tests||TNCA secretary R.S. Ramasaamy told The Hindu on Sunday that it was still not clear whether journalists would be allowed to cover the first two India-England Tests in Chennai. The first Test begins on February 5 and the second on February 13. Warrier to fly back after quarterfinal Ramasaamy also said paceman Sandeep Warrier, who has been called up by the Indian team management as a net bowler, will represent Tamil Nadu in the quarterfinals of the Syed Mushtaq Ali tournament on January 26 and fly to Chennai to join the Indian team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/not-clear-if-journalists-will-be-allowed-for-chennai-tests/article33653060.ece
25 January 2021||CHENNAI:,||SSCA takes the honours||SSCA defeated Force One by three wickets in the final of the SSCA Cup recently.  The scores (final): Force One 145 in 27.5 overs (Vishal 30, Padmanabhan 29, S. Pradip 4/30) lost to SSCA 146/7 in 29 overs (R. Somasundaram 29, P.L. Harshavardhan Sai 40, S. Prashant 25)   Special awards: Man-of-the-final: S. Pradip; Best batsman: S. Sanjay (Sling Shots CC), 244 runs; Best bowler: C. Sampath Kumar (CMR), 15 wickets; Man-of-the-series: C. Sampath Kumar (CMR), 197 runs and 15 wickets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ssca-takes-the-honours/article33653061.ece
25 January 2021||January 25 2021 00:00 IST,||JFC ends three-match losing streak||A tepid second-half display from Jamshedpur FC and Hyderabad FC resulted in a goalless draw at Vasco on Sunday. The stalemate helped JFC arrest a three-match losing streak in the 2020-21 Indian Super League. The result put JFC in eighth place with 14 points behind Bengaluru FC, which held Odisha FC 1-1 in the second match, on goal difference. HFC stays fourth with 18 points.  The results: JFC 0 drew with HFC 0; BFC 1 (Paartalu 82) drew with OFC 1 (Mauricio 8);||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jfc-ends-three-match-losing-streak/article33653235.ece
25 January 2021||SONEPAT:,||Digvijay reigns||Digvijay Pratap Singh shocked top seed Yugal Bansal 6-4, 6-2 to clinch the title in the Rs. 1,00,000 AITA men’s ranking tennis tournament at the Chandima Tennis Academy.  The results (final): Digvijay Pratap Singh bt Yugal Bansal 6-4, 6-2; Semifinals: Yugal bt Chandril Sood 7-5, 6-3; Digvijay bt Lakshit Sood 6-4, 6-3 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/digvijay-reigns/article33653428.ece
25 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Harikrishna holds Carlsen||P. Harikrishna drew with top seed Magnus Carlsen in the seventh round of the Tata Steel Masters chess tournament at Wijk aan Zee on Saturday. On a day that produced five decisive games and four new leaders, Harikrishna and Carlsen agreed to draw after just 30 moves, when each player had a rook and four pawns each. The result saw them slip to joint-fifth spot at four points.  Seventh-round results: Magnus Carlsen (Nor, 4) drew with P. Harikrishna (4); Tari Aryan (Nor, 2.5) lost to Jorden van Foreest (Ned, 4.5); Fabiano Caruana (USA, 4.5) bt Maxime Vachier-Lagrave (Fra, 2.5); Anish Giri (Ned, 4.5) bt Nils Grandelius (Swe, 4).   Alireza Firouzja (FIDE, 4.5) bt Jan-Krzysztof Duda (Pol, 2.5); Radoslaw Wojtaszek (Pol, 3) lost to Andrey Esipenko (Rus, 4); David Anton Guijar (Esp, 2.5) drew with Alexander Donchenko (Ger, 2).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/harikrishna-holds-carlsen/article33653002.ece
25 January 2021||KOLKATA,||Olaleye is TRAU’s hero||Tiddim Road Athletic Union (TRAU) relied on Nigerian Joseph Olaleye’s brilliance to beat 10-man Chennai City FC 2-0 in the Hero I-League here on Sunday. TRAU posted its first win of the season, while CCFC suffered its second successive defeat. In an evenly-fought first-half, TRAU dominated early and created some opportunities. CCFC took time to find its rhythm and generated fine moves after Serbian midfielder Vladimir Molerovic replaced A.V. Harikrishna in the 22nd minute. CCFC’s Iqbal Hussain came close to scoring in the 45th minute. The Singaporean burst into the box from the right, dodged a defender and launched a left-footer, which went over the bar.  Minutes into the second-half, the ever-active Joseph’s shot from the right resulted in an own goal by CCFC defender Elvedin Skrijelj. CCFC earned a few corners in search of an equaliser before conceding the second goal in the 69th minute. Joseph provided the ball and Bidyashagar Singh beat custodian Kabir Toufik inside the box. CCFC was down to 10 men after Charles Lourdusamy received his second yellow card. Nevertheless, Kabir made two superb saves to avoid further damage.  The result:   TRAU 2 (Elvedin 49-og, Bidyashagar 69) bt CCFC 0.   Aizawl FC 1 (Richard Kassaga 12) drew with Indian Arrows 1 (Sajad Hussain Parray 93).   Roundglass Punjab FC 0 drew with Mohammedan Sporting 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/olaleye-helps-trau-down-ccfc/article33653065.ece
25 January 2021||Bangkok,||Marin, Axelsen triumph||Spain’s Carolina Marin and Viktor Axelsen from Denmark on Sunday claimed their second Thailand Open badminton singles titles in a fortnight. Axelsen was a commanding force against his compatriot Hans-Kristian Solberg Vittinghus in the men’s final in Bangkok. Marin, the reigning Olympic champion, smashed top seed Tai Tzu-ying 21-19, 21-17 for the second time in a fortnight. The women’s doubles was an all Korean affair with sixth-ranked Kim So-yeong and Kong Hee-yong too strong for fourth-ranked Lee So-hee and Shin Seung-chan 21-18, 21-19. In the men’s doubles, seventh-ranked Lee Yang and Wang Chi-Lin of Taiwan also made it back-to-back titles in 36 minutes against Malaysia’s ninth-ranked Aaron Chia and Soh Wooi Yik 21-13, 21-18.  The result (finals): Men: Viktor Axelsen (Den) bt Hans-Kristian Solberg Vittinghus (Den) 21-11, 21-7. Doubles: Lee Yang & Wang Chi-Lin (Tpe) bt Aaron Chia & Soh Wooi Yik (Mas) 21-13, 21-18.   Women: Carolina Marin (Esp) bt Tai Tzu-ying (Tpe) 21-19, 21-17. Doubles: Kim So-yeong and Kong Hee-yong (Kor) bt Lee So-hee and Shin Seung-chan (Kor) 21-18, 21-19. Mixed doubles: Sapsiree Taerattanachai & Dechapol Puavaranukroh (Tha) bt Seo Seung-ae & Chae Yujung (Kor) 21-16, 22-20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/marin-axelsen-in-fine-form/article33653007.ece
25 January 2021||Milan,||Juve eases past Bologna||Brazilian midfielder Arthur scored his first goal for champion Juventus in a 2-0 win over Bologna on Sunday to pile the pressure on the Milan teams. AC Milan held top spot in Serie A on Saturday despite falling 3-0 at home against Atalanta after second-placed Inter was held goalless at Udinese.  The results: Serie A: Juventus 2 (Arthur 15, McKennie 71) bt Bologna 0; Hellas Verona 3 (Dimarco 34, Barak 62, Zaccagni 79) bt Napoli 1 (Lozano 1); Genoa 1 (Destro) bt Cagliari 0.   LaLiga: Elche 0 lost to Barcelona 2 (De Jong 39, Puig 89).   Bundesliga: Schalke 0 lost to Bayern Munich 4 (Muller 33, 88, Lewandowski 54, Alaba 90).   Saturday: LaLiga: Sevilla 3 (En-Nesyri 35, 39, 62) bt Cadiz 0; Real Sociedad 2 (Isak 48, Oiarzabal 57) drew with Real Betis 2 (Canales 85, Joaquin 90+2); Alaves 1 (Joselu 59) lost to Real Madrid 4 (Casemiro 15, Benzema 41, 70, Hazard 45+1).   Serie A: AC Milan 0 lost to Atalanta 3 (Romero 26, Ilicic 53-pen, Zapata 77); Udinese 0 drew with Inter Milan 0; Fiorentina 2 (Bonaventura 20, Vlahovic 32) bt Crotone 1 (Simy 66).   Bundesliga: Hertha Berlin 1 (Cordoba 45+2) lost to Werder Bremen 4 (Selke 10-pen, Toprak 29, Bittencourt 57, Sargent 77).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/juve-eases-past-bologna/article33652964.ece
25 January 2021||Santiago (Chile),||Sangita and Sushma on target for India||The Indian women’s junior hockey team notched up a 2-0 victory over the Chile senior side at the Prince of Wales Country Club here. Playing its fifth match of the tour of Chile, goals from Sangita Kumari (48th minute) and Sushma Kumari (56th minute) in the last quarter gave India the win.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-posts-win/article33653006.ece
25 January 2021||Alappuzha:,||Double for Soham||Soham Bhattacharya (Alappuzha) completed a double in the Bank of Baroda Kerala state table tennis championships at the YMCA TT Arena on Sunday. Soham, who won the men’s singles title on Saturday, won the youth boys’ title after defeating Amir Afthab 15-13, 11-8, 11-8, 12-10. Pranathi P. Nair retained the youth girls’ title after defeating Reeva Anna Michael 11-5, 11-13, 11-7, 11-9, 11-4 in the final.  The results: Youth Boys: Final: Soham Bhattacharya (Alp) bt Amir Afthab (AlP) 15-13, 11-8, 11-8, 12-10.   Semifinals: Soham Bhattacharya bt A.S. Amal (Tvm) 11-7, 11-7, 11-3, 8-11, 11-3; Amir Afthab (Alp) Aditya Varghese Jose (Alp) 11-5, 13-11, 11-7, 11-5. Girls: Final: Pranathi P.Nair (Tvm) bt Reeva Anna Michael (Alp) 11-5, 11-13, 11-7, 11-9, 11-4. Semifinals: Pranathi P.Nair (Tvm) bt Maria Cicly Joshy (Alp) 11-7, 15-13, 11-8, 11-3; Reeva Anna Micheal (Alp) bt Bhavana Menon (Ekm) 11-6, 11-7, 11-6, 11-8 .    Niranjan Prakash slammed a quickfire ton (101) as Palakkad Colts crushed Kunnamkulam CA by nine wickets in the Loongs C. Sneharaj Trophy under-16 all-Kerala cricket tournament here on Sunday. In another match, EKK Globstar rode on Kashinath’s all-round show (86 & three for 20) to defeat TCA Kayamkulam by 76 runs.  The scores:   Kunnamkulam CA 156 in 23.3 overs (Adwaith Prasad 41, Jobin Joby 36, A.M. Adithya 4/40) lost to Palakkad Colts 160 for one in 23.3 overs (Niranjan Prakash 101).   EKK Globstar Aluva 193 for four in 25 overs (Kashinath 86) bt TCA Kayamkulam 117 in 21.4 overs (Niranjan 49, Kasinathj 3/20).    The Kerala Table Tennis Association's 69th State championships will be held at the Rajiv Gandhi indoor stadium on Jan. 28 and 29. Competitions, in singles, for boys and girls in cadet, sub-junior, junior and youth and for men and women in senior and veteran will be conducted.   The Dr. Tony Daniel memorial 64th Kerala State senior athletics and the 64th State junior championships will be held in two venues in Thiruvananthapuram from Feb. 16 to 18. The 32nd South Zone junior championships has been allotted to Kerala and will be held at Calicut University's C.H. Muhammed Koya Stadium from Feb. 26 to 28. The 25th Kerala State cross country championships will be held in Thrissur on February 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/double-for-soham/article33653271.ece
25 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM:,||Athletes honoured||Visakhapatnam Divisional Railway Manager Dr. Chetan Kumar Shrivastava congratulated the athletes who won medals representing the district in the AP inter-district athletics meet at Guntur. The athletes, all products of Railway Athletics Academy here, were felicitated. Ayeesha Banu (u-14 shot put gold), Arun Saroja (u-16 80m hurdles silver) and Sri Laxmi (u-20 5km gold) were among those honoured.   A. Brahmateja’s 100 (122b, 7x4, 3x6) helped VVKRM CC score a 46-run win over Shining Stars in the KDCA D-Division one-day league for Katragadda Madhusudhana Rao memorial trophy on Sunday.  The scores: New Everest CC 187 in 42.2 overs (G. Ram Prasad 91, P. Parasurama 3/57) lost to ABCC 188/8 in 45.2 overs (N. Vamsidhar 30, V. Sashi Reddy 45, M. Sai Prateek 31, S. Manikanta 4/36).   VVKRM CC 304/8 in 50 overs (A. Brahmateja 100, K. Bhima Rao 32, Y. Pramod 41, V. Vidhyadar 32 n.o.) bt Shining Stars 258/7 in 50 overs (Bhuvendra 41, Revanth 83 n.o.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/athletes-honoured/article33653440.ece
25 January 2021||January 25 2021 07:34 IST,||Sudoku - January 25, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-january-25-2021/article33653617.ece
25 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Medical services to food, wheels set in motion for tractor parade||Besides numerous special tractors, tableaux of makeshift learning centres, measures to keep “outsiders” from infiltrating the site, there is a hospital on wheels as part of the preparations done by hundreds of volunteers for the Kisan Republic Day Parade. A tractor with the words — Kisan Hospital On Wheels — written on it is getting ready for the day. It has four beds along with necessary equipment and will roll along with the other tractors during the parade. It is being set up by a non-profit organisation (NPO), Life Care Foundation, which has been running a makeshift hospital at the border for three weeks. Avtar Singh, who started the NPO, said many doctors have volunteered to be a part of the parade. He said atleast 10 doctors and two ambulances will be present at the spot. “There will be an ECG machine, electrolyte liquid and oxygen cylinders. Even if there is a minor emergency, we will be able to handle it at that very moment,” Mr. Avtar said, adding that preparation for the tractor rally has been on since January 20. “There will also be a generator,” he added. Specialised tractors have been brought from Punjab for the parade. A trolley from Amritsar called Arjun puttar (son), was fitted with shiny lights, horn, inverter, fans, fire extinguisher, CCTV, first-aid, among other things. “We have got the fittings done especially for the parade,” said Gurwinder Singh, (24), the tractor driver. Simran Singh, a 22-year-old farmer from Kapurthala, and his friends have come here with two trolleys carrying 11 tractors. It also has weighing plates of 180kg. “It’s just a show of power. The protest will be highly peaceful but just in case of an untoward incident, we should be prepared,” he said. “It’s just a show of power. The protest will be peaceful but just in case of an untoward incident, we should be prepared,” he said. The front of the tractor has a hoarding that reads — “Grandfather saw 1947, father saw 1984, we are seeing 2020”. ‘Restricting outsiders’ Karanvir Singh (28) from Rupnagar said ensuring no “outsider” infiltrates the parade is of utmost importance. “There have been instances of attempts to tarnish the image of protest and we don’t want that. Therefore, only those we know will board our tractors,” he said, adding that three flags — Indian, Khalsa and their Kisan Union — will be put up on the tractors. The farmers said they will prepare meals early morning and carry them along with dry food, including fruits, dry fruits, and biscuits among other edibles. An open learning centre- cum-library, Sanjhi Sathh, which has been running at the Singhu border for over a month, is preparing tableaux inside a tractor. “It will have bookshelves and paintings,” said Satnam Singh from Rupnagar, a farmer . He said they will put up black flags on tractors as a mark of protest. Over 2,000 volunteers Stage Management Committee member Amreek Singh, also a District Pradhan of Bharat Kisan Union Jalandhar (BKU), said over 2,500 volunteers will ensure peace at the parade. “People will control lane driving. Our plan is to carry out a peaceful parade. All the district heads of BKUs will ensure their people remain peaceful and strict action will be taken against anyone who tries to create a nuisance,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/medical-services-to-food-wheels-set-in-motion-for-tractor-parade/article33653157.ece
25 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Amid the pandemic gloom, a Republic Day parade like no other||Unlike previous years, the Republic Day celebrations are scaled down this year due to the pandemic. It would be without the usual festivity and fervour, with rigorous restrictions and stringent protocols. Delhi Police has advised people to watch the live telecast of Republic Day parade at home due to COVID-19 protocols. Invitees attending parade at Rajpath have to comply with the COVID-19 advisory that includes temperature check, use of sanitiser, mask and social distancing. This time, there would not have a chief guest at the Republic Day parade. Earlier, there were three instances when there was no chief guest at the parade. The route of the marching contingent will end at the India Gate C-Hexagon instead of Red Fort.  No one under 15     A senior Delhi police officer said that this year, entry for parade will be strictly through invitation cards or tickets. The rest is advised to watch the live programme at home. Children below 15 years of age are not allowed for parade at Rajpath. “To maintain social distancing protocols, only 25,000 spectators are being invited for the parade against 1 lakh spectators, who used to visit Rajpath on R-Day. It includes 4,000 people from the general public. The size of enclosures has been brought down to 22 from 38 in 2020,” added the officer. Along with security personnel, medical teams will be deployed outside each enclosure to ensure health safety of visitors. To maintain social distancing, the entry gates have been increased from 198 to 224, he added.  ID compulsory     To ensure the safety of visitors, random checks of IDs will be carried out in New Delhi. People visiting New Delhi on January 25 and 26 are requested to carry their  ID proof with them to avoid any inconvenience. “We have inputs that some terrorist organisations may carry out unwanted activities on January 26. Keeping this in mind, we have taken a few steps including putting up posters of wanted terrorists,” the officer added. The Ministry of Defence has conveyed that in view of the COVID-19 scenario, no standing spectators would be allowed. At a meeting, discussion was done over visitors entering enclosures. To prevent any disruption by farmers protesting at Delhi borders, adequate security measures will be in place.   Another police officer said there were intelligence inputs that protesters might attempt to disrupt the parade. The intelligence wing is also keeping a watch on the protests. There will be more than 40,000 security personnel in New Delhi during the R-Day parade.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/amid-the-pandemic-gloom-a-republic-day-parade-like-no-other/article33653153.ece
25 January 2021||New Delhi,||HC will hear plea by Gymkhana Club members on green card||The Delhi High Court has decided to hear a petition by some permanent members of the Delhi Gymkhana Club, challenging the club’s rule that denies green card to the children of permanent members who did not enjoy the facilities of the club as minors. Justice Mukta Gupta rejected the argument made by Delhi Gymkhana Club that the plea was not maintainable as a remedy in the present case lies only with the National Company Law Tribunal. The High Court noted that the cause of action pleaded by the petitioners in this case is the manner in which a provision in the Articles of Association of the Club is being interpreted, creating “irrational and illegal classification”. The present suit has been filed by seven permanent members of the club in a representative capacity. They said the club has 5,553 permanent members, about 4,925 people enjoy the facility of the club as green card-holders and about 2,305 people and their spouses and children have been registered as user of club premises. The plea claimed that as per the Articles of Association, membership of the club is classified into five categories – permanent, garrison, temporary, casual and special category. The waiting list of permanent members has been sub-classified into two categories – government and non-government, which are in the ratio of 50:50. The total approved permanent membership is 5,600. Besides the membership, the facilities of the club can be enjoyed by the spouse and dependent members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-to-hear-plea-by-gymkhana-club-members-on-green-card/article33653149.ece
25 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Police have received inputs about efforts to disrupt rally’||Special Commissioner of Police Intelligence Deependra Pathak on Sunday said the Delhi Police has received inputs from various agencies that efforts are being made to disrupt the tractor rally on Republic Day. The Delhi Police, he said, will be working with farmers to ensure that the rally that has been given an in principal approval is secure and peaceful. ‘308 Twitter handles’ “We have found that over 308 Twitter handles have been generated from Pakistan that have been continuously trying to spread confusion and disturb the rally,” Mr. Pathak said. He said a high-level plan will be chalked out and a secured route will be organised so that the farmers can have a successful rally. Sharing more details about the three circular routes from Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur, which are of a “respectable distance”, Mr. Pathank said: “The rally will start from Singhu border and pass through Sanjay Gandhi Transport Nagar, Kanjhawala, Bawana, Auchandi Borer, Kundli–Manesar–Palwal expressway and will return to Singhu border. It will cover a stretch of around 62 km.” Delhi Police Commissioner S.N. Shrivastava on Sunday issued an order stating that all officials on Republic Day duty should be ready for the parade.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/police-have-received-inputs-about-efforts-to-disrupt-rally/article33653158.ece
25 January 2021||New Delhi,||QR code-based entry in HC from today||The Delhi High Court has introduced QR code-based digital entry pass system for lawyers seeking to enter the court premises for physical hearing from January 25 onwards. The latest announcement by Registrar General Manoj Jain is part of a series of guidelines, which has been adopted from time-to-time under a strict standard operating procedure for entry and attending physical hearings in view of the prevailing pandemic situation. Last week, the court said it had initiated steps for hybrid hearing so that in a given case, one party may join the proceedings through virtual mode while the other is present physically in the court. The digital entry pass will be generated and issued digitally by the High Court Registry one day in advance on the basis of listing of cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/qr-code-based-entry-in-hc-from-today/article33653150.ece
25 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||3 pickpockets held, 5 phones recovered||Three men have been arrested for allegedly picking pockets in buses in south-west Delhi’s Kapashera, the police said on Sunday. DCP (South-West) Ingit Pratap Singh said the accused have been identified as Imran, Vikram, and Nurain Ansari. Five stolen phones were recovered from them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/3-pickpockets-held-5-phones-recovered/article33653154.ece
25 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Six detained for raising ‘Pak. zindabad’ slogans in city||Six persons were detained for allegedly raising “Pakistan zindabad” slogans on Sunday near Khan Market metro station, the police said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (New Delhi) Eish Singhal said a PCR call was received at 1 a.m. that some people heard slogans, after which policemen reached the spot. Two men, three woman and a teeanger were found at the spot. They were on electric bikes at that time. During questioning, it was revealed that they were members of two families, who had come for sightseeing around India Gate. They rented bikes and started racing and had kept each other’s name based on countries, which included Pakistan, therefore they had said “Pakistan zindabad” in a lighter vein, the officer said, adding that they were released after a few hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/six-detained-for-raising-pak-zindabad-slogans-in-city/article33653155.ece
